Report No. PID9644
Project Name                     Kosovo-Energy Sector Technical Assistance (@)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project ID                       XKSF70046
Borrower(s)                      UN INTERIM ADMIN. MISSION IN KOSOVO
Implementing Agency
Address PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT
Address: UNMIK, Pristina
Contact Person: Jo Trutschler (Acting Co-head
of UNMIK Public Utilities
Department)
Tel: 381 38 500 223, ext. 6832
Fax: 1 (212) 963 8113
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                June 13, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 1, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 25, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Introduction: Status of the Energy Sector. The electricity, lignite and
district heating sectors have suffered from conflict damage, loss of
mobile equipment, and lack of maintenance and poor management dating back
to before the conflict of 1998-99.Electricity Generating Capacity,
Generation, Consumption and Trade. Electricity has been Kosovo's main
source of energy. The total installed generation capacity is 1,513 MW,
provided by two lignite-fired thermal power plants near Pristina (Kosovo
A, which is near the end of its useful life, and Kosovo B, which is about
15 years old) and one hydropower plant at Gazivode, which was built in
1981.  The break-down of the capacity is as follows:Plant       MWKosovo A:
Unit 1     65  Unit 2               125   Unit 3    200  Unit 4   200  Unit
5   210  Sub-total   800Kosovo B Unit 1   339  Unit 2    339  Sub-total
678Gazivode Unit 1              17.5  Unit 2                     17.5
Sub-total      35    Total            1,513Even before the conflict, Kosovo
A and B were in poor condition and the actual available capacity was much
less than 1,513 MW. During the conflict, the power plants suffered from
lack of maintenance and mismanagement, but there was no direct conflict
damage. At the end of the conflict, only two of the five units at Kosovo
A operated intermittently and at reduced capacity because of lack of
proper maintenance. Kosovo B was not in operation due to problems in
water treatment, turbines, a missing boiler circulating pump, and the high
activation energy required to re-start the units. Gazivode was in
reasonably good condition. As a result of emergency repair measures
financed by the European Agency for Reconstruction (EAR), Germany and
Sweden, three out of five units at Kosovo A were available for operation
as of July 2000, but never simultaneously. Unit 4 was restarted following
repair in November 2000.    Repairs on Unit 3 started in December 2000 and
are expected to be completed by February 2001. Unit 1 at Kosovo B was in



operation for part of the year 2000, but a fire in its electrical
instrumentation in December put it out of service until March 2001. This
unit is scheduled to be overhauled during the period May to September
2001. Unit 2 was partially rehabilitated and brought back into operation
in November 2000, but its availability has been unsatisfactorily low since
then. Limited lignite supplies also serve as a constraint on total
thermal power production. The available hydropower capacity of 35 MW
(repaired with Danish financial assistance) at Gazivode is used during
peak periods. Estimates of electricity production, trade and consumption
for 1989, 1997, 1999 and 2000 are shown in the table below. The reasons
for the selection of years are as follows. Nineteen eighty-nine was the
first year of full integration of the previously autonomous province of
Kosovo into Serbia. It was also a representative year for the economy of
former Yugoslavia before the country began to break up in 1991. Nineteen
ninety-seven was the last full year before the conflict in Kosovo. The
estimates shown for 1999 and 2000 are for the period immediately after the
conflict. The data for 1989 and 1997 are less reliable than those for
1999 and 2000 as the relevant reports were lost during the period of
conflict. The most significant features of the table are: the drastic
reduction in electricity production as a result of the conflict, the
resulting conversion of Kosovo from being an exporter of electricity to
becoming an importer, and the relatively higher post-conflict peak demand,
which is probably due to increased reliance on electricity for space
heating and cooking.         1989  1997 1999 (July-Dec) 2000
Net power generation (GWh)    4,912     4,318  564   1,914 Net
exports(-)/imports (+) (GWh)           -2,005         - 816  379
955Consumption (GWh)    2,907   3,502  943  2,869Losses in
transmission/distribution     1,050          1,229 Peak demand (MW)     546
589    653Minimum demand (MW)    362        368Electricity Transmission and
Distribution. During the conflict, the high-voltage network was partially
damaged resulting in the 400 kV transmission network being inoperable.
The 220 kV network was in poor condition. A large number of
interconnection transformers were either out of operation or had been
taken away. Power exchanges with Albania and Serbia via the 220 kV
network were possible. The 110 kV network is vitally important for
serving Kosovo's domestic demand, but significant parts were out of
service, and entire areas in south and south-west Kosovo were cut off.
Conflict damage to the secondary distribution network (0.4 to 110 kV) was
extensive, estimated to affect 30t of the network.     Kosovo has close to
1009 electricification.   Only 7 villages lack electricity.    They were
previously electrified, but post-conflict repairs have not yet been made
because of difficulties in demining. With assistance by Denmark and
Norway, all three 400 kV transmission lines were brought back into service
by October 2000. All lines of the 220 kV network are operational except
for one line between Kosovo A and Skopje 2. The 110 kV lines are also
operational, but further improvements are underway. However, all
transmission substations (400, 220 and 110 kV) are in a bad technical
state. Repair and improvement works are being carried out for the
distribution networks with assistance by Denmark, France, Germany, Japan,
Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and the United States, but
all the distribution substations (110, 35 and 0.4 kV) are overloaded.A
system control and data acquisition (SCADA) system was developed for the
power sector in the late 1980s. However, the system is no longer in
operation, since many components were damaged or lost during the
conflict. In addition, some of the keywords/passwords necessary for
- 2 -



operation of the system have been lost. Only voltage measurements and
active and reactive power flows through the substations at Kosovo A,
Kosovo B and Pristina IV are observed in real time.Lignite. Even before
the conflict, the Mirash and Bardh lignite mines produced only about
two-thirds of their rated capacity of 16.7 million tons per year. There
were no conflict-related physical damages in the mines, but all mobile
equipment was taken out of Kosovo by the end of the conflict. While the
main mining equipment was in operable condition, the amount of coal
uncovered and ready for extraction was limited to one or two months of
production. The overburden removal apparently has been neglected for
years. As a result, the mining fronts were steep and unstable. Some
equipment was threatened by the smoldering of coal remnants, caused by
self-ignition, and insufficient water drainage on some benches was another
impediment to production. Despite actions taken since the conflict with
financing by the EAR and Germany to replace lost equipment and carry out
urgent repairs, total coal production was only 3 million tons in 2000,
compared to 1.1 million tons from July to December 1999.District Heating.
The district heating systems in Pristina, Gjakova and Mitrovica did not
incur much damage during the conflict, but they have suffered from years
of neglect and lack of maintenance, combined with poor operating
techniques and under-investments. At the same time, the need for heat has
increased since the large amount of damage to houses in rural areas has
led many people to move into the cities. The Termakos heating system in
Pristina serves about 12,000 apartments, public buildings and offices.
The heated water is provided by two 58 MW heavy fuel oil-fired boilers
(available capacity 2x40 MW) and a recently installed 14 MW boiler in the
hospital area. The Gjakova heating system serves about 700 apartments,
public buildings and offices. The heating plant consists of two heavy
fuel oil-fired boilers with capacities of 18 MW and 20 MW respectively.
Only the 20 MW boiler is in working condition. Assistance to the Pristina
and Gjakova district heating systems is being provided by Sweden. The
Mitrovica district heating system supplies 160 apartments from a 9.3 MW
fuel oil-fired boiler that was built in 1980. The plant has suffered from
lack of maintenance over the past decade and is in poor condition. There
is an urgent need for refurbishment of the plant as well as of the
district heating distribution network.Institutional Framework. The
representative of the United Nations Interim Administration Mission
(UNMIK) in the public utility sector is the Public Utilities Department,
which establishes overall policy for the public utilities sector, acts as
regulator of the sector, appoints the supervisory board, exercises
oversight of each of the companies in the sector, and coordinates with
donors. The companies (all publicly owned) in the energy sector include:
the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK), which also owns the Mirash and Bardh
lignite mines; Iber Lepenc (owner of the Gazivode Hydroelectric Power
Station); Termakos (the district heating company of Pristina); the Gjakova
District Heating Company; and Standard (the Mitrovica district heating
company).Some progress has been made since the end of the conflict in
restoration of electricity billing, but non-technical losses are high and
revenue collection has been poor. Losses in power transmission and
distribution are about 43t of electricity entering the transmission
network. Non-technical losses may be one-half or more of total losses.
Only 38t of bills issued to households and commercial customers for the
period September 1999-August 2000 had been collected as of early October
2000. Until KEK becomes financially viable, it will depend on operating
subsidies from UNMIK, which were DM 23.5 million in 2000.Out of a total of
-3 -



365,000 electricity consumers (60,000 domestic consumers in apartment
buildings, 265,000 domestic consumers in private houses, and 40,000
commercial customers), it is estimated that about 66,200 are currently
without functioning meters (1,200 domestic consumers in apartment
buildings, 60,000 domestic consumers in private houses, and 5,000
commercial consumers). There may also be some damaged collective meter
boxes in apartment buildings, but data are not available on these.
Customers without meters are charged fixed absolute amounts in Deutsche
Marks at levels depending on whether their consumption is assessed at
below 400 kWh per month, between 400 and 800 kWh per month, or more than
800 kWh per month.Main Issues. 1. Large needs for physical reconstruction
and rehabilitation. While substantial investments have already been
carried out since the end of the conflict, much more is needed. Major
future investments should be justified in terms of an overall least-cost
strategy for future sector development covering the next 15 years.
Questions arise concerning the rate of growth of energy demand, especially
electricity demand, whether and when to retire existing power generating
units, whether to repair these units, make substantial rehabilitation
investments, build replacement units, or import electricity instead of
producing it domestically. If new generating units are chosen, should
they be lignite power plants, hydropower plants, or perhaps gas-fired
plants using imported natural gas? Closely related questions arise
concerning the nature and extent of investments on lignite production, the
need for which would depend on the demand for lignite for electricity
production. In the case of district heating, questions arise concerning
whether it is competitive with other available forms of energy, whether
combined heat and power production would be a cost-minimizing option, and
what fuels to use to produce district heat.2. The need to re-establish
and further develop an institutional framework for the energy sector. At
the end of the conflict, there was virtually no administrative structure
in Kosovo, and UNMIK has temporarily assumed the role that elsewhere would
be performed by a government. How long it will perform this role is not
known. Before the conflict, the Kosovo power system was managed from
Belgrade. By the time the conflict ended, the local managers had left and
the system data had been lost. UNMIK created KEK as a new power utility
and re-established basic functions such as billing customers. While UNMIK
has supervisory control over KEK and the other energy sector companies,
the ownership arrangements remain to be clarified. The following
sub-issues may be identified relating to institutional creation and
development in the energy sector:(i) the nature and rate of evolution of
a regulatory framework for the power and lignite, district heating and
petroleum sub-sectors, and for natural gas in the event that gas is
imported;(ii) the nature and rate of evolution of KEK and the other energy
sector companies, including possible new ones (e.g. for petroleum and
natural gas), towards greater autonomy, corporatization, commercialization
and eventual competition and privatization; and(iii) the determination of
a new electricity tariff structure and procedures for change over time
designed to encourage efficiency and enable KEK to have a satisfactory
financial performance, while taking account of social
considerations.UNMIK's Strategy. UNMIK's goals for the power sector are
to: (i) provide reliable and affordable power to Kosovo and (ii) enable
KEK to become a technically sound and commercially viable company. The
proposed means are to: (i) carry out rehabilitation works to provide for
the long-term and sustainable improvement in power supply; (ii)
reorganize and modernize the power sector, with the support of donors; and
- 4 -



(iii) restructure the Board of Directors of KEK (done in mid-2000).     The
immediate priorities are to ensure that all possible efforts are made to
enable Kosovo A and B to meet as much as possible of the current domestic
power demand and to arrange for imported electricity to cover the
deficit. The Public Utilities Department proposes that the public
utilities, including the energy sector companies under its jurisdiction,
should prepare for a free market economy that allows for private companies
to operate public utilities commercially, employing internationally
accepted accounting standards, with defined community service obligations,
and within a sound regulatory framework. Its organizational objectives
include pursuing policies that will result in its supervisory and donor
coordination responsibilities becoming eventually unnecessary. After
that, its main role would be as regulator of the rates and services of the
public utility providers.
2. Objectives
Assist in the development of satisfactory long-term plans for the
economically efficient reconstruction, rehabilitation and restructuring of
the power, lignite, district heating and petroleum sectors and development
of a natural gas sector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has extensive experience in supervising and monitoring studies
and technical assistance on the same topics in other transition countries,
including in the Balkans (e.g., in Albania and Bosnia and Herzegovina).
This experience would enable the Bank to provide useful advice during the
phases of finalization of the terms of reference, selection of the
consultants, carrying out of the studies, and implementation of the
results. The Bank's involvement in the project would also help to attract
well-qualified firms as bidders and help ensure that they prepare sound
proposals.
4. Description
The project consists of a technical assistance component to prepare an
energy sector study. The study would have 13 modules with the following
scope:A. Carry out a household energy survey and affordability study,
valuate the feasibility and cost of using alternative forms of energy for
cooking and space heating and other uses, and make projections of
electricity demand for the period from 2002-2015;B.     Determine the
production capability and remaining lifetimes of the existing power
generating facilities (Submodule B1); identify options for future power
generating capacity and provide data on their technical characteristics
and costs (Sub-module B2); and determine a least-cost power generation
investment program for the period 2002 to 2015 to meet the projected
demand (Sub-module B3); C. Prepare alternative programs for rehabilitation
and expansion of the power transmission system and analyze these together
with the least-cost and selected other power generation options considered
in the least-cost power generation investment module in order to determine
a least-cost expansion plan based on the most economic combination of
generation and transmission systems; for the recommended transmission
program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with
their estimated costs;D. Analyze the technical losses in power
transmission and distribution, and propose immediate and long-term
measures and realistic loss reduction targets for the period 2002-2015,
including associated costs;E. Evaluate the feasibility of a new SCADA
- 5 -



system and associated telecommunications facilities for power system
dispatching in Kosovo, with phased implementation if appropriate; for the
recommended program provide lists of components, equipment and materials
along with their estimated costs;F. Determine, by order of priority,
further investment requirements in distribution capacity for the period
2002-2015; for the recommended distribution program provide lists of
components, equipment and materials along with their estimated costs;     G.
Propose a lignite mine development strategy for the period up to 2015 for
supply to existing thermal power stations, possible new thermal power
stations identified in Module B and other users, and estimate future
production costs;   H.   Evaluate the current state of the district heating
facilities and equipment in the district heating systems of Pristina,
Gjakova, and Mitrovica; compare the competitiveness of district heating
with other heating options; investigate options for improving efficiency
and changing fuels (including the option of reducing conventional fuel
demands through incineration of municipal waste); and evaluate options for
further rehabilitation of network and boiler stations, including the
related costs and benefits; the transformation of the heat-only boiler
stations in Pristina to become peak-load stations in the case of
introducing co-generation as part of the least-cost power expansion plan
should be part of the investigation;I.    Investigate the technical and
economic feasibility of importing natural gas to Kosovo, estimating the
demand for this gas and identifying the required infrastructure in
pipeline and gas distribution facilities; provide estimates of the costs
of this infrastructure as well as of the delivered cost of gas to
consumers; and make recommendations on the most suitable structure for the
gas sector within Kosovo;J. Estimate the future demand for petroleum
products; investigate ways to encourage the emergence of a privately owned
petroleum industry in Kosovo that would operate with sufficient
competition to avoid the need for price controls by the Kosovo
administrative authorities; and make recommendations on the establishment
of a regulatory framework that would ensure that all petroleum products
sold in Kosovo meet prescibed quality standards and that would minimize
tax evasion by oil importers and other petroleum companies;K.     On the
basis of the above modules, prepare detailed recommended investment plans
for the power, lignite, district heating, natural gas and petroleum
sectors, and identify options for financing the investments;L.     On the
basis of the least-cost generation and transmission expansion program, and
the programs for dispatching and distribution, estimate the economic costs
of electricity and determine an electricity tariff structure for Kosovo
that takes account of these costs and of social considerations while
providing enough revenue to ensure a satisfactory financial performance of
KEK, and recommend a transition strategy for moving to the new tariff
structure (a similar analysis for district heating cannot be carried out
because of insufficient budget); andM. Examine the internal
organizational structure and operations of each of the energy companies,
make recommendations to improve efficiency; and make recommendations on
the evolution of the sector towards greater company autonomy,
corporatization, commercialization, competition and privatization, where
feasible.The consultants would give to the Public Utilities Department and
KEK the models (software) used to make the demand projections, determine
the least-cost investment program, calculate economic costs of electricity
supply, determine tariff rates, and measure financial performance. They
would also provide training in the use of these models. The consultants
would also make available, on a full time basis for a period of six months
- 6 -



after completion of the studies, a specialist to continue training in the
use of the models provided.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
SPECIAL FINANCING 2.5
Total Project Cost 2.5
6. Implementation
The grant would be given to UNMIK. The Public Utilities Department of
UNMIK would be the implementing agency which would appoint a Project
Coordinator (PC) acceptable to the Bank. The PC would be assisted by
project coordinators appointed by KEK and by each of the three district
heating companies. The PC would be responsible for supervising the work of
the consultants, coordinating issues related to disbursements, and
implementing the Project from a professional and technical point of view.
Under the UNMIK structure, only the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which
acts as the Ministry of Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts,
and conduct and monitor financial transactions including the appointment
of an independent auditor. It is, therefore, proposed that the CFA be
responsible for the financial management aspects of the Grant
administration, including preparing the financial management reports
required by the Bank; and having the use of the Grant funds audited on an
annual basis. An assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been
conducted, and it has been concluded that the existing system meets at
least the minimum needs for proper grant administration and reporting.
The system is being programmed under existing IDA-administered Trust Fund
projects, and is expected to be able to produce Project Management Reports
(PMRs) no later than September 30, 2001. The PC will work closely with
the CFA in the preparation of the PMRs. The CFA is in the process of
appointing an international auditor to undertake periodic audits of the
entire consolidated Kosovo budget. It is acceptable to the Bank for this
auditor to audit the use of grant funds. Normal disbursement procedures
would be used. A separate department, the Central Procurement Entity
(CPE), is responsible for carrying out all procurement within UNMIK. The
CPE is carrying out the agreed procurement plan according to agreed
procedures on behalf of the Public Utilities Department. However, the
Department was responsible for defining the terms of reference,
determining short lists, establishing evaluation committees, and would be
responsible for contract management.The project, including post-study
training, is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002. The closing
date is December 31, 2002.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability would require that the information, recommendations and
training provided by the technical assistance are effectively utilized.
To the extent that political stability is maintained and economic
recovery, especially of the energy sector, continues more or less steadily
so that there is acceptable movement towards full cost recovery by the
energy companies, there are reasonable prospects for sustainability. The
study would provide essential input for key decisions related to the
future development of the sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Experience with Bank-financed or Bank-managed technical assistance in
- 7-



other countries points to a need for careful and realistic planning of the
technical assistance and close monitoring of the consultants in order to
ensure that the tasks are completed on schedule. The Bank has been working
closely with the Public Utilities Department in drafting clear and
comprehensive Terms of Reference, and in proposing realistic schedules.
The Bank would also be closely involved in monitoring project
implementation.In order to avoid delays in implementation, the activities
for selection of consultants are being carried out in parallel with
project processing. It is expected that bids will be received and be under
evaluation prior to project approval.In order to ensure that the technical
assistance takes full account of conditions in Kosovo, and that the
results and recommendations are acceptable to the Grantee and
beneficiaries, it is proposed that the consultants carry out all of their
work in Kosovo. Furthermore, representatives of KEK and the district
heating companies would be actively involved in all stages of the project.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Mian Iftikhar Khalil
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-4171
Fax:   (202) 477-7977
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This project became effective in April 2001.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending June 22, 2001.
- 8 -



