Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF027791
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Energy Sector Technical Assistance Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo)
Dated April 25, 2001
TF027791
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of April 25, 2001 between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive Directors, 
decided on September 30, 1999, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way of grant, 
$25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), established by Resolutions of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 99-7) and the Association (Resolution 
No. IDA 99-4) and to be administered by the Administrator, to be used for financing an 
emergency reconstruction program in Kosovo; 
(B)
the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27, 2000, 
to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000, (Additional 
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
Page  2
WHEREAS (D) the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Grant to the Recipient for the benefit of Kosovo upon the 
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" (the General Conditions) set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Category" means Category (1) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for services referred to 
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(c)
"PUD" means Public Utilities Department within United Nations Interim 
Administration in Kosovo (Interim Administration) responsible for the management, 
oversight and regulation of the public utilities in Kosovo; and
(d)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Grant Agreement, a grant in 
an amount equal to two million five hundred thousand Dollars ($2,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Page  3
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, environmental, financial, 
technical and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Recipient shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
indicators acceptable to the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof.
Section 3.04. Within three (3) months of completion of the final report of the 
energy sector study, the Recipient shall develop and adopt a long-term strategy for 
the energy sector, providing for economic cost-based electricity tariffs and energy 
sector evolution towards greater company autonomy, corporatization, commercialization, 
competition and privatization where  feasible,  taking into consideration the 
recommendations of the energy sector study carried out under this Project.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the 
Administrator, consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Administrator may from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
Page  4
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than 
September 30, 2001 or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the four-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the four-month period following the period 
covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under the contract financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon signature by the 
parties hereto.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the 
United Nations for Pillar IV is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 1.28 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.26 of the General Conditions:
Page  5
For the Recipient:
Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General
Pillar IV
United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
One Mother Theresa Street
Pristina, Kosovo
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
21 963-8113
21 963-8603
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS  INTERIM 
    ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By /s/ Hans Haekkerup
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)     
to be Financed 
(1)
Consultants’ services
  2,500,000
100%
TOTAL
2,500,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
Page  6
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist in the development of satisfactory 
long-term plans for the economically efficient reconstruction, recovery and 
restructuring of the power, lignite, district heating and petroleum sectors and 
possible development of a natural gas sector.
The Project consists of the following, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Technical Assistance
1.
Carrying out of an energy sector study with thirteen modules to:
(a) 
analyze the demand for electricity, including carrying out a household 
energy survey and affordability study, evaluating the feasibility and cost of using 
alternative forms of energy for cooking and space heating and other uses, and make 
projections of electricity consumption for the period from 2002-2015;
(b) 
determine the production capability and remaining lifetimes of the 
existing power generating facilities,  identify options for future power generating 
capacity and provide data on their technical characteristics and costs, and determine 
a least-cost power generation investment program for the period 2002 to 2015, to meet 
the projected demand;
(c) 
prepare alternative programs for rehabilitation and expansion of the 
power transmission system and analyze these together with the least-cost and selected 
other power generation options considered in the least-cost power generation 
investment module in order to determine a least-cost expansion plan based on the most 
economic combination of generation and transmission systems, and for the recommended 
transmission program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with 
their estimated costs;
(d) 
analyze the technical losses in power transmission and distribution, and 
propose immediate and long-term measures and realistic loss reduction targets for the 
period 2002-2015, including associated costs; 
(e) 
evaluate the feasibility of a new system control and data acquisition 
system (SCADA) and associated telecommunications facilities for power system 
dispatching in Kosovo, with phased implementation if appropriate, and for the 
recommended program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with 
their estimated costs;
(f) 
determine, by order of priority, further investment requirements in 
distribution capacity for the period 2002-2015, and for the recommended distribution 
program provide lists of components, equipment and materials along with their 
estimated costs; 
g) 
propose a lignite mine development strategy for the period up to 2015 for 
supply to existing thermal power stations, possible new thermal power stations, and 
estimate future production costs; 
(h) 
evaluate the current state of the district heating facilities and 
equipment in the district heating systems of Pristina, Gjakova, and Mitrovica, assess 
the competitiveness of district heating with other heat sources, investigate options 
for improving efficiency and changing fuels (including the option of reducing 
conventional fuel demands through incineration of municipal waste), and evaluate 
options for further rehabilitation of network and boiler stations, including the 
related costs and benefits; 
(i) 
investigate the technical and economic feasibility of importing natural 
gas to Kosovo, estimating the demand for this gas and identifying the required 
infrastructure in pipeline and gas distribution facilities, provide estimates of the 
costs of this infrastructure as well as of the delivered cost of gas to consumers, and 
make recommendations on the most suitable structure for the gas sector within Kosovo;
(j) 
estimate the future demand for petroleum products; investigate ways to 
encourage the emergence of a privately owned petroleum industry in Kosovo that would 
operate with sufficient competition to avoid the need for price controls by the Kosovo 
Page  7
administrative authorities, and make recommendations on the establishment of a 
regulatory framework that would ensure that all petroleum products sold in Kosovo meet 
prescribed quality standards and that would minimize tax evasion by oil importers and 
other petroleum companies;
(k) 
prepare detailed recommended investment plans for the power, lignite, 
district heating, natural gas and petroleum sectors, and identify options for 
financing the investments;
(l) 
estimate the economic costs of electricity and determine an electricity 
tariff structure for Kosovo that takes account of these costs and of social 
considerations while providing enough revenue to ensure a satisfactory financial 
performance of the Power Company of Kosovo (KEK), and recommend a transition strategy 
for moving to the new tariff structure; and
(m)  
examine the internal organizational structure and operations of each of 
the energy companies, make recommendations to improve efficiency; and make 
recommendations on the evolution of sector structure towards greater company autonomy, 
corporatization, commercialization, competition and privatization, where feasible.
2. 
Organization of  a series of training actions related to the activities 
described in paragraph 1 above.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines) and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Consultants’ services shall be procured under a contract awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to the contract for the employment of consulting firm, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
General Conditions
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Page  8
Section 1.02.  Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
"Administrator" means the International Development Association, acting 
as administrator of the Trust Fund;
(b)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the Recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
(c)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(d)
"Grant" means the grant provided for in this Agreement;
(e) 
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(f)
"Project" means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator; and
(g)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
Section 1.03.  Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 1.04.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable. 
Section 1.05.  Valuation of Currencies 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 1.06.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Section 1.07.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Section 1.08.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
Page  9
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
1.06 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the Administrator a 
written application in such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the 
documentation required therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures 
for the Project.
Section 1.09.  Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which, in the opinion of the Administrator, are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 1.10.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
Section 1.11.  Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 1.12.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 1.13.  Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 1.14.  Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.15.  Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under 
this Agreement. 
Page  10
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, 
until the event or events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, 
unless the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make 
withdrawals has been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 1.16.  Cancellation by the Administrator
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or, (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 1.17.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 1.07
of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment.
Section 1.18.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
Section 1.19.  Cooperation and Information
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that the 
purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange views with regard 
to the progress of the Project, the purposes of the Grant, and the performance of 
their respective obligations under this Agreement; and furnish to the other party all 
such information related thereto as it shall reasonably request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens 
to interfere with, the matters referred to in paragraph (i) above.
Section 1.20.  Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.21.  Use of Goods and Services
Page  11
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively 
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 1.22.  Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
Section 1.23.  Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator's representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish 
to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the 
Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this Agreement 
and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.24.  Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 1.25.  Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 1.26.  Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party's address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Delivery made by facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.27.  Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Page  12
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 1.28.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.29. Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Section 1.30.  Execution in Counterparts
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
