CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 659 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Technical Assistance Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated September 16, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 16, 1976, between KINGDOM OF NEPAL
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
0


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions hr.ve the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Sub-project" means a particular study or project of
technical assistance to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to three million dollars ($3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
the amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
in accordance with allocations agreed between the Borrower and the
Association pursuant to Section 3.01 of this Agreement, as such
allocations may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if
the Association shall so agree, to be made) after the date of this
Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services,
other than taxes, required to carry out Sub-projects and agreed to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be limited to:
(i) one hundred per cent of expenditures for ser-
vices rendered by consultants or consulting
firms;
(ii) one hundred percent of expenditures in curren-
cies other than the currency of the Borrower


﻿for equipment and materials required to carry
out Sub-projects and procured directly by the
Borrower; and
(iii) one hundred percent of expenditures for travel
to and from Nepal and of expenditures in cur-
rencies other than the currency of the Borrower
in connection with overseas travel of the Bor-
rower's personnel for training programs. "Bor-
rover's personnel" means persons employed by
His Majesty's Government of Nepal and its agen-
cies, including an entity, the majority of which
is owned by the Government and its agencies.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1986, and ending March 15,


﻿-5-
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable on
March 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01 (a) The Project for which the Credit is granted
consists of the carrying out of high priority Sub-projects selected
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association which are
designed to assist the Borrower in the planning and implementation
of its programs of economic development.
(b) The purpose and scope of each Sub-project, the method
of implementation thereof and the specific allocation thereto of
proceeds of the Credit shall be determined by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the
Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement exclu-
sively to expenditures on the Project.
Section 3.03 (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)
of this Section, except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the equipment and materials to be financed under Section 2.02 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement shall be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published
by the Bank in August 1975.


﻿7
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, contracts
for equipment and materials estimated to cost less than $10,000
equivalent may be let through normal Government procurement pro-
cedures, provided that the aggregate for such contracts shall not
exceed $100,000 equivalent.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause each Sub-project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and shall
make available, promptly as needed, all funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Foreign Aid and Program Division of the Ministry of
Finance of the Borrower shall be responsible for ensuring effective
coordination among the ministries and agencies of the Borrower con-
cerned in the implementation of the Project.
(c) For each Sub-project the Borrower shall establish arrange-
ments and procedures, satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for selecting services, equipment and supplies and directing
their use for such Sub-project, supervising and directing the work
of any consultants employed therefor, recommending modifications
of such consultants' terms of reference or other terms and condi-
tions of their employment, and reviewing the reports and recom-
mendations of such consultants.
(d) The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures to facili-
tate the work of consultants in the performance of their services
for the Project and make available to them all information relevant
to the Sub-project involved.


﻿-9-
(e) The Borrower shall not amend or waive any of the terms
and conditions of employment of consultants em.loyed for any Sub-
project, or grant any material extension of time or any approval
of Sub-contracts or modifications thereof, or agree to substitu-
tion of personnel of such consultants, without prior agreement be-
tween the Borrower and the Association. The Borrower shall promptly
inform the Association if it proposes to suspend payments under or
terminate any contract with such consultants.
Section 4.02. For the purpose of carrying out any Sub-project
which requires the employment of consultants, the Borrower shall
employ qualified and experienced consultants satisfactory to the
Association, on terms and conditions, including terms of reference,
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.03. For each Sub-project, except as the Association
may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall submit the following to
the Association for its approval:
(a) A detailed description of the studies and work to be
carried out in connection with the proposed Sub-project, including
the purposes and objectives of the proposed Sub-project and the
benefits expected from such Sub-project;
(b) Qualifications, terms of reference and duration of
service for any consultants to be engaged in carrying out the
proposed Sub-project;


﻿- 10 -
(c) Description of the role(s) of the agency or agencies or
personnel of the Borrower to be responsible for the execution of
the Sub-project;
(d) Description of amenities and counterpart staff, if any,
to be supplied by the Borrower;
(e) Estimated foreign and local costs of the proposed Sub-
project broken down by major items and showing amounts to be fi-
nanced by the Borrower and out of the proceeds of the Credit, re-
spectively, and an estimated disbursement schedule; and
(f) Measures to be taken to comply with paragraphs (c) and
(d) of Section 4.01, including any proposed variations in the pro-
cedures described in the Guidelines referred to in Section 3.03.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the consultants
employed for the Project promptly to furnish to the Association
copies of the documents prepared by them for the Project, includ-
ing reports and drafts thereof, in such number as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time
exchange views with respect to the evaluation and implementation
of the recommendations and other conclusions contained in the
documents referred. to in the foregoing paragraph (a).
(c) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to show the use of the proceeds of the


﻿- 11 -
Credit and to record the progress of each Sub-project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to inspect any records and documents relevant to
the Project, including records and documents which the consultants
employed by the Borrower shall be required to keep for purposes of
any Sub-project; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(d) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect of each Sub-project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 12
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date November 16, 1976, is hereby specified
for the prrposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as a representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Babar Mahal
Kathmandu, Nepal
Cable address:
ARTHA
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6145 (wUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By /s/ P. B. Khatri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


