Document of           FILE
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3218-EGT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
FOR AN
ABU QIR GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 4, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Currency Equivalents
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)      =  US$1.45
1 US Dollar ($)            =  LE 0.70
Rate for Commercial Bank Transactions
1 Egyptian Pound (LE)    =   US$1.19
1 US Dollar ($)               LE 0.84
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30
Abbreviations
EGPC        -    Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
EIB         -    European Investment Bank
Petrogas    -    Petroleum Gas Company
WEPCO       -    Western Desert Operating Petroleum
Company
GWh         -    Gigawatt hours (1 million kilowatt hours)
LPG         -    Liquefied Petroleum Gas
Mcf         -    Thousand Cubic Feet
MMcf/d            Million Cubic Feet per day
MW                Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
TCF         -    Trillion Cubic Feet



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ABU QIR GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC)
Guarantor           Arab Republic of Egypt
Amount:            US$90 million
Terms;              20 years, including 3 years of grace, at 11.6 percent per
annum in interest. EGPC will pay to the Guarantor a
guarantee fee of 1 percent per annum on the outstanding
principal amount of the loan.
Project
Description:        The project aims to meet some of Egypt's growing energy
needs through increased gas and liquified petroleum gas
(LPG) production to replace mainly exportable fuel oil and
imported diesel and LPG. In addition, condensate recovered
from the gas would release exportable crude oil. The
resultant foreign exchange earnings from increased exports
and savings from reduced imports would be substantial. The
gas would be produced at Abu Qir and supplied to industrial
users in the Alexandria area. The project would consist
of; (i) a production platform with 9 wells, a utility
platform, ancillary facilities, and 2 submarine pipelines;
(ii) gas separation, gas dehydration and condensate
recovery facilities, a slug catcher, an LPG plant, a flare
system and supply and distribution pipelines onshore; and
(iii) technical assistance, training, a seismic survey, and
project-related studies. Although there are operational
and geological risks inherent in the project, as in any
project in the petroleum production and pipeline industry,
adequate safeguards have been provided to minimize these
risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Cost Estimate:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
Drilling (9 wells)                             0.8         32.1       32.9
Offshore platforms                             1.0          7.0        8.0
Offshore processing and utilities              3.0         24.8       27.8
Submarine pipeline                             0.5         11.5       12.0
Power supply                                   0.5          2.5        3.0
Onshore terminal                               1.0          1.0        2.0
Trunkline and distribution system              9.0         10.3       19.3
LPG plant                                      6.7         22.5       29.2
Project engineering, management,
procurement and constr. supervision          0.8          9.0       9.8
Technical assistance                           0.4          2.2        2.6
Studies                                        0.5          3.2        3.7
Training                                       0.2          0.3        0.5
Basic Cost Estimate                           24.4        126.4      150.8
Physical Contingency                           2.4         12.6       15.0
Price Contingency                              6.2         17.0       23.2
Total (net of duties and taxes)               33.0        156.0      189.0
Financing Plan;
Bank loan                                 -           90.0      90.0
EIB/other sources                         -           55.0      55.0
Government/EGPC                          33.0         11.0      44.0
33.0       156.0      189.0
Estimated Bank Loan
Disbursements:                                         US$ Million
FY83       FY84        FY85
Annual                   30.0        50.0       10.0
Cumulative               30.0        80.0       90.0
Estimated
Rate of Return: Over 100 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             No. 3475-EGT dated February 19, 1982
Energy Department



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
EGYPTIAN GENERAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
FOR AN ABU QIR GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) with the guarantee of the
Arab Republic of Egypt for the equivalent of US$90 million to help finance
part of the foreign exchange cost of an Abu Qir Gas Development Project. The
proposed loan would have a term of 20 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6 percent per annum. In addition, EGPC would pay the Guarantor
a guarantee fee of 1 percent per annum on the outstanding principal amount of
the loan. EGPC is also planning to arrange financing of about $55 million for
the project from the European Investment Bank and other commercial sources.
PART I - THE ECONOMYL/
2.        A report on "Recent Economic Developments and External Capital
Requirements" (SecM80-933) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
December 24, 1980. Country data sheets reflecting the recently updated and
revised macroeconomic accounts are attached.
The "Open Door" Strategy
3.        Following more than a decade of inward looking and centralist
economic policies, the late President Sadat in 1974 announced a new "Open
Door" policy with the objective of accelerating the pace of development by
liberalizing the economy and stimulating foreign and domestic private
investment. It is important to stress that the "Open Door" policy was not a
radical break with the past but a redefinition of priorities in response to
changing opportunities. Parallel to the changes in economic policy there was
progress towards peace which brought with it expectations of rapid economic
growth and greater prosperity. President Mubarak has expressed his intention
to continue President Sadat's search for peace in the Region and maintain the
"Open Door" strategy, with increased emphasis on domestic productivity and
social equity. The new cabinet, appointed in January 1982, has begun the task
of drawing up an economic program aimed at achieving these objectives.
4.        To implement the "Open Door" strategy a number of specific policy
actions were taken since 1974. Among the more important ones were the
gradual devaluation of the Egyptian pound (LE), and the concurrent
liberalization of foreign exchange regulations. Starting in 1973 when the
parallel market rate was introduced, Egypt's currency was devalued by
1/   This section is substantially the same as Part I of the President's
Report for the Fifth Development Industrial Bank Project (P-3165-EGT)
which was distributed to the Board on December 3, 1981.



- 2 -
44 percent from US$2.56 to US$1.43 per LE by January 1979 (para. 14).
Exchange restrictions were eased, specific import allocations were replaced by
general import quotas, and more foreign exchange was made available to both
the public apd private sector. A new investment law (1974, amended in 1977)
offered attractive incentives to foreign firms. Trade agreements, especially
with the EEC, opened new markets for export products; at the same time,
bilateral trade with COMECON countries was much reduced.
5.        In 1975, Egypt was able to reopen the Suez Canal.  At the same time
petroleum production in the Gulf of Suez started increasing at a rapid rate
and workers' remittances as well as tourism became significant sources of
foreign exchange. Nevertheless, Egypt was facing serious balance of payments
problems. The base from which foreign exchange revenues were growing was too
small to meet the increase in imports triggered by the liberalization program
and the Government's commitment to providing ample supplies of basic consumer
goods at stable prices. However, large capital inflows, primarily from the
oil-surplus Arab Gulf states, sustained the "Open Door" policy during the
1975-77 period. These loans and grants also complemented the public sector's
fiscal resources and allowed a large expansion of both consumer subsidies and
public sector investment.
6.        By the end of 1978 the balance of payments started to show clear
signs of improvement as a result of the sustained rapid growth in receipts
from remittances, tourism, the Suez Canal and petroleum exports. The last two
years have confirmed and strengthened this improving trend. Petroleum exports
and workers' remittances reached about $2.7 billion each in 1980. On capital
account, the cessation of Arab aid following the Camp David agreements was
largely offset by a substantial increase in U.S. assistance and an increase in
direct foreign investment, mainly but not exclusively in the oil sector.
7.        The Egyptian economy has thus entered the new decade with a much
improved balance of payments. Moreoever, the emergence of the petroleum
sector has strengthened the budget considerably. Deficit financing through
the domestic banking system declined from an average of about 10 percent in
the 1975-1979 period, to 5 percent in 1980. Finally, gross fixed investment
increased from about 25 percent of GDP in the 1975-1977 period to almost 28
percent over the last two years with the share of national savings in total
investment rising from 30 percent in 1974 to 70 percent in 1979; real GDP
growth averaged almost 10 percent throughout the period.
8.        While much of the momentum for this accelerated pace of development
is attributable to the "Open Door" policy, the increasing openness and
accompanying structural changes have made economic management more difficult
and changed the environment in which economic policies operate. Inflation has
emerged as a principal policy concern. Prior to 1975, Egypt was essentially a
fixed price economy and resource allocation and investment decisions were
centrally determined. Moreover, international and domestic inflation was low,
so that while relative prices may have been out of line with world prices,
price inflexibility did not create undue macroeconomic imbalance. The
situation has since changed radically. The opening of the economy coincided
with an acceleration in world inflation. At the same time, labor migration
and the rapid expansion of the economy led to supply bottlenecks in several



- 3 -
key sectors. Effective demand, especially for consumer goods, also rose
sharply following the income gains that resulted from the growth of tourism,
remittances and other receipts. All these factors have exerted sharp upward
pressure on domestic prices. In a country unaccustomed to inflation and
flexible prices, and where there are no easily functioning mechanisms for
cost-of-living adjustments in wages and salaries, the required price
adjustments appeared large and unjust. Some small adjustments were made and,
in the uncontrolled parts of the economy, prices and wages did in fact surge
upward. In the controlled sector, major changes could not be achieved. As a
result the gap between world prices and domestic selling prices of key traded
goods has continuously increased, leading to large implicit and explicit
subsidies and resulting in an increasingly distorted system of relative prices
and incentives.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        Recent economic trends have been characterized by continued rapid
overall growth and the emergence of the petroleum sector as the dominant
sector in Egypt's economy. In May 1980, the fiscal and administrative year
was shifted from January-December to July-June. As a result, data for
calendar year 1980 are not always available and fiscal year 1981 (July 1980 -
June 1981) estimates are used instead of calendar 1980 estimates to describe
the most recent developments.
10.       Overall GDP growth averaged about 10 percent in constant FY81 prices
over the last four years.l/ The very high rate of growth reflects the
emergence of the petroleum sector and rapid growth in industry,
transportation, trade and finance, and Suez Canal traffic. Agriculture stands
out by its low growth rate, around 2.2 percent per annum, although it should
be stressed that agricultural performance improved compared to the 1965-75
period when growth averaged 1.5 percent. The combination of continued growth
in real petroleum output and the doubling in export prices has resulted in
considerable changes in the structure of GDP. The share of petroleum in
value-added at factor cost has tripled since 1977 to about 19 percent in FY81.
11.       Production of crude petroleum in 1980 averaged close to 600,000
barrels a day (30 million tons a year). There is general agreement in Egypt
and among foreign observers that the proven reserves of Egypt's large
established petroleum fields could not sustain production at present rates
beyond the mid-1980's. On the other hand, over the last two years Egypt has
added about 100 million tons to the stock of proven reserves, largely through
a continuous stream of small discoveries. Investment in exploration by foreign
oil companies has increased dramatically and is expected to average at least
$600 million annually for the next few years. Given the performance achieved
over the last two years and the massive investment program, it is only
reasonable to assume that new discoveries will continue to occur. The
magnitude of these discoveries remains, of course, highly uncertain.
1/ In 1975 prices, real growth would decline to 8.5 percent, the
difference being due to the changed petroleum prices.



12.      In addition to crude petroleum, the output of natural gas has
recorded a steady increase reaching over 2 million tons of oil equivalent in
FY81. Substantial investments are planned for the exploitation of existing
gas fields and for further exploration, which will hopefully release
additional quantities of petroleum for export. However, the level of the
exportable surplus of petroleum would also depend on domestic energy
consumption, which has been growing by about 12 percent annually in recent
years. It is important therefore that efforts to increase production of
energy are complemented by measures designed to achieve more efficient
domestic use of energy.
13.      Reflecting the sharp increase in petroleum export earnings and the
continued growth in workers' remittances and Suez Canal revenues, Egypt's
foreign exchange earnings have grown rapidly since 1979. At $1.9 billion,
the current account deficit in FY81 was lower in relation to GDP (7.5
percent) than in any year since 1973. Net medium- and long-term capital
inflows are estimated at $2.9 billion, giving an overall surplus in the
balance of payments of about $1 billion compared with a surplus of $167
million in 1978 and a deficit of $250 million in 1977. The improvement in
the balance of payments since 1979 has allowed for some buildup in foreign
exchange reserves, which stood at about $1 billion at end-1980 (about one and
a half months of imports). Despite the apparent strength of the balance of
payments, certain structural features are worth noting: (i) Agricultural and
manufactured exports constitute only a very small fraction (10 percent) of
Egypt's foreign exchange receipts. Petroleum ($3.1 billion in FY81),
workers' remittances ($3 billion), the Suez Canal ($0.9 billion) and foreign
capital inflows ($2.9 billion) dominate the accounts. (ii) Food imports, at
$2.6 billion, are almost equal to petroleum earnings. Moreover, with
severely limited arable land and a growing population, Egypt's dependence on
imported food is likely to grow. (iii) The share of imported capital goods
in overall investment is high. Along with import requirements of industrial
raw materials, this implies a continued high import dependence in the medium
term.
14.      The liberalization of the trade and payments system has contributed
significantly to Egypt's balance of payments performance in the 1977-1981
period. However, by enhancing capital mobility through the creation of the
so called "free" foreign exchange market, liberalization has made it more
difficult for the monetary authorities to pursue policies divorced from
external circumstances and the problem of harmonizing fiscal, interest rate
and exchange rate policies has assumed increasing importance. The official
exchange rate has been fixed at LE 0.70 per $1.0 since January 1979.
However, the free market exchange rate has fluctuated between LE 0.75 and LE
1.03 per $1.0 over the last two years. The increasing importance of the free
market has put pressure on the commercial banks and led to the emergence of
an intermediate commercial bank rate, lower than the free market rate but
higher than the official rate. Effective August 1, 1981, the Government
established a new commercial bank rate for a limited number of transactions
at LE 0.84 to the dollar in an attempt to attract foreign exchange from the
free market to the commercial bank pool. The system is clearly in a
transition state and there is need for a comprehensive reform including
greater flexibility in the official rate and greater consistency between
interest rate and exchange rate policies. Attempts to keep domestic interest



rates much below world levels will lead to private capital outflows and
upward pressure on the exchange rate. Policies to mobilize private savings
through the development of a domestic capital market must, therefore, be
complemented by an interest rate policy that acknowledges the growing
sensitivity of capital movements to expectations about future price changes
and to the relative structure of incentives.
15.      Turning to the influence of exchange rate movements on trade
performance, it must be noted that with inflation in the domestic Egyptian
economy having been somewhat more rapid than inflation affecting the real
value of the dollar, over the last three to four years the purchasing power
parity deflated value of the Egyptian pound has slowly but steadily
appreciated with respect to the dollar. Egypt faces the typical problem of
real appreciation characterizing many natural resource and oil exporting
economies. While oil and service receipts have shown spectacular growth,
non-oil merchandise exports have declined in volume since the mid-1970-'s.
Part of this decline may be due to the necessity of replacing Egypt's
traditional Eastern European markets with outlets in the convertible currency
areas. But the transition should by now have been achieved and increasingly
the problem may be due to an erosion of Egypt's competitive cost position and
a shift of incentives against exports. The trend towards real appreciation
has also reduced the profitability of import competing activities. The
situation is complicated, however, by the subsidies provided to domestic
producers through low energy prices and other subsidized inputs. These
subsidies allow competitive production of some exports and import substitutes
in spite of the appreciating real exchange rate. The medium and long term
prospects for the volume and composition of merchandise trade, therefore, are
intimately tied to developments in price and exchange rate policies.
16.      While rapid growth was achieved over the last five years and there
has been a significant improvement in the balance of payments, the overall
fiscal deficit of the consolidated public sector remained very large during
the 1976-1979 period, fluctuating between 13 and 22 percent of GDP. The 1980
budget, presented in end-1979 and revised in February 1980, included several
proposals to raise revenues and limit the growth of expenditures. The most
important of these were: a new sales tax, an increase in electricity
tariffs, price increases for public sector companies, and a reduction in
consumer subsidies. However, some of these measures were dropped when a new
Cabinet took office in May 1980. A different set of measures were announced
and a new budget presented to the People's Assembly in response to growing
signs of social tension and based on the additional revenues provided by the
petroleum sector. Wage increases were awarded to public sector employees,
the prices of several commodities were reduced and the Government embarked on
a large scale import program. The declared objective of the new budget and
the accompanying measures was to break inflationary expectations, raise
incomes of disadvantaged groups and reaffirm the Government's commitment to
ample supplies of basic commodities at stable prices.
17.      Despite the large increases in subsidies and the other net
expenditure raising measures taken in 1980, the overall fiscal deficit
declined substantially as a percentage of GDP from 19.5 percent in 1979 to
about 13 percent in 1980/81. Excluding investment expenditures, the current
budget was actually in surplus. This improved situation was due to the
additional resources provided by the petroleum sector and the Suez Canal.



- 6 -
Together, petroleum and Suez Canal revenues have more than tripled since 1978
(9.1 percent of GDP in FY81), more than offsetting the deteriorating trend in
Central Government savings. This massive increase in public revenues reduced
the need for domestic bank financing from more than 9 percent of GDP in 1979
to less than 5 percent in FY81, the lowest percentage since the mid-1970's.
18.      There was hope that increased public sector savings and reduced
deficit financing would reduce the pace of monetary expansion that has
averaged about 30 percent annually over the last few years. This has not so
far been the case because the reduced growth in the domestic assets of the
banking system has been more than compensated by more rapid growth in net
foreign assets reflecting the overall surplus in foreign payments. Since a
large portion of the increase in reserves has accrued to the Government,
domestic bank credit to the public sector understates the expansionary
monetary effect of public sector operations. During a phase of foreign asset
accumulation, monetary control requires special sterilization policies so
that the fiscal improvement can reduce the underlying inflationary pressure
which constitutes such a crucial source of concern for Egyptian policymakers
and which is an obstacle to many of the required reforms in the areas of
pricing and institutional change.
Development Potential and Constraints
19.      Egypt has considerable potential for continued rapid development.
The reasons for this are, in brief; a large domestic market, a relatively
skilled and literate population, an agricultural potential not yet fully
developed, varied raw materials (including oil, gas and phosphate), and a key
geographical location. Future economic growth may come less easily, however,
than during the past years. The gradual need to substitute domestic for
foreign savings will become more pressing as net foreign contributions
decline in relation to GNP. Capacities are now strained in a number of
areas, including physical infrastructure. The expansion of new capacities
has been slowed down by administrative inefficiency, inadequate fiscal
resources and weakness in national coordination and sector programming.
Managerial effectiveness in public enterprises and financial incentives for
production are often inadequate. Higher levels of economic activity together
with labor emigration have led to shortages in critical professional and
technical skills. Educational facilities in Egypt still reflect a
non-technical bias and their quality needs to be upgraded.
20.      In addition, the rapid economic growth of recent years has been
based on the performance of sectors with only weak linkages to agriculture,
industry and services where the bulk of the labor force is occupied. For
example, the Suez Canal and the petroleum sector currently account for about
22 percent of GDP but only one percent of total employment. While tourism
and remittances directly touch the lives of a much greater number of people,
they cannot provide a solid basis for employment expansion and technological
development. Moreover, the long-term real growth potential for receipts from
petroleum, Suez and remittances is uncertain. The challenge for Egypt lies
in the necessity of channeling a good part of the surpluses and revenues from
these "natural resource" based sectors, into productive investment in
agriculture, industry and social infrastructure in order to lay the
foundations for self-sustaining growth and employment expansion in the



- 7 -
domestic economy. There is tremendous scope for improving the efficiency and
dynamism of domestic institutions and production processes, particularly at a
time when overall resource constraints have been eased and the absence of
short-term crises provides a valuable opportunity to address the difficult
problems of long-term structural and technological change.
21.      Another key issue is population.  At an estimated 42 million in
mid-1980, Egypt's population is already very large for its limited arable
land area, with an average density exceeding 1300 per sq. km, higher than
that of Bangladesh or Indonesia. Recent census results show that population
has continued to grow at an annual rate exceeding 2.5 percent, adding almost
one million people every year. Moreover, almost half of this increase is
concentrated in the greater Cairo area alone. This continues to create
pressures on resources for consumption and investment and aggravates the
employment problem in the longer run. Although the Government has initiated
a more aggressive population program, it will take considerable time and
further measures to achieve measurable results in fertility reduction.
22.      A serious side effect of recent inflation appears to have been a
deterioration in the relative distribution of income and a growing disparity
in consumption levels. Although inequality and the incidence of absolute
poverty is no worse in Egypt than in most economies at similar income levels,
continued inflation and lack of progress in more effective taxation of high
income groups could lead to serious social problems.
23.      To maintain the momentum of development and to meet the challenges
of the future, major efforts are required to overcome the structural
constraints cited above. Specifically, action is needed to (i) increase the
efficiency of the administration through organization and procedural
modifications and selective changes in salary structures; (ii) increase real
domestic savings through an effective mobilization of domestic resources and
fiscal reform; (iii) strengthen the general use of prices as meaningful
indicators of relative scarcities; (iv) develop a long-term export promotion
policy including appropriate management of incentives and real effective
exchange rates; (v) pursue a vigorous and balanced program to upgrade the
country's physical infrastructure; and finally (vi) intensify efforts to
develop a coherent and effective population policy. There is an ongoing
dialogue on all these important issues between the Egyptian authorities and
the Bank. They have also been the focus of discussions among the members of
the Consultative Group for Egypt.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
24.      Egypt's non-military medium- and long-term public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1980, was estimated at about $13.1 billion.
Bilateral loans comprised about $8.0 billion or about 61 percent of the debt
outstanding while the shares of multilateral credit and suppliers' credit
were about 22 and 10 percent, respectively, with the remainder being held by
financial institutions. Major creditors were the USA and Gulf Organization
for the Development of Egypt (GODE), followed by Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, and
the Federal Republic of Germany. IBRD/IDA debt comprised about 6 percent of
the total disbursed debt. Reflecting the rapid increase in foreign exchange



earnings and more favorable credit terms, the debt service ratio 1/ has
steadily declined from 33 percent in 1973 to about 15 percent in 1979 and
1980.
25.      Although there has been a marked improvement in the overall resource
situation, and in particular in the balance of payments, in a longer term
perspective, Egypt's development needs remain immense. It is still a
relatively poor country with a population projected to increase to 55 million
by 1990. A large investment program will thus be required if Egypt is to
meet the basic needs of its growing population and lay the foundations for
self-sustaining growth. This, in turn, implies the need for continued large
foreign capital inflows in the medium term.
26.      Given the concessional nature of much of the aid flows Egypt has
drawn on in the recent past, but taking account of some new borrowing on
commercial terms, Egypt's current debt-service ratio is projected to remain
very moderate, between 17 and 20 percent, over the next five years. In the
longer term, the behavior of the debt service ratio will depend on domestic
policies and on developments in the oil sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT 2/
27.      The proposed loan would be the World Bank's sixty-first lending
operation to Egypt, and would bring Bank and IDA commitments to $2,462.1
million. Through these operations, the Bank Group has assisted in the
development of the agriculture, industry, power and energy, water supply,
population, transportation, telecommunications, tourism, urban and education
sectors. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits as of
September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.      The Bank has tailored its response to Egypt's basic structural
problems in a very broad fashion and in close cooperation with other donors.
Its strategy implies deliberate involvement in a broad spectrum of sectors in
order to provide not only direct finance with its relatively limited
resources but, equally, to act as a catalyst for other bilateral and
multilateral agencies, and as a spur for initiating discussion and positive
action on a coherent framework of policies and investment proposals which can
tackle the substantive issues. The approach also includes delivery of
technical assistance, not only for adequate implementation of specific
investment programs but for developing the domestic institutional capability
to articulate and implement future policies and investment programs. The
Bank's broad multisectoral intervention has been tailored to the pace at
which the Egyptian authorities can reasonably be expected to address these
issues and implement the programs.
1/ Debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt as a percent of
export earnings.
2/ This section is substantially unchanged from the corresponding part of
the President's Report for the Fifth Development Industrial Bank
Project (P-3165) which was distributed to the Board on December 3, 1981.



- 9 -
29.       Industry, which has been over the past five years the sector
receiving the largest portion of Bank resources and significant attention,
illustrates the nature and scope of the Bank's intervention. The Govern-
ment looks upon rapid industrialization as a means to stimulate growth of
the economy, create productive employment, cater to basic consumer needs,
and generate an "export surplus". Efforts under Bank financed projects
have gone beyond the immediate objective of improving capacity utilization
(Imports loans and credits Nos. Cr. 524, Ln. 1062 and Ln. 1456) and in-
creasing production capacity and supply of essential commodities in
resource-based industries (cotton ginning, textiles, cement and fertilizer
projects). The more fundamental effort has been directed at introducing
policy and structural improvements. Towards this end, the Bank has
financed six subsector studies in textiles, building materials, pulp and
paper, food processing, metallurgy, and engineering industries, in order to
assist the Government in formulating a package of policy and investment
proposals, which are embodied in our projects. To complement these efforts
the Bank has also carried out a study on small-scale industries and has
assisted the Government in a comprehensive study of the construction/
contracting industry, which is one of the major bottlenecks facing the
Egyptian economy today. The Bank proposes to support the Government's
efforts in implementing the recommendations of these studies. Finally, the
Bank is working with the Government on a study of Trade Strategy,
Investment Planning and Shadow Prices which will focus on the sectoral
allocation and timing of Egypt's investment program in the context of a
viable foreign trade strategy.
30.      The sketch provided above of the scope and breadth of the Bank's
intervention in one sector is illustrative of the multifaceted approach
that it has adopted in varying degrees in the entire spectrum of the
Egyptian economy. It is a role that is in harmony not only with the
Egyptian Government's wishes but is welcomed by the various bilateral and
multilateral donors as an appropriate function for the Bank as the Chairman
of the Consultative Group. Preparation of projects for future lending fol-
lows this strategy, and the pipeline includes projects in education, gas
development, rural and urban development, transportation, water supply,
agriculture (including drainage), development finance and industry.
31.      Bank Group disbursements in FY81 represented about 8 percent of
total disbursements on grants and medium- and long-term loans. The Bank
and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and disbursed were about
3.6 percent and 2.5 percent, respectively, as of June 30, 1981. For the
future, the Bank and IDA shares of total external debt outstanding and
disbursed (excluding military debts) are estimated to reach about 6.0 and
3.1 percent, respectively, in FY85. It is estimated that in FY85, debt
service payments due to the Bank and IDA will represent about 4.6 percent
and 0.2 percent, respectively, of service payments due on Egypt's external
debt.
32.       IFC participation and lending for projects in Egypt now total
about $74 million and include: a ceramics project; a ready-made garment
project; a project for an agricultural complex, primarily for sugar beet; a
poultry project; a fish farming project; a building materials project; and
a tourism project. IFC is discussing several other private sector and
joint venture projects. A summary of IFC operations in Egypt is given in
Annex II.



- 10 -
PART III - OIL AND GAS SECTOR
Introduction
33.      Egypt's energy outlook has continuously improved over the last
decade. With the commissioning of the Aswan High Dam, Egypt successfully
developed its largest hydroelectric resource. Increases in oil production
have made it, first, self-sufficient and, more recently, an exporter of
oil. Oil output has increased almost threefold over the last five years
and 1980 export earnings from oil were of the order of $3 billion,
accounting for about 67 percent of Egypt's merchandise exports. Despite
low domestic prices, the fiscal contribution of the sector is substantial,
having grown from 10 percent of total government revenues in 1975 to about
35 percent in 1980. Recent discoveries of oil and gas have further
strengthened the energy base and increased export possibilities of oil.
These positive developments notwithstanding, the medium and long term
outlook is uncertain. Much of Egypt's current economic and industrial
planning is predicated upon ample and continued availability of low cost
energy and a significant increase in oil exports. However, it is not
certain that this will necessarily come about. The principal areas of
concern are the rapidly growing domestic demand for oil stimulated by
prices well below the international level, declining production from some
of Egypt's existing major oil fields, and the need for increased efforts to
explore for oil and develop Egypt's large and relatively unexploited
natural gas reserves. The latter could release liquid hydrocarbons for
export and become a major source of domestic energy in the 1980s.
Resource Endowment
34.      The main sources of primary commercial energy in Egypt are
hydropower and petroleum. Coal deposits estimated at about 100 million
tons have also been discovered in the Western Desert and Sinai peninsula.
As in other developing economies, non-commercial fuels in the form of crop
residue and animal waste are in extensive use and are estimated to
represent about 5 million tons of oil equivalent, or one-quarter of the
energy used in Egypt.
35.      Hydropower is an important energy source for Egypt and accounted
for 16 percent of commercial energy in 1980. Starting with the
installation of 345 Megawatts (MW) of capacity in 1960 at the Old Aswan Dam
and the addition of 2100 MW in 1970 with the completion of the Aswan High
Dam, about 75 percent of Egypt's hydropower potential has been harnessed.
An additional 270 MW is to be generated at the Old Aswan Dam under an FY80
IDA credit (1052-EGT). A generating potential of 460 MW remains, which
could be realized by developing generating facilities in existing and new
barrages on the Nile River. The other major potential source of hydropower
is the Qattara Depression in the Western Desert.



- 11 -
Oil and Gas
36.      Hydrocarbons are a major source of energy in Egypt.  They
currently account for some 75 percent of commercial energy, and because of
a limited hydro potential, are likely to be relied upon increasingly to
meet Egypt's incremental demand for energy. The 1980 production level was
about 30 million tons per annum (600,000 barrels per day) of which about 20
percent represented the share of foreign oil companies, 40 percent was
consumed domestically and the balance exported. Recoverable reserves are
currently estimated at around 400 million tons (2.9 billion barrels).
37.      Egypt has extensive and relatively unexploited reserves of natural
gas in both associated and non-associated form. Most of the associated gas
comes from existing oil fields in the Gulf of Suez. In addition, recent
oil discoveries have increased the availability of gas. Non-associated gas
on a commercially exploitable scale has been discovered in the Western
Desert, the Gulf of Suez and the Nile Delta. Total gas reserves are
estimated at 9.75 trillion cubic feet (TCF), equivalent to 225 million tons
of oil, or about half of Egypt's recoverable oil reserves. Of this total,
non-associated gas accounts for about 7.75 TCF and associated gas for about
2 TCF. Currently, the natural gas production potential is greater than the
demand. However, this situation is likely to reverse itself over the next
few years. In this context, under Loan 1732-EGT, the Bank has financed a
study to address the questions of gas use optimization and the need to
upgrade gas from a substitute for fuel oil to higher value uses. The study
has just been completed and is being reviewed by the Government and the
Bank.
Exploration Policy
38.      For exploration, development and production of oil, Egypt has
successfully followed an 'open-door policy' and almost all exploration and
production work undertaken within the country has been through foreign oil
companies. Under the current production-sharing agreements, the cost of
exploration and development is borne exclusively by foreign contractors and
amortized, interest free, over a stipulated time period. After taking
these and operating costs into account, "profit oil"l/ is shared between
the foreign contractor and the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation
(EGPC) generally in the ratio of 20:80, although in some highly prospective
areas, EGPC has negotiated its share of "profit oil" up to 88 percent. In
1980, the foreign contractors' share of oil amounted to an estimated 6
million tons worth about $1.5 billion.  In order to encourage foreign oil
companies, EGPC has recently reduced the period for amortizing development
costs from ten years to five years.
39.      Egypt's oil exploration policy has successfully attracted
substantial foreign investment, and has served well the Government's
objective of maximizing oil production without bearing any risk of
exploration. Of the production level of about 30 million tons per annum,
production-sharing agreements account for as much as 29 million
1/ "Profit oil" is the difference between oil production and "cost oil".
"Cost oil" consists of operating cost and amortized cost relating to
exploration and development.



- 12 -
tons. Of late, foreign oil companies have shown substantial interest in
exploration and over the last year 35 new production-sharing agreements have
been entered into, bringing the number of current agreements to 95, covering
an area of about 200,000 square kilometers. Turning to the future, an annual
expenditure of $600 million for oil exploration is anticipated over the next
five years, most of which will be incurred by foreign oil companies.
40.      In the past, foreign oil companies have not been interested in gas
exploration in Egypt, primarily because the export of gas through liquefaction
was generally not attractive and the domestic market was neither well
developed nor profitable. Rapidly rising prices of liquid hydrocarbons over
the past few years have, however, made the export of gas a more profitable
proposition. In order to attract foreign oil companies to explore for gas,
EGPC is developing new incentives. These include permitting foreign oil
companies to export gas after a 12 TCF national gas reserve has been
established; reimbursing exploration costs in the case of commercial
discoveries; paying interest and other cash incentives in certain cases; and
allowing companies to develop discovered fields for domestic use on mutually
agreed terms. While several companies have shown an interest in the incentive
package, no agreements have been concluded yet.
Current and Anticipated Level of Oil Production
41.      Oil production in Egypt shows an impressive growth having increased
from 11.5 million tons in 1974 to about 30 million tons in 1980. The annual
growth rate in oil output has, however, declined from about 26 percent in 1977
to 17 percent in 1978 and about 10 percent subsequently. Increases in the
production reserve ratio in 1979 suggested that production levels were not
sustainable; however, there have been some positive developments over the last
12 months. Oil companies' efforts to maintain production levels in peaking
fields have been successful; delineation drilling has led to a significant
increase in the estimates of recoverable reserves from existing fields, and,
most importantly, there has been a series of new, albeit small, discoveries.
In view of these developments, oil production is projected to increase by
about 3 to 4 percent on average each year to reach a level of about 35 million
tons in 1985. Thereafter, the production level would depend upon the rate of
new discoveries. The large investment program envisaged for exploration (see
para. 39) would suggest that further discoveries will continue to be made, and
Egypt might well achieve a modest but sustained growth in oil production over
the rest of the decade.
Consumption Pattern
42.        The consumption of petroleum products has risen rapidly, increasing
from 6.7 million tons in 1974 to 9.1 million tons in 1977 and an estimated
13.2 million tons in 1980. The overall annual growth rate has averaged about
12 percent, with fuel oil/natural gas, gasoline, and gas oil recording the
sharpest increases. In the absence of effective demand management and/or
significant price increases, consumption is projected to continue to grow at
about the same rate, i.e., 12 percent annually until 1986. This relatively
high growth rate is partly attributable to rapid growth in thermal power
generation which is projected to rise from 8,600 Gigawatt hours (GWh) in 1980
to 23,000 GWh in 1985. While the demand for hydrocarbons is anticipated to



- 13 -
grow from 13 million tons in 1980 to over 24 million tons by 1985/86, the
consumption pattern is expected to change qualitatively with natural gas
replacing fuel oil in large measure. If steps are taken to develop the known
gas fields and related infrastructure, it would be possible to replace about 7
million tons of oil with gas by 1985/86, thereby containing the demand for
liquid hydrocarbons to about 17 million tons. Increases in consumption beyond
1985/86 would depend, in part, on the introduction of coal-fired and nuclear
power plants. Plans to develop the latter, with bilateral assistance, have
been initiated by the Government.
Demand and Supply of Natural Gas
43.      Over the past few years, Egypt has made significant efforts to
develop its gas potential. As a result, natural gas production of
approximately 300 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) is greater than the
current demand of 200 MMcf/d. However, with demand projected to grow to over
1000 MMcf/d by 1985/86, substantial additional investment aimed at the rapid
development of proven gas reserves and related infrastructure, is needed. In
the absence of such efforts, the shortfalls in gas supplies relative to the
demand would have to be met by diverting exportable liquid hydrocarbons to the
domestic market. The potential shortages would be especially marked in
Alexandria and Cairo where the demand is projected to grow to about 680 MMcf/d
against projected supplies of 200 MMcf/d from existing fields supplying these
areas.  The need for substantial and timely increases in gas production is
thus clearly indicated. The proposed project, which aims at reducing the
anticipated shortfall in Alexandria to the extent of 100 MMcf/d, is a step in
this direction. Since the potential demand would still exceed supply by a
significant margin, steps should also be taken to rapidly develop the full
potential of the gas fields at Abu Madhi, Abu Qir (North) and the T-Structure
in the Western Desert. Furthermore, to permit the transfer of gas from
surplus to deficit areas, and to reduce the vulnerability of gas-based
industries to production difficulties in individual gas fields, a gas network
with ancillary facilities would need to be established. A feasibility study
for this purpose has, therefore, been included in the proposed project (see
para. 55).
Energy Sector Issues and the Role of the Bank
44.      Whereas Egypt is currently a net exporter of energy, its longer term
ability to continue as a net energy exporter is not assured. Some 75 percent
of the hydropower potential has been harnessed. Coal deposits exist, but when
developed, would only marginally increase Egypt's resource base. Hydrocarbons
appear to be the only source which can fill the incremental demand for
energy. Sharply rising domestic demand, coupled with prospects of reduced
productivity from existing oil fields, could rapidly erode Egypt's exportable
oil surplus. Because hydrocarbon exports provide Egypt with a major, but
limited opportunity to build a foundation for self-sustained economic growth,
its energy strategy should address itself to the following important policy
issues. First, an adequate demand management policy should be formulated,
especially in regard to pricing to curtail the sharp growth in internal
consumption; second, energy use efficiency should be improved; third, Egypt's



- 14 -
natural gas resources should be developed rapidly, specifically by
accelerating both exploration activities and the development of known gas
fields, and by creating an infrastructure which would increase the economy's
capacity to utilize natural gas; fourth, the refinery program should be
appropriately modified to produce high value products from oil fractions which
natural gas will replace and thus maximize earnings from oil exports; and
finally, resources to finance its investment program should be identified and
mobilized. The level of Egypt's export earnings during the 1980s would, in
large measure, depend upon the success of these policies.
45.      The overall pricing system in Egypt is still characterized by
extensive subsidies on many goods and services. The domestic prices of
petroleum products are, on average, about one-seventh of their opportunity
cost to the economy. The Government has traditionally kept the overall price
of energy low relative to other domestic prices to foster industrial growth.
The low energy prices continue to impair the ability of energy sector entities
to generate sufficient revenues to finance their capital investments needs.
In addition, the prevailing price structure does not reflect the relative
scarcity of energy, and is leading to its use in a non-optimal combination.
Increasing domestic energy prices to international levels should be a primary
goal. However, this is a long term objective primarily influenced by the
ability of the Egyptian economy to structurally adjust and absorb higher
prices. To provide the Government with a basis on which to consider pricing
policies in the petroleum and power subsectors, the Bank has financed a
petroleum products pricing study (through Loan 1732-EGT) and an electricity
tariff study (through Loan 1453-EGT). The former has just been completed and
the latter is expected to be completed shortly.
46.      The petroleum pricing study essentially concludes that current price
levels and related growth in energy consumption are unsustainable without
impairing Egypt's growth objectives; and a comprehensive energy policy and
investment strategy (a) to expand production and (b) to increase energy use
efficiency are needed. In addition, the study provides a detailed analysis of
the consequences of various policy options which the Government might wish to
consider. Based on the findings of this study, and the gas use optimization
study mentioned in paragraph 37 (which has also just been completed), the Bank
intends to continue its energy sector policy dialogue with the Government
aimed at the twin objectives of (a) designing a strategy for the development
of Egypt's extensive gas reserves, thus promoting export expansion and import
substitution of high value liquid hydrocarbons, and in this context (b)
increasing domestic energy prices.
47.      Meanwhile some pricing improvements in limited areas have already
taken place. Under the Bank-financed Cairo Gas Distribution Project (Credit
1024-EGT), the Government agreed to increase the price of natural gas for
domestic consumers substantially above the current price of city gas and LPG,
and to charge two power stations about two and a half times the price paid by
all other power stations. In 1980, the Government increased the prices of
petroleum products, except LPG and fuel oil, by about 20 percent. Electricity
tariffs for residential and small commercial consumers were also increased on
average by 20 percent. As a further step in reducing the gap between domestic
and world prices, under the proposed project the Bank has reached agreement
with the Government on an increase in the price of gas produced at Abu Qir
(see para. 63).



- 15 -
48.      The Bank Group is supporting three projects in Egypt's power sector,
and another three in the gas sector. A 1977 loan (1453-EGT) of $48 million
financed a project for the rehabilitation and extension of electric power
facilities in urban and rural areas near Cairo and Alexandria. With the
exception of substations, which have been delayed due to delays in equipment
deliveries, the project has been completed. An IDA credit of $37 million, a
Bank loan of $102 million, and an EEC Special Action credit of $35 million
(Nos. 935-EGT, 1733-EGT, 20-EGT, respectively) were approved in June 1979 to
help finance the first stage (600 MW) of a 900 MW thermal power station at
Shoubrah El Kheima. The construction is progressing on schedule and orders
have already been placed for some of the main equipment items. An IDA credit
of $120 million and a Bank loan of $7 million (1052-EGT and 1886-EGT), which
became effective in July 1981, will help finance a third power project which
includes the expansion of the Shoubrah El Kheima power station, the generation
of additional hydropower at Aswan and a regional electrification component.
In the oil and gas sector, the Bank made a first loan of $75 million to EGPC
for the Gulf of Suez Gas Project (1732-EGT) in 1979. The project is designed
to gather, process and transport associated gas from oil fields in the Gulf of
Suez. As mentioned earlier, the project also includes several important
studies covering energy pricing, oil/gas reserve assessment and optimal
utilization of gas. Credit 1024-EGT of $50 million was approved in 1980 to
help finance a gas distribution network for four districts in Cairo and the
provision of natural gas to two gas turbine plants, the aim being to replace
imported petroleum products. A 1981 Bank loan (1928-EGT) of $25 million is
supporting the Western Desert Gas Exploration Project, and two of the three
exploration wells drilled so far have resulted in two discoveries.
49.      Through its technical and financial assistance, the Bank has made a
substantial contribution to (a) broadening the information base regarding
Egypt's energy potential, (b) the search for and development of new energy
resources, (c) encouraging the efficient use and conservation of existing
resources, and (d) laying the basis for comprehensive energy planning. With
increased use of natural gas as feedstock for fertilizers and replacement for
fuel oil, a growing imbalance would emerge between the consumption pattern and
the refinery yield, requiring Egypt to export low value fuel oil and import
high value middle distillates. The Bank has initiated discussions with EGPC
on the desirability of optimizing the refinery output by developing secondary
processing capacity. A review of EGPC's investment program indicates that
substantial additional resources are needed to develop Egypt's gas potential
rapidly. Similarly, there are other areas including secondary processing and
petrochemicals where investments are not being considered because of lack of
resources. So far EGPC has refrained from international commercial borrowing
to finance its investment needs. In this context, the Bank has initiated
discussions with EGPC on the desirability of capitalizing on Egypt's strong
energy sector and seeking financing for selected projects from the
international banking community.
Project Agencies
50.      The proposed Bank loan would be made to the Egyptian General
Petroleum Corporation (EGPC), a Government-owned enterprise established in
1956. It functions as a holding company and oversees the entire spectrum of



- 16 -
petroleum-related operations under the guidance of the Ministry of Petroleum.
While EGPC deals directly with foreign trade in crude oil and refined
products, and to a limited extent in exploration and production, its wholly
owned subsidiaries are responsible for refining, transportation, and
marketing. Exploration is largely done by foreign oil companies. All EGPC's
subsidiaries operate essentially on a "cost plus" basis and charge EGPC a fee
for the processing and marketing of crude oil and/or petroleum products. EGPC
would delegate responsibility for implementing most of the project to the
Western Desert Petroleum Company (WEPCO) and expects to assign implementation
of onshore pipelines to the Petroleum Gas Company (Petrogas). WEPCO was
established in 1967 as a joint venture operating company. It is currently
producing about half a million tons of oil and, in addition, has discovered
and developed the first phase of the Abu Qir gas field. Petrogas, a wholly
owned subsidiary established in 1978, is responsible for the storage and
marketing of liquified petroleum gas (LPG), and will also function as a gas
utility when the Cairo Gas Distribution Project is completed. EGPC's and
WEPCO's senior management staff are competent and experienced in oil and gas
industry activities. Although Petrogas is a relatively new agency, it has
built up a cadre of experienced staff. EGPC's management and financial
planning and accounting systems are being strengthened with technical
assistance under ongoing Bank-assisted projects, and would be supplemented
under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.      The Abu Qir gas field is located in the Mediterranean Sea, about 17
km from the shore and 35 km from Alexandria. WEPCO discovered the field in
1973, and started production in 1979. The proposed project was identified in
1980 as a result of a study financed under the Bank-assisted Gulf of Suez Gas
Project (Loan 1732-EGT) which essentially concluded that gas reserves in the
Abu Qir gas field amounted to 1.8 trillion cubic feet (TCF), an estimate
significantly higher than the original estimate, and existing production
capacity could, therefore, easily be doubled in a second phase. Project
designs were completed in 1980 with the assistance of consultants, and field
appraisal took place in February/March 1981. Negotiations were held from
January 20 to 29, 1982. The Government of Egypt was represented by Mr. S.
Koraiem, Senior Undersecretary, Ministry of Economy, EGPC by Messrs. E. A.
Aziz and H. E. N. Assal, Deputy Chairmen, and WEPCO by Mr. Dewey, Chairman.
The project's main features are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and
in Annex III. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3475-EGT dated February 16, 1982)
is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Objectives
52.      The main objective of the project is to meet some of Egypt's growing
energy needs through increased gas and LPG production thus substituting for
exportable fuel oil and reducing current imports of diesel oil and LPG. The
existing 100 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) production potential of the
Abu Qir field is adequate to meet Alexandria's current gas demand of 50
MMcf/d. However, this situation is expected to reverse itself soon with the



- 17 -
demand for gas in the Alexandria area projected to increase to 140 MMcf/d by
FY82 and reach about 380 MMcf/d by FY86. The proposed project would increase
the production potential of the Abu Qir gas field by 100 MMcf/d thus filling a
substantial portion of the expected shortfall which would otherwise have to be
met through exportable fuel oil and imported diesel oil. The development of
Abu Qir's reserves is the most economic means of meeting a part of the
Alexandria area's energy needs because of the field's proximity to Alexandria,
its proven potential and the existing infrastructure at the field. In
addition, associated LPG production and condensate recovery would reduce LPG
imports and release crude oil for export. The project would thus generate
substantial foreign exchange from increased exports and reduced imports.
Project Description
53.      The proposed project would consist of the following major components:
-    offshore:  a production platform with nine gas wells and ancillary
facilities; a utility platform including living quarters, a power
generation unit, a helideck, and ancillary facilities; a submarine
pipeline to onshore facilities; and a submarine pipeline and electric
cable to connect the existing and new platforms;
-    onshore:  gas separation, gas dehydration and condensate stabilizing
facilities; a slug catcher; an LPG plant with ancillary facilities; a
flare system; a main pipeline to the Alexandria area and distribution
lines to major industrial consumers;
-    technical assistance, training, project-related studies, a seismic
survey and feasibility studies.
54.      Under the proposed project, about nine wells would be drilled some 3
km from the existing platform. After processing, the gas would be piped to a
shore terminal where it would be stripped of condensate and LPG and then
supplied to major industries in the Alexandria area. An 18" pipeline with a
250 MMcf/d capacity would be installed to transport gas and condensate from
the new production platform to onshore facilities. This should provide
sufficient capacity to accommodate peak additional production from the future
development of the field. It would also allow gas to be transported from the
existing platform in case of any interruption of gas flow through the existing
pipeline. A 14" line to connect the existing and new production platforms for
this purpose would also be installed. The capacity of the existing condensate
facilities would be doubled to allow recovery of about 146,000 tons of
condensate annually. EGPC consultants concluded that LPG production would be
economically attractive. Therefore, an LPG plant designed for a gas flow of
250 MMcf/d would be established to produce about 58,000 tons of LPG annually.
A main gas pipeline from the shore to the Alexandria area along with
distribution lines to large consumers would also be installed. The major
consumers include paper, textile, chemical, cement and aluminum plants, two
local refineries and five power stations.
55.      Since demand in the Alexandria area would outstrip supply starting in
1982, it is important to maximize production from the existing wells in the
interim before new gas comes on stream in 1984. WEPCO has therefore agreed to



- 18 -
prepare a feasibility study by December 31, 1982, with expert assistance, to
determine the maximum volume of gas extractable from these wells and related
measures needed to handle higher well flow rates, and to review the findings
with the Bank. In addition, by December 31, 1984, WEPCO has agreed to prepare
a reservoir evaluation study with expert assistance to develop a plan for the
optimum future development of the field and review the findings with the Bank
upon its completion (Project Agreement, Sections 2.06(b)(c)). To supply
natural gas to Upper Egypt, which would release about 1 million tons of fuel
oil and about 220 MW of power projected to be required by cement, power, sugar
and fertilizer plants by 1985, EGPC has agreed to complete a study for a gas
system for Upper Egypt by March 31, 1983, and upon its completion, review the
findings with the Bank. Furthermore, as a first step towards the broader,
more fundamental objective of developing the infrastructure needed to increase
the country's ability to use its plentiful gas reserves, agreement has been
reached that EGPC will complete a study by March 31, 1983 (i) for the
expansion and/or creation of pipeline capacity to transfer gas from surplus to
deficit areas, with particular emphasis on Gulf of Suez gas, and (ii) to
assess the economic viability of a national pipeline grid, and review the
findings with the Bank upon its completion (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a)).
Project Implementation
56.      While EGPC would have overall responsibility for the project, WEPCO
would be responsible for the construction, installation and equipping of the
onshore and offshore facilities, including the LPG plant. EGPC expects to
assign responsibility to Petrogas for the installation of the main pipeline to
Alexandria and the distribution lines to major consumers. However, EGPC has
assumed the obligations related to the implementation of these components,
since there is a possibility that the work may be assigned to another
competent agency. Although WEPCO is a joint venture company, it would
implement the project on EGPC's behalf, with EGPC bearing all project related
expenses. WEPCO's senior management is capable of overseeing implementation;
however, it needs expert assistance in selected areas such as engineering and
construction supervision. Accordingly, qualified and experienced engineering
consultants would be appointed to deal with day-to-day implementation under
WEPCO's supervision (Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)). WEPCO would also
need to recruit and train staff for the LPG facilities which require
specialized operating and maintenance skills. Assurances have therefore been
obtained that WEPCO would provide the Bank with a recruitment and training
program for its review by December 31, 1982 (Project Agreement, Section
2.06(d)). Detailed designs for all components except the LPG plant and the
Alexandria main pipeline have been completed. Agreement has been reached
that, in addition to the ongoing Alexandria pipeline study, EGPC would arrange
to have a feasibility study carried out with expert assistance for a domestic
gas distribution network in Alexandria (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(a)(b)).
57.      Because of the worldwide shortage of drilling rigs, WEPCO had to
award a drilling contract in April 1981 to be financed from EGPC resources. A
$7 million contract for the offshore platforms, which have a long delivery
period, was awarded in November 1981 on the basis of ICB procedures. In
approving the contract, the Bank informed the Government that this did not
commit the Bank to lending for the project. Equipment requiring a long



- 19 -
lead time for delivery and totalling up to $25 million (including these
platforms) would be procured through advance contracting. Drilling is
scheduled to start in October 1982 and should take approximately 400 days.
Construction would be completed by January 1984 and the facilities
commissioned by April 1984. The LPG plant and other onshore installations
including pipelines would be completed by June 1984, and the technical
assistance by December 1984.
Project Cost and Financing
58.      The project cost is estimated at US$189 million, net of duties and
taxes, from which EGPC is exempted. Of the total, US$156 million (83 percent)
represents the foreign exchange component. Interest during construction
amounts to an additional US$11 million. A physical contingency of 10 percent
was applied to all basic project costs. Price escalation from 1982 through
1984 is estimated at 8.5, 7.5, and 7.5 percent for foreign costs and 14, 13
and 12 percent for local costs. Expatriate consultant services for project
implementation, technical assistance and studies are estimated at 1120
man-months averaging US$12,500 per man-month. Local consultant services are
estimated at 350 man-months averaging US$3,000 per man-month. With the
proposed loan of US$90 million the Bank would finance 48 percent of the total
project cost and 58 percent of the foreign exchange portion. The proposed
loan would be made to EGPC at the current Bank lending rate for 20 years
including three years of grace with EGPC assuming the foreign exchange risk.
EGPC 'would pay the Government a guarantee fee of 1 percent per annum. US$55
million of the foreign exchange costs would be financed by the European
Investment Bank and commercial sources, or other arrangements made by the
Government by September 30, 1982 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02). The
remaining foreign exchange costs (US$11 million), the local costs (US$33
million), interest during construction (US$11 million) and any cost overruns
would be borne by the Government and EGPC. Expenditures incurred after
October 1, 1981 for down payments on the offshore platforms, other equipment
with long lead times before delivery, and selected consultant services,
altogether totalling up to $2.5 million, are proposed to be retroactively
financed from the Bank loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
Procurement and Disbursement
59.      Goods and works to be financed under the proposed Bank loan would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines. Drilling services and materials needed for operational
flexibility, or those which might delay the well drilling operation if
procured through ICB, may be procured through the Government's competitive
bidding procedures which do not exclude foreign bidders and are acceptable to
the Bank. The aggregate of such procurement would not exceed US$12.5 million
and no single contract would exceed US$500,000. Tendering for pipeline
construction, platforms, production modules and civil works would be limited
to prequalified contractors. Domestic suppliers would be allowed a margin of
preference of 15 percent or the local customs duty, whichever is lower.
60.      The proposed loan would be disbursed against: (i) 100 percent of the
foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported goods and equipment and
the LPG plant, and 70 percent of the total expenditures for items procured



- 20 -
locally; (ii) 90 percent of the expenditures for submarine pipeline
installations; and (iii) 100 percent of the foreign exchange expenditures for
consultant services, studies and training. The loan is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1985.
Ecology and Safety
61.      The proposed project would reduce atmospheric pollution in the
Alexandria area by replacing fuel oil, which would otherwise be used, by gas.
Gas fields carry minimal risks of oil spills and any disruptions due to laying
pipelines or setting marine structures are of short duration. The main risk
associated with gas production is fire. Therefore, all facilities would be
designed and constructed in accordance with appropriate international
standards. Offshore platforms would be equipped with necessary fire
equipment, and all wells would be equipped with surface controlled subsurface
safety devices and surface safety valves. EGPC and WEPCO are experienced in
monitoring and enforcing safety regulations. In addition, agreement has been
reached that EGPC would allocate funds immediately for specialized inter-
national services in case of a blowout or fire (Loan Agreement, Section 5.08).
Financial Aspects, Accounts and Audit
62.      As overseer of Egypt's petroleum operations, EGPC receives the
Government's share of oil from the foreign oil companies and earns its income
from the sale of this oil in domestic and export markets. Over the years,
EGPC's sales revenues have increased dramatically from LE543 million in FY77
to LEI.8 billion in FY79. Similarly net income after taxes increased from
LE198 million in FY77 to LE820 million in FY79. Despite a projected slower
growth in future oil production (3-4 percent annually), EGPC's sales revenues
are estimated to exceed LE3.5 billion by FY83 with net income reaching LE1.8
billion. This is largely due to the significant increases expected in
domestic gas consumption which will contain the domestic demand for liquid
hydrocarbons, and leave Egypt with a substantial net surplus of exportable
oil. However, since about 85-90 percent of its profits revert to the
Government, EGPC is expected to continue to supplement its resources with
domestic and foreign loans to finance its large investment program. With
ongoing expert assistance financed under Loan 1732-EGT, EGPC intends to
improve its financial planning and management and reorganize its accounting
systems. The consultants' analysis is now complete, their findings will be
reviewed jointly by EGPC and the Bank, and agreed recommendations implemented
by June 30, 1984 with expert assistance provided for under this project (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.04(c)).
63.      The current gas price of LEO.17 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf)
(US$0.20/Mcf) covers only a fraction of the cost of producing gas from the Abu
Qir field. In the context of this project, therefore, agreement has been
reached that by July 1, 1984, the average price of Abu Qir gas would be raised
to a level representing not less than the marginal cost of gas produced from
the Abu Qir field and a depletion allowance, (Loan Agreement, Section
5.05(a)(i)). In order to prevent uneconomic fuel substitution and/or severe
financial difficulties for gas consumers, EGPC has agreed to develop a
differential tariff structure by July 31, 1983, review the results with the
Government and the Bank by December 31, 1983, and introduce agreed tariffs by



- 21 -
July 1, 1984 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)). The increase in the average
price of Abu Qir gas represents an important step towards the longer term
objective of narrowing the gap between domestic and world energy prices (in
this case represented by the world price of fuel oil (US$4.0/Mcf) which would
be released for export by increased domestic consumption of gas). As a
further step towards this objective, the Government and EGPC have agreed to
review with the Bank their plans to increase the average price of gas and fuel
oil to this level nationally (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07, Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). Understandings have been reached that the
Government's plans would be reviewed by September 30, 1982.
64.      Although the Abu Qir gas field operations form a part of EGPC's
assets, separate accounts would be maintained for it (Loan Agreement, Section
5.01(b)). While the increased average gas price is estimated to be sufficient
to ensure the financial viability of these operations, as an additional
safeguard, agreement has been reached that a rate of return of at least 10
percent for each of the years FY85, FY86, and FY87, and 15 percent annually
thereafter would be earned on the revalued net fixed assets of the Abu Qir
field (Loan Agreement, Section 5.05(a)(iii)). Agreement has also been reached
that the net revenues of the Abu Qir field would not be less than 1.5 times
its debt service requirements and that the Abu Qir field accounts would be
audited and copies provided to the Bank within six months after the end of
each year (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.06(a), 5.02). In addition, EGPC has
agreed to maintain an overall debt service coverage of at least 1.5, and
provide the Bank with audited statements within six months after each fiscal
year (Loan Agreement, Sections 5.04, 5.02).
Benefits and Risks
65.      The main and immediate benefit of the project would be the generation
of substantial foreign exchange resulting from increased exports and reduced
imports of liquid hydrocarbons which natural gas would replace domestically.
At full development, the project would produce 36,500 MMcf of gas annually and
thus replace 16,800 MMcf of exportable fuel oil and 19,700 MMcf of imported
gas oil. Some 77,000 tons of condensate recovered annually would upgrade
crude oil and lead to exports of higher value refined products, and LPG
production would substitute for imports of 58,000 tons of LPG annually. The
project is the least cost solution for meeting the growing energy needs in the
Alexandria area and would make optimal use of the production from the Abu Qir
field. The average price of Abu Qir gas would be increased significantly,
thus representing an important step towards achieving the longer term
objective of reducing the gap between domestic and world energy prices.
66.      The project has an estimated economic rate of return of well over 100
percent. The sensitivity analysis shows that, in the worst case, where the
project is delayed by one year, incurs 10 percent cost overruns and only
achieves a production of 70 MMcf/d, the rate of return would be lower (62
percent), but still very satisfactory.
67.      In addition to the more immediate benefits, the project would yield
important longer term benefits for Egypt's energy sector. The technical
assistance and training would strengthen institutional capability for planning



- 22 -
and management, and over time reduce EGPC's reliance on expatriate
assistance. The special studies would provide EGPC with a comprehensive basis
for the timely development of the natural gas subsector. Consequently, a
significant portion of the domestic demand for energy would be met by natural
gas instead of liquid hydrocarbons thus making available a larger overall oil
surplus for exports, and yielding significant net benefits to the Egyptian
economy.
68.      The project carries operational and geological risks inherent in the
petroleum production and pipeline industry. Although offshore operations
carry additional risks, the industry has developed technology to minimize
these risks. Furthermore, the existing Abu Qir facilities are operated by an
experienced company (WEPCO). A major operational risk is the possibility of a
blow-out during drilling. However, the necessary safety provisions have been
made, and furthermore, a blow-out is unlikely because of relatively
problem-free drilling conditions in Abu Qir. Such an accident could, however,
destroy the drilling platform and production equipment causing a two-year
delay in production. Despite such a production loss, the project would yield
an economic rate of return of over 50 percent. With regard to geological
risks, although the field's recoverable reserves and production potential have
been assessed by experts, it is possible that some of the wells will not yield
gas. However, it is expected that at least six of the nine wells will produce
gas; in that case the project would still yield an economic rate of return of
over 50 percent.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS
69.      The draft Loan Agreement between EGPC and the Bank, the draft Project
Agreement between WEPCO and the Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between
the Arab Republic of Egypt and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.      Special features of the Loan, Project and Guarantee Agreements are
referred to in Section III of Annex III.
71.      I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
By Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
March 4, 1982
Washington, D. C.



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                      Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAC ,g
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                                                             - ?ST_ RECENT ESTIMATE) '
IUTAL           1UU1.4                                                      MIDDLE INCOHE
AGKWIULURAL      26.4                                  MOST RECENT         NORTH AFRICA &             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PEE CAPlIA (USb)                  10V.0        170.0     480.0                 865.5                   1616.2
bNERGY CoNSUIIPIlON PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      299.4       321.2      565.1                 758.3                   1324.1
POPULATIUN AND VITAL STATlSTIlCS
POPULATION, H1D-YLAR (THOUSANDS) 25929.0      32341.0   38868.0
URbAN POPULATION (PERCENT UF rOYAL) 37.9         42.2       45.1                  45.2                     64.2
PUPULATION PRuJECTIUNS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIUNS)                        60.2
sTATIONARY PUPULATION (MILLIONS)                 ..      104.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2080
POPULATIUN DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                        25.9        32.3       38.8                  36.3                     34.3
PER bQ. KM. AGRlCULTURAL LAND   1016.8       1142.8    1338.4                 442.7                      94.5
PUPULAILUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YIb.                          42.2        41.8       40.U                 44.2                     40.7
1)5-4 YRS.                          54.7        54.9       56.6                  52.4                     55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.1         3.3        3.4                   3.4                      4.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
IOTAL                               2.4         2.2        2.0                   2.7                      2.4
URbAN                               4.1         3.3        2.8                   4.6                      3.7
(RUUE BIKIH RATE (PER THoUSAND)      44.0        38.1       37.0                  41.5                     31.4
CRUDE OLATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      18.8         14.9      12.2                  12.8                      8.4
ROUbb REPRUDULTION RATE               3.U          2.7       2.4                   2.9                      2.3
FAHILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THUUSANDS)        ..       206.0      187.0
UbERS (PERCLNT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..          9.0       17.0
FUUD AND NUTKIlTIUN
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (1969-71-IU0)           96.0        99.0       94.0                  96.3                   ID.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY oP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   102.0       104.0      109.0                 110.4                    107.6
PRJrElNb (GKAMb PER DAY)           73.0        71.0       75.0                  73.4                    65.8
oF WhlICH AIMAL AND PULSE        17.0        17.0       19.0                  17.1                     34.0
CHILD (ALES 1-4) SNJRTALITY RAIE     31.7        21.9       14.9                  14.9                      7.6
hLALIH
LIFE EXPECIANCY A  BlRITH (YEARS)    46.1        51.6       56.6                 55.9                     64.1
INFANT MURIALITY RATE (PER
THuUSAND)                           109.3       116.0       85.0                    *-                     70.9
ACCLbb TU bAFE WATER (PERCENT uF
POPULAT1UN)
IuTAL                                ..           ..      66.0                 59.4                     65.7
URbANi                             39.5          ..       88.0                 83.9                     79.7
RURAL                                ..          ..       5u.0                 40.8                     43.9
ALCESS TU EXCREIA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATIoN)
lUTAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     59.9
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     75.7
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                   ..                     30.4
POPUPLATON PER PHYSIlIAN           2556.1      1856.7    1046.0/c              4174.5                    1728.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSoN      2730.0jc    1588.46c  1096.6&e              1780.5                   1288.2
POPULATION PER HlUSPITAL BEL
TUIAL                             466.0       448.7      459.6                647.4                    471.2
URBAN                                ..       352.2      654.0                547.2                    558.0
RURAL                                ..      2128.1    2291.8                3361.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..      30.8                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE S1ZE UF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..          ..        5.2
URBAN                               4.8          ..        5.0
RURAL                                ..          ..        5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER oF PERSONS PER ROOM
TuTAL                                ..           ..       1.8
URBAN                               1.6          ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACCEbS To ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TuIAL                                ..           ..      45.7
URBAN                              37.8          ..       76.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       18.6



- 24-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
Palo 2
TABLE 3A
EGYPT - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
EGYPT                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAG5S
- ItOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MIDDLg INCOHE
HOST RECENT        NORTH AFRICA &            MIDDLE INCOIE
1960  /b   1970 /0 ESTIMATE /b        MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA 4 CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        70.0      74.0                 85.1                   101.7
MALE                 80.0        88.0      88.0                101.5                   103.0
FEMALE               52.0        54.0      58.0                 67.5                   101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                16.0        33.0      47.0                 38.0                    35.3
MALE                 23.0        44.0      60.0                 48.1                    34.9
FEHALE                9.0        21.0      35.0                 28.3                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 22.0         19.0      20.0                 11.3                    30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      34.0                 34.9                    29.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        25.0      25.0                 23.8                    15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       26.0          ..      43.5                 43.0                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.0         4.0       7.6                 18.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        57.9       136.1    142.1                 121.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         1.9        16.4      17.0                 37.4                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        23.0      83.0                 35.9                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0         2.0        ..                  3.0                     3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    7481.4       9041.9  10839.7
FEgALE (PERCENT)                   7.3         7.2       7.8                 10.5                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             58.0        54.4      50.4                 43.5                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.0        18.8      28.6                 27.3                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.9        28.0      27.9                 26.4                    31.8
MALE                                53.2        51.5      50.9                 47.0                    49.0
FEMALE                               4.2         4.1       4.4                  5.7                    14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.6       1.6                  1.8                     1.4
INCOltE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/d      17 4/d e  22.0/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.47Z      42.     49.27T
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.67d       7./,    5.1*-*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.57F      18i7:    14.87..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                  131.0                271.4
RURAL                              ..          ..       94.0                144.6                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..         ..    180.0                  400.8                   513.9
RURAL                               * -                118.0                290.9                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..         ..       21.0                 22.1
RURAL                               *-          *-      25.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averases for each indicator are population-weighted arithletic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Registered, not all practing in the country;  /d Rural expenditures;  /e 1964-65;  /f National, 1974-75.
Hay, 1981



25-                                                         ~~~~~~~ANNEX I
- 2c) - ~        ~            ~            ~            ~           EJST 
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes'  Although the  aaae drawn free sources  .eeril  jdged ,the   os atbeti-e.ti ..se  reiale.                 I  eboud alo.h  outed  thtthey  sp not bs intte-
uatioeaily coparble b           Icus f th. luo1 ofsadrdzdditiie  ados                    t..usd by diff       eras   cutoisr   chl'igeedn.   h   ssse   o.
thelees, useful to des..ribo ordert of ognitada, indiocte tred., oed eharouter... t osrtsie ajor differoooe. bet....eouoeer.ie..
The  efrnc    oy  are Ci) the sne  coun.try front at the sahjet ....otry asd (2) urnu-rry gruop anti  omeuhot higbh-org   ncm   hntu  osr   ru
of tbe sbject  Ioery  eep              Cotitnl Sortl  IlOl E.torters" groP oher  "Middle Ioose North Africa nod fOildd! oo"i  uus  bananas of ste..Sngs
sorn-cueori efisois).   otrefer.o.. front data the  v-rngss are pooplstloe esieheedsttoctensfruhititradsosolyb
majority o   heo rilste   groaPhsdt  for thst indicator.  Stece the  Ioaeg   f tohre   en   h   oisosdpnsa    he-ssisbttt  ofh-                                        e
aed i  o uIu,ostoeatb    ecised is reluti,g  -erafe- of ... fedistor to  etbr   Thesh aveee  are i                               l  useful ith.comparing the cola  oft
osidctor at a time smoe  the co-ctry ad rofroo.e gocophs.1. I
LAStD AREtA (th-assudfeqio.) l.r                                                                  Popolt1    er 1fsp Ba.Nd - toa,obr   o                   e-Popultiee (total
Total -  toilsufc  arnoplelc   bed1 aros atd tolsu    aeo.oho d                                     Itl    euro)IN  divde  byt thietresetv   bomerofasietl bode
Agricltucl - ftimae ofagrtoituol oea one  teeorarly orperoaesuty                   avilabe io  ubli  nodprivae-gebralaod sopisisedhoepdsi ed re
forictrep.1 Potro mE s)ct   aud  itiho    Iodce0  to lIe follom; 1979 date.                      hablttlutees    eptl   r   eolemnspeostysafd
catlatoeP-:.ooc -Ptnteblishmestslpruvidiog priocplip.l.. coto-
IM    f   AIA(l)-lP  o   atnsemtso  rucreet malt  rce,cl-dalrr  nr  outleladed.  Rura  hosPitals, hoeve,r told. health
calted by -am  cooiun method so World foB Atla  (7-79  noa;1960,                                    nd medical ceuter  cu   eraeel   tffe    yepyico htb
1M.  .d 1W1 d.t                                                                                         -11~~~~~~~~~~dtotsa   rcid     lmie    ruag  o.f mdie  fatph s   Foe stat..
ENERGY CONSUMPfTION PcR CAPITA - Aecoal rooseptoor cIfcemoi.leegy (ruo                                itic     pu-de Prbaid     -optasiguud  WOndi- eilntipalgseo  hopta.
aed lis.tee. Petroleum,  ataro  got sod hydr-, oal-a  nod gotburma le-                            andturl hopin.            ool-   orr       WHOhsitl  end. msiPel/8and  h.esrityl
or icity) to icilogram   of coal oI ioeopor capita; 116, 1921, sod 1979                           rtcs SPeiatoed10- hpItal  se1 btecltded oly a-dar toa.                  -
dots.                                                             ndmieeiens tee easriesi~~~~~~~~~- fed - Tent.nambor of edmsiana- to or discharges
from ionpitole divided bythnustobds
POPUOLATION AND VITAL STATISTICSi-h                                                                                              t.-Ib    fb.
Toesit1FPrulotio.. fold-year (tho..ands) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, aud 1979                 HOUSING
dirhnPrltlf       (eec  o   ou)-  ul   fuhu   ottl  aooi A-houshoId cue   f. a_eop of indildole eho share living qeaters
dfeet dftoii       I f     Iob tara  mayfnt.maublc   fdmsd the ir meit -eI..  A hearder or lodfsr maY or  eY not he fcloded is
ume   ecrlos; 1960, 1970,. nd 1970 dace.                                                   tie ho.oebold fatettttlalIrpoe..
Poenlettue projertioas       -C.r t                                                             Ayerage numbr of Perse...  .ur rcue -  _atl. arise, sod enro  - Avorege  u
Pupulstioo  o year 100  - CucreecPop1laile  ProJectiee are  osd 00 1990               her of pron  Per room  In oil. urhbn  end tota  ocrpnsd   smeoa
tot  IP pclatio. bp ag-sd se  sd t io   ertu ynofetiIty retes.                              deell ioga, resPectivelY.    .1 Oeligs enclds to-permset  not-toee and
Projection paamter o          otlty tac o  oprise of tbcer le_el  -ssam                       accpied parts
tug lit- s sP-ctoy at birth I...euoing ajti ro...ocy's Per- copite lorua                    Access to Eleetricit  (reerent of doelisos  - tol.  orhe   . ed e-ro  -
level  and femal  life ouperteecy  _baijising ut 77.5 peers.  Th. porn-                       foov-titoo  dee11iegs atti sIecriaity i  liviog q rtors os psr.tesg
matsc  for fert ilitY rnt. also have ther  level  e.-uig denlies lo                           of toesi, urhet, aed r-ro  dnIlltogsrs-p-ei-ly,
fertility a--odingto, Incm   eu a            at family plaotu .gperfotrsoco
tooh  -owtry is theessied  e  of shoes nineceiato                  If moteslity           EDUCATION
so:d f-rtility trends_for prajoecion purposes.                                               Addjutsd OErl..eet fatico
Itti-moy porulatioe-teseeot'iuo..ry ypolnItioo nhere in to grooh store                         Frmro schol-ttl,mle end fomale-irsttl                       -sssd fem1l
the birth rat  iseI   t   he death rat.  ae Ium   the ag. tutr.              o-erise  of oIl sgoo ut th_Imrylvl.Petngsofrpot
main Intont  Tlhi in I   chiuvdIolly ufeer fertility  rates dec.lireto,                   Prtuiry shola.PuPalotlo..n;  -ualy iolodes child-e  aged 6-11
the replucemot leve  of uoit 'te  roProdautiotesna;,  bho each gPsrtony=r  but adjusted foe dtffoe-t 1moghe of ptieep edo..atill; for
of comn repnoos  toelOoncel.  Thesainr 't      popla-o  stseo                          rowtris mth univorso  oductie  soul-im t may emceed IG0 porcnt
estimated 00 tie bosit of the projroted chrouteristics of ohs population                        etc   oeppils are, isloerr shove sh ff lule1 mohuo egs.
to ntl  yea  21010,Iad tie rtet   f declite of fertility rate to raploce-                     tecodory echoo  - totel, male end femal  - Coputed as shove; smodary
mot lmv..l.                                                                                     edonoroereeleast for poses of approve  pFsry- isos..tenie;
Yeer ettinacpupulailo  is reochnd - The Pea  oh.. stotiacary pepolotiun                           provides gerol  vouinl   rtace   riigietot sfrp
elehsho ahnd.                                                                         usualIly of 12 to 17 peryf.        .   ursposa   erm    r  gnroPlyi
PPorletlo I.D-ity                                                                                    amluod
Per so. km.   - fi-ymr popIatien psr oquore kilome.ter (100 hnctarro) of                        toc-tiuna oI    olt    (esrst o   -eed-er   V- Footioa   intituti...
totl  re; 19160, 1970 and 1979 dau                                                           iscludo  ostheical, inosri.,o   es   rgasnhe    prt   n sd
Fo  os. aricultral lscd - CuaPutod so sieve fur eriulorl  od                               ently or as depoetmets of secundry losnitatlons.
oy;160  1970 and 1978 data..Peltahrvte-rlav   e                                                                                     odr   Teta1 stodsts enrolld is
FPoeoltios Ass Otr_nturn (.rerunel _Childes  (0-14 years), oorklog-ags  (10-                         Pt PoyudscnaY_ level  dieis  b   emes  fnsear   o  b
66yss,edstrd(65Y yers nd ovr) as paro...oagee of sed-yer popa-                                    cobyossposdIltg    ..siels.
ltlu;16,1970  en 979 dat.                                                                     Adnitltstyrsfeco)- Lito..atsado1t  (abls to reed s.d  -rit.)
Porulauios feo..eb foss fooros.et - t-1o  - Ann1u gr-th trate  of ente1 mid-                              P.ss . prstaga of toto1 adult pplna   gd 15 ysses andevr
Yoor populations foe 950-60, 1960-70, sed 1970-79.
-Poru itlu  Irueth hots (e tome  - ocha  - Au-aa  gr-nh Yrot. cf arbae papa-                  COfS0OPTION
atlosfe15-0l960-7, asd 1970-79.                                                              PseorCars (one thoo..aod eepuletios) - Psesasger toe  coprise maser
tend  9thet   Iurthuod)  -                Ikos  live births pot tho..aa.d of rid-year             tees estsle  lees than eight persons; snlodese.         len    hears.. emS
pupa,e.o' - 1960, 1970  so 979 data                                                             miltery velcn.1Y I              2     ti)-A            'l     f - - frrdi
Crude Deathfats (yet  ho..sed) - Auteal deaths pee thu..seda If mid-yssr                  fadlo Ouc..ver  (re  thob e   nosio              l   ypse   esur   e   ai
plpulatiot; 1960, 1970, a_d 19 79 data                                                            .. rodose  to %isneu1 public per thoa_ld of popolselu; sotldesam
Gross fRro-d-ctio   Mt.se- avsogs tuber of daughteysa                ilaocl hear in                li_sned reseriscutesadnyaseseegtsseofradio
her ooro  reproductive period if sho amprismoe Preset ag-spociflo fee-                          ses .o te fet  data for reos   yers may non he nompeebi  sinus
tiiyraise; uulyf -yeor o-ergno snditg in 1960, 1970, end 1979.                              motiunreshlss W inig
Feiv  lnen  - letrers  anua  (honads   - annul ounhe  o.f acceptors                      TV   . ielors fuse thouaaod  ,petIatioul    TV  -molvrs for broadoas.t to
o'f bieth-oteodvie  under  Iapc    f etotlfaml   lnlg progom..g.sr   public per thousand  pupotites;tamele,desulome.T   eevr
Famil Pluolog-Tse   (erene  of mrriedou..) -Iecnaeo   are                               tca  oead tnysar  sh   registroto  of TYO sts  n   sefts.
nom-o of"child-hse:rle,ga~ (15-uApots  oho no. birth-o-t-1 devi.s. to                          Nuenoso    Ciclcln(r  thousndrooI ttosl -fbn  the  -eereg  tie
all married oases is som   g. grop.                                                             cuseo  of "doll  geoolitrstneppv , dnnd asaPeroia
pabliestion devoted primarily to  eodn   esrlnw. I  in ton..ideced
FOOI ADOf  NUTRTO ION                                                                                to b. "dolly" if it appers at leas.t fou  tie      kems.
bodes of Food Produeti.e pee .CaPit  1l969-71-l0O0) - Idea of poe capita actual                 C.o-  A-.to.I Attend.... pro  Capnto pre  Tes  - heed on the oabor of
production of oIl food coemdities        rdolcenue   edadfe   n                                 tioketeisold.during the You, ioleding odmisi.nstodrv-in  iss
..Is on cIedno year haois.  Cuemditiesoovc-  primary gRIuM e..  soueaeadmal  cots
instoud of          hifr)ru    se- dible end  ..otato nuortoeta (e.g.cfe n
t.esa.roo.l1ded).  Aggregato prudoetlue of sar  counitryt iaae...d oILABOi peORCE
ealomol evrae  rdu... price  ege  11-,1970  end 197  doto.                                    T-tul bor Force foih-endo   - Econ-mitlly acive persma. inc1eig
P.r asia plv of calories (rercn  ofreu             -eot) - Computed fcco                        -rmd foece  neI ueoloyod hue.. selding hooseiv-,sedn,st,
ooe rgyeqoiv-let ofee  food.supplIes avallablo in co-try pee cail tenc_vete   poplation of gllft.  Drfisitiona it.aiu  anre  ore
per day.  Availablefeppl o  coprimo domestic preductica, imotls                                ctcofr o              16. 197  ss  1979 data.
apurte,an                P,agesit ,toc. Ne  suIpplies soclade seimalifeed, seode,           Femal  Cpsoceer   - PFm-l :lb-r fares as poro..soegs of toto1l ishr force,
qantol    sd lo food  pecoing, sod losses it dis,tribtin.Rtqairo-                     Am.!oiolture (osere..t) -ibue force is faming, foretry, hooting  .d
eect..ner  ettiatod by PAO bh...d en phyalgcltns0o   aslae-fishieg os percentage of t-to  labor forts; 1960. 1970 end 1979 data.
vitysd heulI  coielgoiottea   epeturn, boyeiht,.Tduotry (cerree-   - Labrfrsi.iig  ostrotten, meefaunate.g
and ..o dis bhtteo  popnltio,  o-d  olltlg1  pretfe  ae   tsd s1-tricity,  -eeo  and ga.a  porentgs  ftnl  ao   ets   90
household leve,l; 1961-65. 1971, end. 1977 dol.   10pr..lfr1970 end 1979 detu,
Pee rolo  surelyJ f roe (groins po  day) - tretuiecoctoc   af per onpita                       ... Pelipatio  ft  (ceo' e  --oa,ml.ud femle-I Fatleipetlon or
use eapply of fund rer dey.  Net oupply of feud i. defined as above   he-                     activity -nts  re  ;oootd so   ..el  male, sod femal   aher ftoteos
qulemoto  for all cu...toios estnbliehed by CUSD  provide fee  inicta                        potceosgen of ltotl, male and fen1l  pupolaton of all a ge  -ep-et-vry;
allnnceIf-0- gam   -fttlpueepedyod7   rm  of etinal aud                                       1960, 1970, aed 1979 dt.-   These ar. base.d  - ILO's peetiripsetmtte
puls  iro to  of oich 10 gStu should hr aelmaI protein.  Thes. esand-                        refleetintg  ...-.. .t-oc-ro of the populanio, and long nine tem.-d
arda ar  love  chat these. of7  Bron  of total protolt sd 71 grm  of                          One eetmto  are from         1-   ...o lsorce. 
aelmol potele a  at aveage furthe uord,  Prcosd Fl AO to rho Third              toumi   ecoe Ryftio  - Reeio ef pupulsecun oodr 15 and 65 amd o
Worid Food turvp; 1961-65, 1970 aed 1977 data,                                                to  the t-ul.ibor farca.
Poc ceits protsio nueply Tram aulmaI and poise - Protsio sopply of food de-
rive,1,d fro  sell  end pue.nJ rm   Ptdy  1961-65, 1970 aud 1977 dots,                      INCOHEi DISThRIBUTIO
Childlass   -A  Mortlityfate(cur tho .a..d) - Aocoe1 drothe Per thonon..d it           F           Icota f Prvot  lcate (both i cost end kind   - fa-elvd by rIchest
egs gooap 0-4 yerst  childre Ic thie ogo grop; fur mos devlepic  0000-                          J    ce,riciest 20I petret, poorome  0purnet  ned puer_st Of peroem
trios dots derived from life tolio; 1960, 1970 ned 1979 dutt.                                   of hoasho1ds.
LIfe ipnector ..  0 y lttl (c.rae     " loeru 0  -uber If pests of life .   auu                 The folloniog estimates see very apromao          =ssoe      f povrty level,
at birth; 1960  1970 and 1979date.         d.h   f  l.t  .dl           Y                ood should he lute.rprotrd aith conedeehl  tote
ofaeproosodlv    itn                                                                        Aheolete poverty ti-m  -o1r is then i-r   eve  h                  iselob e   iome
bcces to p.npe -ot 1e (o brten ofd corelotol  tocul., eh,bl       d        feu  -  wntritota..lly edeqato diet pl   reme...ti.t oem-fend reqolosote lo net
her ofpeol  (ttlErs,od  ao)rc   esoei   cest  sf                                                fudi
soeec   sto   rmpetcetoros,oces  nods.-tIy'dh                                     s             fre tloevepoerY loos  lveli  Ue-br   feeasprcpt
fausainor  toeyosoicctedocrmat  tha  10  esersi ro  ocua  ma hePernenel ilecom   of the coentry.  Urbes leve  is ds-ivd feem  ts rural
conIdee  as0d0   lioraocheacs   fta  hoes.   nur                            y b.                leve  eeh udjautet far higher cot of  olinig in urbanae.
do co  have to spetd edimprp..rtloen..te pare of the dey it f-hciog th.                                                      P                                            t
sNio r of peapin (tota, arbc, nod -uta) s..v-d by ...er-t diepo.I_stPolos
Prostgea of their reterp tivopoaltioe. feret  disposa  ma  looud
the culseeead dispoml. etch orItheuttrtnt,o  haaonceo                                                                               fE Ic sod Social Oats Dlvislen
no tsesetrby mtr-heron syueoao.ht              s   fpi   rve   e           i                                                frcoic Analysis end Projections tipnrtseut
't""'                                                                                                     Ky~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 1991
Poointlu  per Phirsi-u   - Populettoo divided b, conier of pvactlieg phyoi-
etaus qoal.ifed fees I medical schoo1l    univerity level.
Fceale tioo ten  iuron Porsor - Population dividod by nuohe  of pcactlolig
sale uod fem1l  gooduote  ues  p-actira1  -....s ..d aesis to.te  us



EGYPT - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 39.8 million (mid-1980)
GNP per capita: US t580
Amount (million
USt at current                                      A N N U A L   G R 0 W T H   R A T E S   (Z)
prices)                        A C T U A L                       EST.                         P R 0 J E C T E D
1979           1975      1976     1977      1978     1979      1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross Domestic Product a/              17745.0            10.4      10.3     10.9      11.9       8.2       9.0          8.3         6.4         6.8         6.8         6.4
Agriculture                          3844.0             6.3       1.6    -3.0        5.5      3.9        2.2         2.1         2.3         2.5         2.7         2.8
Industry                             3237.0           10.6       4.8       9.8     12.3       6.5        9.8         9.2         9.6         9.3         9.6         9.4
Petroleum                           2728.0             39.4     52.3      55.2     22.0      10.3       11.6        12.8         3.5         6.1         5.9         3.9
Services                             7263.0             9.2     11.6       9.4     12.0      10.2       10.8         8.8         8.2         8.0         7.7         7.5
Consumption                            15010.0            -3.8       8.3     11.0      11.2       4.5      12.0        10.3          8.2         7.0         6.7         6.9
Gross Investment                        5450.0            54.2      -8.2       9.3     -2.4       9.4        9.6         7.1         7.1         6.7         6.2         5.7
Exports of GNFS                         5585.0            27.2      30.8      9.0       3.0       5.8      12.4          8.0         4.6         6.0         6.0         5.0
Imports of GNFS                         8300.0            16.0    -5.3        2.5       4.2       8.9      18.7         8.5          7.6         6.2         5.2         5.3
Gross National Saving                   3885.0           133.0      74.8     25.7      17.4   -13.4          -           -           -           -           -           -
PRICES
GDP Deflator                                              50.6      55.9     60.5      65.8      81.0     100.0          -
Exchange Rate b/                                           2.15      1.97      1.75     1.54      1.43       1.43        -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)                                     Average Increase (X) at Constant Prices
(at current prices)                               1965 Prices  1975 Prices                1980/81 Prices
1960     1970      1975     1979      1984/85    1989/90                1960-1970      1970-1975   1975-1979  FY81-FY86  FY86-FY90
Gross Domestic Product
- Agriculture                          27.9      25.3     28.2      21.7       16.3        13.5                  4.7             5.1           1.9          2.5          3.1
- Industry & Petroleum                 23.7      26.1     25.4      33.6       37.8        40.4                   3.0            2.6          17.5          7.9          4.6
- Services                             42.9     40.8      42.8      40.9      41.7         39.6                  6.3             4.4          10.8          8.0          7.1
Consumption                            87.3      90.6     90.4      84.6       87.0        87.5                  4.4             8.0           6.8          7.8          6.6
Gross Investment                       13.3      13.9     32.3      30.7       29.7        29.6                   5.8            4.2           1.8          6.6          5.2
Export of CNFS                         19.5      14.2     21.5      31.5       35.0        37.3                  4.9            22.8          11.6          5.9           3.3
Import of CNFS                         20.1      18.8     44.1      46.8       51.7        54.5                  1.1            13.5           2.5          6.6          4.9
Gross National Saving                  12.9       7.7     10.9      21.9       16.9        15.1                   7.2           17.2          22.2          -            -
As % of GDP
1960     1970      1975     1979
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                      18.5     21.3      34.1      37.2
Current Expenditure                  21.5     22.0      39.9      33.9
Surplus (+) or
Deficit (-)                       -3.0      -0.7     -5.8       3.3
Capital Expenditure                  11.8      11.1     16.6      23.0
Foreign Financing                     -        -        16.0       4.4
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  FY81-FY86  FY86-FY90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP Growth Rate (X)                    4.5        5.0       11.5        7.3          5.9
GNP per capita growth
rate (X)                             1.9       2.7        8.7        4.7          3.5
Energy consumption growth
rate (Y) c/                         14.9      14.9       13.2       11.4         11.0
ICOR                                   -          -          3.6       3.7          4.3                                                                                            m
Marginal Savings Rate                  -          -          0.46       0.15         0.14
Import Elasticity                      0.9        1.7       0.9        0.8          0.8                                                                                          
o'
a/  GDP for 1979 at current prices is valued at market prices.  Rates of growth concern GDP at factor cost.
b/ Effective rate computed as a weighted average of official and parallel market rates.
c/  Electricity  only.                                                                                                                                               Division  1A
CPD 1, EMENA Region
November 20, 1981 (420J)



- 27 -
EGYPT - EXTERNAL TRADE                                                 ANNEX I
Population: 39.8 million (mid-1980)                                                                                      Page 5 of 6
GNP per capita: 580
Amount (million                   Annual Growth Rates (%) at Constant 1980/81 Prices
US S at current
prices                          ACTUAL                        EST.               PROJECTED
1979          1975     1976      1977     1978    1979    80/81   81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise Exports           4024            27.2     19.6       3.1      7.7      9.6     10.8      6.8      3.4      5.5      5.5
- Primary 1/                   546           -15.3    -8.5    25.7   -29.8          4.5      5.2      3.0      3.7      2.4      2.8
- Manufactures 1/              6i8            24.8   -14.6   -27.3       17.9   -29.6        9.2      6.1      6.1      6.7      7.3
- Petroleum                   2860            72.0    63.3      11.1     16.1    22.6       12.1      7.5      2.9      5.8      5.6
Merchandise Imports           7336            14.1    -5.0    -1.1         8.5      5.9     18.0      8.6      7.4      6.0      5.1
- Food                        lb77            27.4     16.9   -18.1    25.8    -7.0    21.2          11.7      5.5      3.4      1.9
- Petroleunm                   243           -34.2   -23.3   -53.3        2.7   -11.8       17.7      6.1      2.6      1.3      0.4
- Machinery and
Equipment                 2846           59.5    24.8    21.4    -0.7         25.6     14.3      8.8      8.6      7.6      7.0
- Others                      2570            17.9   -26.2      10.7      7.5      0.2    20.0        6.4      7.9      6.7      5.6
Pr ice s
Export Price Index                            51.5    49.9      52.3    52.9      76.0   100.0   100.7   107.9   121.3   134.0
Import Price Index                            60.b    63.5    70.4       76.1    87.9   100.0   108.8   119.1    129.0   139.3
'terms of Trade Index                         85.0     78.6    74.3    69.5    86.5   100.0    92.5    90.6    94.0    96.2
Composition of Merchandise Trade (X)            Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                    at constant 198/81 pr ice
1970   1975   1979   84/85   89/90           I9757/79--FY-817FY86   FY816/ePY90
Exports                                                                 9.8          5.0          1.6
Primary 1/           64.2   28.3   13.6       12.8    12.4           -4.1         2.9           3.2
Petroleum             4.8   25.2   71.0    73.4    70.9              26.8         5.1           0.2
Manufactures 1/    31.0   46.7   15.4         13.8    16.7          -15.3         6.8           8.9
Imports                                                                 1.9         6.4           4.7
Food                 13.4   23.6   22.9    25.3    23.4               2.9         5.1           2.9
Petroleum             8.2    6.9    3.3        3.2      3.5        -24.5          2.5           3.9
Machinery            23.4   23.7   38.8    40.0    40.9              17.2         7.7           5.3
Others               55.0   45.8   35.0       31.5    32.3           -3.1         6.4           5.4
Share of Trade With           Share of Trade With                Share of Trade With
Industrial Countries (%)   Developing Countries (%)   Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1965     1970     1975        1965     1970    1975              1965    1970    1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports              27.0     17.0    14.0          18.0    22.0      10.0              1.0      1.0      4.0
Primary            29.0     19.0    18.0          17.0    22.0      11.0              -        1.0      3.0
Manufactures       19.0    12.0       3.0        23.0    23.0        9.0              4.0      3.0      5.0
Imports              55.0    42.0    65.0           18.0    25.0      14.0              -        -        4.0
1/  not including oil and oil products.
Division IA
CPD 1, EMENA Region
November 20, 1981 (420J)



- 28 -
ANNE I
EGYPT - BALANCE OF PAYTENTS' EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                      Peg. 6 of 6
(llillion US28 et ctrrent prico.)
Est.                                Projected
1974      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979
1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85    1985/86    1989/90
BALANCE OF PAYENITS
Export of Goods & Non-Factor
Services                              2251       2503      3319       3888       4099      5585         8182        9095       10240       12055      14010       15865       24370
- of ohich  -orchmndi.e  f.o.b.       1818       1875      2169       2346       2558      4024         5982        6430        9130        8455       9860       11125       16395
I-port. of Good. 4 Non-Factor
SOOvicOS                             -3959      -5141     -5182      -5879     -6612      -8300       -11433      -13500      -15860     -18235      -20685      -23120      -35550
- of 06406 morchondion c.i.f.          03618    -4608     -4659      -1110     -5998      -7336       -10043      -11875     -13950      -16035      -18180      -20295      -31040
Not Fctor Income                         70       122        413       472       1098      1143         1160        1350        1500        1535        1525       1540        1730
Not Priv-ce Transfer-                   42         90         87        63         54         50         --          --          --          --          --         --          --
torrent Accont LBalnc-               -1596      -2426     -1363      -1456     -1361      -1522        -2090       -3055       -4120       -4645      -5145       -5720       -9445
Private Direct Iovestment                87       225        444       477        387        710         964        1130        1320        1510        1715       1920        2940
hLT Loan.  (Net)                         69       270        647       730       1141      1509         1639        2105        2230        2420       2435        2545        3760
- olficial                             -21        210       490        803       1028      1072         1327        1575        1560        1805       2010        2330        3250
- priva-t                                90        60        157       -73        113       437          312         530         670         615        425         215         510
Other Capital (N.t) 4/                1393       1907        191       339       -181      -599         -165        -150         570         715         995       1250        2740
Chong. in Rn.erve.                      47         24         81       -90         14       -98         -349         -25           0           0           0           0          0
International gRserve.  1/             516        678       642        880       1106      1098         1300        1325        1325        1325       1325        1325        1325
- of chich gold                         102       102        102       104        104       104          --          --          --          --         --          --          --
Rto-ervo  o. Mooth. I.port- 3/          1 7       1 .8       1 .7      2 .1       2 .2      1.8          1 5         1 .3        1 .1        0.9        0.8         0.7         0.5
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DENT
Gro..  Disborseeone                   2227       3612      2305       3349       2812      2329         2691        3550        4715        5215       5895        6470       10245
Official Gr.nt.                       1303       1076        792       445        345        110         339         461         592         706         807        872        1200
Cooce.sional Loan.                      120      1444        668      1855       1600       996         1336        1405        1450        1560        1640       1730        2035
DAC                                      55       199       421        591        799       833         1163        1210        1250        1380        1445       1520        1600
-OPEC                                     3      1142        171       137         93        43           69          30          10           0           0           0          0
- ID                                     12        49         42        42         45         55          48          85         115         105          80         45           5
- Oth-rn                                 50        54         34      1085        663        65           56          80          70          75         115        165         430
No.-Conc-e.ion.l Loan.                 804       1092       845       1049        867      1223         1017        1685        2025        2230       2455        2620        3795
- officil export cr-dita               379        639        214        24         44         50          83         120         155         175        205         225         30
- IEID                                 --          14         36        37         57       118          146         195         230         280        345         410         620
- other .oltilt-ral                    --           6       --         256         18          5           4          20          35          60          85        180         155
- priv-te                              425        433        595       732        748      1050          784        1350        1600        1710       1820        1880        2720
Gap Fin..cing                                                                                                                      0         650        715         995        3215
loterna. font
Debt Ootst.nding 6 Di.bored           2830       4830      5770       8090      9920      11330        13505       15230       17610      20145       22885       25935       43630
- official                            1990       3890      4720       6800      8500       9470        11296       12495       13555      14760       16075       17660       25230
- private                              840        940      1050       1290       1420      1860         2210        2740        3405       4020        4445        4660        6140
- Sap fin..o.ig                                                                                                        0         650        1365       2360        3615       12260
UndiabaI.nd Debt                      1602       2426      3014       4515      4390       4629         5951        6315        6675       6980        7270        7680       10250
Debt S-rvios
Total seroij.  Payment                 5 17       595        665      1099       12 1 1    1040         1457        2000        2455       2865        3420        3813        5990
- interoet                               70       115        111       340        387       236          604         640         710        890        1070        1270        2610
- payment a. S export. 2/              212      21.62     16 8S      23.92     21 87      14.6X        14.3S       17 71       19.32      19.42       20.22       20.1S      20.7S
AvergE. In noreen gate on
N8.  Loan.                             6.3        4.7        5.1       5.1        4.6       6.4          6.5         7.3         7.3         7.3        7.2         7.2         7.2
- officia
- private
Avrergo Il8tority of
lev Loans fy aro)                     17.2       18.5      23.3       18.7       27.9      24.5         19.5        17.4        16.2        16.2       16.1        15.9        14.6
- ofgficial
- private
1./ Foreign ^a.ate of Central Bank.
2/   Exports of good. and  ervices not incoIding foreign oil compania eaporto.
3/ Morcheodiso only.
4/ Including .o..mrcial banks op.r.tionx .ed residoal foreign financing.
1816A (13546)
Novsmber 20, 1981



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROLP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Amount in million US dollars
Loan/Credit     Approved       Borrower      Purpose                                     (less cancellations)
Numbers          FY                                                                Bank       IDA     Undisbursed
11 Loans and Credits fully disbursed                                                 91.4    184.4           -
Cr 393             73            ARE         Upper Egypt Drainage                      --     36.0          2.0
Cr 423             74            ARE         Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation             --      18.5         1.5
Ln 1064            75            SCA         Suez Canal Rehabilitation               50.0        --        13.0
Ln 1085            75            ARE         Tourah Cement                           40.0        --         1.9
Ln 1098            75            ER          Railways II                             37.0        --         4.7
Ln 1239            76            APA         Alexandria Port                         45.0        __        26.4
Ln 1276-T 1/       76            ARE         Fruit and Vegetable Dev.                50.0        --        24.6
Cr  637            76            ARE         Upper Egypt Drainage II                   --      40.0        11.7
Ln 1285            76            ARE         Upper Egypt Drainage II                 10.0        --        10.0
Ln 1292            76            ARE         Textile Rehabilitation                  52.0        --        10.9
Ln 1369            77            AWA         Alexandria Water Supply                 53.2        --        27.0
Cr  681            77            ARE         Education I                               --     25.0          3.8
Cr  719            77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                    --     27.0          3.1
Ln 1439            77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                  27.0        --        27.0
Ln 1440-T 1/       77            ARE         Nile Delta Drainage II                  12.0        --        12.0
Ln 1453            77            EEA         Regional Electrification                48.0        --         7.6
Ln 1456            77            ARE         Industrial Imports                      70.0        --        13.9
Ln S-D05           77            ARE         Iron Ore Beneficiation and Eng.          2.5        --         0.5
Ln 1482            78            SCA         Suez Canal Expansion                   100.0        --        29.8
Cr  774            78            ARE         Telecommunications II                     --     53.0         49.1
Ln 1533            78            DIB         Development Industrial Bank III         40.0        --         7.1
Cr  830            78            ARE         Agricultural Development                  --     32.0         26.5
Cr  831            78            ARE         Urban Development                         --     14.0         12.8
Cr  850            79            ARE         Population II                             --     25.0         15.8
Cr 868             79            ARE         Education II                              --     40.0         26.0
Ln 5-14            79            ARE         New Valley Phosphate Engineering
and Technical Assistance            11.0        --         3.3
Cr  909            79            ARE         Tourism                                   --     32.5         29.8
Ln 1732            79            ARE         Gulf of Suez Gas                        75.0        --        33.2
Cr  935            79            ARE         Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power          --     37.0         36.4
Ln 1733            79            EEA         Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal Power 2/  102.0         --        102.0
Cr  988            80            ARE         Agroindustries                            --     45.0         42.8
Ln 1804            80            DIB         Development Industrial Bank IV          50.0        --        38.7
Ln 1837            80            ARE         Textiles II 3/                          69.0        --        69.0
Ln 1842            80            ARE         MIDB                                    30.0        --        30.0
Cr 1024            80            ARE         Cairo Gas Distribution                    --     50.0         24.6
Ln 1849            80            ARE         Pulp and Paper 3/                       50.0        --        50.0
Ln 1886            80            EEA         Power III                                7.0        --         7.0
Cr 1052            80            EEA         Power III                                 --    120.0        119.7
Cr i069            81            ARE         Education III                             --     40.1         39.9
Ln 1928            81            EGPC        Western Desert Exploration              25.0       --         17.8
Cr 1083            81            ARE         New Land Development                      --     80.0         80.0
Cr 1111            81            ARE         Fish Farming 4/                           --     14.0         14.0
Ln 2002            81            HADISOLB    Hadisolb Rehabilitation 4/              64.0        --        64.0
Cr 1156            81            ARE         Beheira Water Supply 3/                          56.6         56.6
Cr 1162            81            ARE         Technical Assistance 4/                   --      6.9          6.9
Totals 5/                                                                          1211.1    9i7.0       1234.4
Uf which has been repaid                                                             65.3      0.5
Total now outstanding                                                              1145.8    976.5
Amount sold                                          7-5
Of which has been repaid                             7.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                                     1145.8    976.5
1/  Thira Window Loan.
2/  Not incluced is EEC Special Action Credit 20 of $35.0 million.
3/  Not yet effective.
4/ Declared effective after September 30, 1981.
5/ In addition, a $64 million loan for a Telecommunications III Project and a $120 million loan for a DIB V Project
have been approved by the Board.
(231J)



30-                                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 11
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN EGYPT
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1981)
Year    Obligor                    Type of Business                  Loan      Equity    Total
1976    Arab Ceramic Company       Ceramic Industry                   4.80     0.83       5.63
1978    Nile Clothing Company    Ready-Made Garment Industry          0.43     0.16       0.59
1978    Delta Sugar Company        Agricultural Production,          20.00     3.00      23.00
mainly sugar
1979    Ismailia Misr Poultry    Food and Food Processing             5.97     1.52       7.49
Company
1980,   Ismailia Fish              Food and Food Processing           1.93       .55      2.48
1981       Farming Company
1980    Suez Cement Company       Building Materials                 30.0        -       30.0
1981    Luxor Hotel 1/            Crocodile Tourist Project           4.41       .86      5.27
Total gross commitments                                              67.54     6.92      74.46
Less; Cancellations, terminations, repayments
and sales                                               10.04       -       64.42
Total commitments now held by IFC                                    57.50     6.92      64.42
Total Undisbursed                                                    19.21     2.76      21.97
1/ Not yet signed.
231J



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 11
STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981
Cr. No. 393-UAR - Upper Egypt Drainage I Project; US$36 million Credit of
June 8, 1973; Effectiveness Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: July 31,
1981.
Work is virtually completed on some 1,640 km surface drains in
300,000 feddan project area. Of the four pumping stations, two are
complete and progress is being made on the other two. Installation of tile
drains is more than two-thirds complete. Progress on this activity has
been slow because of inadequate management by contractors and recently the
shortage of cement. The Bilharzia Control Program is proceeding as
scheduled. Progress on procurement is satisfactory. The credit was closed
as planned on July 31, but IDA agreed to keep the credit account open in
order to honor existing letters of credit.
Cr. No. 423-UAR - Cotton Ginning Rehabilitation Project; US$18.5 million
Credit of July 30, 1973; Effectiveness Date: February 15, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The project is estimated to be completed in 1982. Previous
substantial delays, primarily due to lack of adequate local funds, have
been overcome.
Ln. No. 1064-EGT - Suez Canal Rehabilitation Project; US$50 million Loan of
December 20, 1974; Effectiveness Date: April 21, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Project execution is generally satisfactory although some items
are lagging behind appraisal schedule. Contracts for most items in the
project have been awarded and the cost of Bank-financed items is expected
to exceed appraisal estimates slightly.
Ln. No. 1085-EGT - Tourah Cement Expansion Project; US$40 million Loan of
February 10, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Civil works and procurement of machinery and equipment have been
completed. Mechanical erection has also been completed for several
facilities. Substantial progress has been made in recent months towards
completing the remaining erection work. Start-up of facilities is expected
to be progressively achieved by March 1982 when the project is expected to
be completed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 11
Ln. No. 1098-EGT - Railways II Project; US$37 million Loan of April 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: August 20, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Investment in mobile assets has been satisfactory but progress on
fixed installations is slow. The Egyptian Railways' (ER) operations and
maintenance situation remains very poor with low availability of
locomotives and rolling stock. The track renewal and repair program is
also behind schedule. Efforts are now being made to improve rolling stock
maintenance with the help of consultants and ER plans to set up separate
companies with overseas technical assistance to upgrade track conditions.
The 1980-84 draft investment program contains many large investments
including new lines for which no economic justification has been
demonstrated. The financial situation is poor and a deficit of LE 38
million was recorded for 1979. After many years without tariff increases,
substantial increases in freight tariffs were made in 1979, and passenger
fare increases are promised for 1981. A draft decree which would establish
a National Railway authority and aims to give the railways inter alia
considerably more autonomy in relation to tariffs and staff salaries is
under discussion. There are no plans for extending the closing date, but
reimbursements under certain existing letters of credit will continue.
Ln. No. 1239-EGT - Alexandria Port Project; US$45 million Loan of April 19,
1976; Effectiveness Date: August 30, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress on the execution of the main civil works and dredging
ccntract is prozeeding reasanatUly well although other civil works are
behind schedule. Procurement of most equipment is progressing
satisfactorily although the evaluation of bids for radar equipment is
behind schedule. Estimated final cost remains within appraisal estimates.
Because of the delayed start of the main civil works, the closing date of
the loan has been extended.
Ln. No. 1276-EGT - Fruit and Vegetable Development Project; US$50 million
Third Window Loan of June 11, 1976; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is now over two years behind schedule but is making
progress. All funds are committed for the credit component. Work on the
drainage and irrigation components of the project is proceeding and a large
contract has recently been awarded. The seed component has major problems,
which the Bank has been discussing with Egyptian officials to agree on
revised modes of management. However, in the last 12 months, physical
plant has been increased, tenders prepared for further investments, and
considerable crop production achieved. The Agricultural Development
Lending Unit in Bank Misr is attempting, with assistance from the World
Bank, to ensure that the various sub-borrowers proceed with their
respective investments, and to identify additional sub-borrowers. The
project scope has been expanded to allow financing of agroindustries
subprojects, and terms of financing liberalized.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 11
Ln. No. 1285-EGT and Cr. 637-EGT - Upper Egypt Drainage II Project; US$10
million Loan and US$40 million Credit, both of June 11, 1976.
Effectiveness Date; January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Progress on construction of open drains is satisfactory with
completion in about 70 percent of the project area. Tile drains have been
installed covering 10,000 feddans. This activity is behind schedule due
mainly to construction planning and management constraints in the Drainage
Authority and in public sector contracting companies, as well as because of
delays in importing plastic pipe laying machines. Progress on the
Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule, but it will need continued
integrated strategy of snail control measures and treatment of infected
patients, and improved quality control. Amelioration of saline soils will
commence following completion of field drainage in affected areas.
Ln. No. 1292-EGT - Textile Project; US$52 million Loan of September 20,
1976. Effectiveness Date: February 16, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The project is proceeding with a delay of more than two years
caused by a later and slower than anticipated start of the civil works,
shortage of steel and cement, and a recent fire on the construction site of
one of the two beneficiary companies. The project is now estimated to cost
about US$20 million equivalent (all in local currency) more than appraised,
due to increased scope of civil works and increase in cost of construction
materials beyond what was expected at appraisal. No difficulties are
foreseen in financing this, although some government equity contribution
would be required in the next two years to supplement the companies'
internal cash generation in order to adhere to the financial covenants as
well as project costs. Early management problems have now been overcome
and both companies have developed effective project implementation units.
Disbursements are slower than anticipated reflecting initial delays in
procurement. However, about 90 percent of the contracts for machinery and
equipment have now been awarded and the balance is expected to be awarded
in the near future.
Ln. No. 1369-EGT - Alexandria Water Supply Project; US$56 million Loan of
March 7, 1977; Effectiveness Date: July 6, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Bidding for all equipment has been completed and orders placed.
Management studies were completed in the Authority and AWA is implementing
some of the recommendations. AWA has called for bid proposals for new data
processing equipment. The award has been made for the civil works
construction of the Bank financed water treatment plant extensions and work
is expected to start shortly. Local bidding for 65 km pipeline contracts
has been completed and awards made to four contractors who now have the
works under construction. Satisfactory progress is being made on meter
replacement and reduction of waste and AWA's regularly submitted reports
reflect good general progress.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 11
Cr. No. 681-EGT - Education Project; US$25 million Credit of March 7, 1977;
Effectiveness Date: August 19, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981 1/
Project implementation, since the transfer of two MOHE institutes
to Credit 868, is proceeding satisfactorily. Curricular and staff
development, and technical assistance are essentially complete. About 95
percent of all equipment has been procured and nearly all has been
installed. Of the 23 institutions to be constructed 22 are completed and
operational, and the remaining one will be operational by fall 1981. All
of the existing institutions being re-equipped are operational.
Commitments and disbursements total about 92 percent of Credit amount.
Cr. No. 719-EGT, Ln. No. 1439-EGT and Ln. No. 1440-EGT - Nile Delta
Drainage II Project; US$27 million Credit, US$27 million Loan and US$12
million Third Window Loan of July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: April 17,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Construction and remodelling of open drains in about 425,000
feddans is on schedule. Tile drains have been installed covering some
12,000 feddans. This activity is behind schedule due mainly to
construction planning and management constraints in the Drainage Authority
and in public sector contracting companies. The progress is expected to
improve with the delivery of plastic pipe laying machines being imported by
the contractors. Moderate progress has been made with the civil works of
four new pumping stations. The Bilharzia Control Program is on schedule,
but it needs continued integrated strategy of snail control measures and
treatment of infected patients, and improved quality control.
Ln. No. 1453-EGT -Regional Electrification Project; US$48 million Loan of
July 15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1981 1/
Physical progress is good. A six month delay in completion of
construction is expected, however. Consultants for the extension of the
UNDP Power Sector Survey have completed their work. Consultants for the
distribution companies are in place. All contracts for equipment,
materials and technical assistance have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1456-EGT - Industrial Imports Project;US$70 million Loan of July
15, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
As of August 31, 1981, the loan has been fully committed and about
80 percent disbursed. Based on discussions with Government, the Bank has
agreed to reallocate funds among the various categories to take account of
projected over-commitments in Category I and provide additional funds in
Category IV for financing engineering services for National and Rakta paper
companies. The study of the Construction Industry in Egypt financed under
Category IV is now completed.
1/ Loan/Credit closed on December 31, 1981; loan/credit account being kept
open to honor existing contracts.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 11
Ln. No. S-5 EGT - Iron Ore Engineering and Beneficiation Project; US$2.5
million Loan of July 15, 1977. Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981 1/
Consultants' reports on iron ore beneficiation and diagnostic
study substantially completed. As a result of the findings of the
beneficiation study, it is not clear that a large beneficiation plant
should be built; however, HADISOLB has requested that remaining funds in
the loan be utilized for engineering work on construction of a pilot
beneficiation plant. This request has been approved by the Bank, and
HADISOLB is now discussing design aspects of the pilot plant with its
original consultants.
Ln. No. 1482-EGT - Suez Canal Expansion Project; US$100 million Loan of
September 28, 1977; Effectiveness Date: February 8, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981 2/
Progress in the execution of the project is close to appraisal
estimates although in some areas, such as procurement of tugs, there has
been some delay because of delayed decisions on design which have now been
taken. The financial situation of the borrower is sound, total canal
traffic continues at levels close to appraisal forecasts and revenue is
higher than appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1533-EGT - Development Industrial Bank III; US$40 million Loan of
April 12, 1978; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1978; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Progress is satisfactory. The loan is fully committed and $32.9
million has been disbursed.
Cr. No. 774-EGT - Second Telecommunications Project; US$53 million Credit
of March 21, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981 2/
Project execution has been delayed due to slow procurement action,
and is about three years behind appraisal schedule. ARENTO has been urged
to expedite all remaining procurement. ARENTO's financial performance
deteriorated since 1979 and the rate of return and contribution to
expansion is currently well below appraisal values. ARENTO's proposals for
revision of tariffs which would correct this situation have been approved
by the Government in principle and are awaiting formal endorsement by the
Cabinet. Government has requested extension of the closing date.
1/ Loan closed on December 31, 1981.
2/ Closing date extended to December 31, 1982.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 11
Cr. No. 830-EGT - Agricultural Development Project; US$32 million Credit of
July 24, 1978; Effectiveness Date: February 20, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Project tractors have been procured and distributed. Agreements
have been reached and steps taken which have resulted in improved project
implementation. Project organization and management have been strengthened
and the project has been simplified to reduce coordination problems. A
study of the agricultural bank's policies, organization, operations and
finance will be initiated shortly. Establishment and operation of
machinery workshops under the project are now under way and procurement of
farm implements is improving.
Cr. No. 831-EGT - Egypt Urban Development Project; US$14 million Credit of
August 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Efforts to strengthen the Low Income Housing Development Unit are
continuing and performance is improving. With the exception of the
Alexandria components, satisfactory progress has been made in the
implementation of the physical aspects of the components of Cairo and
Assuit Governorates as well as in the selection of consultants for the
various studies financed by the proceeds of the Credit.
Cr. No. 850-EGT - Second Population Project; US$25 million Credit of
October 30, 1978; Effectiveness Date: May 1, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1983
Civil works and procurement of furniture, equipment and vehicles
are proceeding satisfactorily. All sites have been selected and
construction on over 50 (of 153 sites) is underway. Progress has been made
in implementation of software activities particularly in the home visiting
program, IEC and training in terms of completing much delayed institutional
arrangements for full software implementation.
Cr. No. 868-EGT - Second Education Project; US$40.0 million Credit of
January 26, 1979; Effectiveness Date: July 18, 1979; Closing Date: March
31, 1984
Project implementation is proceeding very well. Of the 23
institutions to be constructed, five are completed, another six will be
completed by late 1981, 9 will be completed in mid-1983 and the three MOHE
institutes are expected to be completed on schedule by late 1983. All
equipment is under procurement with contracts already signed for about 50
percent. All technical assistance has been contracted and implementation
is about 9 months ahead of schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 11
Ln. No.S-14-EGT - New Valley Phosphate Engineering and Technical Assistance
Project; US$11 million Loan of May 25, 1979; Effectiveness Date. October
19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Procurement and delivery of mining equipment is underway and
erection has started at mine site; laboratory tests of phosphate rock have
been completed and reviewed by the Bank. Draft terms of reference for the
pre-feasibility study have been agreed. The experimental mine has started
operation of one long wall mining face.
Cr. No. 909-EGT - Tourism Project; US$32.5 million Credit of June 13, 1979;
Effectiveness Date; March 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Design work is underway on most project components. Contracts
have been signed for several studies and tendering procedures have
commenced on the others. Contracting and tendering are well advanced for
the following components: telecommunications, electricity, roads, Luxor
airport terminal buildings, and the hotel training school. Implementation
of most components remains behind schedule, but recent steps to strengthen
the project unit have resulted in reductions in further slippages.
Ln. No. 1732-EGT - Gulf of Suez Gas Project; US$75 million Loan of June 29L
1979; Effectiveness Date: January 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The onshore contract
has been signed and the contractor has mobilized. The draft financial and
energy pricing studies are completed, and the expoloration study is well
underway.
Ln. No. 1733-EGT - US$102 million, Cr. No. 935-EGT - US$37 million and
Special Action Cr. No. 20-EGT - US$35 million - Shoubrah El Kheima Thermal
Power Project of September 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 8, 1980;
Closing Date; June 30, 1986
Bids for all major equipment packages have been received and are
being evaluated by the consultants and orders are expected to be placed
within the next two months. It might be possible to overcome the delay of
four months that has already taken place in project implementation and to
complete the project on time. Cofinancing virtually complete.
Cr. No. 988-EGT - Agroindustries Project; US$45 million Credit of May 1,
1980; Effectiveness Date: December 3, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Construction of the Cairo abattoir has begun and the bids for
construction of the Alexandria abattoir are being evaluated. The credit
component through the three participating banks is proceeding well.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 11
Ln. No. 1804-EGT - Fourth Development Industrial Bank Project; US$50
million Loan of May 1, 1980; Effectiveness Date: August 8, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
$46.2 million has been committed and $11.3 million disbursed.
Ln. No. 1837-EGT - Textile II Project; US$69 million Loan of June 4, 1980;
Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Effectiveness action underway.
Ln. No. 1842-EGT - Misr Iran Development Bank Project; US$30 million Loan
of June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date; December 31, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1985
After a change in ownership structure, MIDB has been reorganized
and has resumed its full operations. No funds have yet been disbursed, but
a rapid surge in commitments is expected.
Ln. No. 1849-EGT - Pulp and Paper Project; US$50 million Loan of June 4,
1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1984
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1024-EGT - Cairo Gas Distribution Project; US$50 million Credit of
June 4, 1980; Effectiveness Date: December 4, 1980; Closing Date: December
31, 1985
Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily. One
of the two power plants has been linked to the system. A tariff study has
been completed, and Petrogas has prepared an overall training program.
Cr. No. 1069-EGT - Third Education Project; SDR 30.3 million (US$40.1
million equivalent) Credit of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness Date: April
16, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Good progress is being made in the preparation of equipment lists,
specifications and bidding documents. Technical assistance agreements have
been signed by Assuit University, Ministry of Social Affairs and Cairo
University.
Ln. No. 1886-EGT, US$7 million, Cr. No. 1052-ECT, US$120 million - Third
Power Project of November 7, 1980; Effectiveness date: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Phases I and
II of the tariff study are on schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 11
Ln. No. 1928-EGT - Western Desert Petroleum Exploration Project; US425
million Loan of January 13, 1981; Effectiveness Date; May 13, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Four exploration and appraisal wells have been drilled, and gas
has been found in what appears to be commercial quantities. On completion
of the fifth well, the Bank, EGPC and its consultants will review the
results obtained so far and decide on the future course of drilling.
Cr. No. 1083-EGT - SDR 60.9 million (US$80 million) - New Land Development
Project of December 16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: October 2, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
Tender for construction of development works on Phase I (7,500
feddans) was issued in August 1981. Bid opening is scheduled on November
15, 1981. Preliminary agreement was reached between Ministry of Land
Reclamation and the consultant for preparing design and tender documents
for Phase II (17,000 feddans). Design work is expected to be completed by
October 1982.
Cr. No. 1111-EGT - SDR 11 million (US$14 million) - Fish Farmin
Development Project of April 24, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway. 1/
Ln. No. 2002-EGT - US $64 million - Hadisolb Rehabilitation Project of July
28, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date: September
30, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway. 1/
Cr. 1156-EGT - SDR 46.1 million (US $56.6 million) - Beheira Provincial
Potable Water Supply Project of December 25, 1981; Effectiveness Date; (Not
yet effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1986
Action on effectiveness is underway.
Cr. No. 1162-EGT - SDR 5.7 million (US $6.9 million) - Technical Assistance
Project of August 26, 1981; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Action on effectiveness is underway. 1/
1/ Declared effective after September 30, 1981.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
ABU QIR GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare project;  Nine months (June 1980 -
February 1981)
(b)  Date of first presentation:                       May 1980
(c)  Agencies preparing project;                        Egyptian General Petroleum
Corporation (EGPC)
Western Desert Operating
Petroleum Company (WEPCO)
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:            February 1981
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:                January 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                     July 1982
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1. WEPCO to provide the Bank with a recruitment and training program for its
review by December 31, 1982 (para. 56).
2. EGPC to allocate funds immediately for specialized international services
in case of a blow-out or fire (para. 61).
3. The average price of Abu Qir gas to be increased by July 1, 1984 to a
level representing at least the marginal cost of gas production and an
allowance for the depletion of gas resources; a differential tariff
structure to be developed by July 31, 1983 jointly reviewed with the Bank
by December 31, 1983; and agreed tariffs to be introduced by July 1, 1984
(para. 63).
4. Government and EGPC to review with the Bank their plans to increase the
average price of gas and fuel oil nationally to the level of Abu Qir gas
(para. 63).
5. EGPC to earn a rate of return of at least 10 percent annually in the first
three years and 15 percent thereafter on the revalued net fixed assets of
the Abu Qir field (para. 64)



r~-                                 28                                                            r  -.;  ,izg,gpg=}l,=  El - 'S;i2t:;i.= "ill:Siln gli{Sz{<F llL7@-ygrL-wiFigll;-g!;t  '_>:                                    3N3.                     IBRD  15795
or                                   2r                                                                           p      u 2       1.r         ~%    ~  . 1 .r!M_n!.l
Ml  e   a'  ,  /  e   r  r  a n          a   a   a             :5t   a- -i/ !,    A;  nt ,k
MARUHI
31~~ 5 1 L:  t M0 ;  :iA6 1 KPRI
RAS EL DABAA                                                                                        L                                                       /                - ,,
EL HAMRA                                                                       ALALLyAu,              ANSUR21'
EHALAH-            MANSUR',|ISMALIAA
_rofer-                    F\01<-4                                                          "v"'~Y                                                                                       tt8S,r 
t  ,  ,!  '  '  , ,'' wo /s 8 @ / \~0= t =Wd
112" r_4AIRO
WD'0  f7  2----                                                                                                                                                        SUEZ Sa
eoa,,>_>       ,      ~-~',c-                                                                                                                                        C>/ KNL                                                                  o 9
r   ,_5-/~                                                                                                                              \\          a)" \W NW                                                       c
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -r --                                           - - - -.                    - - __  . ..                                          
a)              A     AbuGh n .. in3                                                                                                                                     _2-a'2"
c   /   -                                                                                                                                                                                                             --BRE-23-I  Abu
6                              I A~~~~~~~~*-RE-23-2?   Mubarak
27'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
t96   \ 0  collriW  \ ZJORDA,> ~~~~~~~~~~~'                    -         Sl.dy  .... b-udc y                 3       W rhe e  k\ 
L  >IB YA                     UD'                                     ---A,AE nmg gns pp1-Sv Suez Co-I
LR LIC                                                          ARAB            REUB    iCD   OFABIA  E                                                                      25        50        75        100
I    OF EGPULI           \   u               -28KM ---Go   pipelnes under onestructn                                         seres                                                                     IETERS 
-2.- CHA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  s u   A. N~~~~~~~in,Ss Iu'u'  suhinnIu   udna,,un
H. A                Sm 4                                                                                 A9                                     3Or                                                                           3Or V3o






IBRD 15695
APRIL  1981
0 0 V g i&t,. :,. g-   lD  012K X1,
L g S VE9St feN j                               X



