Document of
The World Bank  FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3114-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO INDIA
FOR THE
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT PROJECT
August 25, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oflicizd duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of August 10, 1981)
US$1.00       5   Rs 9.264
Rs 1.00       =   US$0.1079
Rs 1 million  =   US$107,940
The U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00
to Rs 8.0, which represents the projected average exchange rate
over the disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BCE           -           Base Cost Estimate
CIF           -           Cost, Insurance and Freight
DAF           -           Development Assistance Fund
GOI           -           Government of India
GOTN          -           Government of Tamil Nadu
HPC           -           Hindustan Paper Corporation
ICICI         -           Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
IDBI          -           Industrial Development Bank of India
IFCI          -           Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IFI's         -           Indian Financial Institutions
LICI          -           Life Insurance Corporation of India
NLC           -           Neyveli Lignite Corporation
SPB           -           Seshasayee Paper and Boards Limited
TAFCORN       -           Tamil Nadu Forest Plantations Corporation
TNEB          -           Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
TNPL          -           Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited
tpd           -           tons per day
tpy           -           tons per year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       India, acting by its President (GOI)
Beneficiary:                    Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited (TNPL)
Amount:                         US$100 million equivalent
Terms:                          Twenty years, including five years' grace,
at 10.6% interest per annum.
Relending Terms:                GOI to IDBI/DAF:  At an interest rate of 8-1/4%
per annum repayable over 15 years including
5 years' grace.
IDBI/DAF to TNPL: US$77.5 million at an interest
rate of 14% per annum repayable over 15 years
including 5 years' grace. US$22.5 million as
equity.
GOI would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:            The project would provide for the construction
of a dual-purpose pulp and paper mill with the
capacity to produce 100,000 tpy of newsprint
or 80,000 tpy of printing and writing paper
(or any combination thereof) from bagasse,
a by-product of sugar production. Benefits to
be gained include the alleviation of India's
shortage of newsprint through the introduction
of a new technology utilizing a readily-
available raw material. The risk of using a
new technology would be minimized by the fact
that the mill could easily be converted to the
production of 80,000 tpy of printing and writing
paper from bagasse by a commercially proven
process. The risk of an inadequate coal supply
would be minimized by the securing of alterna-
tive fuels.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign  Total
Equipment and Spares                      23.2       67.8    91.0
Civil Works                                9.0        1.0    10.0
Engineering and Supervision                3.9        3.9     7.8
Erection                                   3.0        0.4     3.4
Taxes and Duties                          23.9         -     23.9
Total Plant Cost                      63.0      73.1   136.1
Facilities at Sugar Mills                  6.2        7.7    13.9
Railway Sidings                            0.7        0.1     0.8
Housing and Amenities                      1.7        0.2     1.9
Training & Technical Assistance            0.9        0.9     1.8
Pre-Operating Expenses                     2.3        0.2     2.5
Sub-total                             11.8       9.1    20.9
Base Cost Estimate (BCE)             74.8       82.2   157.0
Physical Contingencies                     6.0        6.6    12.6
Price Contingencies                       10.3        9.9    20.2
Total Installed Cost                  91.1      98.7   189.8
Working Capital                           17.o        0.9    17.9
Total Project Cost                   108.1      99.6   207.7
Interest During Construction              14.4       15.4    29.8
Total Financing Required             122.5     115.0   237.5
Financing Plan:
(US$ Millions)
Local    Foreign  Total
Equity - GOTN                             39.4        -       39.4
- Participating Sugar Mills        3.1        -         3.1
- SPB                              1.9        -         1.9
- IFI's                           16.2        -        16.2
- IBRD through IDBI/DAF            -        22.5       22.5
Long-Term Debt - IFI's                    49.4      15.0      64.4
- IBRD through IDBI/DAF            77.5       77.5
Short-Term Debt                           12.5       -        12.5
Total                              122.5    115.0       237.5



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Million)
FY82   FY83   FY84    FY85
Annual              31.0   36.0   29.0       4.0
Cumulative          31.0   67.0   96.0   100.0
Rate of Return:            About 19%.
Appraisal Report:          No. 3251-IN, dated August 14, 1981.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
loan to India for the equivalent of US$100 million to help finance a project
to establish an integrated pulp and paper mill in the State of Tamil Nadu.
The loan would have a term of twenty years, including five years' grace, with
interest at 10.6% per annum. The Government of India (GOI) would on-lend the
proceeds of the loan to the Development Assistance Fund (DAF) of the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) for 15 years, including five
years' grace, with interest at 8.25% per annum. IDBI would make US$22.5
million of the loan proceeds available to the project sponsor, Tamil Nadu
Newsprint and Papers Limited (TNPL), as equity, and US$77.5 million as a loan
for 15 years, including five years' grace, at 14% per annum. GOI would bear
the foreign exchange risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to



-2-
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.



-3-
8.        In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 5 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to limit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the previous record
level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the recent past and the
probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to
maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to
time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure ade-
quate build up of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
9.        The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to fav6rable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$1 billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In



-4-
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and



-5-
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in the short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 had IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the



-6-
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified. Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies



-7-
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year.  Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.     Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.     In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved



-8-
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - THE PULP AND PAPER INDUSTRY IN INDIA
27.       Within the constraint imposed by shortages of conventional raw
materials, India's pulp and paper industry has been relatively successful in
achieving one of its principal objectives: that of efficiently and economically
maintaining a high level of self-sufficiency in domestic paper production. In
1980, there were 107 plants in operation, producing a total of approximately
1.2 million tons of paper and paperboard, or 80% of India's total paper con-
sumption. Domestic production accounted for some 98% of the country's require-
ments of printing and writing paper, and 96% of industrial paper and board;
imports generally have been limited to specialty products. Because of the
shortage of fibers suitable for traditional methods of newsprint manufacture,
however, substantial imports of newsprint are still required; in 1980, domestic
production accounted for only about 15% of the total consumption of 315,000
tons.
28.       Total output of the pulp and paper sector is currently valued at
some Rs 6 billion annually; the industry contributes about 2% of industrial
output in India, and employs about 100,000 people.  In addition, at least
twice that number are engaged in related activities such as the collection
of fibrous raw materials. With real output having increased at an average
annual rate of more than 6% over the past 20 years, the rate of growth of
the industry has exceeded that of the economy as a whole, reflecting rising
literacy rates, expanding educational programs and increasing use of paper
for packaging of food and other commodities. However, India's average per
capita consumption of paper, at less than 2 kg per year, is among the lowest
in the world.
Fibrous Raw Materials
29.       The pulp and paper industry consumes about 2.5 million tons of
fibrous raw material annually, primarily bamboo and indigenous hardwoods,
and plant location has largely been determined by the proximity of these
raw materials. Bamboo, the fiber most frequently used, provides about 65%
of the industry's fibrous raw material. While actual production of bamboo
is only 3 million tons per year (tpy) (of which 50% is consumed by the paper
sector), compared to an estimated potential of 5.5 million tpy, there is
little scope for pulp and paper expansion based on this resource for three
reasons: (i) the bulk of the unutilized bamboo is in relatively inaccessible
areas; (ii) competing end uses--primarily construction--restrict the supply
available to the paper industry; and (iii) since the bamboo plant flowers
unpredictably and is often unproductive for 5-6 years thereafter, there is
significant risk in establishing a mill in any area where other raw materials
are not also readily available.
30.       Another 21% of the industry's fibrous raw material is derived from
indigenous hardwoods (20%) and softwoods (1%). Although this amounts to less
than one half of one percent of the nation's total wood consumption, the
percentage available for pulp and paper production is not likely to increase.
Forest land is becoming increasingly scarce because of overcutting, conversion
to agricultural use, a rising demand for wood for fuel and construction uses,
and inundation as a result of implementation of irrigation schemes.



- 10 -
31.       Of the remaining fibrous raw material sources now used for paper
manufacture--grass, bagasse and others (straw, jute, waste paper, linters)--
the only one with any scope for significant expansion that would not be at the
cost of existing agricultural production or competing end uses is bagasse, a
by-product of sugar production. India is one of the world's largest sugarcane
producers. If all the cane produced were crushed and the bagasse made avail-
able for paper production, the fiber could support an output of about 7
million tpy of paper, almost six times current domestic consumption. Bagasse
is currently used in India by sugar mills as process fuel but it could be
economically replaced by coal, which is available in India, albeit subject
to extraction and transport problems. Bagasse is being used to produce
printing and writing paper in other parts of the world, and to some extent
in India, but to date there is no commercially proven technology for bagasse-
based newsprint production.
Production and Pricing Controls
32.       For most grades, delivered paper prices in India are comparable to
international prices. In order to ensure the availability of certain grades
of paper used in educational institutions, GOI has instituted some mandatory
production requirements: (i) mills producing printing and writing paper must
make 30% of their production as white printing paper, to Government specifi-
cations, and deliver it to specified consumers at a fixed price, currently
about 50% of the free market price; and (ii) these same mills must produce
five other specified grades of printing and writing paper to the extent of
an additional 33% of production, but this production can be sold freely
on the open market. These restrictions do not apply to mills of less than
10,000 tpy capacity, mills using fibrous raw material which is at least
75% not wood or bamboo, and new mills for at least the first five years of
operation. Exise duties are applied to domestic production at rates ranging
from 20-40% depending on the type of paper, but no exise duties are applied to
newsprint, and small mills and new mills using non-conventional raw materials
to produce printing and writing paper are exempted from a percentage of the
excise duties.
33.       A shortage of both newsprint and printing and writing paper in the
early 1970's led the Government to institute a number of actions designed to
stimulate the sector's growth. The Government-owned Hindustan Paper Corpora-
tion Limited (HPC) was created to establish new pulp and paper mills and is
expected to produce 64% of the 500,000 tpy of new capacity now under construc-
tion. Mills designed to produce newsprint were declared priority investments
and permitted to import equipment at a concessional rate of duty (35% compared
to 45% for other pulp and paper plants). A 15% duty was recently levied on
imported newsprint. Although these measures have served to stimulate expansion
of capacity in the sector during the past decade, there has also been a steady
increase in paper consumption during the same period. Projected demands for
both newsprint and printing and writing paper indicate a supply gap of 170,000
tpy of newsprint and 85,000 tpy of printing and writing paper by 1985 even
after taking into account projected new capacity, including this project.



- 11 -
Marketing and Distribution
34.       The marketing of newsprint in India is controlled by the Government
through the Registrar of Newspapers who allocates domestic production and
imports to newspapers, periodicals and magazines, in an attempt to distribute
the various qualities equitably. Once the allocation has been made (generally
annually), consumers deal directly with the producer. Because of these
arrangements, selling expenses for newsprint are minimal. Newsprint from the
project would be marketed through this system. Except for mandatory production
requirements for white printing paper, the market for printing and writing
paper is not controlled. Printing and writing paper produced under this
project would be marketed through a network of agents, covering the entire
country, a system usual for the larger Indian producers. Price lists are
established on an ex-factory basis with agents' commissions ranging from
3-1/2 to 10% of ex-factory price.
Bank Group Operations in the Sector
35.       The Bank Group has not financed any projects in India's pulp and
paper sector to date, although it has helped to finance a feasibility study
for a paper project in the Bastar region of Madhya Pradesh under the Madhya
Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit 609-IN, May 17, 1976).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government of Tamil Nadu
(GOTN) with the assistance of the Seshasayee Paper and Boards Ltd. (SPB),
project consultants. It was appraised in October 1980 and February 1981. The
Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3251-IN), is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington in July 1981 with
the Borrower represented by Mr. S. Kaul of the Department of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance, as coordinator of the Indian delegation.
Project Description
37.       The proposed Bank loan would help to finance the establishment of
an integrated pulp and paper mill, with the capacity to produce 100,000 tpy
of newsprint or 80,000 tpy of printing and writing paper (or any combination
thereof) using bagasse (an average of about 80% overall) and eucalyptus
wood as fibrous raw material. Facilities to be provided include: bagasse
depithing equipment and a chemical pulp mill for bagasse, chipping equipment
and a chemical pulp mill for wood, full chemical recovery facilities, a bleach
plant, a dual-purpose paper machine and associated stock-preparation equipment,
pollution abatement facilities, and some supporting infrastructure. In
addition, coal handling equipment and coal-fired boilers would be installed
and operated at five sugar mills, to permit the release of bagasse (currently
used as fuel for process steam) for use in the paper mill as a raw material.
At full production (from 1988), a product mix of 50,000 tpy of newsprint and
40,000 tpy of printing and writing paper is proposed. Although this product
mix is specified on the industrial license issued by GOI to TNPL, it could be
adjusted to meet technical and market requirements.



- 12 -
Raw Materials
38.       The project, which was conceived to meet the Government's dual
objectives of expanding production of both newsprint and printing and writing
paper, and of using bagasse as a fibrous raw material, would produce newsprint
from 85% high-yield bagasse pulp and 15% hardwood (eucalyptus) chemical pulp
and printing and writing paper from 75% bagasse chemical pulp and 25% hardwood
chemical pulp. The bagasse required--about 420,000 tpy at full production--
would be obtained from five sugar mills, located between 5 km and 140 km from
the plant site and each producing between 53,000 and 183,000 tons of bagasse a
year on average. These mills currently use their bagasse as fuel to generate
process steam. In order to release the bagasse for use in paper making, Tamil
Nadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd. (TNPL), the project sponsor, would install,
operate and maintain coal-fired boilers at the sugar mills, and supply the
mills with sufficient coal to generate their steam requirement. TNPL has
signed contracts with six sugar mills; boilers would actually be installed
only in five, with the sixth held in reserve in case additional bagasse is
required.
39.       The wood required by the project would be supplied from the exist-
ing plantations of the Tamil Nadu Forest Plantations Corporation (TAFCOKN).
TAFCORN is a State Government corporation with some 32,000 ha currently
planted with a eucalyptus hybrid which is grown on a seven-year cycle. Bank
staff have reviewed the supply capacity of TAFCORN's plantations and concluded
that the margin of safety in the wood supply is adequate. GOTN would ensure
that the necessary volume of pulpwood for the project would be made available
including, in the event that coal supplies are disrupted for any reason,
expanded deliveries to allow the mill to continue operations (Section 3.01
of the Tamil Nadu Agreement).
40.       The project's total coal requirement, including that to be supplied
to the sugar mills, would be about 330,000 tpy. TNPL has obtained a letter of
commitment from Singareni Collieries in Andhra Pradesh for 150,000 tpy, and
TNPL has signed a contract with Coal India Limited for 190,000 tpy from 1983
onwards. Coal would be delivered by rail from the coal fields to a dump at
the paper mill; from there the amount required by the sugar mills would be
transported by truck. In view of India's chronic coal production and supply
problems, TNPL has considered it prudent to make arrangements for an alterna-
tive fuel - lignite -- to cover a part of the total fuel requirement, and
the paper mill's boilers are being designed to burn lignite as well as coal.
Lignite is available in substantial quantites from a briquetting and carboniza-
tion plant owned by the Neyveli Lignite Corporation Ltd. (NLC), a public sector
company. Since lignite is more expensive than coal (in terms of contained
thermal units), it would be used only if coal were unavailable, but TNPL has
obtained a letter of commitment from NLC for the supply of 60,000 tpy of
lignite, if necessary. GOI would ensure that TNPL's demand for coal and,
if necessary lignite, would be met on schedule. If there is any temporary
disruption in the mill's operation due to lack of fuel or technical problems
with the furnish (fiber composition), TNPL would be allowed to procure alter-
native fuels or to import pulp in order to continue operations economically
(Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).



- 13 -
Project Implementation
41.       The proposed project would be owned and operated by Tamil Nadu
Newsprint and Papers Ltd. (TNPL), a company established by the Government of
Tamil Nadu and incorporated on April 16, 1979. Initial shareholders in TNPL
would be: GOTN (47%); the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) as
lead agency in a consortium with other Indian financial institutions (IFI's)
(47%); 1/ two of the cooperatively-owned sugar mills which would supply
bagasse to the mill (4%); and SPB, the owners and operators of a pulp and
paper mill in Tamil Nadu as well as project consultants (2%). GOTN would
give only policy directives to TNPL and not interfere in day-to-day operation.
IDBI and GOTN would limit their respective shareholdings to less than 50%
(Sections 3.02 of the Tamil Nadu Agreement and 4.02 of the IDBI Agreement).
TNPL would be managed by a Board of Directors appointed by the shareholders.
The Chairman of the Board, the current Managing Director of SPB, has already
been appointed as have the Executive Director and the Project Manager. A
Project Implementation Group has been formed within TNPL and staffed by
experienced professionals, many of whom have been transferred from SPB, to
implement the project. The Project Implementation Group would be supported by
SPB, whose functions and responsibilities are outlined in a contract between
TNPL and SPB which has been reviewed by Bank staff. TNPL would maintain in
effect a technical assistance agreement during the first five years of plant
operation (Section 3.04 of the Project Agreement). TNPL is developing a
training program, which would make use of SPB facilities to provide on-the-
job training for staff operating the plant. It would provide by December 31,
1982 a detailed report on the recruitment and training of staff (Section 3.06
of the Project Agreement).
42.       In order to ensure coordination of process design and project imple-
mentation, the major equipment package and the basic engineering services for
the project would be provided by a consortium of engineers and equipment
suppliers headed by Beloit Walmsley Ltd. of the UK. The consortium includes
a consulting engineering firm (Reed International of the UK) which would be
responsible for basic engineering as well as supervision of the local engineer-
ing firm, selected by Reed, which would undertake detailed engineering. Bank
staff have reviewed the TNPL contracts with Beloit Walmsley and with Reed and
will review the terms and conditions of the contract with the local engineering
firm (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
43.       Infrastucture.  The mill would be located on a site near Pugalur,
on the Cauvery River, about 300 km southwest of Madras. Indian Railways
would construct a 3 km railway spur from Pugalur to the mill site, which
would be financed under the project. This would be completed by the end of
1983 (Section 4.04 of the Loan Agreement). The proposed mill site is close to
a national highway and, by December 31, 1983, GOTN would both upgrade existing
1/  In addtion to IDBI, other IFI's expected to participate, all in a minor
way, are the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
(ICICI), The Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI), and the
Life Insurance Corporation of India (LICI).



- 14 -
road connections between the site and the nearby national highway, and under-
take any other modification of the local road system as might be required to
ensure an efficient traffic flow for the project (Section 3.05 of the Tamil
Nadu Agreement). The mill would normally generate 75% of its total power
requirements; the balance would be purchased from the Tamil Nadu Electricity
Board (TNEB) which would construct a 1 km power line from its Pugalur sub-
station to the mill site. TNPL has arranged with GOTN to establish a housing
colony of 670 units and related community facilities at the plant site. The
community facilities, 70 houses for senior management and technical staff,
and 25% of the cost of an additional 600 housing units would be financed under
the project. GOTN would assist TNPL in arranging for staff housing which is
not provided under the project and would permit TNPL to draw water from the
Cauvery River to meet the full requirements of the plant and the housing
colony (Sections 3.04 and 3.06 of the Tamil Nadu Agreement).
44.       Environmental Impact.  GOI has issued standards for the discharge
of industrial effluents to inland surface waters; these are generally in
line with international standards, and are satisfactory to the Bank. Indian
regulations permit some relaxation of standards if the effluent is to be
discharged to an irrigation canal. The TNPL mill would normally discharge
to such canals, and the irrigation of up to 2,000 ha of dry corn land, which
without irrigation would be only marginally suited for agriculture, would be
a side benefit. To avoid any potential problems, however, the project would
provide for full primary and secondary treatment of effluent to meet the more
stringent standards for surface water discharge. TNPL's proposals for the
design of the mill's effluent treatment plant and for air emission systems
have been reviewed by Bank staff and are satisfactory. TNPL would build and
operate the project in accordance with environmentally sound standards and
maintain adequate monitoring stations to gather information on meteorological
conditions and base pollution levels (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
45.       The total financing required for the proposed project, including
contingencies, working capital and interest during construction, is estimated
at US$237.5 million, of which US$115 million is the estimated foreign exchange
cost, and US$23.9 million are duties and taxes. The estimated project cost
includes provision for all necessary infrastructure, for the facilities to be
located at the sugar mills, for training and technical assistance, and for
pre-operating expenses. Physical contingencies have been calculated at 8%
of the base cost estimate and provision for price escalation has been made
assuming rates of 12.5% in 1980, 9% in 1981, 8.5% in 1982 and 7.5% in subse-
quent years.
46.       The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million would provide about 47%
of the estimated financing required excluding duties and taxes. The proceeds
of the proposed loan would be channelled to the project through IDBI's Develop-
ment Assistance Fund (DAF). I/ The fund is operated as an integral part of
1/ IDBI's role in the project is thus two-fold: as the leader of the IFI's
who are investing in the project and as the administrating agency for
the DAF through which Bank Group funds would flow.



- 15 -
IDBI's financing operations, but risks are borne by, and profits accrue to,
GOI, with IDBI receiving a management fee. The proceeds would be on-lent by
GOI for a term of 15 years, including 5 years? grace, at an interest rate
of 8-1/4% per year (Section 3.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). To maintain an
acceptable debt:equity ratio of 63:37 for the project, while limiting GOTN's
shareholdings to less than 50%, US$22.5 million of the proposed loan would be
passed to the project as equity, and the remaining US$77.5 million of Bank
funds would be passed on as debt for 15 years, including 5 years' grace, at
an interest rate of 14% per year. The remaining financing required would be
provided as indicated in the Loan and Project Summary. IDBI and the other
IFI's would offer their shareholdings in TNPL to the public as soon as market
conditions permit and would apportion the proceeds of any such sale on a pari
passu basis between the funds made available from the proceeds of the loan
and their own equity (Section 4.03 of the IDBI Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Procurement for the major engineering and equipment package supplied
by the Beloit Walmsley/Reed consortium was initiated prior to the request for
Bank Group financing of the project. The procedures used have been reviewed
by Bank staff and found to be consistent with international competitive
bidding (ICB) and in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.
The balance of the goods and services required by the project and financed by
the loan would be procured by ICB, except for critical or proprietary imported
items, and items costing less than US$100,000 (up to a combined maximum of
US$5 million), which would be procured by international shopping, according
to a list of goods and vendors agreed with the Bank. Indian manufacturers
competing under ICB would be eligible for a preference margin of 15%, or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Civil works and erection will
be carried out by Indian contractors to be selected under competitive bidding
procedures which are satisfactory.
48.       The proposed loan would be disbursed against 100% of the CIF or
ex-factory cost of equipment, materials and spares procured after ICB (US$90
million) and 100% of the cost of training and technical assistance (US$1
million). It is expected that Indian manufacturers would supply about US$45
million (or 36%) of the total equipment, spares and services required for
the project (estimated at US$125 million including contingencies) while the
balance US$80 million (or 64%) would be imported. It is also estimated that
the Bank loan would finance approximately US$20 million of local supplies,
won by Indian suppliers under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Retroactive
financing of up to US$10 million of expenditures incurred after April 1, 1981
is proposed to cover down payments on major contracts, which were made in
order to avoid delays in project execution.
Financial Evaluation
49.       Sales revenue from the project is expected to increase from Rs
561.8 million (US$70.2 million) in 1984/85, the first full year of plant
operation, to Rs 813.2 million (US$101.7 million) in 1987/88, by which
time capacity utilization will have reached 90%. Net profits (after tax)



- 16 -
are expected to increase from a loss of Rs 18.6 million (US$2.3 million)
in 1984/85, to a profit of Rs 152.3 million (US$19.0 million) in 1987/88.
After start up, the project is expected to generate sufficient cash flow to
meet all its obligations. Debt service coverage is expected to remain above
1.4 through the life of the project. The long-term debt:equity ratio, 63:37
at start-up, is expected to decrease to 65:35 as a result of losses in the
first two years of operation but to improve rapidly thereafter. The current
ratio is expected to increase steadily from its initial value of 1.6 in 1984.
Profit and cash projections show that the project can pay a yearly dividend
of 10% on its share capital from the sixth year of operation. The base case
financial rate of return is 15.4% before taxes and 12.4% after taxes. Sensi-
tivity analysis indicates that the after-tax rate of return is not likely to
drop below 10.7% even without the excise duty concession.
50.       In order to ensure a continuing satisfactory financial performance,
TNPL has agreed that it would: (i) maintain a debt:equity ratio not greater
than 65:35; (ii) not borrow funds for new investment if, as a result, its debt
service coverage would fall below 1.5; (iii) maintain a current ratio of at
least 1.2; and (iv) prior to project completion, not enter into arrangements
for any major new investments in excess of US$5 million per year without the
Bank's approval (Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
51.       The project's economic rate of return is about 19% based on current
international prices for paper and newsprint. If newsprint production proved
difficult, and the project had to produce more printing and writing paper,
the rate of return would actually increase. For 100% printing and writing
paper production (with no newsprint), the rate of return is about 22%.
The production of newsprint is nonetheless justified, since, if successful,
it would open the door to future newsprint projects in India, yielding an
economic rate of return of about 20%, as compared with future printing and
writing paper projects for export which would only yield an economic rate of
return of 15%. Further, it would enable India to offer technical assistance
and consulting services to other developing countries wishing to implement
similar bagasse-based newsprint projects. Industrial countries have suffi-
cient wood-based long fiber resources to produce newsprint and thus have
limited incentive to undertake the full development effort and risk associ-
ated with bagasse technology. Consequently the developing countries will
have to assume at least some of the risk. Among the developing countries
India, with its extensive supply of bagasse and ready market for both news-
print and printing and writing paper, is well placed to test this new
technology.
52.       The project would help to meet India's growing demand for paper
and provide a prototype for bagasse-based newsprint production, not only
for India but for all developing countries which produce sugarcane. At full
production, the project would supply about 10% of India's forecast demand for
newsprint, and 4% of the forecast demand for printing and writing paper. The
net foreign exchange savings over the project's 17-year life, due to reduced
imports of paper and newsprint, are estimated at about US$980 million in 1981



- 17 -
dollars, after providing for interest payments on foreign loans and deducting
the foreign exchange component of operating costs. The project would create
about 2,000 permanent jobs, in addition to about 4,000 jobs through secondary
and tertiary employment. Through the availability of treated effluent, the
project would also help to irrigate 2,000 ha of farm land which would allow
it to be converted from low-productivity dry corn land to high-productivity
paddy.
53.       There are two principal risks associated with the project.  The
first is that of introducing the relatively new technology of producing
newsprint from bagasse which, while technically established, has not been
commercially proven. However, a number of safeguards have been incorporated
to reduce this risk to an acceptable level.
54.       TNPL decided to procure the entire pulp line and paper machine from
a single consortium with satisfactory technical experience, which would be
responsible for guaranteeing production variables through the process, from
pulp to the finished paper product. The consortium which was selected has
developed a modified process for fiber separation which, in pilot-scale
tests, has produced newsprint with satisfactory specifications. Although
the newsprint ran well in tests on an experimental paper machine at a speed
close to that proposed for the project machine, bagasse pulp furnish has an
inherently low strength and this shortcoming could contribute to more paper
breaks than normal during commercial production. The use of 15% eucalyptus
chemical pulp would improve wet strength, but if this addition proves inade-
quate, the use of approximately 10% imported long fiber pulp could overcome
the strength problem. Sensitivity analysis indicates that under this condition
the economic rate of return would drop from the base case of 19% to l6.7%.
55.       Should the newsprint technology malfunction at any time, the plant
could switch to the production of printing and writing paper, a procedure
which should not take more than a few hours; bagasse-based production of
printing and writing paper is a proven commercial technology. Simultaneously,
without interfering with the normal production of printing and writing paper,
repairs or modifications to the newsprint pulping equipment would be carried
out. Provision for such adjustment during the first few years has been
reflected in the financial projections which are based on relatively lower
pulp yields and a slower build-up to full-production in newsprint than in
printing and writing paper.
56.       If the effort to produce newsprint should fail completely, the
company should have no problem in marketing the additional production of
printing and writing paper. The marketing channels already exist and the
projected demand indicates that the plant's entire potential production
of printing and writing paper could be absorbed by the Indian market. As a
result there is little risk associated with the production of printing and
writing paper. The potential benefits accruing to the successful production
of bagasse-based newsprint, on the other hand, are substantial; at an addi-
tional capital cost of US$8 million equivalent for the ancillary equipment,
the technological risk is well worth taking.



- 18 -
57.       The second risk is that of coal supply.  It is a risk shared by
many economic activities in India, and stems from the fact that the mining
and rail transport of coal is, for India, a national problem which is
unlikely to be resolved in the immediate future. Although a coal supply
adequate to meet the project's full requirements of 330,000 tpy has been
secured, the project sponsors have also made alternative provisional
arrangements: (i) to substitute lignite or fuel oil for coal in the paper
mill boilers; and (ii) to substitute wood or imported pulp for bagasse as
a fibrous raw material, in case bagasse is needed as fuel for the sugar
mill boilers or is not available because of production shortfalls.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the draft
Project Agreement between the Bank and Tamil Nadu Newsprint and Papers Limited,
the draft Tamil Nadu Agreement between the Bank and the State of Tamil Nadu,
the draft IDBI Agreement between the Bank and the Industrial Development Bank
of India, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
I (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
59.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and IDBI
and a Finance Agreement between IDBI and TNPL have been made additional
conditions of effectiveness of the loan (Section 6.01 of the Development
Loan Agreement).
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
August 25, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV_jRAOES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb  ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPiTA (US5)                   60.0       100.0     190.0              232.3                 1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1        152.5    241.8              499.4                  1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.0               17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       132.3       166.6    200.5              153.6                   373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7        308.0     355.8             360.3                  2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1         42.4      41.1              37.4                    39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8         54.7      56.0              59.2                    56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.9       2.9               3.5                     3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.8         2.3       2.1               2.1                     2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3               3.4                     3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     44.2         40.3      34.0              27.7                    29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.7         17.4      13.5               10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                    44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0        102.0      93.0             107.1                   123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0         92.0      91.0              98.6                   112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0         51.0      50.0              56.9                    62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              14.2                    19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      27.1        20.4      14.8               14.6                    4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    42.2         47.5      51.9              57.7                    64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..       134.0     125.0              89.1                    50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        17.0      33.0              30.1                    45.9
URBAN                               ..         60.0      83.0              65.8                    68.0
RURAL                               ..          6.0      20.0               20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         18.0      20.0               17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               ..         85.0      87.0              71.0                    71.0
RURAL                                *          1.0       2.0               4.8                    42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0   3617.4               3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.0T     8296.5    6429.4             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1             1132.8                   588.5
URBAN                               ..           ..    363.5              322.3                   579.6
RURAL                               ..           ..  10429.1             5600.5                  1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2          5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.6         2.8
URBAN                               2.6         2.8
RURAL                               2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                                ..          ..
RURAL                               ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIQ4TED AVE!.AGES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0                85.9                    99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0                94.4                   100.6
FEMALE                 40.0         56.0       63.0                64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0                38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0                34.67iaa                58.4
FEMALE                 10.0         15.0       18.0                18.0/6a                48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACbER RATIO
PRIMARY                              29.0         41.0       41.0                32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ..                19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0                52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.1        1.3                 1.7                    12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5                35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0        1.0                 3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9                14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                 3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9                29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.0                69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0                14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9                39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6       51.3                51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7                23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 1.0           1.1       1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
hIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.77e      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.27e    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0               134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  ,.           ..      114.0               111.6                   193.7
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   249.8
RUKAL                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.3                41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                  ..           ..       50.7                51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmeLic means.  Coverage of coantries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961: for 1970, between 1969
and I971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



'4.4                             -
A I   I .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A-CCCC.C-C                   CC-C-CCCCCC                                    -C-             SAC  C-CI
I -  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                               C-CC
CC   ACC-CCCCC.  C     . .   .-  .-C C.
P4  SC~~'C   CCCCCCC               C            m-   CC~   -CC-C-C   C              CC,        C    C-CC     CC                      ICC C C~
CIC2A  -CC C               CCC- SC,          C        ~        ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ 7                 



Aoinex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOIIC DEVEOPIMENT DAIA
a/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979   US$190
GROSS NATIONAL PROWCT IN 1979/80                                                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (7. constant pricesl iJ
US$ Bln.          7            1955/56-1959/60    1960/61-1964/65       1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1974/75      1975/76-1978/79
GNP at Market Pice..                     134.16         100.0                3.7                 3.6                  3.6                  2.8                  4.5
Gross Domestic Investment                 29.24          21.8
Gross National Savirg                    28.55           21.3
Current Account Balance   d/             -0.85          - 0.6
OUTPUT. tABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY 1N 1978
Value Added (at factor coot)            Labor Force              V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln,              2              Mil.      2                 USS         2 of National Average
Agriculture                           39.8               39.6            181.3      71                220                56
Industry                             25.5                25.3             28.1     11                906                230
Services                             35.3                35.1             46.0      18               767                195
Total/aver-ge                        100.6              100.0            255.4    100                394                100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                               Central Gov-rn-ent
Re. El,.              7. of GDP                                 Rs. BIn.              0         7 of GD?
1979/SO       1979/80   1975/76-t979/80                         1979/8         1979/80    1975/76-1979/80
Curront Receipts                     208.18          19.2           18.9                              108.96          10.0           10.6
Corrent E.penditures                 206.44          19.0           17.7                              117.67          10.8           10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit                1.74          0.2             1.2                              - 8.71        - 0.8
Capital Expenditur.s   f/             81.81           7.5            7.4                               56.93           5.2            5.1
foternal Assistance (net)  d/          7.97          0.7             0.9                                7.97          0.7             0.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES             1970/71       1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77      1977/78       1978/79      1979/80       December 1979       December 1980
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                 109.6         175.7        194.6        222.9         272.8         329.1        398.9        468.2             448.3            521.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)        52.6         87.3          95.3        101.1         110.2        134.7         153.9        192.2             176.4            231.4
Bank Crodit to C-.ercil Sector    64.6             107.0         126.7        153.9         185.0        212.2         253.5        306.5            294.7             335.9
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                               April-Oec 1979    Anril-D.c 1980
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of GDP   27.2             29.8         27.9         30.2          34.0          36.5         40.8         43.1
W4holesale Price Inde.
(1970/71   100)                     100.0        139.7        174.9        173.0          176.6        185.8        185.8        217.6             212.2             2S3.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Inden                   7.7          20.2         25.2        - 1.1           2.1           5.2           -          17.1              14.6              19.5
Bank Credit to Government (net)        10.8          12.3          9.2          6.1           9.0         22.2          14.3         24.9              24.9  ,/         31.2  h/
Bsnk Credit to Cercisl Sector    19.4                22.6         18.4         21.5          20.2          14.7         19.5         20.9              17.5  l/         14.0  h/
t/  The per capita GNP estiwate  is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered,
J Quick EstiSates.
c/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estiuates; not necessarily consistent with official figures.
SI Transfers between Centrs and States have been netted out.
ft  All loans and advances to third parties have been nett.d out.
&J Percentage change from end-December 1978 to end-December 1979.
_/  Percentage change from end-December 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                     1977/78      1978/79    1979/80    1980/81              MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979180)
US$ Mln.        7.
Exports of Goods                         6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998             Engineering Goods              768 1/       11
Imports of Goods                        -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               Tea                            462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873        -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Gems                           605           9
NFS (net)                                  691          773         633         463             Clothing                       460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                         - 182        - 768    - 2.658    - 6.163                      Products                425           6
Jute Manufactures             284           4
Interest Payments (net)  i/               - 89         - 35         350         303             Iron Ore                       298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -            -           -           -              Cotton Textiles                289           4
Net Transfers i/                         1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462             Sugar                         32             2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806          413       - 850      -3,398
Total675                                  10
Official Aid
Disbursements                         1,628        1,695      1,891       2,389              EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                          - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                   US$ billion
Transactions with IKF                    - 330        - 158         -         1,035             Outstanding and Disbursed                   15.6
All Other Items                            617          286       - 143         133             Undisbursed                                  5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves (-)                -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)                5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  k/            5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  J/i!  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                      IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEtBER 31. 1980
Imports                                  1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                   USS million
of which:  Petroleum                  1,811       2,043       3,977       7,012                                                IBRD         IDA
Exports                                     32           24          26         n.a.            Outstanding and Disbursed          806         4,895
Undisbursed                       572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979               US$1.00 - Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$O.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980              US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
/  Estimated.
i Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to 1HF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
jI  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
/ Excludes net use of IMP credit.
1/ Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
!/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
ApriL 1981



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                       Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                        1,422.2
71 Credits fully disbursed                                            -    4,023.4           -
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                    -        12.0        3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets               -         8.0         0t06
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing              -        13.0         5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                    52.0         -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                              -        30.0        15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                          -        83.0       28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                              -        27.7       12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                         -        16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                            94.6         -          0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development               -        34.0         1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                   -        40.0       13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                          -       105.0        21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                        -       150.0       43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                 -         4.0         1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                -        18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                 145.0         -         77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                    40.0         -         10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                           25.0         -         21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                      80.0         -         18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                     25.0         -          7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                    -        30.0       22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                    -        20.0         7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                      -       150.0       37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                     -        24.0         4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research               -        12.0       12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                          14.0         -          7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development            -        10.0         5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                    -        23.0        13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development               -         8.0         5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                       -        70.0       30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                   -        13.0         7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                            -        58.0       29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                           80.0         -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                                (Net of Cancellations)
Credit Vo.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                       -       107.0        79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                  -        87.0        19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                 -         8.0          7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                     25.0         -         17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power               105.0         -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                           -       117.6        77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                            -       200.0       128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     -        14.0        13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                             -        85.0        63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       -        17.5        14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                              -        16.0        15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                      120.0         -         53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                 -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                         -       196.0       183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                             -       111.0        43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                             -       190.0        148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                 -        38.0        21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                 -        27.0        25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension               -        25.0        16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                           -        30.0        15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                     50.0         -         50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                       -       200.0       171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                              -       129.0       100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                       -        48.0        44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                 -       175.0       108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                  -        23.0        18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                       -       250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                               -        20.0        19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                      -       210.0       174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                     -        37.0        30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                  -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                           -        32.0        30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                 -        18.0        16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                          -       175.0       165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                           -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                      -        22.0        21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                  -        10.0        10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                       -        56.0        56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                          -        54.0        52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                              (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower      Purpose                       Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                             -       80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                        100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                     25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       -       225.0      201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                       30.0         -        29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                           -        30.7       30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                           -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                          400.0        -        393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                        -        37.5       37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                      -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                     -       290.4      268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                   -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   1981  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                  -        21.7       21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                   -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II            -        34.9       34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                     -       117.1       117.10
Total                                              2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                        1,090.2       77.7
Total now outstanding                             T7,2976   9,2475.
Amount Sold                       133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                0.5        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                  1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                       874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
k'age 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                       Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4         -       1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5        1.0       8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.              2.9       0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                 1.5       0.3       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                           26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                        22.2         -       22.2
Cancelled                      6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                      82.3        9.0      91.3
Undisbursed                   79.3        1.5      80.8



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Pr0ject; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112 Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011 Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078 Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138 Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May /, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273  National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335  Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and will not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September JO,
1 985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
19/8; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korba,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundam, and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut production in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date:. November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
12 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Seshasayee Paper and Boards Ltd.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of first mission to consider the project
April 1980
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
July 27, 1981
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 28, 1981
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) GOTN and IDBI each to limit its shareholdings in TNPL
to less than 50% (para 41).
(b) IDBI and the other IFI's to offer their shareholdings
to the public as soon as possible (para 46).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) TNPL to maintain a debt:equity ratio not greater than
65:35 and a current ratio of at least 1.2, not to allow
debt service coverage to fall below 1.5 and not to make
major investments without Bank approval (para 50).
(d) GOI to ensure that coal and lignite be made available
as required and that the project be allowed to import
pulp, if necessary (para 40).
(e) GOI to complete railway spur and GOTN to upgrade road
connections by December 1983 and permit project to draw
water from Cauvery River (para 43).
(f) TNPL to contract for technical assistance during the
implementation period and the first five years of plant
operation (para 41) and to employ consultants for basic
and detailed engineering (para 42).
(g) GOTN to ensure that project is supplied with sufficient
pulpwood for normal operations, with expanded deliveries
if necessary (para 39).
(h) TNPL to develop a training program for plant staff
by December 31, 1982 (para 41).
(i) GOTN to assist TNPL in arranging for balance of
staff housing (para 43).






BRD 15475R
I N D I A                                           ;                D 1  R A N                    A  98
0-- -7 - Pi p. D  S H >,              J    V< -H
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT PROJECT
R  N                        Jt        (<t->>    e,    <~        2Si          /       g     U T (
\ -< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                                                                               4   0N9 9RT  'RCOT., /
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                                                            \V91 9THNL UT\Rrj, ? 
ERY A R                      ARCOT
~~~~~~~ 4RN  A     t                                          -14  kf r/
\  v-  lS  ( , :Sg *--) \. ; _ c v tNDiK            -      R         I
11P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
_                   i                   =                                              AL 
;-T R UCHC  IRAPODICERR
N '\                    jCOIM6ATORE          - _T
\<   >          C   _C>'  ',        /;-,:          e ~~~~~~~~~~u A9 A1
tm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1, dp~                                          / % ADURAI&',- , 
(13  Ot?           P          S4te            \ t 9''  V,>.<~   ,/   R>A; NAT HA PURAM
1.  Sugar Misl                \                            4   j      -   '.  -m        mcll                --                 $S
w?  C9o9t Fields\                                                        _ .:               _.,-
Fo-esr Pt9-nto-119 c Th IN FgP.
Fforictsonb Ccorpcroisotl\                             /Ak                     A                               . \.     C 
r P.YX7t <ff XF2 ~~~~~~~~~~~T I R U N E/V E L I D, ,-,
No ionol H4h9woyorX\                                   U     _  lV         /.'    ,.                                            ,
o -  itrc - isdwnr ;11 M20                                   _n<01  9 9-  1*5A                                                  1, 
* - - Doorta TerlorRnd9ree        f g                                                                                       /     ,P*> < 5         -^
---- -iAlo~~~~nTtrertonois,xrunrm'_                                  /    ,Cw/v".wv^v                              /   p~    ,>
o    in    'o  oc    90   so    o5  9    noW  KAN4YAKRT h AR                              955 ttt t'nO9'onb'     9'  X_ 
st.w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h0          n+os
_ _-        _ _.r__.                                 'r .O0'9'nn. 99                                                                   -
99091cn b nrn b~
2v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 rnbl- oOc                                           46
99             5'                        '9'~~~~~~~~~K



