LOAN NUMBER 2050 IN
DOCUMENT
Project Agreement
(Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT AND PAPERS LIMITED
Dated                              ,1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2050 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT AND PAPERS LIMITED, a
company registered under the Companies Act 1956 of the Borrower
(hereinafter called TNPL).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set
forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that TNPL agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and Industrial Development Bank of India
(hereinafter called IDBI), the proceeds of the Loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to IDBI for
on-lending to TNPL on the terms and conditions therein set forth;
WHEREAS by a Finance Agreement to be entered into between
IDBI and TNPL, the proceeds of the Loan made available by the
Borrower to IDBI will be relent to TNPL on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TNPL, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. TNPL shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist TNPL in the implementation
of the Project, TNPL shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) TNPL undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by IDBI against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insur-
ance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
TNPL to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, TNPL shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) TNPL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) TNPL: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant


﻿-3-
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank
at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by TNPL of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between TNPL and the
Bank, TNPL shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
TNPL and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) TNPL shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of TNPL and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. TNPL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Finance Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree, TNPL shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Finance Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) TNPL shall at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Finance Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(b) TNPL shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by TNPL of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Finance Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TNPL
Section 3.01. TNPL shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.02. TNFL shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and engineering practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate
and competent staff.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TNPL
shall:
(a) at all times take all steps which are necessary to
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations and to
acquire and retain ownership of all lands and to maintain and
renew all interests in land and other properties and all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in
the carrying out of the Project or in the conduct of its business;
(b) at all times operate and maintain its plants, machinery,
equipment and other property, and promptly make all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with appropriate
engineering practices;
(c) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
operation of its business and undertaking; and
(d) not alter its corporate structure or amend its Memoran-
dum and Articles of Association or By-Laws in any way that will
materially and adversely affect its abili'ty to perform its obliga-
tions under this Agreement, or under the Finance Agreement.
Section 3.04. TNPL shall maintain in effect a technical
assistance agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, to provide it with
experienced technical *and operational assistance for the first
five years of its operations.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. TNPL shall: (i) ensure that the design, execu-
tion and operation of the Project are carried out with due regard
to appropriate safety norms and ecological and environmental
standards satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) establish and
maintain adequate monitoring stations to gather information
on meteorological conditions and base pollution levels.
Section 3.06. TNPL undertakes to provide to the Bank,
by December 31, 1982, a detailed report on the recruitment and
training of staff for the mill operations.
Section 3.07. TNPL undertakes to use its best endeavours to
secure and maintain the supply to it of 340,000 and 425,000 tons
per year of coal and bagasse, respectively, provided, however,
that in the event of any shortage in the supply of said quantity
of coal, TNPL shall use its best endeavours to procure lignite to
cover the shortfall.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TNPL shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. TNPL shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than seven
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of TNPL and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
after completion of the Project TNPL shall:
(i) maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than
65:35;


﻿-6
(ii) maintain a ratio of current assets to current
liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the current
ratio) of at least 1.2:1;
(iii) not incur any additional debt in any fiscal year
unless a reasonable forecast of TNPL's revenues and
expenditures shows that the projected net revenues
of TNPL for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the
projected debt service requirements in such year on
all debt of TNPL;
(iv) not make investments in fixed assets other than for
the Project and works already in progress, in
excess of the aggregate of $5,000,000 equivalent in
any one financial year.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(ii) the term "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in
share capital plus accumulated net earnings from
prior fiscal years not set apart for specific
purposes;
(iii) the term "current assets" means cash (excluding
advances to contractors for construction of
the Project or any other capital investment),
assets readily convertible into cash (excluding
stocks of spares and advances from customers), and
all other assets which could in the ordinary
course of business be converted within one year
into cash or assets readily convertible into
cash;
(iv) the term "current liabilities" means liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which
would be due and payable, or could be called for
payment, within one year, including the portion of
debt falling due within one year;


﻿-7-
(v) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan
contract or agreement on the date the contract or
loan agreement providing for such debt is entered
into., and, in case of a guarantee, on the date of
execution and delivery of the agreement providing
for 'such guarantee;
(vi) the term "net revenues" means gross revenue from
all sources less operating and administrative
expenses, including taxes, surcharges and other
levies, if any, but before provision for deprecia-
tion and interest and other charges on debt;
(vii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt;
(viii) the term "a reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by TNPL in the fiscal year in which the
debt in question is proposed to be incurred and
reviewed by the Bank which both TNPL and the Bank
accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has
notified TNPL of its acceptability, provided no
event has occured since the Bank's acceptance of
such forecast which would have a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operat-
ing results of TNPL; and
(ix) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Borrower debt payable in another
currency, such valuatio. shall be made on the basis
of the rate of exchange at which such other cur-
rency is obtainable by TNPL, at the time such
valuation is made, for the purposes of servicing
such debt or, if such other currency is not so
obtainable, at such rate of exchange as shall be
reasonably determined by the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-8-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of TNPL thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify TNPL thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTRAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For TNPL:
Tamil Nadu Newsprint and
Papers Limited
LLA Building, Anna Salai
Madras 600002
India


﻿-9-
Cable address:
TNPL, Anna Salai
Madras
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of TNPL may be taken or executed by its
Managing Director or such other person or persons as TNPL shall
designate in writing, and TNPL shall furnish to the Bank suf-
ficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. Th s Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
TAMIL NADU NEWSPRINT AND PAPERS LIMITED
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" dated March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, TNPL shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. TNPL shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 11 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts: (i) for items proprietary to the design; (ii)
for items with limited sources of availability whose timely supply
is critical to the efficient execution of the Project; and (iii)
estimated to cost the equivalent $100,000 or less, may be let
through limited international tendering, as appropriate, from
qualified suppliers, provided, however, that prior approval of the
Bank is obtained for the list of all said items and suppliers, and
the aggregate of contracts procured under the provisions of this
paragraph C shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before or on the date bids are invited, TNPL shall
furnish to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, TNPL
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform TNPL and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 13 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, TNPL shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform TNPL and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sJon of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, TNPL shall inform the
Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor.   The Bank, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform TNPL and state the reasons for
its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of      , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


