Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE orLY
Report N. 5775
- ;
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
HAITI: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IP RHE NORTHERL DEPARTMENT
(CREDIT 675-HA)
June 28, 1985
a
Operations Evaluation Department
dTs d.cunt hm a nlcu  dbirHkM  md way be mod by repae    uy In the pedfoamm  .o
*         theidr aSahi mudm  lb comuku MY mayd oehwlube be dlselese withou WerM Bank mutbe.ulati.



WEIGEHTS AN(D MEASURES
Metric System
I meter Cm)                = 39.37 inches
I kilometer (kmn)              0.62 miles
1. lectare (ha)            =  2.47 acres - 0.78 carreaux
I square kilometer (km2)   -0.386 square miles
I kilogram (kg)            =  2.205 pounds
I ton Ct)                      2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
BCA              - Bureau de Credit Agricole (Agricultural Credit Bureau)
CIDA             - Canadian International Development Agency
CRUJDEM          = Centre Rural de De'veloppement de Milot (Milot Rural
Development Center)
FAC              - Fonds d'Aide et de Coopiration (French Bilateral Aid
Agency)
FAO              - United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
GTZ              - West German Bilateral Aid Agency
IDA              - International Development Association
IDB              - Inter-American Development Bank
MARNDR           =   Ministry of Agriculture, NLatural Resources and Rural
Development
ODN              - Northern Department Development Agency
ROR              - Rate of Return
TPTC             - Miuistry of Public Works
WFP              = World Food Programm
USAID            = United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
FISCAL YEAR.
October 1It  September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
HAITI:  RURAL DEVELO?MENT PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
(CREDIT 675-HA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .                ...........................................................
Basic Data Sheet ...................................................
Highlights .                  .........................................................i
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
A.    SUMMARY .                    .................................................                             1
B.      MAIN  FINDINGS  ............................................                                             5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.    Introduction  ..............................................                                               13
1I.    Background  ................................................                                               13
III.    Project  Formulation  .......................................                                               13
IV.    The  Project  ...............................................                                               14
V.    Implementation  ............................................                                               15
VI.    Agricultural  and  Economic  Impact   ..........................                                            22
VII.    Institutional  Performance  .................................                                               25
VIII.    IDA  Performance  ...........................................                                                27
IX.   Lessons  Learned  ...........................................                                                28
Annex  1  .......................................................                                                30
Map - IBRD No. 12217
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties- ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed withoul Wodd Bank authorization.



:S:~~~~~~~-i -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
HAITI:  RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
(CREDIT 675-HA)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Rural Development Project in the
Northern Department of Haiti, for which Credit 675-HA was approved on
December 18, 1976, for the sum of US$10 millior.. The final disbursement took
place on June 30, 1983.
The audit report consists ef an audit memorandum (PPAM) prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated May 31, 1984, prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office. The audit memorandum is based on a review of the Appraisal
Report (No. 1281-HA of December 13, 1976), the President's Report, the Credit
Agreement (dated January 14, 1977) and the PCR; correspondence with the
Borrower and internal Bank memoranda on project issues as contained in
relevant Bank files were consulted.  Bank staff associated with the project
have also been interviewed.
An OED mission visited Haiti in February 1985.  The mission held
discussions with the Minister and staff of the Ministry of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development (MARNDR) and with staff of the
Northern Department Development Agency (ODN), the entity responsible for
project  execution.    A  field  trip  to  visit  the  project  area  and  the
participating farmers was undertaken.   The information obtained during the
mission was used to test the validity of the conclusions of the PCR.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the project's
salient features, and the audit memorandum generally agrees with its
conclusions.  In addition to summarizing the objectives and outcome of the
project, the memorandum devotes special attention to three issues which are
seen in numerous rural development projects:   insufficient preparation, an
error of judgment regarding the time needed to exert a significant impact on
agricultural production, and a project organization which, from the outset,
did not meet the requirements of integrated regional development.
A copy of the draft report was sent to the Borrower for comments on
April 8, 1985. On the same date, a copy of the draft report was also sent to
the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France), the Gesellschaft fur Technische
Zusammenarbeit (Germany) and the World Food Program (United Nations) which
cofinanced  the  project  with the  Bank and  the Government  of Haiti.   No
comments have been received.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Haiti, and
the project staff met during the preparation of this report, is gratefully
acknowledged.



- ii-
PROEC  PEmMCB AUDerr  EPOfr
AITM: UATAL DELWIIENT PROJECr IN SE NORTHERN DEPARTNT
(CREDrrT 675-HA)
LASIC DATA SHE
KEY PROJECT DATA                                   Actual or  Actual am I
Appraial   Estimted  of Appraisal
Estimate     Actual      Estimate
Project Cost (USS million)               13.4        18.0         134
Amount of External Financing
IDA Credit                            10.0       10.0          100
WFPK/                                  1.4         1.4         100
CTZBj    )                              -         2-6           -
FAC5J )
Date of hoerd Approval                   n.&.      12/28/76        -
Data of Effectiveness                  05/17/77   05/26177         -
Date Physical Coaponents
Coopleted                      06181      06/83         144
Proportion tben Completed                U.&.        n.e.         -
Closing Date                           12/31/81   06130/83        133
Economie Rate of Return                   142     negative         -
Nuber of Direct llenef iciry Pamiles
Agriculture                         4.000       U.n.         -
Weter Supply                        3.000     14.700        490
COMlATIYE DISBURSEMENTS
ms78    FY7     FM80      81    P62   FY83
Appraisal Estimate (USSVOOO) 2,400    4.800   7,600  L0.000        -      -
Actual (CS$'000)                 -       900   2.000   4.200   7.800  10.000
Actual as 2 of Estimte           -        19      26      42       78     100
Date o  Fin l Disbursement: March 21. 1984
Staff/    Speclall-    Perfor-
Tpe of                 No. of      days    zntone         ance                Types of
tflmston       Date    Persone   in Field   rentd dg  Eatlng5/  rend tv Frobl *,
Identification   1973      -                -                -           -          -
Preparation    02/05/75    -           -         -           -          -           --
Appraisal      04105/76     7          -      a.b.c,d.e      -           -          -
Sb.'ervision  1  03/77      1          10         a         n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
2  06/77       1           9         a           Z           I          n
3   08/77      1           2         a           2           1 L
4   12/77      2           8         a           2           1         M.0
5   05/78      2           8        a.d          Z           1         n.0
6   08178      3           9       *.c.d         2           1         N.0
7   01/79      2          11        a.d          3           Z        K.F.0
8   05/79      3           6       *.d,-         3           2        Fn.O0
9   10/79      2           S        a.d          3           2        FHM.0
10  02/80       2           7        a.d          3          2         F.K.0
11   06/80      1           b         a           3           1        n.P.0
12   10/80      2           7        a.d          3          2         r.n.r
13  01181       1           8         a           3           Z        n.r.P
14  05/81       3           6       ..c,d         3           1         H.P
15   10/81      3          11 !f    a.b.d         3           1        H.P
16   01/82      3          -5       a.b.d         2           I          p
17   05/82      3          13       a.b.d         2          2          F.l
18  22/83       2          17 i/     ad           2          2           r
19   07/83      2          121/    a,c            2           Z          r
Total                                 103
OTHER PROJECT DATA
First mention in files        05/16/73
Negotiation                   11/18/76
Credit Agreement Date         01114/77
borrower:          Covern ent of Haiti
Executing Agency: Agency for the Development of the Nortb (ODN)
Fiscal Year:       October I - September 30
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)  Covrde (C)    Appr-esaL Yesr Average       SS31.00 - C 5
Intervening Years Average OSS1.00 - C 5
Completion Tear Average   01531.00 - C 5
Follow-on Project:  Second Rural Development Project
Credit N_ber:        1410-NA
Credit Amount:       USS19.1 million
Date heard Approval: August 23. 1983
*/ WFP - World Food Progrm
bl  GTZ - Cerman Bilateral Aid
c/ FAC - French bilateral Aid
d/  a-agriculturalist; b-agricultural economist; c-ftuancial analyst; d-gineer; end
e-credit specialist.
e/   1-problem free or no problem; 2'eooerste problem; and 3_mjor proble.
fI 1-imsprving; 2-atationary; and 3-deteriorating.
Lj   P-financial; N-managerial; T-technici; P-political; and O-other.
bI  About 6 days out of 11 devoted to en interis review of the project.
Tl About 12 days out of 17 devoted to the preparation of a follow-on project.
About 5 days out of 12 devoted to the project.



- iii-
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
HAITI: RURAL DEVELOPMENr PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
(CREDIT 675-HA)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project was the first Bank operation in the agriculture sector
in Haiti.  It was designed to increase agricultural production and improve
the incomes and quality of life of approximately 200,000 inhabitants of the
Northern Department.
The main components of the project were:   (i) rehabilitation and
expansion of irrigation systems (3,100 ha); (ii) improvement of support
services for both irrigated and rainfed agriculture (approximately 50,000
ha); (iii) construction of 400 wells and five water supply systems; and (iv)
construction or rehabilitation of three markets.
Execution of the project was to be entrusted to a new, autonomous
entity, the Northern Department Development Agency (ODN), whose role it would
be to plan, finance and coordinate the actions of existing government
departments, which would then be responsible for carrying out their
particular components of the project.   In view of the complexity of the
project and the lack of adequately qualified Haitian personnel, a number of
expatriate consultants were to be recruited, their services being financed
under West German and French bilateral aid.
The project encountered a wide range of difficulties from the
outset and was very soon classified as a  -problem project.    Delays in
execution occurred as a result of the slowness of counterpart funding
procedures and the late arrival of certain consultants.
The project was also affected by the lack of basic data on the
socioeconomic and institutional environment and on the topography and
hydrogeology of the region. As a result, (i) ODN was obliged to conduct a
series of preliminary studies, which concluded that a part of the irrigation
component was in fact not feasible; (ii) the agricultural technical packages
were virtually non-existent and the project had to engage in research that
was more extensive and time-consuming than foreseen; (iii) the farm credit
and extension components were cut back significantly for lack of technical
packages to recommend to farmers; and (iv) instit'.tional weaknesses in the
government technical departments involved obliged ODN to carry out the
majority of necessary civil engineering works itself.
On completion of the project, two years behind schedule, the rural
roads and water supply components exceeded appraisal targets.    Only one
market was built instead of three. The agricultural component was limited to
partial rehabilitation (460 ha) of one irrigation system and a series of
research and demonstration programs on irrigated and rainfed crops. Final



- iv -
project cost exceeded projections by approxim&tely 34Z. Since only a minimum
increase in agricultural production was achieved, the project rate of return
is negative.   A follow-up project, approved by the Bank in August 1983,
should make it possible to move into a productive phase thanks to the
studies, research and demonstrations carried out during the first project and
to the regional development experience ODN now possesses.
The economic setback the project suffered can be ascribed mainly to
three serious shortcomings: hasty and insufficient preparation for a project
of this nature, poor assessment of the time needed to achieve an incremental
agricultural production, and poor interagency coordination.
These conclusions demonstrate the importance of having a long-term
regional development plan (PPAM, paras. 33-34) and the need to plan regional
development in several consecutive phases, the first of which should be a
pilot project (PPAM, para. 27).
The following points may be of special interest:
-    the absence of a master development plan partly explains ODN's
difficulties  to  coordinate  its  actions  (P?AM, para.  36)  and
continues to be a handicap to the project (kPAM, 38-41);
=   pressure from the Bank and the Government for rapid launching of a
project had an adverse effect (PPAM, para. 35);
weaknesses in government  line agencies led ODN to step in and
become the executing agency for the majority of project works
(PPAM, para. 29);
=    the transfer of the project water supply facilities from ODN to
SNEP is a good example of cooperation both with the benefiting
population and government line agencies (PPAM, para. 32); and
the Haitian authorities made a concerted and successful effort to
simplify procedures and allow ODN adequate financial autonomy (PCR,
para. 7.10).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
HAITI: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
(CREDIT 675-HA)
A. SUMMARY
Background
1.        With a surface area of 27,750 km2, 70X of which is mountainous and
arid, and more than 5 million inhabitants, Haiti is heavily populated (400
inhabitants per km2 of arable land) by comparison with its agriculturEl
rosources.  It is also the poorest country in the Americas.
2.        In 1975, agriculture accounted for approximately 45% of GDP and
over 50% of exports, providing a livelihood for roughly 802 of the populace.
Despite the importance of agriculture to the economy, production was
increasing by no more than 1.2% a year, a rate below average population
growth, then 1.6%. The Government allocated only 7% of the total budget to
agriculture; research, extension and farm credit support services were
glaringly inadequate; traditional production methods were employed for the
most part, except for sugarcane, rice and tobacco.
3.        Because of the constraints encountered in the sector, nationwide
f forts had little chance to succeed and the Government was formulating
projects and plans for regional development based on on-going projects such
as the Artibonite Plain, the Gonaives Plain, Petit Goave and Cayes.  These
development projects aimed at upgrading basic infrastructure, support
services and farming techniques simultaneously.
Project Design
4.        The project was the first Bank-financed operation in the agricul-
ture sector, Bank action in the country up to tt-at point having been limited
to the road, education and electrification sectors. Completion of the main
road from Port-au-Prince to the north, financed partially by IDA, and the
considerable potential offered by the Northern Plain were the main reasons
for choosing the Northern Department as the region in which to implement a
rural development project in line with the Government's new regionalization
policy.
5.        The project was identified in June 1974, and prepared in January-
February 1975 under the aegis of FAO/CP.  After the Bank had sent out two
pre-appraisal missions, in October 1975 and January 1976, final appraisal was
carried out in April-May 1976. As presented to the Board at the end of 1976,
the project focused on increasing agricultural production in the Cap-Ha!tien
district (approximately 50,000 ha) and on improving the quality of life for
the majority of the region's 220,000 inhabitants, 92% of whom were living
below the absolute poverty line.



-2-
6.        The major components of the project were:
(a) rehabilitation of the Quartier Morin (1,200 ha) and Saint Raphail
(1,900 ha) irrigation systems and expansion of the irrigated area
at Quartier Morin by a further 1,800 ha through canal extension and
the construction of deep wells;
(b) building or rehabilitation of 66.5 km of feeder roads and 27 km of
farm access roads;
(c) construction of 400 wells equipped with hand pumps, and five water
supply systems served by springs, to provide potable water to local
villages;
(d) construction or rehabilitation of three markets;
(e) institution of a program of agricultural trials and seed multipli-
cation;
(f) provision of improved agricultural services (extension, credit,
animal health) and organization of rural community development; and
(g) administration of the project.
7.        Project execution was to be the responsibility of a new, regional
agency, ODN (Organisme de Developpement du Nord), with headquarters in
Cap-Hartien. Its Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Agriculture,
was to include representatives of the other Ministries involved in the
project. ODN was intended to be a relatively small agency, whose main role
would be to plan, finance and coordinate the activities of existing govern-
ment service departments (the Public Works, Irrigation, Agricultural
Extension, Water Supply, and Veterinary Departments, and the Agriculture
Credit Bureau), which would be responsible for their own particular compo-
nents of the project. Eight expatriate specialists were to be recruited to
strengthen ODN's technical capacity.
8.        Total project costs were estimated at US$13.4 million, of which
US$10 million (75%) would be financed by IDA, approximately US$1.4 million
(10%) by the World Food Program (WFP) in the form of food rations for local
unskilled labor, and approximately US$2 million (15%) by the Government of
Haiti.   It had been agreed during project negotiations that the cost of
consultants (US$2 million), would be cancelled from the IDA Credit if the
funding could be obtained from West German and French bilateral aid. It was
estimated the project would take four years to complete.  The economic rate
of return was calculated at 14%.
Project Execution
9.        The Credit Agreement became effective in January 1977.  Although
the French and West German aid agencies agreed to finance the technical



-3-
assistance component, it was decided to retain the US$2 million to cover
possible contingencies.   The consultants financed under the bilateral aid
arrangements with France arrived on the scene promptly but it took the Wesc
German Government two years to assemble its team of specialists.   In addi-
tion, the directorship of ODN changed frequently, while shortages of Haitian
counterpart personnel was a chronic problem during the project's early years.
10.       Other factors contributing to project difficulties were:
(a) The lack of information on the socioeconomic and institutional
environment and on the soils, topography and hydrogeology of the
project area, which made it necessary to conduct a series of
unscheduled studies.
(b) The lack of technical packages necessitating numerous adaptive
trials on a range of crops.   Although these activities had been
planned under the project, finding suitable packages took much
longer than expected, leaving both extension and credit idle.
(c) A delay in the allocation of counterpart funds and the time-
consuming nature of the procedures for authorization of payments
meant that until a revolving fund was established in the Central
Bank four years later, the project lacked the cash resources
necessary for full-scale implementation;
'd) The main government agencies scheduled to carry out project activi-
ties had only very limited implementing capability, a situation
which forced ODN to assume their responsibilities, principally for
irrigation, water supply and road building; and
Ce)  The sugar mill, a private corporation,  was unable to reach the
target of 300,000 t of cane p.a.; over 100,000 t (equivalent to
US$1 million) were not harvested or were lost each year.l/
11.       As a result of these problems, the Bank and the Government decided
to redesign the various parts of the project, particularly its agricultural
component.   First, the Quartier Morin irrigation component was dropped as
studies had found that increased sugarcane production in this area needed
improved drainage, not irrigation.   Second, in view of the difficulties of
organizing an effective irrigation system at Saint Raphael, the program was
cut from 1,900 ha to 750 ha, of which only 460 ha were developed in the end.
Third, rainfed crops were now to be predominant in the project, so the pro-
gram of trials was extended to the whole of the Northern Department and seed
production was undertaken.
1/   The sugar mill was subsequently nationalized and its management was
entrusted to another private group, considered more efficient and
forceful.   The latest Ecoromic memorandum on Haiti, is recommending,
however, that the sugar mill be closed because of continuing excessive
losses.



-4-
12.       The road building program encountered serious difficulties from the
outset owing to faulty distribution of the WFP foodstuffs to be used as
remuneration for labor and to slow performance of construction by the Public
Works Department. Subsequently, ODN began to carry out a large part of the
roads program itself with its own equipment; this resulted in the construc-
tion or rehabilitation of 97.2 km of feeder roads and farm access roads,
slightly more than originally scheduled.
13.       The potable water supply program completed 150 wells and 25 commun-
ity systems, which benefitted a population of about 100,000, a much larger
number than originally planned. Two notalle aspects of the program were the
productive cooperation between ODN and the line agency, SNEP, and the effec-
tive participation of the target populationt in constructing the water supply
systems (para. 32).
14.       The component calling for construction or renovation of markets was
limited to rehabilitation of the Cap-Raltien market, the cost of which proved
much higher than projected at appraisal.
15.       Construction of the ODN office and housing suffered delays and the
costs were higher than originally antLcipated.   Expenditures for project
administration were also higher, since ODN went considerably beyond its
initial functions of coordinating, financing and planning to become the major
executing agency for almost all components of the project.  Moreover, addi-
tional consultants were retained to assist with the new needs that became
apparent in the course of the project.
16.       Delays in implementation, the changes made in the project design
and the higher input prices i -ulted in postponement of the project comple-
tion date by two years and in a total project cost of US$18 million (includ-
ing technical assistance and project administration expenses), representing a
cost overrun of 34X.
17.       Agricultural  prodrction in the project zone has increased only
minimally, as a consequence of the major cutback in the irrigation component
and the length of the preliminary period taken up in research and demonstra-
tion in connection with rainfed farming.   Improvements to the road network
facilitated the transportation of sugarcane to the mill and opened up certain
regions by giving them access to markets. Nevertheless, in the absence of an
appreciable increase in agricultural yields and production, the roads have
not brought the economic advantages anticipated. The economic rate of return
on the project is regarded as negative. On the other hand, the impact of the
water supply component on beneficiaries' quality of life has been largely
positive.
18.       Despite its disappointing-results, the project has laid the neces-
sary  basis  for  future  agricultural  development.    Constraints  have  been
identified and appropriate  technical  packages  devised.    Efficient  input
supply systems and farm credit facilities are in place. Seed production has
been started on a mucest scale.  The project has also enabled ODN to acquire



-5-
experience of regional development and to train its personnel.   A second
project (Credit 1410-HA, approved in August 1983), now under implementation,
aims at using the experience gained under the first project for increpsing
agricultural production in the northern region.
B. MAIN FINDINGS
19.       The project showed four shortcomings which OED has encountered
frequently in rural development projects: insufficient project preparation,
an error of judgement regarding the time needed to achieve a significant
impact on agricultural production, poor interagency coordination and the lack
of a comprehensive regional development plan.  These weaknesses, which were
only partially corrected in the course of execution, largely explain the
economic setback to the project and the difficulties the follow-on project is
likely to experience soon.
Insufficient Project Preparation
20.       The project was identicJed in June 1974, and prepared in January
ad February 1975 by two FAO/CP missions.  A wide range of components were
initially proposed for the project, all of which were included in the
preparation report, together with infrastructure for health, education and
electrification.
21.       The major constraints identified by the preparation mission were:
(i) the low capacity and poor management of the Caldos Sugar  Eill, which, in
the opinion of the mission, was incapable of handling the additional
sugarcane that would be grown as a result of the project; and (ii) the
appreciable increase in land prices and the possibility the project would
favor land speculation. The level of user water charges for the water supply
component was also a matter of concern.   These problems,  necessitating
additional surveys and extensive discussions with representative of Caldos
Corporation and the Government, delayed appraisal until April 1976, despite
the pressure exerted by the Government and tie Bank for early project
start-up.
22.       The appraisal mission rejected the education, health and electrifi-
,ation components proposed, since they were already the subject of separate
financing arrangements, but it adopted the other components endorsed by the
Government and the preparation mission.   The Issues Paper and the Decision
Memorandum of June 1976 proposed that the Government prohibit land transac-
tions in order to prevent speculation.  Farm credit interest rates and water
charges were also discussed at length.  The sugar mill problem was regarded
as solved, since, in the opinion of the appraisal mission, it would have no
difficulty in processing 300,000 t of cane per annum.   The question of how
25,000 families living on 52,000 ha would increase their incomes two or three
times was hardly discussed, except for a Central Project Staff (CPS) memoran-
dum arguing that the constraints on agricultural development, the suitability
of a technical package and the strategy as to how these would be alleviated



-6-
had not been clearly identified.   CPS staff offered valid comments on the
draft SAR and pointed out (i) the absence of an irrigation land suitability
assessment, (ii) the need to clearly establish ODN's role and agree on its
authority over, and means of coordinating line agencies, and (iii) the desir-
ability of undertaking a separate ERR for irrigated and rainfed interven-
tions.  These key questions, however, were not satisfactorily answered when
the project was presented to the Board.
23.       In retrospect, the issues to which the Bank directed all its atten-
tion at preparation and appraisal, despite CPS staff warnings, have proved
academic and trivial, in contrast to the problems that surfaced once imple-
mentation began. Bank supervision reports for the years 1977-1980 highlight
many of these difficulties:   land tenure was little understood (more absen-
teeism than expected), -equiring a special study; maps were not detailed
enough and aerial photographing of the project area was necessary (December
1977); the pre-project agricultural environment was poorly comprehended;
technical packages were inadequate; seed production was largely irrelevant,
since it was not clear what should be produced in the region, extension work
was ineffective and agricultural credit used either very little or not at all
(May 1978); work on the roads program was delayed (March 1979), as ODN and
the Public Works Department were unable to agree on construction standards;
the major problem at Quartier Morin was not a lack but an excess of water
(March 1980); well drilling was not producing adequate returns; and sugarcane
worth US$1 million was being lost owing to breakdown of the sugar mill.
24.       The project experience shows the risk of insufficient preparation
for a multicomponent rural development project of this nature, particularly
when the project is the first Bank operation in the sector. The poor project
preparation, mostly due to the Bank's and Government's pressure for quick
action, was clearly the first shortcoming of the project and adversely
affected both project implementation and impact.2/
Time Needed to Achieve an Impact on Agricultural Production
25.       As in many other similar Bank-financed projects, this project in
Haiti aimed at increasing agricultural production by two or three fold in the
space of four years. Project experience confirms findings from the majority
of other regional development projects:  the time needed to have a signifi-
cant impact on agricultural production is much longer than expected and
generally requires one or more follow-up projects.3/
2/   OPS  staff points out  that the project shows the need for thorough
preparation of agricultural projects, especially for poor countries, and
particularly in cases where technical considerations are of prime
importance to the success or failure of the Bark's inverventions.
3/   See in particular the following PPARs:  Kigoma Rural Development Project
Tanzania (No. 4858); Bougouriba Project, Burkina (No. 4547); and PIDER I
Mexico (No. 4617).



-7
26.       OED experience attributes this to three main factors:  (i) the time
needed to set up a new development institution and place it on a firm opera-
tional footing is always longer than scheduled; (ii) beneficiaries, espe-
cially those with the lowest income levels are risk averse and thus resist
changing traditional agricultural methods; such change usually requires a
series of convincing demonstrations, which may have to be extended over
several crop seasons; and (iii) providing smallholders with agricultural
inputs often presents problems that are difficult to solve.
27.       Bank experience demonstrates  that regional development projects
generaily require several phases, preferably defined at the time of project
preparation. An initial pilot phase, during which the techniques and methods
of development are tested on modestly-sized areas, is desirable.   In this
regard, project experience in Haiti is typical:   implementation took six
years instead of four, and the results achieved at project completion were
such as to require a five-year follow-up project, which should itself
probably be consolidated by a third project of equal duration. A period of
16 years in which to develop a vast and densely populated region should be
the rule rather than the exception.   Within this time perspective, careful
preparation of the project, its launching through a pilot project and
development over several judiciously planned subsequent phases is obviously
preferable to a series of projects hastily organized to mitigate the errors
of earlier ventures.
Project Organization
28.       The project organization also followed the typical pattern:  a new
regional agency, ODN, responsible for the planning, financing and coordina-
tion of project works, to be carried out by existing government line
agencies; such institutional arrangement has been found in a large number of
Bank-assisted rural development projects.
29.       In fact, the project was not executed in the manner expected.
Weakness in these line agencies led ODN to take on the role of implementing
agency for the majority of works.   This problem has been encountered in
numerous projects and has been mentioned frequently by OED in its PPARs.4/
Experience has shown that organizing a project in this manner is successful
only if the government technical departments are themselves strengthened in
personnel, equipment, and financial resources to cover their operating
expenses, factors which are rarely, or insufficiently, considered or allowed
for during project preparation.
30.       In this particular project and with the benefit of hindsight, the
initial choice of project organization was based on two major misconceptions:
4/   See  in  particular  the  reports  on  the  Paraguay  Credit  and  Rural
Development Project, (No. 4419) and the Madagascar Village Livestock and
Rural Development Project (No. 5403).



-8-
(a) although the Miaistry of Agriculture is, generally speaking, over-
staffed, it lacks qualified field personnel and commands only a
limited investment budget;
(b) public investment in agriculture is financed, in the main, through
external aid and consists of specific, regional projects.
In Haiti, it is the project authorities rather than the Ministry of
Agriculture which serve as the direct executing agencies for most project
works, using their own resources and personnel for the purpose rather than
those of the government technical service departments.
31.       The problem therefore lies not so much in the execution of projects
as in their transfer to the line agencies upon completion. Experience gained
under other projects has shown that such transfers are often made under
unsatisfactory conditions, and that the investments themselves are frequently
badly utilized and poorly maintained for want of resources and adequately
qualified staff in the typical service departments.5/
32.       In this regard, it must be pointed out that ODN has performed
better than many other agencies of the same type in other Bank-supported
projects.   The methodology developed for the transfer of responsibility
between ODN and the agency responsible for water supply (SNEP) may be cited
as an example. From the very beginning, SNEP was associated with the plann-
ing and construction of the works, execution of which, however, remained an
ODN responsibility. At the same time, efforts were made to have the local
populace participate in implementation and be responsible, without remunera-
tion, for providing such materials as stone, sand, and cement on site prior
to commencement of the works. Before pumps were installed at well heads, the
population was required to pay a lump sum, which would be allocated for main-
tenance purposes.  Soon after construction, SNEP was expected to take over
responsibility for the operation and upkeep of water supply structures, this
transfer being partly facilitated by the participation of SNEP personnel in
the planning and construction phases and by the technical training specifi-
cally provided for them. Water mana.gement committees were also organized in
the villages. Transfer of responsibility for road maintenance has also been
satisfactory.  Although road maintenance is still financed by ODN, it has
been entrusted to the National Highway System Maintenance Division, which is
attending satisfactorily to the task.
The Importance of a Regional Development Plan
33.       The difficulties encountered by this ambitious and vastly complex
project point to a particular lesson which has relevance to other projects of
this type-namely the benefits to be obtained from the preparation, prior to
5/   This question is discussed at length in certain OED audit reports, but
particularly in those on the Madagascar Village Livestock Project and
the Papaloapan Project in Mexico, already mentioned above.



-9-
project appraisal, of a comprehensive regional/area development plan.  Such
plans have been put to good use in other projects related to land/area devel-
opment6/ and if such a plan had been developed in Haiti, the future short-
comings of this project would have been largely avoided.
34.       First, the regional development plan could have overcome the poor
knowledge of the project zone and its socioeconomic environment and potenti-
alities.  Such a coherent development plan for the northern region would have
provided answers to many of the following questions: why certain courses of
action were chosen or why a particular target zone in the Northern Department
was chosen rather than another. Was irrigation at Quartier Morin and Saint
Raphagl to be given priority over the development of piedmont zones, the
anti-erosion campaign or bringing into production unused public land areas
(numerous in the Department)? Should such infrastructure components as roads
and water supply facilities have been integrated with agricultural develop-
ment areas or located randomly? What is the Northern Deiiartment's true agri-
cultural vocation and which crops would best serve the national and regional
economy?   All these questions have been, and still are,  answered only
partially, all for want of a coherent development plan for the northern
region.
35.       Second, it would have provided a framework by which the optimal
timing and phasing of the project could have been accomplished. Instead, it
is an example of the effects of Bank pressure for rapid project launching,
the first in the agriculture sector in Haiti, despite scant Bank acquaintance
with the country in general and the sector in particular.   A few months
preparation period was manifestly not long enough to allow the Bank to
familiarize itself with the social, ecological and technological environment
of the northern region. In addition, project preparation was carried out by
FAO/CP and Bank short missions, which paid more attention to issues of minor
importance than to constraints to agricultural development and ways to
alleviate these constraints soon after project start-up.  The project tried
to mitigate the consequences of this ignorance as best it could by improvis-
ing a series of studies and research efforts which, after six years, brought
the project up to the stage at which it should normally have begun.
36.       Third, the lack of a master regional development plan was also
responsible in part for the failure to coordinate the various actions under-
taken by the departments of ODN. Having no guidelines and no overall view of
the project to follow, each worked in isolation from the others, concentrat-
ing on tasks in its own sphere of specialization that could be carried out in
the field effectively and rapidly. The problem was aggravated by both the
lack of continuity in the directorship of ODN and its failure, in any case,
to provide actual direction.  It was not until 1984, eight years after the
6/   See for example, PPAR on Malaysia Jengka Triangle Projects (OED Reports
Nos. 2122, 3024, and 5978) and Malaysia Keratong Settlement Project
(under preparation).



- 10 -
first project was launched, that any coherent management strategy was devel-
oped. This eventual success can be ascribed to a growing knowledge among ODN
personnel of the region itself and new management that is aware of the prob-
lem and attempts to address it.
37.       The experience of regional development the Bank has now accumulated
shows that it ought to have begun in this instance in Haiti with a phase
allowing for meticulous preparation by a well-qualified team stationed in the
zone for at least two years. This preparatory phase could have been financed
by the Bank (Project Preparation Facility or a technical assistance loan), or
through bilateral or international aid (UNDP/FAO, for example), and thus at a
lower  cost  to  the Government.    The  preparation work,  encompassing  the
Northern Department as a whole, would have involved:
(a) a study of the pre-project socioeconomic and technical environment,
and identification of the constraints on development;7/
(b) a study of the potential resources in the northern region, and
definition of project objectives;
(c) identification of ways and means available for circumventing the
constraints, and pinpointing of priority actions and target zones;
(d) formulation of a long-term master development plan;
se) design of a pilot project to be carried out as a first phase.
There is no doubt that such preparatory work would have made it possible to
provided more thorough knowledge of the population8/ the region and allowed
more account to be taken of local aspirations in planning the development of
the Department.
7/   An in-depth study of the pre-project environment would have revealed the
lack of technical packages on which to base the project.   Applied
research could also have been undertaken during this preparatory phase.
8/   OED  has  made  the  same  observation  regarding  a  number  of  rural
development projects, in particular the Village Livestock and Rural
Development Project in Madagascar (OED report no. 5403), an instance .n
which it was decided at the beginning of the follow-up project to
undertake a socioeconomic study of the country's northwest region, the
Bank having realized at the end of the first project that very little
was known of the attitudes and motivation of the livestock farmers
themselves.  In another case, the Papaloapan Rural Development Project
in Mexico (OED report in preparation), where a general study of the
region was decided on and its cost incorporated in the Bank loan only at
the end of the project, when it became apparent that knowledge of the
region's potential was meager.



- Li -
Outlook for the Future
38.       The project moved into its second phase in 1984.   First-phase
results have proved minor in economic terms but fruitful in terms of exper-
ience acquired. ODN now knows what it must do in the sphere of rainfed agri-
culture and how to do it. It only remains for the agency to move resolutely
ahead with the production phase by making the necessary inputs (seed, plants,
tools, fertilizer) available to smallholders and to disseminate among them a
knowledge of the recommended technical packages tested during the first
phase.
39.       The success of the follow-on project will depend mainly on the
quality of ODN management and on the qualifications, motivation and continu-
ity of its staff. In the past, ODN has been severely affected by successive
changes in its directorship (five directors in eight years) and by the short-
age of suitably qualified Haitian nationals. The situation has now improved
appreciably, thanks to a better and more effective management and the
continued presence on staff of a group of competent Haitian professionals.
40.       The project still suffers, however, from the lack of a master plan
(paras. 33-34) and the uncertainty which still pervades certain major issues
in the development of the region. The problems of irrigation and drainage of
the Northern Plain, for instance, remain as pressing as ever and no clear
solution has been found.   The tracts of fertile government land on the
Northern Plain are still poorly utilized and no action is planned in this
regard.9/   Anti-erosion measures,  which appear  to be essential  in  the
Northern Department, constitute no more than a marginal activity.
41.       There is no doubt that ODN's activities are useful.  Nevertheless,
until they are incorporated into a general framework, one may ask whether
they are first-priority activities or not. That, indeed, is the main handi-
cap which has weighed on the project throughout, and continues to do so.
9/   The Region comments  that the Second Rural Development Project (Cr.
1410-HA) is now supporting better utilization of this area, through the
provision of technical assistance and credit.



v~~~~~ 
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
..1



- 13 -
PROJECT CUMPLkTlUEN REPUKT
hlAITI
CREDIT b7S-iiA
RUStL UEVELUPNENT 1N TIhE NORTHERN UEPARTMENT
May 31, 1984
E.rojects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Kegional Uffice



. 1. t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
I,   I
\
I  l
I   *



-15 -
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Haiti is the poorest country of the Americas, with high population
density and limi'ed resources, especially land resources. Agriculture,
Haiti's most important sector, has shown little progress over the last two
decades. It has been handicapped by major institutional constraints, land
tenure insecurity, and, at the time of appraisal, the inadequacy of the road
and irrigation network.
1.02      In the mid-1970s the Government's strategy for rural development
emphasized the rehabilitation and extension of the existing transport and
irrigation infrastructure. It also included an increase in crop production,
particularly export crops (coffee and sugar), through increased agricultural
credit and improved extension services. However, because of constraints
encountered in the sector, the Government realized that nationwide efforts
would not be effective. Therefore, it decided to concentrate its IDA-
financed rural development efforts in the Northern Department of the country.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Rural Development Project in the Northern Department was the
first IDA-financed project in the agricultural sector, after IDA and other
donors resumed their activities which had been suspended since 1962 for
political reasons. An FAO/IBRD/IDA mission reviewed the sector in
August-October 1973, and proposed nine projects for priority consideration.
Out of these, IDB selected irrigation projects in the Artibonite and
Cul-de-Sac plains, and USAID decided to support coffee development.
2.02      This report is based on a review of records kept by the LAC
Information Center (i.e., correspondence, internal memoranda, the Appraisal
Report of December 15, 1976, the Credit Agreement of January 14, 1977, and
supervision reports). A substantial portion of the information was provided
by the Interim Review Report issued December 29, 1981.
III. PROJECT FORMULATION
3.01      Because of the good agricultural potential of the Northern Plain,
and considering that IDA was financing the main road from Port-au-Pri.ce to
the North, Government officials proposed the selection of the North for an
IDA-supported project. An FAO/CP identification mission visited the country
in June 1974. An FAO/CP preparation mission visited the project area in
January-February 1975. The mission identified two major issues: (a) the
weakness of the regional services that were to implement project actions, and
(b) the need to increase the capacity of the Citadelle Sugar Mill (in Caldos)
to handle the planned increase in sugarcane production. The adequacy of
sugarcane processing facilities was the main topic of discussion with the
Government during the pre-appraisal period, and commitment by the Government
to increase the technical and financial capacity of the mill to process the
increased cane output was a condition of appraisal. Two pre-appraisal
missions took place (October 1975 and January 1976) primarily to review
sugarcane processing issues.



- 16 -
3.02      Project appraisal was carried out in the field in April-May 1976.
During the appraisal review process, CPS recommended close monitoring of the
Agricultural Credit Bureau (BCA) and the central services of the Ministry of
Agriculture during project implementation.
3.03      At Board presentation (December 28, 1976), the Board was concerned
that: (a) the US$2 million out of the US$10 million IDA credit, which had
been provided for technical assistance, should remain in the credit if
bilateral agencies agreed to finance this technical assistance component,
considering that additional funds could be needed in view of the country's
poor financial situation and possible cost overruns; (b) the project might
facilitate the accumulation of land in the hands of few larger farmers;
(c) small-scale farmers might not be able to pay user fees for irrigation;
and (d) the high level of expatriate technical assistance would raise the
foreign exchange cost of the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
4.01      The project was intended to remove key constraints to development
in the Northern Department, especially the Northern Plain, one of the areas
with high agricultural potential in the country. In particular, the project
objectives were to improve agricultural production and rural incomes, improve
the quality of rural life, and help build up regional icstitutions. With
some of the constraints tackled under programs financed by other agencies
(health, education, soil conservation), the project was designed to finance
basic infrastructure (rural roads, water supply and markets) and agricultural
services (irrigation, credit, applied research and extension, animal health)
for rural development. In order to accomplish the objectives, the project
was designed to:
(a) rehabilitate the Quartier Morin (1,200 ha) and St. Raphael
(1,900 ha) irrigation systems, expand these systems by 800 ha at
Quartier Morin, and irrigate up to 1,000 ha based on deep wells
north of Quartier Morin;
(b) rehabilitate and improve 66.5 km of feeder roads and 27 km of farm
access roads;
(c) construct up to 400 wells to be operated with hand pumps and up to
five small water supply systems served by springs, for the rural
potable water supply;
(d) rehabilitate and improve the two municipal markets and abattoir in
Cap Haitien, and build a market in St. Raphael;
Ce)  provide short-term and medium-term credit to groups of small-scale
farmers and to individual medium-scale farmers;
(f) initiate agricultural trials and improved seed multiplication;
(g) provide agricultural extension and veterinary services, and
organize rural-community development; and



- 17 -
(h)  create the Organisme de Developpement du Nord (ODN) to implement
the project under the supervision of a Board of Directors chaired
by the Secretary of Agriculture.
4.02      About 4,000 rural families were to benefit from the directly
productive agricultural components of the project. In addition, some 26,000
rural families were expected to benefit from better roads, improved
agricultural services and availability of improved seeds, and about 3,000
rural households were to receive potable water.
B. Project Costs and Financing
4.03      Total project costs were estimated at US$13.4 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$8.2 million. Over one-third of the cost was
for irrigation, one-fourth for project administration, and 14% for roads.
IDA was to finance US$10 million, or about 75%, of total project costs; the
Government was to contribute US$2 million, or almost 15%; and the World Food
Program was to provide US$1.4 million, or about 10%. The Government had
requested bilateral assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany and
France to finance the cost of resident consultants, and if this assistance
were forthcoming, IDA would cancel from the credit an amount equivalent to
the value of the assistance obtained.
V. IMPLEENTATION
A. Key Events
5.01      Tho Credit Agreement was signed on January 14, 1977, and the Credit
became effective on May 26, 1977. Before Credit effectiveness, the French
and German aid agencies agreed to finance fully the technical assistance
components. Project implementation started slowly, and soon after
effectiveness, the lack of counterpart funds readily available to prefinance
project expenditures and slow authorization of expenditures bv Government
services emerged as main constraints. In early 1979, project costs were
revised, following full assumption of technical assistance costs by France
and Germany. IDA and the Government agreed to retain the US$2 million
allocated for technical assistance, in view of possible further cost
increases and for contingency purposes.
5.02      The French technical assistance consultants in agriculture were
fielded promptly in May-June 1977, but the three groups of German-financed
engineers did not arrive until May 1978, July 1978 and January 1979. In
early 1979, the project was declared a problem project, on account of lack of
counterpart funds, delays in the approval of expenditures, lack of
counterpart personnel, and the resulting slow disbursement. In order to
improve the financial situation, IDA and the Government agreed that the
Government would establish a revolving fund in the Central Bank. In October
1980 an advance of US$500,000 was made from the IDA credit to the revolving
fund, following streamlining of the expenditure authorization process and
allocation of counterpart funds to the fund.
5.03      The supervision mission of January 1981 recommended an extension of
the project completion date from July 1981 to September 1982 because of the
project's slow start. An amendment to the Credit Agreement was signed



- 18 -
in August 1981 to this effect; it also provided for the IDA advance to the
revolving fund (para. 5.02), reduction in the scope of the irrigation
program, expansion of the water supply and agricultural research programs,
and a revised financing plan.
5.04      In September 1981 IDA carried out an interim review of project
performance including changes up to that time in implementation and their
implications. The review concluded that the changes were justified. By
early 1982, progress was such that the project was removed from the problem
projects list.
5.05      The project began winding down its activities in mid-1982.  In
April 1983, a reallocation had been proposed for the use of the remaining
uncommitted funds. Project activities were then drastically reduced because
of the termination of the technical assistance and severe Government budget
constraints. However, ODN and the participating agencies continued to
function, without disintegration as had been feared. The Credit was closed
on September 30, 1983.
B. Implementation Problems
5.06      From the outset, the project faced severe implementation problems
that can be placed in four main categories: lack of basic information
available to the appraisal mission, institutional weaknesses, financial
problems, and the collapse of sugar prices.
Lack of Basic Information
5.07      The preparation and appraisal missions found limited information on
the agricultural environment, and almost no solid information on the
institutional and socio-economic environment, because available documents,
studies and surveys were incomplete or non-existent. During the design phase
of the project, the country was just emerging from a long period of
isolation, and the complex socio-economic fabric of the rural areas was not
fully understood. Thus, it was not until implementation got underway that a
host of unforeseen problems--mostly institutional--surfaced, and project
management had to  learn by doing.
5.08      To supplement the meager data that were available, the project
undertook a number of unscheduled studies with consultant support for a total
of US$269,000. These studies included a survey of cropping patterns and
population distribution by air-photo interpretation, farm surveys, studies of
sugarcane production and milling, climatological surveys, a review of
drainage problems, soil and irrigation surveys, topographic surveys, and a
hydrogeological study. As a result of tis flexibility during implementation,
the project area is now better understood, and ad hoc changes to project
design were made as new facts emerged.
Institutional Weaknesses
5.09      The main Government agencies scheduled to carry out project
activities had only limited or no implementing capability. This wAs
especially true of agencies dealing with civil engineering (irrigation and
water supply). In the case of roads, construction under the project did not



- 19 -
start until suitable arrangements had been made between ODN and the Public
Works Ministry, which took two years. Agencies also suffered from lack of
qualified engineers and technicians (foremen, surveyors, draftsmen, and
mechanics), and some- of the consultants who were to reinforce these agencies
arrived late. This situation forced ODN to assume implementation
responsibilities.
Financial Problems
5.10      ODN was created as an autonomous agency, but for nearly four years
it did not have the cash resources necessary for project implementation. The
problem resulted from several factors: (a) because of budgetary constraints,
considerable delays occurred in the allocation of counterpart funds; (b) the
amounts allocated were insufficient to prefinance project activities; and
(c) the authorization of expenditures required lengthy procedures in
Port-au-Prince. As a result, necessary purchases could not be made on time,
suppliers refused to deal with the project, tenders had few takers, and
disbursements from the IDA credit fell well behind schedule.
5.11      The financial constraints were eventually alleviated:  in early
1980 the monthly allocation of counterpart funds increased; in 1981 a
revolving fund was established in the Central Bank for the Government's
contribution; and the Credit Agreement was amended to provide an IDA advance
of US$500,000 to this fund.
Collapse of Sugar Prices
5.12      Because an increase of sugarcane output (80,000 t) was expected, a
main concern at the preparation stage wva  the milling capacity in the area,
especially the capacity of the privately owned Citadelle Sugar Mill and the
organization of cane collection. The sugarcane situation was reviewed at
that time by a consultant. During implementation, the complexity of the
situation and persistent problems prompted ODN to engage consultants for
further reviews.
5.13      The agronomic review and a review of the climatic environment by an
agroclimatologist led to the conclusion that investments in irrigation
improvement would not be justified for sugarcane production. Accordingly,
it was agreed to give priority to irrigation in St. Raphael, outside the
sugarcane area. It was also concluded that no improvement of cane production
in the northern plain was possible until variety trials were carried out.
After several years of trials, high yielding cane varieties have now been
identified and are being propagated for renovation under the follow-up
project.
5.14      The combination of depressed sugar prices in the international
market, breakdowns and inadequate management at the Citadelle Mill,
inadequate roads, insufficient transportation and floods, resulted in a
substantial proportion of the cane crop not being harvested, with resulting
financial losses for growers. The unharvested sugarcane amounted to over
100,000 tons per year, equivalent to about US$1 million per year. This
situation kept alive the issue of cane collection and milling, and a great
deal of discussion with the Government focused on this issue. Compliance
with a covenant, Section 4.09 of the Credit Agreement), whereby the
Government was to ensure adequate milling capacity to process the increased



- 20 -
production from the project, was alse a main topic of discussion. Compliance
with the covenant was made a condition of extension of the credit and
processing of a follow-up project.
5.15      This pressure--combined with project actions, purchase of the mill
by a Government bank, and its rehabilitation under a management
contract--has led to the start of rehabilitation of the sugarcane sector and
favorable prospects for increased output. A beginning was made in 1983 with
the renovation of cane fields.
C. Project Components
5.16      As a result of the above-mentioned problems, certain elements of
the project were redesigned. The main change in strategy was to forego
irrigation as a priority item. This shift implied that the main increase in
agriculture output would come from rainfed crop improvement through research,
extension, input supply and credit. Another shift in strategy was the
priority given to developing information and technical packages, without
which production development could not progress. Such packages began to be
available for the main dryland crops in 1980/81. As a result, directly
productive actions started on a modest scale. Such actions were based
primarily on the promotion of high yielding varieties selected and tested
under the field trial program. Specifically, the project was carried out as
follows (also see Key Indicators in Annex 1):
Irrigation
5.17      ODN and IDA decided to confine the irrigation component under the
project to St. Raphael instead of Quartier Morin, as irrigation is better
justified at St. Raphael because of the relatively dry climate. The program
at Quartier Morin was postponed indefinitely because of:
(a) topographic data and design had to be prepared with the help of
expatriate staff before work could start on the rehabilitation and
expansion of irrigation systems;
(b) data on groundwater were needed before starting construction of
irrigation wells; with the increase in energy costs, it was
estimated that the investment and operating costs of well
irrigation would not be financially justified;
(c, drainage was found to be as important as irrigation in Quartier
Morin, and preliminary requirements for drainage work were studied;
(d) it was determined by a meteorology/hydrology consultant in 1977
that investment in sugarcane irrigation was not justified in the
Quartier Morin area; and
(e)  the diversion dam for the Quartier Morin ckmmand area was found to
be in need of rehabilitation as the result of iloods and a section
of the spillway was carried away in 1981 before repairs could
begin; this precluded irrigation in Quartier Morin until the dam
was repaired and the economic justification ascertained.



- 21 -
J.1d      Thus, the total irrigation program was reduced from 4,90U to about
75U ha. because or ditticulties in organizinig eftective irrigation at the
rarm level, after construction of the secondary system, U'N and IUA agreed in
1YbU to engage an irrigation agronomist.  Out of the 75U ha that could be
irrigated at bt. Kaphael, UDN was able to reliabilitate only 4oU ha by the end
of the aisbursemenc period.  The balance ot the area is to be rehabiLitated
under the follow-up project.
Irrigation Program trom Wells
5.19      This program was deleted trom, the project because of implementation
ditficulties, lack ot knowledge of groundwater supply, high costs of pumping
and lack of technical staff to easure U&1l. A hydrugeological survey to
identity the groundwater resources available (which would be a prerequisite
tor drilling for irrigation or other purposes) was, however, rinanced under
tne project tor the entire Northern Plain.
Water bupply
5.ZU      because ot the absence of potable water, low cost per family, good
identitication work, and good experience in implementation, this program was
expanded. Instead of 4UU wells and tive coimnunity systems to serve a
population ot Z,500, the revised program called for 15U wells and Z
community systems tor a population of about !UU,JUU. The program was
extended beyond the original project area and Ethe tredit Agreement was
amended accordingly in 19b1. An expatriate works supervisor was added to the
staft in 1961.
Koads
5.21      The appraisal target of about 9J km of feeder and farm access roads
was increased to lUo km; 97.Z Km were ac;ually built.  however, financing
remained the same as estimated at appraisal because the Ministry of
Transportation dia not keep records which would enaDle it to establish actual
costs.  Also, because or the slowness ot construction by the Public Works
Department, UDN started its owII road program in early 19bl, but unit costs
were not determined.
Agricultural Trials and Seed Production
5.ZZ      tarly project experience pointed to the urgert need tor a trial
component going beyond the scope suggested at appraisal (trials by the
extension service on tarmers' rields). DUN and LUA agreed thiat a
comprehensive program of controlled trials (pcimarily improved varieties) on
the major crops was required to develop the technical packages needed for
effective extension and credit efforts. The trial program was expanded to
cover the entire Northern Department.  rhe componenc incLuded the development
ot several tield experiment centers, with a main experimental farm of
regional scope at Lhe tormer facilities of the Canadian-sponsored Rural
Development Center ot iilot (CKUIDk.l).  The farm was also developed as a main
seed production center. A total of 12U trials were carried out on the major
crops of the area.



- 22 -
Agricultural Credit
5.23      The demand for agricultural credit was limited because farms are
small, incomes are low and inputs are scarce. The experience gained with
project implementation led to a reduction in the estimates for the volume of
credit (short- and medium-term) from the already modest US$800,000 to
US$600,000. Actual disbursement for credit was only US$382,000. This
downward adjustment was prompted by the realization that the credit demand
was even more limited than anticipated because of: (a) lack of proven
technical packages; tb) the decision by ODN to concentrate credit on
individuals rather than groups; and (c) the limited availability of seed,
which is the input in highest demand. The costs of subloan administration
were excessively high, mainly because of the small size of short-term
subloans (average of about US$25 equivalent).
Extension Services
5.24      There was no major change in appraisal objectives, but the impact
of this component was limited for lack of credible extension messages.
Sugarcane improvement was to be an important objective of the extension
program, but no action could be undertaken for lack of a suitable technical
package.
Markets and Abattoir
5.25      The central market of Cap Haitien was rehabilitated, but work
required was much more extensive and costly than anticipated at appraisal.
ODN and IDA decided not to schedule rehabilitation of the other two markets
and the abattoir, because of the keakness of the municipal institutions at
Cap Haitien and the failure of authorities to make land available.
Project Administration
5.26      Construction of the ODN office and housing suffered delays and the
costs were higher than anticipated. Expenditures for project administration
were also higher than anticipated. Permanent consultants were financed by
bilateral assistance, but in order to respond to needs identified during
implementation, additional consultants were employed (an irrigation
agronomrist, a civil works supervisor, and an automechanic). Although ODN was
conceived at appraisal as an agency which would coordinate the activities of
line agencies and channel funds to them for project actions, it actually
operated as an executing agency since some of the line agencies were found co
be too weak in the project area (para. 5.09). Some of the regional
capability was strengthened under the project (water supply and field
trials).
D. Changes in Project Financing and Costs
5.27      Along with changes in the project scope and orientation, there were
two major revisions of financing and cost plans, with resulting reallocation
of the proceeds of the credit (Annex 2). The first was in early 1979,
following completion of recruitment of the permanent consultants with
bilateral, rather than IDA, financing (para. 5.01). The second major



- 23 -
revision was in early 1981, after a joint meeting with all donor agencies,
following a review of development needs and prospects for implementing the
various components.
5.28      A comparison of the actual project costs (US$15 million) with
appraisal estimates (US$13.4 million) should take into account that:
(a) actual expenditures do not include the salaries of permanent
expatriate consultants, estimated at about US$2.5 million between
1977 and 1982, or those of permanent Government staff estimated at
US$1.6 million;
(b) irrigation expenditures were drastically reduced (from US$1.9
million to US$828,000);
(c)  credit voltme was reduced by 25%;
(d) project administration costs increased substantially, from US$2.2
million to USS 6.8 million. Besides higher staffing and operating
costs, an important reason for the increase was consolidation of
some project accounts in the administration, compared to the
costing at appraisal whereby individual components were accounted
for separately;
(e) expenditures for water supply and field trials increased as a
result of expansion of these programs beyond appraisal targets; and
(f) market rehabilitation costs increased.
E. Disbursements
5.29      The disbursement rate provei to be considerably slower than
anticipated (Annex 2 and Basic Data Sheet). It remained well behind targets
during the first four years, but increased markedly in 1981, reflecting
progress in implementation and adjustments in design and budgeting. Three
major reasons for the initial slow disbursements were: (a) the drastic
reduction of the irrigation component, which represented one-third of total
costs at appraisal; (b) slippage in the initiation of road works (14% of
project costs); and (c) inadequate pre-financing and lengthy procedures for
the authorization of expenditures.
F. Procurement
5.30      Procurement remained a weak point throughout most of the
implementation period, mainly on account of lack of familiarity of ODN staff
with acceptable procedures. Thus, procurement matters took a great deal of
the supervision time and correspondence between IDA and ODN. Virtually all
biddlng documents and evaluation reports proved to be unacceptable and had to
be revised or clarified. The main procurement weaknesses were:
(a) application of criteria for bidder selection (these were not
spelled out in the documents for ICB);
(b) the small list of suppliers invited to give quotations for local



- 24 -
(c) uncritical acceptance of bids for civil works and poor supervision
of construction. These weaknesses were substantially corrected by
close supervision by IDA.
G. Compliance with Credit Covenants
5.31      The Borrower failed to comply with two covenants:
(a)  A major concern at preparation and appraisal was reflected in the
Credit Agreement by a clause whereby the Government would take
steps to ensure an adequate milling capacity and an effective
system of cane collection, in order to process the incremental
production brought about by the project (para. 3.01). In fact
there was no increase in production, but milling and collection
proved inadequate for the existing crop. A great deal of
supervision time was expended on this issue, and several corsultant
missions were mounted to analyze the complex situation. By the end
of the implementation period, the Government complied with this
covenant by nationalizing the mill and signing a management
contract with a qualified firm; and
(b)  A covenant prohibiting land sales in the irrigation areas to be
rehabilitated was not complied with, and was, in fact, nearly
impossible to enforce.
5.32      Covenants on the reinforcement of the BCA and interest rates for
agricultural credit were complied with (with some delay), due to the support
of USAID, which provided technical assistance to the credit agency.
VI. AGRICULTURAL AND ECONOMIC IMPACT
A. Agricultural Impact
6.01      It was anticipated at appraisal that the increased agricultural
output would come from 3,870 ha (1,800 farms) in the rainfed area, 3,200 ha
(2,200 farms) in the irrigated districts, and another 100 medium-size farms.
Yields were expected to increase by 25-100%, mostly as the result of
irrigation. Sugarcane was to account for a large part of the increase in
output.
6.02      However, because of the drastic reduction in the irrigation
program, and the slow pace of implementing the rehabilitation on the
remaining 460 ha, there was a limited increase in output from improved or
expanded irrigation.  A small increase cau be credited to support services
(research, extension, credit, input supply) for crops grown both in rainfed
areas and in areas already under irrigation. The monitoring and evaluation
unit of ODN has been unable to quantify this. At St. Raphael, the
improvements in irrigation (on 460 ha) and support services have resulted in
a sizable, but unquantified, increase in vegetable output (onions, carrots,
and tomatoes); most of the vegetables are shipped to Port-au-Prince. The



- 25 -
agricultural component of the project reached about 400 farm families, or lOX
of appraisal estimates, and irrigation at St. Raphael benefitted some 450
farmers.
6.03      Until 1980-81 there was no proven technical recommendation
available to generate any increase in output except for vegetables. The
research program has led to the selection of higher yielding varieties for
cassava, rice, maize, sugarcane and beans, and seed multiplication has
started on a small scale. Yields achieved under the research program suggest
that substantial increases are possible at the farm level (e.g., from
2 to 3 t/ha for irrigated rice, 5 to 12 t/ha for cassava, and 35 to 60 t/ha
for sugarcane).
6.04      The road network rehabilitated by the project contributed to the
rehabilitation of the sugarcane sector which began in 1982/83. Before that
time, the lack of passable roads in the area severed by the Citadelle Mill
was one of the constraints which had accounted for the deterioration of the
sector. rhe improved road network also had a significant impact on traffic
increase and movement of agricultural output to Cap Haitian and
Port-au-Prince. ODN carried out a traffic survey in December 1983 on two of
the roads improved under the project, and compared it with a survey made on
those roads in 1980. The average daily traffic (counted during one week)
increased as follows:
Average
No. of Vehicles       X Increase
1980       1983
Plaine du Nord-Duty           28.8       101.5            252
Haut du Cap-Lory              30.4        70.3            131
Limonade-Bois de Lance         2.0        62.0         3,100
The increase was mostly in rural buses, which carry both people and produce
and assure regularly scheduled services instead of the itinerant bush taxi
service. Agricultural output is carried by bus or truck to major centers,
such as Cap Haitien, Dondon, Duty and Acul du Nord. Another benefit was that
pedestrian and pack animal traffic were made possible even after rains.
B. Economic Impact
6.05      The economic rate of return for this project, which is the first
stage of an ongoing rural development effort in the North, is considered to
be negative. This assessment is based on a qualitative evaluation of the
benefits of the individual components as indicated by the physical and
financial progress made in each of them, discussions with project staff and
farmers and by the surveys carried out during the project (para. 5.08).
6.06      The improvement of living standards of the rural population in the
project area is a long-term process, with the project constituting an initial
time-slice effort in this endeavor. Because of the complexity of the local
environment, the paucity of pertinent information and the lack of effective
regional institutional investments, this project focused on institution



- 26 -
building (administration), training through technical assistance studies, and
on applied research and experimentation. The benefits of these investments
are by nature medium- and long-term, and will materialize only in conjunction
with follow-up actions to directly improve agricultural production and the
standard of living of the rural population. Furthermore, the effectiveness
of the directly productive investments under the project has been
significantly impaired by the absence or inadequacy of suitable regional
development institutions and technical, administrative and operational
expertise.
Irrigation
6.07      Quartier Morin.  Compared to appraisal estimates, no significant
investments were made under this componeut, except for some administrative
and reconnaissance expenditures and cleaning of canals using food for work
support. Eventually the Government and IDA agreed to discontinue this
component. No benefits accrued from this component for lack of incremental
production. The estimate is that these small investments yielded a zero or
slightly negative rate of return. Because of the small size of the
investments, the impact on the overall rate of return of the project is
negligible.
6.08      St. Raphael.  Irrigation water constraints limited the area of
potential development to 750 ha. Of this, 460 ha have been developed.
Farmers have begun to grow two crops a year (rice and vegetables) resulting
in substantial increases in cropping intensity and production.
Agricultural Credit
6.09      Individual beneficiaries of this component received short-term
credit (total of US$137,000) for inputs procured by ODN, as ODN made it a
policy to provide credit in kind. Medium-term credit (total of US$115,000)
was available for minor farm equipment (pumps, plows) or small processing
facilities (sugarcane, cassava). At the farm level, the component can be
credited with a marginally positive financial return. On economic grounds,
the rate of return may be considered negative because of the high cost of
loan processing and administration at ODN (which required annual budgetary
transfers from the Treasury).
Field Trials, Extension, Animal Health and Markets
6.10      Field trials, agricultural extension, animal health and the
rehabilitation of the municipal market at Cap Haitien had the potential fer
having a substantial impact. However, their economic benefits were not
quantified because of the methodological difficulties of assessing the
related benefits and the lack of suitable data.
Rural Roads
6.11      This component is estimated to have a rate of return above the
opportunity cost of capital, judging from traffic counts and other benefits
(para. 6.04).



- 27 -
Water Supply
N.IL      lte component is considered to have a high return, as the average
investment cost is only some US*25 per beneficiary. Again, a quantitative
evaluation has not been possible oecause no suitable data are available to
quantify benefits.
Administration
N.Ui      Alchough no direct benefits can be attributed to this component,
its pertormance and impact have been assessed. uf total project costs, 4UX
were incurred under the heading "administration, excluding the costs of
expatriate consuLtants. This means high administrative icosts, which reflect
institutional weaknesses. htowever, this has to be viewed in light of the
fact that UuN, with strong consultant support, carried out the various
project works as a de facto implementing agency, with some af the project
costs charged to administration that were actually incurred tor development.
UDN is now a viable regional development agency with trained personnel,
adequate accounting and financial autonomy. The model is being replicated to
promote development in other parts of the country; however, the continuing
viability ut UUN depends on sustained expatriate consultant support and
Government commitment.
VII.  INSTITUTIUNAL PYK.rUKMANCk
..  UJN and Kegional Agencies
7.uI      rhe agricultural sector was institutionally weak, whi-cb led the
Government to create UOlN to coordinate project implementation, control
funding and monitor relevant regional services.
7.uz      The weakness or local services forced U=4 to take over project
implementation, except for the road program. The road program was
nevertheless delayed while arrangements were worked out between UUN and the
ilinistry of Public Works (TPTC) on the definition of their respective
responsibilities. In che case of agricultural credit, a separate service was
created for the project within UbN, as SCA declined to participate in the
project.
7.U3      Project implementation with the support ot consultants has
presented an opportunity to organize and/or strengthen regional services
(research, extension, seed productioni, irrigacion and water supply
maintenance and credit) and to create a viable regional development
institution. However, OUN and the line agencies strengthened under the
project are fragile institutions, as they remain subject to sudden changes in
personnel, budget cuts or reorganization of services.
7.U4      while the DudgeEtor overseas training was not fully used, a
research agronomist and a water supply engineer received international
training and several visits were also organized to the Dominican Republic to
gather agronomic information. ln-service training organized for water
supply, research and extension staff resulted in upgrading of professional
and specialized labor (masons, plumbers and surveyors).



- 28 -
Auditiig and Reporting
7.uj      The accounts ot UUN were audited each year.  The performance of the
tirst auditing firm was deemed inadequate and a new firm was engaged for the
second year; that audit in turn was deemed inadequate and a new firm--
Peat-tarwick & Mitchell, which has a branch office in Haiti--was selected.
besides the regular audit, the firm was requested to provide technical
assistance on the improvement of the project accounting system. This
resulted in the establishment of accounts for each activity. Further
assistance on the reorganization of the accounting system was provided after
project completion (with retroactive tinancing under the tollow-up project).
Separate accounts were kept tor UDl (administration and components other than
roads and agricultural credic), the Ministry of Public Works and tarm credit
within UUN.  In the case of the credit, the accounts were poorly kept and
write-orfs had to be identified to reconcile aggregate portfolio information
with updated subsidiary accounts, and then write off long overdues, prior to
Lranster by UUN of the portfolio to BCa under the follow-up project.
7.ub      Ut" submitted annual and quarterly reports, but the quality of
reporting was poor (except for the report for 19dZ/bJ), in spite of comments
anid suggestions reiteraced by project officers. The annual reports were
usually verbose; they lacked quantitative data and clear analyses of issues.
The quarLerly reports were prepared by the manager of each component, but IUIN
failed to provide an analysis and a management overview or implementation and
issues. The less-than-adequate quality of reporting reflected the turnover
of ODN directors and the marginal performance of the deputy director.
rMonitoring and Lvaluation
7.U7      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) or project activities was organized
by a consultant tinanced by the French Aid Agency (EAC) for two years
(1979 ana 19bu). The unit reported to the uirector or UWN, but received
technical support from the  6bh service of the Ministry of Agriculture.  based
on data collectea, the unit identified proolems and contributed to changes ii:
the scope of the project during implemencation (para. 5.27). After the
consultant's departure, the unit continued, but at a slower pace and with a
decrease in quality. ne unit tocused on monitoring and did little with
respect to evaluation of the impact of the project.
7.ub      In 19bJ tne monitoring and evaluation team supported by a
French-tinanced consultant carried out a baseline survey under the follow-up
project. The survey, covering bOU farms, included questions on the impact or
the first project.  between ZUX and 50X of the respondents, depending on the
area, stated that they had been concacted by the extension service; the
proportion was higher in villages and along the roads. Road improvement
res,lted in a reduction of transportation costs (but this decrease was offset
by an increase in petroleum prices), ana in saving transport time. About 2UX
of the respondents received better prices for their crops, ano bO7 stated
chat they increased quantities sold, especially perishables. With respect to
water supply, most respondents indicated that the new systems made it
possible to save time and provided better water, resulting In lower incidenice
ot disease.



- 29 -
B. Central Government Institutions
7.u9      Despite a covenant providing tor consultation with 1UA on
strengthening the Hinistry, there has been little evidence of improvement, in
spite of ettorts by bilateral agencies through tunding and technical
assistance.  In tact, the Presidenlt deplored the weakness of the Ministry ot
Agriculture (UAtilm) in a speech in January 1963.  Also, some donor agencies
(USAIU, Clk)J have abandonied or scated clOWLI their cooperation with DIAKhDk.
The main problems remain lack ot adeqLaL.: budgeting, managerial continuity
and well-defined programas.
7.1U      Government authorities made a concerted and successful effort to
streamline procedures and provide UUN with sutficient autonomy. A marked
improvement of the managerial anid tiinancial performance of BCA has taken
place at tne national level. however, this improvement is independent of the
project actions; it has resulted from technical assistance provided by USA1l.
C. Consultants
7.11      Un the whole, long-term consultants (administration, agronomy,
credit/marketing, irrigation, roads, water supply, irritation agionomy and
automechanics) and short-term consultanEs made a positive contribution. Most
outstanding was the contribution ot the water supply consultant, followed by
that ot the agronomy consultant. As a result, the water supply and agronomic
trial programs were expanded, and viable services were organized. Un the
other hana, the performance of the deputy director general (administration
consultant) was marginal; however, he was not replaced because he provided
conitinuity, considering that OLN saw a succession of four directors during
the implementation perioa. The automechanics and irrigation consultants were
ineffective because of poor relations with counterparts.
Vill.  LDA PLKFUKMANch
n.Ul      T'he hosc ot problems that emerged curing implementation indicate
that the institutional, technical and sociological problems were not
sufficiently dealt with during the project design stage. Some of the targets
coula not be met, and input requirements (staff, investments, operating
costs) were higher than anticipated. The project designers were faced with a
lack of reliable information on the complex socioeconomic environment and
institutional capability. The situation became better known as the result of
the studies carried out during implementation. Starting project
implementation was perhaps the only way to gain a sufficient knowledge of the
area; it took time for Uuh and supervision missions to apprehend the problems
and react accordingly.
6.UL      Vuring implementation, IUA missions made frequent visits to the
project area and worked closely 4ith uLUN on project reformulation as needed
to keep the project afloat. Supervision thus involved a great deal of
technical assistance to project management, and interventions with Government
ministries for steps needed to ensure improved implementation. Supervision
missions also tocused heavily on sugarcane and the performance of BCA. A
positive point of the supervision process was the continuity ot staffing.



- 30 -
U.U3      Foor project pertormance has been a characteristic of non-IUA-
rinanced projects in the agriculLural sector in haiti.  The two projects in
the country that have achieved some success (lDb-supported Artibonite
Irrigation ProjeCt and Uerman-supportea (onaive irrigation Project) have been
carriea out under ravorable conditions not replicable elsewhere in the
country. Tlwo regional development projects (supported by USAII) and CiLA)
pertormed poorly.
1x.  LkbbUNb LkAKrkL
9.Ul     Considering the complexity ot the agricultural sector, lack ot
sutficient Knowledge on socioeconiomic aspects, and the tact that the project
was the tirst IUA involvement in agriculture in haiti, the project proved to
be a good learning experience.
(a)  The major lessun nas been the need for flexibility and active
participation in adjustment and redesign by supervision missions.
Without substantial changes in organization and scope ot
components, the project woula have experienced greater
ditficulties.
(b) At the same tine, a critical review or issues Dy supervision
missioiis waz required before changes were maue, considering that
UDh occasionally proposed changes thac could not be justified.
(c)  Projects of tniis type in haiti require a commitment of sutficient
and continuing local manpower to ensure frequent supervision.
(d)  experience suggests that the main risk in this
project (and probably in the follow-up project) was institutional
uncertainty. This resultea from a lack ot continuity in staffing,
policies and programs, and from uncertainty of funding.
(e)  Li1A and the Government learned the importance of the availability
of viable technical packages and the role ot regional development,
as discussed below.
Technical PacKages
9.UZ     The absence ot technical packages at the start of the project
deterred significant impact on agricultural output. The emphasis on
agronomic trials during project implementation made it possible to develop
technical recommendations, especially higher yielding varieties, which should
enable the follow-up project to yield acceptable returns.
Kegional Development
9.U3     Considering the pervasive weaknesses of Central Government services,
the Government decided at the design stage to entrust the project to a
decentralized agency. Two formulas were discussed by the preparation team:
a regional development authority, as already existed in the Artibonite
Valley, or a small project unit entrusted with programming, budgeting and
monitoring actions carried out by line agencies. The Government opted for
the second formula, which had not been tried before.



- 31 -
9.04      The formula proved difficult to apply in practice, on account of
the weakness of the regional line agencies. Those agencies which were active
in the area (roads, agricultural credit) resented what they saw as an
intrusion of a foreign supported agency into their sphere of influence.
Public Works accepted eventually to participate in the project after
protracted negotiations, but BCA declined. In cases where the regional
services were nonexistent or too weak, ODN assumed responsibility for project
actions, including farm credit, and helped build up regional services. Such
actions could not have been carried out under the responsibility of the
central services in the capital.
9.05      In spite of early growing pains and institutional problems
(financial autonomy, high operating costs and over-staffing), ODN has
developed into a reasonably viable development institution. It fulfills its
role of a coordinating and funding agency and implements activities that
cannot be undertaken by the regional services. Under the follow up project,
institutional arrangements between ODN and line agencies are governed by
signed agreements in which the respective responsibilities are defined.
9.06      The ODN formula has made it possible to avoid or minimize the
constraint resulting from the weaknesses of the central services and
inefficiencies attached to excessive centralization. In spite of its
deficiencies, the ODN formula may be replicated for development of other
regions. The Decentralization Law enacted in 1982 attempts to shift
responsibility for development to regional agencies. Also, the recently
defined USAID strategy opts for the support of regional development agencies
of the ODN type. The Organization for the Development of the Northwest was
created in 1983.
9.07     Problems encountered during project implementation led to
adjustments in organization and scope of the various components. The
experience gained with the first project was used in the design of the
follow-up project (e.g., establishment of a working fund with an IDA advance,
agreements between ODN and line agencies on the definition of
responsibilities, definition of project components, and focus on rainfed
agriculture). Project experience suggests that the regional development and
ODN approaches are reasonable.   It al;o suggests that agricultural
development in Haiti is a slow, long-term process.



.,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



- 33 -
AMX I
EAm
RDRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Mey Indicators
U-
Appraisal                                       S
Estimate               Actual               Completed
(1976)               (1983)
Irrigation
Irrigation canals built (km)         U.n.                     3.9
Drainage canals built (ckm)          n.a.                     6_0                    -
Total Irrigation
Rehabilitation (ha)                   4,900                 660                      9
Water Supply
No. of systemes comileted                 5                  Z2                    440
Storage capacity D                   U.n.                   930                      -
Piping (km)                          u.n.                    70                      -
No. of fountains                     .n&.                    87                      -
No. of private connections           U.&.                    38                      _
Wells (units)                           400                 135                     34
Population served                    20.500             100,000                    488
Roads
Feeder and farm access Ckm)              93.5                84.2                   90
irrigation access (km)               n.a.                    13.0                    -
Field Trials
No. of trials                        n.a                    120                      -
Agricultural Credit (USS)
Short-term                          603.000             138,420                     23
Medluu-term                        200.000             244,210                    122
Expenditures by Component                               (Total with
US$'000                     (Base Costs)      contingencies) 1/
Irrigation                            3,283               1,585                     48
Agricultural credit                   1,025                 385                     38
Trials and seed multiplication           83                 496                    598
Extension                               523                 411                     79
Animal health                            89                  20                     22
Markets and abattoir                    161                 391                    243
Roads                                 1,247               1,875                    150
Potable water                           172               1,766                  1,026
Project administration                2,227               6,842 2/                 307
Project monitoring                      231                   8                      3
1/ Does not include costs of consultants financed by bilateral agencies and
of Haitian civil servants paid from the Government's operating budget.
21 Of which $4.23 million for buildings and equlpments for all project
components.



iA ITI
R{UR(AL 1JJEVELOPNhENT PkIUJIECT IN THEi NURTkiERN DEIPARTMhNT
kVKOJECT CUMk'LETIUN k(hPUKT
Schedule 1: Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Amount of the                 Amou,t                  Actual
Credit Allocated              Actually              Disbursement/
(Expressed in                Disbursed                Amount
Category                      US$ Eq.uivalent)            (US~ Equivalent)          Allocated
().Irrigation                                 I*9UU,UUU                    bzd,uuu                 44
(i)b.  Uther Civil Works                          1,7UU,UUU                  4,UZ4,UUU               437
(2)    Vehicles, Equipment                        1,300,000                  1,615,UUU                14U
(3)   1?arm Lnputs                                1,UOO,uu0                    3u3,OUU 0
(4)    Administrationi                           2,900,000                   2,95U,UUU1               102
(5)    Uniallocated                              1,2UU,0UUU_____
Total                                 10,1100,000                 10,000,000                IOU
1g''"''''"'~~
i-i '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



HAITI                                                       AI r,-
j 't ' -4h    RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                       *          cr A N
-,   '\<   U';t   IN  THE NORTHERN  DEPARTMENT                                      -'
t                                                             U~~~~~~~~~~e 
I.:.  X f1                  Sir r___l bw k.S- A- I        --_
[war                %.I, D~~~~MW,- A-             40~ *Opua
.. S   >   '   d                    O _   _                           | )
_._0                                                    200          hd.,,4,^ .....h;-
-w   SW          I ',
,.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                - , 0   ..  -,,...,.-,   



