Document of
FILE Copy                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1924-HA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN THE
NORTHERN PLAIN
December 15, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                    Gourdes (G) 5
Gourde (G) 1             US$0.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)                   39.37 inches
1 kilometer (k)                0 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)        2        2.47 acres = 0.78 carreaux
1 square kilometer (km j       0.386 square miles
1 kilogram (kg)           -    2.205 pounds
1 ton (t)                 =    2.205 pounds
1 liter                        0 0.264 gallons
ABBREVIATIONS
BCA      -  Bureau de Credit Agricole
CONADEP  -  Conseil National de Developpement et de Planification
CRUDEM   -  Centre Rural de Developpement de Milot
DARNDR   -  Department de l'Agriculture, des Ressources Naturelles et du
Developpement Rural
FAC      -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation de la Republique Francaise
IDA      -  International Development Association
IDAI/SEN -  Institut de Developpement Agricole et Industriel/Societe d'Equipement
National
IDB      -  Inter-American Development Bank
ODN      - Organisme de Developpement du Nord
SAC      -  Societe Agricole de Credit
SAR      -  Service d'Animation Rurale
SMV/SE   -  Service d'Elevage et Veterinaire
SHRH     -  Service Hydraulique de la Republique de Haiti (TPTC)
SICR     -  Service des Irrigations et Controle des Rivieres (DARNDR)
SVA      -  Service de Vulgarisation Agricole
TPTC     -  Ministere des Travaux Publics, Transports et Communications
USAID    -  United States Agency for International Development
WFP      -  World Food Program
GOVERNMENT OF HAITI
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
FOR A RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Haiti for the equivalent of US$10 mil-
lion on standard IDA terms to help finance a rural development project in the
Northern Department. The World Food Programme (WFP) will provide food for
about 200,000 man-days of labor for the first year of Project implementa-
tion and is considering a request to provide additional food for 1.8 million
man-days for the final three years of Project execution.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Haiti, Report No. 1243-HA entitled
"Current Economic Position and Prospects of Haiti" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 15, 1976. Social and economic data are
presented in Annex I.
3.        Haiti is one of the poorest nations in the world, and one of two
countries in the Western Hemisphere included in the U. N. list of least
developed nations. GNP per capita in 1975 stood at US$180. An infant mor-
tality rate of about 150 per thousand live births, an average life expectancy
of 50 years, low nutrition and sanitation standards (malnutrition and gastro-
enteric diseases account for over half the deaths in the country) and an adult
literacy rate of about 20 percent characterize the depressed living standards
of the population.
4.        The country's natural resources are limited.    Of the country's total
area, only about 15 percent is well suited to agriculture although twice as
much is actually under cultivation. The remaining 70 percent is too arid and
steep for cultivation. The average density of population is nearly 500 per
square kilometer of arable land, one of the highest in the worldl. In addition,
much of the country suffers from frequent hurricanes, floods and droughts.
Known mineral resources are modest consisting of bauxite, copper and lignite.
There is, nevertheless, scope for expansion of agricultural output through
improvement of presently low levels of productivity. The country's proximity
to the U. S. market, and the availability of abundant labor provide the basis
for industrial development while Haiti's striking scenery and distinctive
culture offer a potential for tourism.
5.        Economic growth and social progress have been hampered by periods
of political instability which did not permit the development of an adequate
technical and physical infrastructure. Inadequate maintenance reduced the
efficiency of the limited irrigation network. The lack of an adequate trans-
port infrastructure and its poor maintenance hampered the development of
agriculture. Power generation capacity is also well below the Latin American
average.
[This document has re tricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



6.         In marked contrast to the 1960-67 period when the economy stag-
nated, Haiti enjoyed some growthi in 1968-74. Expansion of small-scale manu-
facturing and assembly operations, tourism and construction led to real
average annual increases of GDP of about 3.4 percent while population grew
at an estimated annual rate of 1.6 percent. These activities contributed
noticeably to improving economic conditions in Port-au-Prince. Employment
in assembly operations, for example, increased from 10,000 in 1971 to 19,000
in 1974. Agriculture, however, which employs 30 percent of Haiti's popula-
tion and accounts for about 45 percent of GDP and 42 percent of merchandise
exports has, as yet, shown little dynamism.     Progress in agriculture will
require the adoption of improved production techniques and provision of
greater incentives to fanners, as well as improvement of the transport
infrastructure.
7.         There was no economic growth in 1975.    Agricultural output declined
mainly as a result of a severe drought which particularly affected the north-
western part of the country.    World recession brought about declines in exports
of mining products and manufactures as well as in industrial investment. Con-
struction activity also slowed down significantly.
8.         In the past three years the Government has adopted several meastures
to encourage agricultural production. In 1973, the specific tax on coffee
which, by absorbing a large share of export proceeds, weakened producer in-
centives when international prices were low, was replaced by a progressive
ad valorem levy. In 1974, a nationwide five-year coffee production program
was initiated with the support of USAID to provide small farmers with a
package of credit, technology, and training. A substantial increase in
prices paid to farmers for sugar cane and to mills for sugar production was
approved. The export tax on sugar was lowered from its previous rate which
was as high as 80 percent at the margin. The tax on agricultural products
marketed domestically, levied each time a commodity changed hands, was elimi-
nated. In addition to these measures, the Government intends to initiate
during the next two years rural development projects designed to increase
the income and employment levels of the rural population.
9.         The Government is carrying out an important investment program in
which infrastructure facilities, essential to the development of the directly
productive sectors, occupy a central place. Public investment increased by
about 68 percent in real terms during 1975. In the area of Port-au-Prince,
projects are under way to expand and improve port facilities and the water and
power supply systems. Major roads linking the northern and southern regions of
the country are being reconstructed and the network of agricultural feeder
roads improved. The recently adopted Five-Year Development Plan stresses
regional development. In addition to projects directly concerned with increas-
ing agricultural production, such as the on-going coffee rehabilitation prog-
ram, the Plan envisages the expansion of health, sanitation and education
services to the rural population.    Public sector development expenditures wiLl
have to increase from about US$37 million per year in 1973-75 (5.1 percent of
GDP) to about US$87 million per year in 1976-80 (7.2 percent of GDP).



- 3 -
10.       The successful execution of such a program will require a sub-
stantial increase in the flow of external assistance. In the early seventies,
when the level of public investment was still low, net external lending
accounted for only a fraction, hardly more than one-tenth, of development
expenditures. This share has grown to about 30 percent in 1975, with the
remaining 41 percent financed from foreign grants, 16 percent from net inter-
nal borrowing and 13 percent from savings. On the basis of disbursements
of loans already committed and of likely future annual commitment levels of
US$45-US$50 million from official lending agencies, it is expected the impor-
tance of foreign lending will increase and that they will finance about 42
percent of development expenditures in the 1976-1980 period. Capital invest-
ment grants from bilateral agencies are expected to finance 5 percent of
development expenditures. Other official grants and private donations are
expected to continue to represent an important, albeit declining, share of
development expenditures (about 20 percent).   Public savings would finance the
remaining 33 percent. In order to increase public savings to the required
level, the Government will need to adopt selective tax measures such as an
increase of import duty collections which in recent years have lagged with
respect to import growth. A strict control of extra-budgetary non-developmental
expenditures will also be required. The Haitian Government declared recently
its willingness to design and implement necessary reforms.
11.       The growth of public savings will, nevertheless, be constrained
by the need to increase substantially current budget expenditures in order
to upgrade the quality of public administration and to meet sharply rising
operating expenditures generated by new development projects in agriculture,
education, health, road maintenance and other sectors. In addition, about
one-fifth of public investment during the next five years will consist of
projects without external financing. In view of these two factors and
because of the extreme poverty of the country, its fragile balance of pay-
ments and the constraints to raising additional fiscal resources (except to
a limited extent by raising import duty collections) -- taxes already repre-
sent about 13 percent of GDP, no mean achievement for a country as poor
as Haiti -- the successful execution of the development plan will require
external financing covering a high share of the cost of development proj-
ects. In some sectors financing of part of local costs would be necessary.
12.       Haiti's balance of payments deteriorated in 1974 and 1975.   The
deterioration in 1974 was largely explained by higher import prices. In
1975 the volume of bauxite, sisal and essential oil exports declined mainly
as a result of the world recession. Food imports increased sharply because
of the effects of the drought and in response to rising levels of consump-
tion in the Port-au-Prince area. In addition, part of public investment
(telecommunications sector) was financed without recourse to long-term
borrowing. The situation improved somewhat in 1976 due in part to increases
in the volume of coffee exports and the unprecedented level of world prices
for this commodity. Net international reserves of the National Bank and
those of the consolidated banking system increased from minus US$4.3 million
and minus US$24 million respectively in September 1975 to US$11.6 million
and US$0.9 million respectively as of April 1976. In August 1976 the IMF
approved a stand-by arrangement with the Government.



- 4 -
13.       At the Haitian Government's request, a high level Joint Consulta-
tive Committee was established in January 1976. It includes representatives
of the Haitian Government and of multilateral and bilateral agencies actively
providing assistance to Haiti. The Committee's role is to coordinate foreign
assistance, both financial and technical. One of the major functions of the
Committee, which convenes every six months, is to assess the availability of
counterpart funds for investment projects financed by external official agen-
cies, both required and likely to be available. The Committee is thus in a
position to make recommendations to the Haitian Government on measures to be
taken in order to ensure that public savings are adequate to meet local finan-
cing requirements.
14.       Haiti's resource gap is expected to remain wide in the medium
term, reflecting import requirements associated with the Government's invest-
ment program. There has been relatively little net foreign borrowing in the
last decade and the debt service ratio is relatively low (less than 7 percent
in 1975). Nevertheless, the balance of payments is likely to constitute a
constraint to economic development in view of the limited growth prospects of
Haiti's agricultural exports, and because export diversification through the
development of manufacturing and tourism, is still at an early stage. In view
of the country's poverty and the dependence of its balance of payments on
world demand for a few commodities, Haiti will continue to require external
assistance on concessionary terms for a long time if it is to achieve a
significant improvement in the standard of living of its population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
15.       The Bank Group has had six operations in Haiti.    A US$2.6 million
Bank Loan (141-HA) was made in 1956 for highway rehabilitation and a
US$350,000 IDA credit (32-HA) was made in 1962 for highway maintenance.
Two IDA credits - US$10 million (478-HA, Third Highway Project) in 1974 and
US$20 million (556-HA, Fourth Highway Project) in 1975 - were made to Haiti
for reconstruction of the Northern Road. In February 1976, a credit of
US$5.5 million was made for a First Education Project and a credit of US$16
million was made in July 1976 for a First Power Project. Implementation of
the Third and Fourth Highway Projects is making good progress, with disburse-
ments ahead of appraisal estimates. The Project Unit for the Education
Project is functioning well, although there are minor delays in preparing
plans for school construction. The Power Project became effective on September
28, 1976. It is proceeding substantially on schedule. Annex II contains a
summary statement of the Bank Loan and IDA credits as of August 31, 1976, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       USAID is financing a road maintenance program and the improvement of
feeder roads. IDB is financing construction of the Southern Road and expan-
sion of the Port-au-Prince harbour. France is financing construction of
a road linking Jacmel to the Southern Road and is providing assistance to
improve provincial airports. UNDP is financing the technical assistance



- 5 -
component of the Third Highway Project (with the Bank as executing agency)
including training of local contractors in administration, engineering and
management as well as a study of Haiti's transport sector. The Government
organizes twice-yearly meetings to coordinate assistance to the transport
sector.
17.       IDB, Canada, France, and IDA are cooperating closely with the
Government in projects aimed at meeting the most urgent needs in the educa-
tion sector. IDB has lent for rural education and is providing technical
assistance for the preparation of a rural primary education project. Canada
is supporting a technical education project in Port-au-Prince and France is
providing technical assistance for a new National Pedagogical Institute and
teachers for technical and vocational schools. The First IDA Education
Project is designed to begin to meet some of the highest priority needs for
revision of primary school curricula, expansion of educational opportunities
in rural areas, upgrading of teacher qualifications and support for adult
literacy programs.
18.       Aid agencies are also active in other sectors.  IDB has made loans
for agricultural and industrial credit, and for improvement of Port-au-Prince's
water supply. It is providing assistance to the Government for the prepara-
tion of integrated rural development projects in the Cul-de-Sac and Artibonite
Plains. USAID has given assistance for Haiti's malaria eradication program,
for community development and for modernization of the production and market-
ing of coffee. USAID is also providing assistance for integrated agricultural
development in two regions. The latter project will gradually be expanded to
include other regions in Haiti; it will also provide assistance for control of
soil erosion and for improvement of agricultural extension and research.
Canada (CIDA) is supporting a rural development project in the southern
peninsula and has undertaken a survey of Haiti's water resources for both
irrigation and power potential. The Federal Republic of Germany is providing
financial and technical assistance for regional development in the Gonaives
Plain. UNDP is financing a number of programs including a survey of Haiti's
mineral resources, and a study of the power sector, for which the Bank is
Executing Agency. The study will consider the possibility of using Haiti's
deposits of lignite as fuel for thermal plants and will review the potential
for hydropower plants on the basis of the CIDA survey. Of special signifi-
cance to Haiti's development in education, health and agricultural services,
are the many and varied programs of the voluntary agencies.
19.       The rural development project for which IDA financing is proposed,
is consistent with the Government's regionalisation policy for agricultural
development; it will be assisted, to some extent, by the ongoing reconstruc-
tion of the Northern Road which will help in marketing part of the produce in
the project area. The Project would (a) support the Government's efforts to
modernize Haiti's agricultural sector and to improve the very low living
standards of the rural population; (b) help Haiti formulate a development plan
for the Northern Department; (c) help set up a regional development organiza-
tion functioning on the basis of a multi-disciplinary approach; and (d) repli-
cate, on the basis of experience acquired with the project, the decentralized



- 6 -
regional approach to rural development in other parts of the country. A
second rural development project to extend the project concept may be possible
in FY 1980.
20.       WHO/PAHO, with UNDP financing, is undertaking the preparation of
a water supply project in provincial towns for which the Government has
requested IDA financing. The project, besides improving and extending
existing water systems, would strengthen the technical and administrative
capabilities of the Service Hydraulique, which in the future is expected to
be a key agency in expanding water services in rural areas. The project is
scheduled for appraisal in April 1977.
21.       In transportation, selection of the components for a possible highway
project in FY 1978 would take into account the recommendations of the trans-
port study mentioned in paragraph 16 and the urgent need to develop the capa-
bilities of Haiti's road maintenance service.
22.       Depending on progress under the on-going First Education Project,
a second project would continue the effort to extend primary education,
particularly in the rural areas; to assist the Government to devise and
adopt curriculum reform, to upgrade teacher qualifications and to provide
resources for adult education programs.
23.       The ongoing First Power Project is financing an expansion of
diesel-fueled power capacity in Port-au-Prince to avoid power shortages in
1977. Additional power capacity will be required by 1979 or 1980 if short-
ages are to be avoided by then. In the meantime, long-range solutions to
Haiti's power needs are being considered by the UNDP Power Sector Survey
mentioned above.
24.       Prospective IDA operations take into account our present knowledge
of Haiti's development needs and the ongoing and planned roles of other
official lending agencies. A summary of loan commitments to Haiti is given
below:
Table 1: LOAN COMMITMENTS TO HAITI, 1966-76
(US$ million)
IDA       IDB       Bilateral
Agriculture                  -         5.7        6.0
Industrial Credit            -         1.1       -
Transport                   30.0      64.7        8.2
Education                    5.5       1.3        -
Water and Sewage             -         7.8        -
Power                       16.0       -          -
Health                       -         6.3        -
TOTAL             51.5      86.9      14.2



- 7 -
25.       The Bank Group's share in Haiti's publicly-guaranteed external debt
outstanding and disbursed amounted to about 17 percent at the end of 1975.
The Bank Group's share of external public debt service during 1975 was about
0.5 percent. Its share of outstanding publicly-guaranteed external debt would
rise to about 32 percent by 1980; raising its share of external public debt
service to about 7 percent.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture
26.       Agricultural value-added in 1975 was equivalent to 45 percent of GDP
and provided a livelihood for 80 percent of the population. Agriculture earned
almost 50 percent of merchandise exports in 1975. The main export crops are
coffee, sugar, sisal and essential oils. Another major cash crop is rice.
Agricultural production is concentrated in a few river valleys and coastal
plains of which the most important are the Artibonite Valley and the Gonaives
and Northern Plains. Domestic output does not meet the country's requirements
of grain, edible oils and fats and dairy products; imports of these products
are equivalent to about 92 percent of agricultural exports. As agricultural
output grew at only 1.2 percent per annum between 1971 and 1975 while the
rural population increased by 1.1 percent per annum, the rural areas have
shown hardly any increase in per capita income. Over two-thirds of the rural
population had a per capita income in 1975 ranging between US$25 to US$40,
roughly one quarter of the country's GNP of US$180 per capita and below
the threshold of absolute poverty. Land holdings are extremely fragmented
(average of 1.2 ha) and production techniques are primitive, relying almost
exclusively on hand tools. Heavy demographic pressure on arable land, over-
cultivation and lack of soil conservation have resulted in deforestation and
serious land erosion -- a process that may prove to be irreversible in some
areas. Moreover, a number of factors, such as the absence of technical
assistance to farmers, poor roads, inadequate marketing facilities and heavy
taxation of export crops resulted in a shift from cash crops to subsistence
agriculture. This shift has increased the imperviousness of farmers to modern
agricultural methods.
Government Strategy and Program
27.       The Government's Five Year Development Plan recognizes that the
country's economic and social development require urgent measures to stimulate
agricultural output. The agricultural development effort will be decentralized
to operate through regional organizations similar to those now operating in
the Artibonite Valley and the Gonaives Plain. Increased agricultural credit
and improved extension services will be made available to farmers organized
into groups; improved technology and social services will be provided through
rural and community development schemes and staff to implement these schemes
will be expanded and recycled through further training programs. In support
of this strategy, it is expected that development expenditures for agriculture



- 8 -
will increase from an annual average of US$4.9 million in the 1974-77 period,
to about US$20.0 million in the 1977-81 period, rising from 9 to 25 percent
of total development expenditures. Required funds exceed the Government's
available resources and a considerable part will have to be provided by
external concessionary aid.
Agricultural Services
28.       The Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Devel-
opment (DARNDR) is responsible for the formulation of agricultural policies,
for rural extension, animation and credit, for agricultural research and for
training. Rural primary and basic adult education are also provided by DARNDR.
DARNDR has been unable to effectively discharge these responsibilities for
lack of adequate funds and personnel. The Government's Five Year Development
Plan envisages the reinforcement of DARNDR's budget and staff. Canada and
UNDP/FAO are providing assistance to reinforce agricultural education.
The Government has agreed to periodically review with IDA (a) the needs
of DARNDR for agricultural technical assistance; (b) the relevance of agri-
cultural training programs to ensure a nationally adequate supply of agri-
cultural and other support staff and (c) their conditions of employment with
a view to attracting and retaining qualified staff (Section 4.07 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
29.       Extension and Community Development.    The Agricultural Extension
Service (SVA) assists farmers in improving production techniques while the
"Service d'Animation Rurale" (SAR) promotes community development and seeks
to encourage the adoption of modern agricultural methods. Both services are
severely understaffed with about 200 technicians who reach about 5 percent of
farmers throughout the country. Improvement and expansion of these two
services have been constrained by a shortage of funds, by limited transporta-
tion and working facilities and by the need for a more practical orientation
in their approach to their functions.
30.       Irrigation.   SICR - the Irrigation and River Control Service of
DARNDR - serves the various gravity irrigation schemes in the country, con-
trols the flow of water for irrigation and maintains irrigation systems. As
with the other services of DARNDR, it is understaffed and needs additional
budgetary support if it is to function effectively, particularly in main-
taining irrigation works.
31.       Credit:  Agricultural credit is provided through two specialized
Government agencies -- the Bureau of Agricultural Credit (BCA), and the
Institute for Agricultural and Industrial Development (IDAI). The latter's
lending is mostly for industry while its agricultural operations concentrated
on farmers owning more than 5 ha of land. The combined agricultural portfolio
of these two agencies was only US$593,000 in 1975. Farmers' indebtedness to
non-institutional sources is widespread at annual interest rates of 120 per-
cent or higher.



32.       BCA is a bureau within the framework of DARNDR:    its board is
chaired by the Secretary of State for Agriculture and it is managed by a
director appointed by the President of the Republic. BCA's staff of about 50
is distributed among nine regional offices and in 1975, the total volume of
its lending operations was US$165,000 -- mainly for short-term crop production
to groups of small farmers organized into agricultural credit societies (SACs).
BCA's income in 1975 only covered 14 percent of operating costs; a government
subsidy covered 70 percent, thus leaving a cash deficit of 16 percent. About
40 percent of BCA's portfolio consists of seemingly unrecoverable loans. BCA
is currently receiving technical assistance from USAID including staff training,
aimed at strengthening BCA's ability to provide credit to small farmers.
33.       BCA's interest rate was increased from 8% to 9% in December 1976.
The Government agreed (a) to maintain this rate for the first two years of
the Project, and then, to raise the cost of BCA's loans to 11% p.a., and
(b) within nine months from the date of signature of the proposed Credit, to
furnish IDA with a program to reorganize BCA and strengthen its financial
position and to implement agreed upon measures thereafter. (Sections 4.12
and 3.11 of the draft Credit Agreement.)
34.       Prices and Marketing:   Except for sugarcane, for which the Govern-
ment sets the price, there is no regulation of agricultural prices. Most
food crops are marketed by small operators who purchase produce in small
lots and transport it to regional markets. The absence of storage, marketing
and credit facilities, together with inadequate market information and poor
transport facilities, result in sharp seasonal and geographic price varia-
tions, sometimes attaining 100 percent of the base price. The price system
has not provided sufficient incentive for increased production and the weak
bargaining position of small farmers works to the advantage of exporters and
middlemen. DARNDR has recently set up a Marketing Institute to help solve ma-
jor marketing problems. The Institute will undertake studies to identify
marketing bottlenecks of particular crops together with studies of storage,
credit, transportation and price fluctuation problems.
35.       Agricultural Training and Research.   About 40 agronomists and 15
veterinary assistants graduate each year from the Faculty of Agronomy in
Port-au-Prince; another 100 technicians are trained each year in agricultural
schools in other parts of the country. However, while this output (except
for veterinarians) is largely adequate, DARNDR's limited budget does not allow
it to offer suitable positions to the major part of these graduates. Some
agricultural research is carried out at Damien, near Port-au-Prince, but
facilities and personnel are not sufficient.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       In mid-1973, an IDB/FAO/IBRD agricultural sector survey mission
identified several key regions of Haiti for agricultural development. As a



- 10 -
result of that study, the Government requested IDA to support a rural develop-
ment project in the Northern Plain, a densely populated region with good agri-
cultural potential. In January/February 1975, an FAO Cooperative Program
mission identified the main components of the project which was appraised
in April/May, 1976. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 18 to
24, 1976. The Haitian delegation was headed by Mr. Remillot Leveille, Secretary
of State for Agriculture, Natural Resources and Rural Development. A report
entitled "Appraisal of a Rural Development Project in the Northern Department
of Haiti" (No. 1281a-HA dated December 13, 1976) is being distributed sepa-
rately. The main features of the project and proposed credit are summarized in
Annex III.
The Project Area
37.       The proposed credit would finance a project located in Haiti's
Northern Department, covering the entire arrondissement of Cap-Haitien
(500 km ), including the irrigation district of Quartier Morin, as well as the
St. Raphael irrigation district in the Grande Riviere du Nord arrondissement.
The project area comprises a total of 45,000 ha of agricultural land, of which
35,000 ha are presently under cultivation. Of the 3,900 ha in the two irriga-
tion districts, only about half is currently irrigated and the irrigation
systems need extensive rehabilitation. Rainfall is irregular and droughts are
frequent. The groundwater potential of the Quartier Morin plain is extensive.
At present, several privately owned wells north of Quartier Morin yield over
100 liters/second, pumped at reasonable cost from relatively shallow depths.
38.       The population of the project area is 220,000 of which the rural
population is 160,000; 92 percent of this rural population have incomes below
the poverty threshold. Their poverty is compounded by malnutrition and
endemic diseases, lack of health and school facilities and severely limited
physical infrastructure such as roads, drinking water and electricity. The
project will be implemented by the Organisme de Developpement du Nord (ODN),
to which the proceeds of the Credit would be passed on as a grant.
Land Tenure and Production
39.        Small farms dominate agriculture in the project area; farmers culti-
vating up to 6.5 ha -- who constitute the core of the target group under the
project -- represent about 92 percent of all farmers and their holdings are
about 53 percent of cultivated land. About 98 percent of all farms are on
areas of less than 13 ha, accounting for 70 percent of cultivable land; there
are 12 farms in the 65-130 ha category, another 12 in the over 130 ha category
and one farm of about 400 ha. In order to curb speculation, the Government
has recently enacted legislation prohibiting land transactions (unless prior
government approval is obtained) in development areas, including the Project
zone. In addition, the Government agreed (i) to determine and publicize fair
land prices and rents in areas that will remain rainfed under the Project, and
(ii) on completion of rehabilitation and expansion works in the irrigation
areas under the Project, to determine and publicize fair land prices and rents
for such areas (Section 3.05 of the draft Credit Agreement). Two-thirds of
the cultivated area (23,000 ha) is used to grow food crops -- mainly corn,



- 11 -
beans, rice, sorghum, bananas and manioc; sugarcane, the main cash crop, is
grown on almost 20 percent of the area (7,000 ha) and coffee, cocoa and citrus
on the remaining area of 5,000 ha. Agricultural inputs, including credit,
extension services, fertilizers, pesticides and selected seeds are practically
non-existent. Except for sugar, about 80 percent of which would be exported,
all incremental production would be consumed domestically.
40.       With regard to the cultivation of sugarcane, the Government agreed
that it would: (i) ensure adequate milling capacity in the Project area to
process incremental sugarcane production; (ii) annually review, with IDA,
sugarcane production and related milling capacity; (iii) not reduce the price
of sugarcane without prior consultation with IDA; and (iv) periodically review
the price of cane with IDA. In addition, ODN, in cooperation with a local
sugarmill, would establish a yearly cutting and collection schedule for
sugarcane and supervise its execution (Sections 4.09, 4.10 and 4.11 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Project Description and Objectives
41.       The main components of the project are:
(1) rehabilitation and expansion of the Quartier Morin (2,000 ha)
and St. Raphael (1,900 ha) irrigation districts and irrigation of
up to 1,000 ha from deep wells in the Quartier Morin district;
(2) rehabilitation and construction of 66.5 km of feeder roads and
27 km of farm access roads;
(3) construction of up to 400 wells (to be operated by hand-pumps)
and up to five small systems served by springs for rural potable
water supply;
(4) rehabilitation and improvement of two municipal markets and an
abattoir in Cap-Haitien, construction of a municipal market
in St. Raphael, and construction of administrative, storage and
housing facilities;
(5) agricultural credit to groups of small farmers and to individual
farmers;
(6) agricultural trials and improved seed multiplication;
(7) agricultural extension, rural community development and animal
health services; and
(8) provision of a resident team of six experts (24 man/years) to
assist ODN in Project implementation; short-term consultants
(35 man/months) to help ODN with Project related special
assistance, and one expert (3 man/years) in project monitoring
and evaluation to help DARNDR monitor the Project and strengthen
its nation-wide monitoring effort.



- 12 -
42.       In addition, the project would sponsor in-service training and
training abroad for project staff, carry out studies for project implemen-
tation and for the preparation of follow-up projects.
Project Components
Irrigation
43.       The irrigation system of the Quartier Morin district would be rehabi-
litated and expanded by 800 ha to 2,000 ha; this whole area would benefit from
land leveling and the construction of gates, farm ditches and drains. The
1,900 ha of the St. Raphael district would also benefit from extensive rehabi-
litation works. In addition, up to 14 wells would be constructed in the area
North of Quartier Morin to irrigate about 1,000 ha. Rehabilitation, construc-
tion and maintenance of the irrigation systems would be the responsibility
of the SICR with assistance from the regional Hydraulics Service (SHRH). The
World Food Programme (WFP) has indicated that it would provide food for about
1.8 million man/days of labor for irrigation system rehabilitation and con-
struction. The Government agreed that the irrigation system would be ade-
quately maintained throughout the 20-year life of the project and that water
charges to be collected by SICR would be set at a rate sufficient to cover
maintenance and operation costs and to recover about 50 percent of the invest-
ment cost of rehabilitating and expanding the irrigation systems. The precise
determination of water charges would be made in consultation with IDS (on
completion of rehabilitation or expansion works) and would take into account
the ability of project beneficiaries to pay reasonable charges (Section 4.05
of the draft Credit Agreement).
Roads
44.       The project includes the construction of 53.5 km of feeder roads in
the arrondissement of Cap-Haitien, and 40 km of feeder and farm access roads
in the St. Raphael area. A simple equipment fleet will be provided, together
with necessary operating funcls and "food for work" from WFP for about 200,000
man/days of labor to carry out construction works.    Confirmation that an
ongoing WFP program in Haiti has been amended to provide food for 200,000 man-
days of labor is a condition of effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Credit Agreement). Tools to maintain and repair the equipment fleet of the
National Road Maintenance Service workshop at Cap-Haitien would also be
provided under the project to help ensure that project roads are adequately
maintained. The construction of an all-weather 30 km road from Grande Riviere
du Nord to the irrigation district of St. Raphael is of vital importance to
the project: financing will be provided under the USAID project signed in
June 1976. The first section, from Grande Riviere du Nord to Dondon (about 15
km), has already been completed and work is proceeding on the remaining
section.
Municipal Markets and Abattoir
45.       The project provides for the complete renovation of the 5,000 m2
roofed central market at Cap-Haitien, including the provision of a 3-ton



- 1 3 -
cold storage room; the improvement of the "abattoir market", also at Cap-
Haitien, and improvement of the municipal market at St. Raphael. The muni-
cipal abattoir at Cap-Haitien would be completely renovated. The Government
has agreed (Section 4.03 of the Credit Agreement) that these facilities
would be properly organized, managed and maintained by the municipal authori-
ties and that user fees collected would be sufficient to cover at least the
cost of operating, managing and maintaining the facilities.
Credit
46.       Agricultural credit would be channeled by ODN through BCA, as its
agent, to groups of small farmers organized into agricultural cooperatives
(Societes de Credit Agricole--SACs) and to individual farmers who cultivate up
to 15 ha in the rainfed areas and up to 10 ha in irrigated areas. Short-term
sub-loans (up to one year) would cover the costs of fertilizers, pesticides,
seeds, livestock medication and similar expenditures; and medium-term credit
(up to five years) would be available for the purchase of draft-oxen, yokes,
plows, sprayers, pumps and other farm implements. Both short and medium term
credit would be made at BCA's current interest rate of 9% p.a. during the
first two years of Project implementation. Sub-loans made in the last two
years would cost 11% per annum.   On an experimental basis, medium-term credit
would also be available for the construction of simple grain storage facilities
of a 3-4 ton capacity for individual farmers and up to 50 tons on a collective
basis. BCA staff would be trained by, and work under the guidance of ODN's
agricultural credit consultant. Three field offices will be established by
BCA at Plaine du Nord, Quartier Morin and St. Raphael.
Extension and Irrigation Services
47.       Both the regional Agricultural Extensinn Service (SVA) and the
Community Development Service (SAR) would be strengthened by the establishment
of field offices in Quartier Morin, Plaine-du-Nord and St. Raphael, and
provided with additional staff, transportation and working facilities. It is
intended to provide one extension agent per 200 farmers and one community
development agent per commune. The Government has agreed to expand the staff
of SVA, SAR, and SICR, the Irrigation Services, in the Project area and to
provide, throughout the 20-year life of the Project, adequate budgetary
support for these services (Section 3.02 and 4.13 of draft Credit Agreement).
The staff of SVA will be increased in the Project area to 33; while the SAR
staff will be increased by 6. The staff and field agents for SICR would be
expanded from the present level of 5 in the Project area to 65, to help
control irrigation, maintain irrigation works and collect irrigation fees.
Other Project Components
48.       To satisfy part of the potable water needs in the Project area, up
to 400 wells would be dug by hand to depths of up to 10 meters and equipped
with hand pumps. In addition, five small water supply systems served by
springs would be equipped with small concrete reservoirs each feeding into
three or four public standpipes. The provision of potable water would serve a



- 14 -
total of about 3,000 families and lead to improved conditions of hygiene and
to a reduction in the incidence of intestinal diseases. The Government would
ensure that (a) the water supply systems and wells will be properly maintained
during the life of the Project; and (b) maintenance costs will be met by the
beneficiaries (Sections 4.04 and 4.08 of the draft Credit Agreement).
49.       Livestock diseases in the area are controllable, but animal health
facilities are poor. The project would strengthen the regional Veterinary
and Livestock Services (SMV/SE) by providing two additional veterinary assis-
tants; field offices in St. Raphael and the Plaine-du-Nord; medical supplies
and veterinary equipment. While veterinary service would be provided to
farmers free of charge, they would bear the cost of medicines and vaccines.
The Government has agreed (Section 4.06 of the Credit Agreement) that it would
cause the regional SMV/SE (i) to charge fees that would cover the cost of
vaccines and medicines in the project area; (ii) to consult IDA on the level
and method of collecting fees; and (iii) to provide continued control of major
endemic diseases in the project area after the disbursement period of the
proposed credit.
50.       The project provides for comprehensive agricultural trials and seed
production programs through the purchase of necessary equipment for land pre-
paration, planting, harvesting, transport, seed processing and laboratory
testing and for related operating expenses. Trials would be conducted by ODN
in cooperation with a local sugar mill with regard to sugarcane, and with
CRUDEM, a local religiously-sponsored cooperative for other crops. Seed
production would be coordinated with CRUDEM and sub-contracted to individual
farmers. Improved seed would be distributed, at cost, to farmers in the
Project area. The trial and seed production programs would be discontinued at
the end of the disbursement period as, by that time, a UNDP-financed trial and
seed production center is expected to become operational in the project area.
Three man-months of short-term consultant services would be provided to help
resolve specific technical problems which may be encountered.
Project Administration
51.       The Government has established the Organisme de Developpement du Nord
(ODN) in Cap-Haitien to plan, coordinate, supervise and execute the project.
ODN would eventually be responsible for all rural development in the Northern
Department. ODN is an autonomous agency under the President of the Republic,
supervised by a Board chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and including
representatives of the Ministries of Finance and Public Works, of the National
Bank of the Republic of Haiti, of the National Planning Council, as well as
the Director of ODN. A Regional Coordinating Committee, chaired by the
Director of ODN and including representatives of relevant government agencies
and of participating non-government bodies and farmers, would meet at least
twice a year to review the work program of ODN.
52.       ODN, headquartered in Cap-Haitien, will be staffed by a Director, a
Deputy Director and seven resident experts; and assisted by short-term consul-
tants. Qualifications and terms of reference of the resident experts and
short term consultants would be subject to IDA approval (Section 3.03 of the



- 15 -
draft Credit Agreement). Appointment of the Director (already selected) and
Deputy Director would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 6.01(b) of the draft Credit Agreement). ODN will consist of two
basic units: one for administration and accounting, the other for operations,
including pl-nning, coordination and work supervision. ODN is expected to
rely on existing public services to carry out specific project components and
to coordinate their activities very closely. In addition, ODN will, with the
help of consultants and other government agencies, carry out all planning,
pre-investment and preparation work for project operations. It would be
provided with funds to finance training of BCA and DARNDR staff assigned to
the Northern Department as well as overseas training for ODN personnel. The
Government will cause participating government agencies to (a) carry out their
respective parts of the project; (b) submit their investment and operating
budgets for work related to the Project to ODN; and (c) submit to ODN annual
reports on the work carried out in the preceding year (Section 3.06 of the
draft Credit Agreement).
Resident Experts
53.       The resident team of experts (para 52) would assist ODN in project
execution, including the design of detailed project features and the training
of staff and project supervision. The expatriate consulting team to be
provided would include the Deputy Director of ODN and specialists in surface
water irrigation, groundwater irrigation, agronomy, marketing/agricultural
credit, and road construction. In addition, two qualified Haitians would
serve as Community Development Officer and Chief Accountant, respectively.
Each expatriate specialist would be provided with a suitably qualified
counterpart who would replace the expatriate specialist at the end of the
disbursement period. The six-man team (24 man-years) represents a relatively
high consulting input. However, given the acute shortage of required tech-
nical expertise in Haiti, this input is vital to the Project s success,
particularly in view of the fact that ODN would be an entirely new agency.
The cost of the team is US$1.1 million (US$4,600 per man-month).
Bilateral Assistance
54.      The Government of Haiti has requested bilateral assistance from
France and the Federal Republic of Germany to finance the cost of the resident
experts. The Association has been informed that, subject to formal approval,
the development agencies of both countries are prepared, in principle, to
provide this assistance. The Government has confirmed its understanding that,
if bilateral assistance is forthcoming, the Association will cancel an amount
of the Credit equivalent to the bilateral assistance received (up to US$2.0
million).
Short-Term Consulting Services
55.       Thirty-five man-months of short-term consulting services would be
provided for project implementation and for preparation of a follow-up rural
development project in the Northern Department. These short-term consultants
would visit Haiti on an ad-hoc basis, as required by the Project; the cost of



- 16 -
US$7,000 per man-month is explained by the need 'for frequent short trips to
and from Haiti.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       The Government agreed to appoint, within about a year, a project
monitoring and evaluation expert to the Evaluation and Control Unit of DARNDR.
The Government also undertook (i) to expand the staff of the Unit in consul-
tation with IDA and (ii) to require the expert, with the assistance of Unit
staff, to prepare annual progress reports on the Project and to furnish such
reports to the Government and to the Association (Section 3.04 of the draft
Credit Agreement). In addition to monitoring progress under the Project,
the expert would assist the Evaluation and Control Unit in developing appro-
priate methods, help train its staff and expand its activities nationwide.
Audits
57.       The accounts of ODN would be audited to standards acceptable to IDA
(Section 4.01 of the draft Credit Agreement). Moreover, the accounts of
government agencies undertaking work for ODN would be audited in respect of
such work under regular government procedures.
Project Cost and Financing
58.       The total cost of the Project is US$13.4 million, of which US$8.2
million (61 percent) is in foreign exchange. The proposed development credit
of US$10.0 million would finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and
US$1.8 million (about 35 percent) of local currency costs. Local cost financ-
ing is justified on the grounds indicated in paragraph 11. The local costs to
be financed under the proposed credit would include operating expenditures
(other than salaries) of ODN and the other participating agencies in the
Project area and part of the construction, maintenance and credit components.
The World Food Programme (WFP) would finance the purchase of food for about 2
million man-days of labor for Project civil works. Amendment of the existing
WFP/Haiti program to allocate 200,000 man-days to meet the Project's require-
ments in the first year of implementation would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Credit Agreement). The
Government would contribute US$2.0 million to finance salaries of ODN and
other participating agency staff, as well as part of the local cost of the
construction, maintenance and credit components. The Government funds,
together with the proceeds of the IDA Credit (total US$12.0 million) would be
passed on to ODN as a grant. ODN would use about 28 percent of these funds
(US$3.4 million) for project implementation and would channel the remaining 72
percent (US$8.6 million) to the participating regional agencies. Cost esti-
mates are based on mid-1976 prices; physical contingencies of 11 percent of
base costs, and price contingencies of 37 percent have been included in the
cost of the Project. The main cost elements of the Project are summarized in
Annex III. If bilateral assistance is forthcoming and US$2.0 million of the
proposed Credit are cancelled, IDA financing would be reduced to US$8.0
million, representing 60% of total expenditures and 73 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures (see para 54 above).



- 17 -
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Contracts in excess of US$50,000 for civil works and for procurement
of equipment and vehicles (aggregating about US$2.0 million) would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group's Procurement Guidelines. Contracts of less than US$50,000 but over
US$10,000 would be awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive
bidding, in accordance with Government procedures satisfactory to IDA. The
bulk of civil works would be carried out on force account but local contractors
would be retained for specific construction tasks. The lower of a preference
of 15 percent, or the prevailing level of import duty, would be accorded for
locally manufactured items; domestic contractors would be allowed a 7.5 per-
cent preference. The resident team of experts and the short-term consultants
would be retained in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
60.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed over a four-
year period to cover the cost of (a) 60 percent of irrigation works; (b) 90
percent of office buildings and staff dwellings, rehabilitation of three
municipal markets and an abattoir, potable water facilities and road construc-
tion; (c) imported vehicles, motorbikes and equipment (75 percent if locally
procured); (d) 95 percent of agricultural credit disbursements; (e) 95 percent
of project administration (except for salaries of local staff), and maintenance
for vehicles and equipment; (f) the resident team of expatriate experts, the
monitoring expert, short-term consultants and fellowships for Project staff.
A schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex III.
Project Benefits
61.       About 4,000 rural families would benefit directly from the produc-
tive components of the project, increasing their on-farm consumption by about
30 percent and their average annual family cash incomes from agricultural and
livestock activities from US$60, on average, to about US$150. In addition,
26,000 rural families would increase their subsistence consumption by up to 20
percent and derive benefits from better roads and improved agricultural
services, including improved seeds. Potable water would be supplied to some
3,000 rural families and about 60,000 urban inhabitants would benefit from
better health standards and more competitive trading due to the rehabilitation
of the municipal markets and the slaughterhouse. At full development, seven
years after the project's inception, incremental production in the project
area would be about US$2 million expressed in 1976 prices.
62.       The project's economic rate of return is 14 percent.    Sensitivity
tests show that delay of project benefits by one year, or a 25 percent increase
in the cost of construction, vehicles and equipment, or a 10 percent decrease
in agricultural yields would reduce the rate of return to 10 percent. The
financial rates of return of four illustrative farm models, each grouping
several families, amounts to 18 percent for the rainfed area and vary from
29 percent to 48 percent in the irrigated areas. However, the Government's
cash flow would remain negative through the life of the Project, taking into
account repayment of the proposed Credit and annual operating costs of about



- 18 -
US$275,000, revenues from water charges (US$15,000), recovery of the cost of
medicines and vaccines (US$10,000) for animal health and the export tax on
incremental sugar production (US$140,000). No attempt has been made to
quantify increased revenues from indirect taxes arising from the purchase of
goods by projec: beneficiaries.
Project Risks
63.       There is a high degree of risk connected with the Project.    Firstly,
the task of ensuring effective coordination of the various agencies partici-
pating in the Project will be a very difficult one. ODN, which will be
entrusted with overall responsibility for Project execution, is a new and
untried institution. Secondly, the weakness of Haitian public services could
adversely affect maintenance of project facilities, credit recovery and the
continuity of the rural development effort in the Project area. Thirdly, some
30,000 ha of cultivated land would be rainfed and dependent on climatic condi-
tions in an area where a decreasing trend in precipitation has been observed
in recent years.
64.       To counter the institutional risks, ODN would be provided with
substantial technical assistance to help it train its staff, coordinate the
activities of other services and pursue carefully planned expansion and
maintenance programs, and, DARNDR's Evaluation and Control Unit will be
strengthened. Moreover, assurances were obtained from the Government that
public services will be strengthened in the Project area during and after
execution of the Project. In the final analysis, the success of the Project
will depend on the Government's continuing support and on the dedication of
Project staff in implementing it and in enlisting farmer participation.     As
regards climatic factors, the improvement and extension of irrigation through
the Project would somewhat reduce farmers' dependence on rainfall.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Haiti and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
66.       Features of special interest of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment are referred to in paragraphs 28, 33, 39, 40, 43, 47, 52, 56 and 58.
Special conditions for the Project are listed in Section III of Annex IV.
67.       Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) that the Association has been informed by the World
Food Programme that its ongoing Food for Work Program
in Haiti, No. 2105, has been modified to provide 200,000
man-days of labor for the first year of the Project; and



- 19 -
(b) that the Director and Deputy Director of ODN have been
appointed.
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
December 15, 1976






S                t                       eRal               t1                     of1
i 0N 0 O. < O Br K . O O O 0\0 lA 2 _ O . O O O O O O O - ^
q s  N   .0 0 ru _   O       o o r      X O N {D   >,, o    o  o   v0 00 UW O     \o O  N  W                       _ UX I _ e
_    _ Ir         N       O V                   U       _   F   e VA {Sw _     VS _  _  _                      ,/} oF #
t1 el <1 :
00 0 0 00 . 00 0 00 . . . . 000 . :
  O -  OD o  z * ' ' _ *
vz  s  o vm rs       S    _  N e
V 4 _
...
S el S '
D hA O UE N n ov . , . . .. .. .... .......... .. .. O . . O O . . O . O .. .. . . . . O O O _,
_ n os N _ w o .. O K Ck i - - -X  -
_ Z 111 .. H K B \ ,
_ @
41 <t M 
.0 <>, r UE O V) > s .. .. O O . .... .. O Q O O Q O O O O O O O . . . . O O O _ |
 ^ D *; o O . O O . o O O O O' X ^ O 4 _ > O  - D 0
_    , e                  o o                           _ 4 K   K e _  _       w   _   _ 6                     _  61 *
ol 6, * e
_ F _
_ @
el X mj i
^ QD o     -   f-   . .      .       . . . .    . .     o O o  o o . o        o o  o  o O      .  .  .   .     O O O-
^ N w - O O Oo K o 6, ov , N _ _ xU _ cx M
_ .0 61 K @
O o. _
-
Y
> t * M> W
.. Vl VX V V)
t1 sr vl vx v vx - | v g Vl O Z D , o
O O D O  I * h} h} X  X h  W  h  0          W -          _ _
t     < X O     O J J J J  V * Z O    hJ SD  Z -   _     O    O J          hJ =    O
* O     Vl = h   _ O O n n  or * X    z s     hl > O      _    - hJ         O 0     hJ
hJ X    D _       O I I r x h/ | O W          V. < Z  Vf   _    >,    _      < r     
- -^ ' hl hJ hl h hl Z t O _ o < @ _ O < hl < O hl J4 V - O
V O _ V} V1 * * h _  Q Z _  D      1:1   h,   1t J _  _    hJ -  B V. s
D D D D  c w }     - _ _ 1. 0 g J  <        CL Z         > X  F {7 7



Page 2 of 4 page.
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to soy year be-twe   1959 and 1861, for 1970 between 1968 ad 1970, ad for Moat Recent Estimate betwee
1971 and 1973
The Ivory Coast has bee ..e.lected saa    bjective country for Heiti since both cotstriee hove. a olelr coltoral backgroond and the Ivory Coast
h.s ...co.edd to atbhevlog a high rate of economIc grooth.
HAITI               1960    /.  1962,   lb  Ratio of popoletilon tader 15 and 65 cud over to total labor forte.   Ic  Inclediog odtdwvs,     /d  7-12 and
13-19 years of ago r-pecti-ely.
1970   Ia  genie of populsttn coder 15 and 65 end soar to total labor forte;      /b  Inclodiog  tdwiv esnd s..sta.tatnre,        /   1966.
-   7fl  7-12 and 13-19 years of age reap-onlosly.                            _
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:     Is  1974;   lb  7-12 years of age;   /c  1975.   /d   1970-75
CAMERIOONl          1970    /   1964-66,   /b  12-18 years of age,   /c  13 years for fast Cmaroor
HONDUweAS           1970    /   RFitic of popalation -sdar 15 sod 65 and sear to total labor forts,   lb  1967-hf, populatilon,   /c  Regiatered, not all
practicing in the coutry,     Id  7-12 ad 13-18 years of age respeti-vly,      '5  Largely doe tomigration slots 1969
of El Sov-dore.ne res ident in Hoodcrae, popolation growth rate is lower tbey the rote of c-tura1 iteornoon
IVORY COAST         1970    Is1965-70,     /b  Rotio of popolation cedar 15 sod 65 ond over to .toto  lohot forco,   /I  Go-r-et only,       /d  1964-66,
7-   .  12-18 yeornof age,    If   Nos to inigration, cho growth rate is higher that tho rote    f toaral ncr1
R7, Aogast 2, 1976
DfINrrfIlNS OF SOCihL. INDICATORIS
1,aod Area (thou bat)                                                               Opulataon Per nursing person - Popuation divided by nmaber of practicing
Total   TotalaI  fc   area tonpristog Iatd ares sod 1ni1od valey                        alecd felsole graduate nurses, 'trained' or "certified" nures., And!
tacIt.-  Moot   -nets ctimate of ag  -otosiae       coed toop-raily orauiliory Por,o-ne cill: training or eaporleon..
p-rvocoly for crps, peot-rv, earhoc & hitohet gord-o or to 1o                     Popu].atiot per honpita1 bed - Ppnlation divided by nutober of honpital beda
follow.                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~avail.ble in public cod privote general and speota.lized hospital and
rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and eotabliohments for
CNP Per .opit. (US$1 - GNP portacpito eutinatot at current eakbt price.,              o-stodial and preventive tore.
caloulated by ease. cneversion method as World Sanob Atlos (1973-75 basis);    'Nrcptaspl          f calorino (% of requirebments) - Conputed frm. energy
l'.60, 1970 and 17175 data,                                                       equivalent of ntfood supplies available in country per capita per day;
avoilableA supplies ro-priase dose.tic production, imports leos suporte,
Populstito   and vitsl otatisicos                                                     and changes i tos   k; net euppliso exclde an-In    feed, .oeds, quotitiss
Popslatico fold-yr. a11il0n) - An or July first    if cot -voihlo.b                   usead In food WooAesing and looses wIn distribution; rcqutrements were
cr-raf of two ood-yeor estbnti et. 1960, 1970 cod 1975 daco.                        ontimated by FAO based on physiological needs for vaea     Activity  -x
end health considering environmoental teomprnture, body weights, age and
Population densite - per square he - Mid-year population pot square bile-              sex disntributions of population, and allowing 10% for waste at househcld
ott1er (100 hectares) of.q totl area                                                  level.                                      -Poencnet~            e
folst ion deneiy     oroocroee fcro          lood - coeputod 00 cbovo for           Pe          'Piase, o   ten(rlsordy             Poencneto           e
ogiocrl.lad only.                                                             capita nt suplyoPfF    ood per da; net suply cf food is defined as
aobes; requiroemeto for all countries ensablished by USIDA Economic
viral statistics                                                                       Roearob~ Services prnvide for a moinimumcc  albacore of 60 gruvo of tntel
Crude birth rote par thoacond - A-ool lint birrhs por thous-od of nid-                 protein per day, end 20 grams of Animal and pulse protein, of ahich 10
Yeor population; to-ea-rtbotoaoego             ending to 1060 and 1970,              gram  ohould be animal protein; these standards Aer lowe   than those nf
Iod tine-year ovrct.di.a In 1975 fnrc-ocrrano.ets -ti-te.                            75 gramo of total protoin and 73 fra-   of annua  purotein a. An average
Crd   dthrtpetheod- A-coc1 dearhi por thousand If nid-yoa                              for tin  -nrld,   psdby PAi tn the Th,r      de'I   Pool Surrewy.
population, ton-year arlthattin   vorgos ending in 1960 cod 1970, and              Pe"cttartispl             from anIma and pulae - Puatcsupply af fond
ftvs-year a.rerge ending it 1975 Cot ever retest tetisa to.                          derived  rom.t aniel  andfpubesn gram-s per day.
')A_ - Annual deaths per thousand in age groutp 1-i
..sr   motalit  rte(thou   -    ual deatha of infante under one year               y-ars,tonhliff    7Atothis age grou p; suggested as an indicator of mal-
of ge per thousand live1 brhsAnurnts
info expectancy at birth (yro) - Ar-rage num-ber of years of lifo remain-
tona birth; usualily five-your averages ending to 1960, 1970 And                   Education
1975 for developing coutries.                                                       X~~fte    rol1mn    rtto - oricry school - Ebnrollnent of all agee a
iron  rop-drdcctos rate - ieA...go tomoer of live daughtor- A woman will               pecnte or prImar sho-gag poplation; inniodee aflidrs aged
hear ic' her noro   r-pr-dur tirn Portod if  h.a sopori- en. ..r..ent age,-          4-11 years but adjusted for di.ffsrent lengths of primeary ed-ra  on;
spoetfac fertility rates; usually fir-year averages nd-ng t- 1963,                   for onotriso with universal edun.ton, our1l.not may .exed 100%
19/a end 1975 Is- U-cispil,g ceuntriss.                                              sin. some pupil.- aro below or bhcoc the offinial school ago.
'-'ltonoruh "tac  M1  - total - Copc..nd Ino    growth rates of nod-           Adiuoted eurllment ratin - secnday      chool - Computed ce ebave; second-
yearpopuatio  for1950hO,  960-1 cd 1903.cy edcatTn reursa                                              eatfu      er   nf Appreved prlvary instru-
Pnpflaiosgroth  ate1%)- uban-.Coopoted like growth rate of total              ties; provideo genral, vocatiocal or teac.her training instructions for
Eultie;difren       dejfimTlon of urban areas rep affect Compaer-                  pupils. of 12 to 17 years of age; cerreopondence cour... Are generally
bil ity of, dta conng cotntrieo.                                                     exocluded.
Ur'.  P22 tin  % aftot.l) - Ratio of urban to tonal population; duf-           Years of schooling prvipded(first and secondn leves     - Total years of
forent definitions of urban srecs may affect conaaiiySfdt                             Choi;atscnaylv,vctoalntrton                            aybprily
among coutries,                                                                      or completely excluded.
Age  t-t-i,(Dgrcent) - Children (0-li years), working-age (15-64 years),             Vocational enrollmsent (% of necondary) - Voeational inotitutiens inoludo
and rtitredf (65 years cod over) as percentagee of mid-year population.              technical, induatrial cr vitor programo~ whinch opera.te independently or
A.. d..endency3,rati~,-JRatio of popuct,on under 15 end 6$ sod over to                 so tdeportoents of secondary.institutios
th..   of  ges  5  ug  54.                                                    Adlt lit.racy rte (%     - Literate adults (able to road and write) an per-
Etoosi   dvedenty        Ratio -Ri  of popolotton under 1$ end 6$ and over             centage of total adult population aged 1$ years and vrer.
to the laber force to age-(group.of 15-Al4 years.
Fam ly plnnin  Tesers, (muenlot-v      thou) - Cumultive sumber of                 ue ~ir
ocuir  of bir'th-control devices u,nder auspine- of nvarasool family            "er:A57 per room (average) - Average number of persons per ruoe in occupied
planning program since inception,                                                    conventional dwellings in urban areasI doellings occlude non-pensannt
Family Planning - userst (% of   rried no5)-Percentages of earned                      structure  And umoccpied parts.
wmnfchild-bearing age (15-Li years) who use birth-control de-                 Ocoijdteddellanowlotppdetr()-Ocpe                       oyonnldel
vices to all married women to sae Aeg group.                                         insi     ra    n     claeswthout inside or outside piped water
facilities as percsntago of all eccupied cheellingo.
n                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Atoness to electricity (% of all doell2.nos) - Co-nretional dwellings with
Totalcbtr forcejsp     p)-Rccmnll            cietesnshnldigeetricity in living qoartern as percent of total dwellings in urban
iarmedfores and un i i96Ied hot ocolodung hous ewives, students, etc.;               and rtural areas.
definitions to various countries ar   sot corparable.                              Rucral dwellig  cnnected to o1ectriolty ()-Computed as absvs for rura
1~~b.rfor"  n agrc  -   - Agricultural labar foros (in farming,                dwellin gs  ny
f5li~7Eihtngand fihig      as percntage of total labor force.
of labord force)1 -UInemployed are usually definod as persons                 Consumption
oheaagb               oeajb       uto     o    nagvndy                     Radio receivenrstaor tho     )- All types of receiers for radio bread-
rema-ined.ot of A Job, and seeki ng wor'k for  aspecified mnisioastott genrlp                              cprthousand of population; nonludee unlicansed
period not ecceeding one week; may snot be ronparable between coun-                  receiver  i   ountries and in years, uhen reglotration of radio, note  an
trios doe to dlifferent definitions of unemployed and source of data,                in effect; date for recet years nay not he compara.ble since vast roan-
n.g., omplyoynuot office etantti-, amplo survys, compulsory 55a-trios                       bholiehod licens.ing.
ploytrect inea-ane..P                                                                  egr care     or thou po) - Passenger oars comprise motor cars noating
Throe, distribution - Percsntage of private income (bath in -&sh and                   vehicles.       pros        Ic~e     muacs       ere     dmltr
kInd) received by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                Elentricitj'(w/     prcn     - Anoual conumption of industrial, co-e-
ii! of houtholdo.                                                                 'TflT7      'i    aW prowt7ol-tricitar in kilowtt-hour     per capita; ge-
orally hosed on production data, without allowane for 1-s-n in grids
Disltrlbutise of len  ossrohip-Pevntges of land owned bj weeltibivt                    but allowing for imports and eaports of electricity.
10  nd poorest 10% e  land'.5  owners.                                          Ne    it(lrprcp            - Per capita annual -ones-qtion in kilogr-e
M~~~~~gd %rtrig2n                                                -t~~~~~~~~~~ikUted frym domestic production plus rat lasPort  of newsprint.
on  or    aca      r opulation  divided by numbar ef pr-ticing
p"lfiiiWs)iqualiri    rona n- edical school at umversity level.



Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                         ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.                                 1960 -67           1967 -72           1972-1975
GNP at Market Prices          870.5         100.0                         0.1                2.9                 3.0
Gross Domestic Investment       98.0         11.3                         -3.0              18.5                12.5
Gross National Saving           55.1          6.3                        -16.5              44.2               -23.0
Current Account Balance         -2.8         -0.3
Exports of Goods, NFS          118.3         13.6                         -2.2                9.2               -1.2
Imports of Goods, NFS          154.4         17.7                         0.2                7.0                11.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                    Labor Force                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ _Mln. 
Agriculture                     398.3      45.4
Industry                        150.0      17.1
Services                        329.0      37.5
Unallocated
Total/Average                        -
877.3     100.0                           lOOO             100.0.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 2/                           Central Government
G Mln.)         % of ODP                     ( __  Hn.)         % of ODP
1,75         r9TP5   l774-5                     197S        l975         17   b
Current Receipts                    489.4 3/       11.2 3/      10.5                  475.4       10.8           10.2
Current Expenditure                 456.4 -/       10.4 41       9. E4/               452.6       10.3            9.8
Current Surplus                      33.0           07           0,7                   22.8       7
Capital Expenditures ./             288.4           6.6          5.7                  213.9        4.9            4.1
External Assietance (net)4          206.3           4.7          3.1                  182.0        4.1            2.8
MONE!. CREDIT and PRICES                   1970          1971        1972         1973        1974         1975
ffilion     C outetanding end period:               -
Money and Quasi Money                       198.2       251.2        321.1       408.4         530.7      595.5
Bank credit to Public Sector 7/            189.2        202.5        215.3       244.7         331.6      415.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector               65.3         78.5         92.1       170.6         310.6      451.3
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of ODP             9.7        11.3         13.8         14.4        14.8         13.6
General Price Index (1965 - 100)            109.8       112.8        116.2       145.8        164.3        201.6
Annual percentage changes ins
General Price Index                          3-3          2.8          3.0        25.5         12.7         22.7
Bank credit to Public Sector --2.1                        7.0          5.4        13.7         35.5         25.
Bank credit to Private Sector                 9.9        20.2         19.6        85.2         82.0        45.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Data refers to fiscal years ending September 30
2/ Consolidated accounts ofR thr Cenfral Government and Public Enterprises
3/ Includes net operating surpluses of public corporations
1  Includes net operating deficits of public corporations
5/ Includes technical assistance expenditures
6/ Net loans and grants
7/ Includes IDB and IDA credits to the public sector channeled through the National Bank
8/ GDP deflator
not available
not applicable



Page 4 Ot b pages
TRADE PAYMTS AND CAPITAL FLOW 1S
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1973-75)
1973     1974     1975                                               US $ Mln    %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS         78.0     115.2     118.3             Coffee                            21.0      25.8
Imports of Goods, NFS         95.7     134.9    154.4              Sugar                              4.7       5.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)   _-197               -36               Essential Oils                     5.0       6.1
Resource Gap  ..j1                 Sisal                              3.0      357
Interest Payments (net)       -o.6      -O.6      -0.5             Bauxite                            7.9       9.7
Small Industries                  57.9      46.5
Other Factor Payments (net)   -3.8      -5.3      -6.3
Net Transfers                 19.1      26.9      40.1             All other comnodities              2.0       2 4
Balance on Current Account    -3'.        1.3     -2.8                   Total                       81.5     100.O
Direct Foreign Investment      7.0       7.9       2.6           EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31. 1975
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements               3.2       8.4      22.4                                                     US $ Mln
Amortization               -6.1       -4.8     -6.2
Subtotal                   -2.9       3       16.               Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                62.0
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total outstanding & Disbursed               62.0
Other itema n.e.i             -2.2      32.7     -39.5                                      3/
Increase in Reserves (+)      -1.1     -19.9     -2,5.5          DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975-
Gross Reservea                20.1      14.7      12.8
Net Reserves                  19.3       -o.6    -24.1              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           5.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed           5.7
Imorts                       4.3       12.4     11.2
Exports
IBRD/IDA LENDING, ( Sept,30,1976) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXC1ANGE                                                                                     IBRD        IDA
Throuh   - 1971                Since  -  1971                 Outstanding & Disbursed                         32-5
usG 1 00   _ US $u0.20JS $ 1.00 - G5.0                     Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                  51.8
r, .00 US$ 0.20               G 1.0O= US $0.20               ttaig5.
1/ Data refers to fiscal years ending September 30.
September 30
:/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
,  not available
. not applicable
Country Programs I
Latin America and the Caribbean
Regional Office
October 26, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HAITI
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                       US$ Million
Credit                                               Amount   (less cancellations)
Number  Year       Borrower         Purpose           Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan (1956) and one credit (1962),
both fully disbursed                                   2.6     0.40
478-HA  1974  Republic of Haiti     Highway                   10.0       0.8
556-HA  1975  Republic of Haiti     Highway                   20.0       9.5
618-HA  1976  Republic of Haiti     Education                  5.50      5.5
645-HA  1976  Republic of Haiti     Power                     16.00     16.0
Total                                          2.6    51.90
of which has been repaid                    2.6
Total now outstanding                          Nil    51.90
Amount sold                                    0.4
of which has been repaid                    0.4
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   -    51.90 1/
Total undisbursed                                               31.8
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of April 30, 1976)
No IFC investments have been made in Haiti.
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit 478:    Third Highway Project:   USIO million Credit of June 6,
1974; Effective Date: September 9, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Civil works construction under the Third Highway Project,
including reconstruction of about 78 km of the Northern Road between Port-
au-Prince and Gonaives, and the Estere bridge, a major structure on the
road, is virtually complete about one year ahead of schedule. The UNDP-
financed technical assistance for transport planning and domestic con-
tractors, which was also part of the project, was completed in draft in
July 1976, with a delay of about four months. The results of the study
were used to formulate a five-year development plan (1976-81) for the
transport sector of Haiti.
Credit 556:     Fourth Highway Project:  US$20 million Credit of June 11,
1975; Effective Date: October 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Physical progress under the Fourth Highway Project, in-
cluding about 170 km of the Northern Road and a new Sonde bridge, has
been excellent. According to current estimates the civil works element
of this project should be completed by mid-1977, about six months ahead
of the original implementation schedule. The Ministry of Public Works is
setting up a transport planning unit and carrying out a program of annual
traffic counts, in compliance with the Credit Agreement. Performance of
the Ministry of Public Works in highway maintenance has, in general,
fallen short of expectations. Joint efforts are being made by the
external agencies involved in financing transport projects, to aid
the Government of Haiti in this area.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects/investments in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit 618:     First Education Project:  US$5.5 million Credit of
February 27, 1976; Effective Date: May 20, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project is slightly behind schedule because of delays
in issuing the civil works contract. Working drawings for the two rural
school prototypes are being reviewed and preliminary designs are being
prepared for the teacher training schools. The prequalification of
civil works contractors is expected to be completed by October 1976;
bidding documents for cement, steel and part of the equipment under the
project are being reviewed by IDA. A revised draft for teacher training
curricula has now been completed and is being reviewed by IDA. The
Project Unit is discussing a technical assistance program of 30 man/
months with UNESCO to cover administration, teacher training and
statistics.
Credit 645:     First Power Project:  US$16.0 million Credit of
July 2, 1976; Effective Date: September 28, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The turnkey contract for the power station has been awarded
and the project is proceeding substantially on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1
HAITI: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   The Republic of Haiti
Beneficiary:                Government would make the proceeds of the IDA
credit available to Organisme de Developpement
du Nord (ODN) as a grant.
Amount:                     US$10.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      Standard IDA terms.
Project Description:        (i) The rehabilitation and expansion of two gravity
irrigation systems at Quartier Morin (2,000 ha)
and St. Raphael (1,900 ha) and well irrigation of
another 1,000 ha; (ii) rehabilitation and construc-
tion of 93.5 km of feeder and farm access roads;
(iii) digging of up to 400 shallow wells and
construction of up to five water supply systems
based on springs for rural potable water supply;
(iv) extension of agricultural credit facilities
to cooperative groups of small farmers and to
individual medium-sized farmers; (v) carrying out
agricultural trials and seed multiplication prog-
rams; (vi) rehabilitation and improvement of three
municipal markets and an abattoir; (vii) training
of local staff and (viii) provision of improved
agricultural extension, rural community development
and animal health services.
Estimated Cost:             T'he estimated total cost of the project is US$13.4
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange compo-
nent of about US$8.20 million.



ANNEX III
Page 2
US$ '000            Percent of
Local  Foreign    Total   Base Cost
Irrigation                     1,960   1,323     3,283       36
Agricultural Credit              186      839    1,025       11
Trials and Seed                   31       52       83        1
Extension Services               377      146      523        6
Animal Health                     23       66       89        1
Markets and Abattoir              38      123      161        2
Roads                            346     901     1,247       14
Potable Water                     52      120      172        2
Project Administration           332    1,895    2,227       25
Project Monitoring                53      178      231        2
Total Base Cost              3,398   5,643     9,041      100
Physical Contingencies         505     513     1,018       11
Price Contingencies          1,238   2,055     3,293       37
Sub-total                    1,743   2,568     4,311       48
Total Project Cost           5,141   8,211    13,352        -
Financing Plan:             Government  -  US$ 2.00 million equivalent
IDA         -  US$10.00 million equivalent 1/
WFP         -  US$ 1.40 million equivalent 2/
Estimated Disbursements:                  IDA Fiscal Year (US$ Millions)
FY78     FY79     FY80    FY81
Annual          2.4      2.4     2.8      2.4
Cumulative      2.4      4.8     7.6     10.0
Procurement:                Contracts in excess of US$50,000 for buildings,
drilling of irrigation wells, and purchase of
vehicles and equipment would be awarded following
international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement. "Food
for Work" would be obtained under WFP procedures
The bulk of civil works for irrigation rehabilita-
tion/expansion and road construction would be done
on force account, though small local contractors
would be hired for specific tasks.
1/   The Government of Haiti has requested bilateral assistance from France
and the Federal Republic of Germany to finance the technical assistance
component of the Project. When this assistance becomes available,
US$2.0 million of the IDA credit would be cancelled.
2/   Two million man-days of unskilled labor in the form of "food for work."



Page 3
Technical Assistance:       (i) A resident team of experts to assist ODN in
project implementation would be hired. The cost
of these experts (24 man-years) is about US$4,600
per man-month.
(ii) Thirty-five man-months of short-term consult-
ing services would be provided to help ODN with
specific aspects of project implementation and
to prepare development plans for the future. The
cost of these short-term services is about US$7,000
per man-month.
(iii) Three man-years of expert assistance would be
provided to assist the Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development in project
monitoring and evaluation (US$4,600 per man-month).
Rate of Return:             14 percent.
Appraisal Report:           Report No. 1281a-HA dated December 13, 1976.



ANNEX IV
Page 1
HAITI: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identified by:           An agricultural sector study jointly
undertaken by IDB, FAO and IDA in
mid-1973 and an FAO/CP mission in July
1974
(b)  Project Prepared by:             Government and an FAO/CP team from
February to June 1975 with the assis-
tance of Bank staff
(c)  First Presentation to IDA:       June 1975
(d) First IDA Mission
to Consider the Project:         October 1975
(e) Departure of
Appraisal Mission:               April 19, 1976
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:      November 29, 1976
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:   May 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
The Borrower (Republic of Haiti), has undertaken to:
(i)  (a) cause the Organisme de Developpement du Nord (ODN) to be
managed by a Director and a Deputy Director with powers and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association and, not
later than July 1, 1977, to employ additional specialists,
including six expatriate experts, as shall be agreed with
the Association; (b) promptly appoint qualified nationals
to serve as counterparts to the expatriate experts, and
(c) to employ consultants for such assignments as shall be
agreed between the Borrower and IDA (paragraphs 52, 53, and
55);



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(ii)  increase agricultural support staff in the Project area and
maintain them at levels agreed with IDA (paragraph 47);
(iii) appoint a Project monitoring and evaluation expert to the
Evaluation and Control Unit of the Department of Agriculture,
Natural Resources and Rural Development and expand the staff
of such Unit in consultation with IDA; require the expert,
with the assistance of Unit staff to prepare annual reports
on the progress of the Project and cause the Unit to furnish
such reports to the Government and IDA (paragraph 56);
(iv)  (a) take appropriate measures to determine and widely
publicize fair prices for land acquisition and for rentals
in the zones of the Project Area which will remain rainfed
under the Project; (b) unless the Government's prior approval
be obtained, prohibit land transactions in the irrigated
zones of the Project Area, and (c) on completion of irriga-
tion, rehabilitation and expansion works, determine and
widely publicize fair prices for land acquisition and rentals
in the irrigated zones of the Project area (paragraph 39);
(v) cause each of the Borrower's agencies participating in the
Project to submit to ODN, for its approval by July 1 of each
year, its budget requirements and operating plans for the
succeeding year and, by October 31 of each year, a report on
activities carried out in the previous year (paragraph 52);
(vi)  grant ODN the powers necessary and cause it to coordinate the
activities of participating government agencies (paragraph 52);
(vii) (a) furnish IDA, within 9 months of the date of signature of
the Credit Agreement, a program regarding the reorganization
and financial strengthening of the Bureau of Agricultural
Credit (BCA), and (b) maintain BCA's current interest rate of
9 percent per annum for the first two years of the Project;
thereafter, the cost of BCA's credit will be raised to 11
percent per annum (paragraph 33);
(viii) cause the municipalities of Cap Haitien and St. Raphael to
adequately maintain and operate their marketing and slaughter-
ing facilities under the Project and to ensure that the muni-
cipalities collect user charges sufficient to cover the
operating, maintenance and administrative expenses of such
facilities (paragraph 45);
(ix)  cause the Irrigation Service to maintain the irrigation
facilities under the Project; to determine, in consultation
with the Borrower and IDA the water charges to be paid by
users; such charges should also cover operating and



ANNEX IV
Page 3
miaiintenance costs and about 50 percent of investment costs.
The Irrigation Service will collect the charges so determined
(paragraph 43);
(x) cause the regional Livestock and Veterinary Services to
(a) collect animal health costs for vaccines, drugs and
medications; (b) determine the level of these costs and
their method of collection in consultation with EDA and
(c) control endemic diseases in the Project Area (paragraph
49);
(xi) cause the Department of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Rural Development, beginning one year after signature of
the Credit Agreement, to review annually (a) the Department's
technical assistance needs; (b) the adequacy of the Depart-
ment's training programs and the adequacy of the conditions
of employment of agricultural support staff, and (c) exchange
views with IDA on the results of such reviews (paragraph 28);
(xii) ensure that the maintenance costs of the drinking water
supply systems and wells included in the Project are borne
by the beneficiaries thereof (paragraph 48);
(xiii) (a) establish annual cutting and collection schedules for
sugarcane and cause ODN to assist the Borrower in supervising
the effectiveness thereof; (b) not reduce the supplier price
of sugarcane without prior consultation with IDA: (c) period-
ically review and exchange views with IDA on such price; and
(d) ensure that the sugarcane milling capacity in the Project
Area is sufficient to process the increased production result-
ing from the Project and exchange views with IDA on the
adequacy of such capacity (paragraph 40);
(xiv) confirm that the World Food Programme has amended its ongoing
Food for Work Program in Haiti, No. 2105, to provide 200,000
man-days of labor for the Project's first year of implemen-
tation (Condition of Effectiveness, paragraph 58); and
(xv) appoint the Director and Deputy Director of ODN. (Condition
of Effectiveness, paragraph 52).






72- 20'                                72-10'  ~    '\UI A*i
_'t 9aq,7                          HAITI                           t7 50-        '          ATZANrIC
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        T,' I,   OCEAN
X   IN THE NORTHERN DEPARTMENT                             w    ?
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N 
0 2~
70''                '      J                                       1        X-
rtMargotr-PS aint MIchel  O  ODlayo  ,
________________________ O  Aurea Anirnein Poervial for Wel Irgai.
9 20  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   j  Poorly~~~~I Dand  Areo
0,  See   X -~AP- CA itllE  *  Irrigotion Services  ALTITUDES  in  ers:       .. 
N o  no        A  .mA z  V  Veterinary Services   S..  1000 or More  - Main Rovdu                 -- 
o  so   >   ~oerA  SRIM  Agricultural Credit (B.C A I   800  - 100Q  Secondary RP-   -  
KBloeter   it  Ar  *   Agricultural Triols  [1 1 600 - ROD0       Commune Rc  i  -   -  
imsmolrorim ol r  l  24  I O  Sugorcone  Tril GI-_-   0  - 600    0   Ccnmmune 
C  \   < .  ~~+ Seed Produc-on         _   0           x.  Dopadrinenil Iouuiory I
pase _  0Ta-AUt  9e  U   Mnnnicipol Abbattoir       00  4 00  lOgQ_  15ht Nn mliirrniarsl  1  *'I
R 1 s  ~  -  Boirriries of ProinctArear                                          of
_Cr~   Aa   SO                72' 70'                               72' 10A:4 ii
C=re+beoe So= y I _ I ____ '4 _ 1 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ca,co



