                                       Document of

                                      The World Bank

                                                                 Report No: ICR0002198


              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
          (IDA Credit 3845-AF, Grant H284-AF, Grant H398-AF and Grant 498-AF)



                    ON ONE IDA CREDIT AND THREE IDA GRANTS

             (IDA Credit 3845-AF) IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 27.9 MILLION

                           (US$ 40.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                (Grant H284-AF) IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.8 MILLION

                           (US$ 25.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

               (Grant H398-AF) IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.1 MILLION)

                           (US$ 28.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                (Grant 498-AF) IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 22.7 MILLION)

                           (US$ 33.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)



                                           TO THE

                        ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                           FOR THE

                EMERGENCY IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT



                                       21 June 2012


Sustainable Development Department
Agriculture and Rural Development Sector
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective April 20, 2012)
                         Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                              US$1.00 = 49.00 AFN
                              SDR1.00 = US$1.474
                                        .
                   Government Fiscal Year: March 21 – March 20

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ANDS Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ARTF Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CDC Community Development Council
EA   Environmental Assessment
EIRP Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
EMP Environmental Management Plan
FAO Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN
FM   Financial Management
GOA Government of Afghanistan
ICR Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA International Development Association
IRR Internal Rate of Return
ISR Implementation Status Report
M&E Monitoring and Evaluation
MEW Ministry of Energy and Water
MIS Management Information System
MOF Ministry of Finance
MTR Mid-Term Review
NGO Non-governmental Organization
NSP National Solidarity Program
O&M Operation and Maintenance
PCU Project Coordination Unit
PSC Project Steering Committee
TA   Technical Assistance
TOR Terms of Reference
WBG World Bank Group
WUA Water User Association


                           Vice President: Isabel M. Guerroro
                         Country Director: Robert Saum
                          Sector Manager: Simeon K. Ehui
                     Project Team Leader: Jun Matsumoto
                        ICR Team Leader: Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal
                                              AFGHANISTAN
                                  Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project



                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet

  A. Basic Information...................................................................................................... iv
  B. Key Dates .................................................................................................................. iv
  C. Ratings Summary ...................................................................................................... iv
  D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................... v
  E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... v
  F. Results Framework Analysis ..................................................................................... vi
  G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................. vii
  H. Restructuring (if any) .............................................................................................. viii
  I. Disbursement Profile ............................................................................................... viii

  1.     Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................... 1
  2.     Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 6
  3.     Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................... 12
  4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................... 17
  5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................. 17
  6.     Lessons Learned.................................................................................................... 20
  7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies ..................... 21

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analyses ................................................................ 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 44
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR ......................................................................... 46
  Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54

  Maps: IBRD AFG 39365
        IBRD AFG 39366
A. Basic Information
                                                                           AF: Emergency
Country:                Afghanistan              Project Name:             Irrigation Rehabilitation
                                                                           Project
                                                                           IDA-38450,IDA-
Project ID:             P078936                  L/C/TF Number(s):         H2840,IDA-
                                                                           H3980,IDA-H4980
ICR Date:               06/26/2012               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        XDR 27.90M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 76.29M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 77.00M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Energy and Water
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/14/2003      Effectiveness:             03/19/2004         03/19/2004
                                                                                    10/24/2006
Appraisal:            11/20/2003      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                    04/03/2007
Approval:             12/23/2003      Mid-term Review:           09/25/2005         03/25/2006
                                      Closing:                   09/30/2007         12/31/2011

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower         Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     10                  10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                 10                  10
Irrigation and drainage                                               75                  75
Sub-national government administration                                 5                   5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other rural development                                               28                  28
Rural policies and institutions                                       14                  14
Rural services and infrastructure                                     29                  29
Water resource management                                             29                  29

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Robert J. Saum                       Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:            Simeon Kacou Ehui                    Gajanand Pathmanathan
Project Team Leader:       Jun Matsumoto                        Mohinder S. Mudahar
ICR Team Leader:           Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal
ICR Primary Author:        Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective is to provide farmers in the project areas with
improved reliable and equitable distribution of irrigation water to increase agricultural
productivity and farm income, improve food security and livelihoods, and reduce
vulnerability due to droughts.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project Development Objective is to assist the Borrower in restoring irrigated
agricultural agricultural production in rural areas, through improved, reliable water
supply to rehabilitated irrigation schemes.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target   Formally     Actual Value
                                                Values (from     Revised       Achieved at
    Indicator          Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target      Completion or
                                                documents)        Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Increase in irrigated area
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %          This PDO indicator
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Increase in productivity
Value
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                    Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                             Values (from                      Achieved at
    Indicator        Baseline Value                               Revised
                                               approval                       Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                      Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of hectares of irrigable land rehabilitated.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :     Number of hydro-meteorological stations rehabilitated
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number of Feasibility Studies prepared
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number of Ministry staff trained in various subjects.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

         Date ISR                                                         Actual Disbursements
 No.                           DO                          IP
         Archived                                                            (USD millions)
 1      06/04/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                      0.00
 2      12/02/2004         Satisfactory           Unsatisfactory                      2.16
 3      06/08/2005         Satisfactory       Moderately Unsatisfactory               4.83
 4      12/12/2005         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                8.55
 5      05/25/2006         Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory               13.69
 6      12/07/2006         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     21.08
 7      06/11/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     25.76
 8      12/15/2007         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     34.20
 9      06/14/2008         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     45.02
 10     12/26/2008         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     52.30
 11     05/18/2009         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     59.94
 12     11/29/2009         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     69.39
 13     05/21/2010         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     82.24
 14     12/05/2010         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     88.19
 15     06/03/2011         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     96.46
 16     12/13/2011         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    112.78
H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     Poor performance of the Hydro-
 10/24/2006       N       S     MS           19.11   met network resulted in it being
                                                     dropped.
                                                     Additional financing was
                                                     required to cover the shortfall in
 04/03/2007       N       S       S          24.47   ARTF Grant and to
                                                     reintrouduce a simplified
                                                     Hydro-met component.


I. Disbursement Profile
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      The Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (EIRP) was based on the Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) for Afghanistan approved by the Board in March 2003. The TSS was
designed to support the National Development Framework (NDF) through which a national
strategy for economic development was articulated by the then transitional Government of
Afghanistan. The World Bank supports four key TSS sectors: Improving livelihoods; Fiscal
strategy, institutions and management; Governance and public administration reform; and
enabling private sector development. Among these sectors prioritized by the World Bank, the
EIRP was designed to support activities that would improve livelihood opportunities in rural
areas through a rehabilitated irrigation system and improved management of national water
resources, including rehabilitation and modernization of a once well-functioning but now
dilapidated hydromet system.

2.      Agriculture production accounts for over half of Afghanistan’s GDP and most of its
direct exports. More than 75 percent of the population lives in rural areas and depends on
agriculture as their source of livelihood. Lack of assured water supply at the farm-level in the
existing irrigation systems which have been dilapidated by 25 years of conflict, neglect, droughts
and floods is one of the major constraints to food production, agricultural growth and rural
development.

3.       The project was approved at the end of 2003. In 2002, it was estimated that the actual
area under irrigation was only about one-third of the area under irrigation in 1993 and even in this
area, the irrigation systems were working at a very low efficiency of about 25%. Furthermore,
Afghanistan is estimated to use only about 30% of its water resources with considerable
undeveloped potential for hydropower, irrigation and potable water supplies. Development and
Management of water resources in Afghanistan is constrained by the lack of accurate and up-to-
date hydro-meteorological information (available record pre-dates to the years before the conflict
and hence is about 25 years out of date). In the same vein, it is also essential to rebuild
institutions and human resources essential for sustainable development and management of the
water resources.

4.       The EIRP was designed to address these issues and was fully consistent with the National
Development Framework and the TSS of Afghanistan. The World Bank has wide experience in
supporting development in post-conflict countries and countries in transition. In addition, the
Bank brings global expertise in water resources management and irrigation rehabilitation. The
Government of Afghanistan recognizing the global experience of the Bank in supporting
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure requested World Bank financing for the NDF’s water
resources development program including irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation on an emergency
basis as part of a multi-donor multi-million dollar national program proposed by the Government
to rehabilitate the irrigation system over a period of three years.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

5.      The project development objective (PDO) was to provide farmers in the project areas
with improved, reliable and equitable distribution of irrigation water to increase agricultural
productivity and farm income, improve food security and livelihoods, and reduce vulnerability to
droughts. This objective was to be achieved by (i) rehabilitating and improving the existing


                                                 1
dilapidated irrigation infrastructure; (ii) restoring and modernizing the hydro-meteorological
network for better monitoring, planning, sustainable use and management of water resources,
including contingency planning for droughts and floods; and (iii) developing the institutional
capacity of public sector water institutions, existing community water organizations and farmers
for operating and maintaining irrigation system in a sustainable manner. Since this was an
emergency operation no Results Framework was prepared (also confirmed by the Task team
Leader of the Preparation team) and no quantifiable intermediate output targets were identified.
However, key performance and project monitoring indicators were provided in Tables 2 and 6 of
the Technical annex and are reproduced in the following section.

The key PDO indicators were as follows:

 Component                                            Indicator
    A                   Number of hectares of irrigable land rehabilitated
                        Number and type of beneficiaries
                        Contribution to irrigation scheme rehabilitation by beneficiaries
                        Balanced geographical distribution of rehabilitated irrigation schemes
        B               Number of hydro-meteorological stations rehabilitated
                        Number of rating curves at hydrological stations established
                        Number of river sub-basins with water balance calculated
        C               Number of feasibility studies prepared
        D               Number of Ministry staff trained in various subjects
                        Ministry staff assessments by international consultants
                        Offices (m2) equipped and used for project implementation
                        Implementation Plan


1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

6.       The Bank approved the restructuring of the project on October 24, 2006. The
restructuring covered the refinement of the original PDOs and Key Performance Indicators,
revision of the project outputs, cancellation of the original component B (rehabilitation of the
Hydro-meteorological System) and the reallocation of funds allocated for this component among
the other three remaining components, mainly for Component A (Rehabilitation of Irrigation
Schemes). The revised PDO is “to assist the Borrower in restoring irrigated agricultural
production in its rural areas, through improved and reliable water supply to rehabilitated
traditional irrigation schemes?. The revised key performance indicators for the achievement of
the PDO were:

       Increased area under agricultural production; and
       Percentage increase in agricultural production in rehabilitated schemes

7.      There was another restructuring in March 2007 when additional financing of US$ 25
million equivalent was approved to fill a financing gap. There was no revision to the PDO but the
Rehabilitation of Hydro-meteorological Component was reintroduced as Component D. The
revised key PDO indicators were not changed.

8.     Both Afghanistan Transition Support Strategy (TSS) and Interim Strategy Note (ISN) of
April 2006 anticipated more rapid transition from emergency post conflict status to a more



                                                2
normalized situation (ISN) and began the transition from a short-run emergency orientation to a
longer term development orientation (TSS).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

9.       The primary target group is the farmers and their families living in the rural areas covered
by the irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated. Government institutions as well as communities
involved in the rehabilitation, modernization, operation and maintenance of irrigation
infrastructure were the other target group. Capacities of the second target group were to be
enhanced through the original component D and revised component C through the technical
assistance provider. Even though the investment started as an emergency recovery operation, it
included components for rehabilitating the hydro-met network together with the building up of
the hydro-met services of Afghanistan, a vital requirement for the medium and long-term
development and management of water resources of Afghanistan. Similarly the technical
assistance component also focused on improving the capacity of the Ministry staff in technical,
financial and managerial aspects of rehabilitating, developing and managing irrigation and
associated water resources infrastructure.

1.5 Original Components

10.      The original project components were (A) rehabilitation and improvement of about 1,280
irrigation schemes consisting of small (1,100), medium (160) and large (20) schemes; (B)
rehabilitation of hydro-meteorological network; (C) preparation of feasibility studies and
monitoring; and (D) institutional development.

1.6 Revised Components

11.     After the original project was signed, there was 1 restructuring in 2006, and three
additional financing in 2007, 2008 and 2009. History of revised components is presented below:




                       Component A         Component B        Component C       Component D
                                    Rehabilitation of
                   Rehab. of 1,280                        Preparation of
                                    hydro-                                Institutional
Original Project   irrigation                             feasibility
                                    meteorological                        development
                   schemes                                studies
                                    network
                   Rehab. of 750    Feasibility study for
                   medium/ lesser Kokcha multi-
                                                          Institutional
                   and 10 large     purpose water                         -
                                                          development
                   irrigation       resource
2006 Restructuring schemes          development
                   Revised key performance indicators for the achievement of the PDO:
                         Increased area under agricultural production; and
                         Percentage increase in agricultural production in rehabilitated
                            schemes
2007 Additional    Rehab. of 750    Feasibility study for Institutional Rehabilitation of
Financing          medium/ lesser Kokcha multi-           development hydro-


                                                 3
                     Component A         Component B       Component C     Component D
                   and 10 large      purpose water                       meteorological
                   irrigation        resource                            network
                   schemes. Target   development
                   area increased
                   from 280,000 to
                   390,000 ha
                   Rehab. of 780     Feasibility study for
                   medium/ lesser    Kokcha multi-
                   and 14 large      purpose water                       Rehabilitation of
2008 Additional    irrigation        resource              Institutional hydro-
Financing          schemes. Target   development           development meteorological
                   area increased                                        network
                   from 390,000 ha
                   to 480,000 ha.
                   Rehab. of 865     Feasibility study for
                   medium/ lesser    Kokcha multi-
                   and 22 large      purpose water                       Rehabilitation of
2009 Additional    irrigation        resource              Institutional hydro-
Financing          schemes. Target   development           development meteorological
                   area increased                                        network
                   from 480,000 ha
                   to 571,000 ha.


12.     2006 Restructuring: After the restructuring in 2006, the original Component B
(Rehabilitation of Hydro-meteorological Network) was dropped and in Component A the target
of 1,100 small schemes and 160 medium schemes was changed to 750 medium and lesser
schemes. The target for the large schemes was reduced from 20 to 10. The original Component C
Preparation of Feasibility Studies and M&E was changed to include only one feasibility study
namely Feasibility Study for Kokcha multi-purpose water resources development and was made
Component B including the M&E work. The original Component D The institutional
development of MEW became Component C.

13.     2007 Additional Financing: After the first additional financing in March 2007, the
Rehabilitation of Hydro-meteorological Network was reintroduced as Component D. Other
components remained unchanged. The additional financing was to make up the shortfall caused
by non-availability of ARTF funds originally allocated for this project.

14.    2008 Additional Financing: After the second additional financing in June 2008, the
number of medium and lesser schemes to be rehabilitated was increased by 30 to 780 and the
number of large irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated was increased by 4 to 14. Other
components remained unchanged.

15.     2009 Additional Financing: After the third additional financing in May 2009, the
number of medium and lesser schemes to be rehabilitated was increased by 85 to 865 and the
number of large irrigation schemes to be rehabilitated was increased by 8 to 22 in Component A.
Under Component C, following additional activities were included: (i) provision of academic and
practical training in monitoring and evaluation; (ii) completion of the WAPECA building in


                                              4
Kabul; (iii) construction of new office buildings MEW at Panjsher, Konarha, Norestan, Zabul and
Konarha; (iv) construction of boundary walls of existing office buildings of MEW at Laghman,
Khost, Daikundi, Kandahar, Pakteka and Bamiyan; and (v) acquisition of vehicles, digital
cameras, multimedia projectors, and GPS devices for the central and regional offices of MEW.
Under Component D further expansion of hydro-meteorological facilities including thirty
cableways for river flow measurements and six silt measurement laboratories and other
measuring equipments such as current meters, echo sounders and accessories such as motor boats
were provided for.

1.7 Other significant changes

16.      The Bank approved restructuring of the project in October 2006. This covered the
refinement of the original PDO and Key performance Indicators, revision of project outputs,
cancellation of the original component B (rehabilitation of hydro-meteorological system), and
reallocation of funds allotted for this component among the other three remaining components,
mainly for Component A (rehabilitation of irrigation schemes). The reasons for dropping
Component B were given as (i) protracted delays in procurement; (ii) overly ambitious design of
the component to the then existing capacity in MEW and prevailing conditions in Afghanistan;
and (iii) shortage of funds for emergency rehabilitation works, which were the highest priority of
the government. At this restructuring, the targets for Component A were revised from 1100 small,
160 medium and 20 large schemes to 750 medium and lesser and 10 large schemes.

17.      The original project cost estimate was approximately US$ 75 million. It was expected to
be financed by an IDA Credit of US$ 40 million and an ARTF (Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
Fund) Grant of US$ 35 million. IDA provided the US$ 40 million Credit through Cr. 3845-AF
but the ARTF grant financing was not made available. An additional financing of US$ 25 million
in the form of an IDA Grant was approved in April 2007 to cover the full scope of the project and
the Credit closing date was extended by one year to September 30, 2008. At this time,
considering the importance of hydro-meteorological data for the development and management of
water resources in Afghanistan, the hydro-meteorological component (which was dropped in the
restructuring exercise of 2006), was reinstated in the project as Component D with a simplified
design suitable for Afghanistan’s security conditions and skill levels.

18.     Given the substantial requirements for rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and the
reported satisfactory performance of EIRP, a second additional financing was approved in the
amount of US$ 28 million in June 2008 with an extension of Credit/Grant closing date by another
two and a half years to March 31, 2011.The PDO, components, arrangements for implementation,
procurement, financial management and disbursements remained unchanged except for an
increase in the targets for medium and lesser as well as large schemes under Component A.

19.      In 2007, when the Government requested additional financing, it had envisaged a
program for about US$ 50 million. Since funds were not available only US$ 28 million could be
provided. However, in 2009, another IDA Grant for US$ 33.5 million was approved to scale up
activities considering the additional financing as the fastest means of project processing in order
not to lose the momentum generated under EIRP while a subsequent follow-on project
preparation was getting under way. The PDO, components, arrangements for implementation,
procurement, financial management and disbursements as well as the Credit closing date
remained unchanged. The increase in scope of activities under Components A, C and D were as
described in paragraph 17 above.




                                                5
20.     In 2011, the Credit closing date was extended to December 31, 2011 to allow more time
for completion of rehabilitation work on already awarded contracts that were delayed among
other reasons due to security issues.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

21.      This project was originally approved for a three year period as an emergency project to
assist the then Transitional Government of Afghanistan to immediately address issues related to
dilapidated irrigation infrastructure and to initiate much needed capacity building in the country.
The project objective as defined originally focusing on providing reliable and equitable water
supply to the beneficiary farmers through rehabilitation of dilapidated irrigation infrastructure
was sound and appropriate for the country’s circumstances and immediate development needs.
The project was based on a sound analysis of the situation regarding irrigation infrastructure and
the need to rehabilitate the hydro-met system which was functioning well until 1980 until
destroyed by years of conflict and neglect. Since the irrigation schemes numbering in thousands
were to be rehabilitated, the project design clearly specified selection criteria for each scheme,
including the requirement for beneficiary participation and contribution. Issues related to mine
risks and negative attributes were also discussed and the ways to handle these were clearly laid
out. Detailed social and environmental framework templates were developed for use by the
designers. The preparation team also wrote detailed terms of reference for the technical assistance
needed in each discipline for the successful implementation of the project.
22.      Assessment of Project Design: The project components cover the requirements of the
project development objective. They allowed for immediate rehabilitation of schemes,
preparation of feasibility studies for large-scale investments which would take some time to
materialize, re-establishment of the hydro-met service together with replacement of existing non-
functioning hydrological stations with modern up-to-date gauges and allocation of resources to
build the capacity of the Ministry. Since Afghanistan had a well-functioning hydrological
network, no detailed network design was necessary and the preparation team wisely adopted the
locations of the existing stations to replace them with modern stations using technologies
available in 2003. Recognition of the importance of reliable up-to-date hydrological information
was one of the strong features of preparation. The rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure was
based on community requests for immediate assistance and was focused on specific repairs in
existing traditional irrigation systems. Recognizing the post-conflict situation and the reluctance
of internationally recognized firms to work in the country at that time, the Bank and the Borrower
opted to sole source the specialized agency of the United Nations, the Food and Agriculture
Organization (FAO) to provide the requisite technical assistance. The contribution from the
technical assistance team was the key factor in the successful implementation of component A. In
the execution of other components this arrangement has worked reasonably well although the
technical assistance services provided in these areas could have been better as discussed in later
sections.
23.     Government Commitment: The transitional government in place at the time of project
approval as well as the government that followed fully supported the project concept and the
design. There were, however, some weaknesses during implementation, particularly with respect
to the rehabilitation of hydro-met stations and establishment of hydrological services of
Afghanistan.
24.   Risks identified at appraisal: The likely risks identified at approval were related to (i)
weak institutional capacity; (ii) security situation in the country; (iii) land mines; (iv)


                                                6
misallocation, misuse or inefficient use of funds; and (v) riparian issues. These risks did indeed
materialize and the ones related to riparian issues was handled through rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure in line with Bank policies, and the risk related to misuse or misallocation of funds
was handled through close monitoring by the international financial management specialist of the
technical assistance team. Schemes were rehabilitated only in the areas cleared and approved by
the UN mine clearance force. The other two risks did have an adverse impact on project
implementation and monitoring and evaluation activities. These risks could not be avoided and it
was correct to proceed with the investment recognizing the existence of these risks.
25.     The quality at entry was not measured by the Quality Assurance Group but the ICR
mission rates the Quality at Entry (QAE) based on the above review summary as Satisfactory.
26.      Additional Financing was provided in three tranches. The first tranche was to replace the
ARTF grant which was not forthcoming and was approved in March 2007 and the mission is of
the view that it was correct to proceed with the emergency approach for rehabilitation of
infrastructure. However, the subsequent tranches approved in June 2008 and May 2009 should
have taken a more holistic view of rehabilitation and switched from emergency operation to a
development operation. Since these were done during implementation, the above rating for QAE
does not cover these additional tranches.

2.2 Implementation

27.     Factors outside the control of Government and the Implementing Agency: When the
project was approved, the overall security situation in the country was improving and was
expected to stabilize. However, during the implementation period the security situation worsened
which resulted in implementation delays and limitation of access to project sites. In spite of this,
the project has managed to achieve most of its revised (increase from 280,000 ha to 571,000 ha
through three tranches of additional financing) targets in irrigation rehabilitation.
28.      Factors generally subject to implementing agency control: Staffing of the Ministry
was under the control of the Government. The Ministry did experience difficulty in attracting and
then sustaining well-qualified staff due to the dearth of such persons in Afghanistan. However,
the ICR mission has concluded that the Ministry management could have paid much greater
attention and should have taken required actions in (i) employing staff and encouraging the
establishment of an independent Monitoring and Evaluation Unit as required by the project; and
(ii) developing a hydro-meteorological service which would be the backbone of further water
resources developments in the country. There were also delays in procurement of civil works and
goods due to lack of adequate well-qualified staff which could have been trained by the project
technical assistance program. Similarly the Ministry did not provide qualified full-time staff to be
trained in financial management aspects by the international financial management specialist of
the technical assistance provider.
29.     The Project Co-ordination Unit (PCU) was established under this investment to
manage and implement the project with support from the technical assistance team provided
through the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. As such they were
learning project management and implementation in the initial stages of the project. The staff of
PCU, both in the central office in Kabul and the regional offices in Kabul, Bamiyan, Kandahar,
Herat, Mazar, Kunduz and Jalalbad have learnt substantially from this investment. However, the
PCU could have strongly requested the technical assistance provider to provide world class
training as envisaged in the third tranche of additional financing to improve their technical
knowledge in the preparation of rehabilitation plans and designs as well as financial management
and procurement skills. There were procurement delays even in the last three years of the project



                                                 7
which could have been avoided. Similarly, the hydro-met component could have been better
handled by the PCU ensuring collaboration with the Water Management Department. In these
areas, improvements have happened at the closing time of the project.
30.      Implementation Efficiency: The rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure has been
carried out reasonably efficiently. This component has been a priority of the Government. There
are some areas with respect to technical aspects of the designs, procurement and contract
management which could have been done better and more efficiently. The rehabilitation of hydro-
meteorological network and associated hydrological services of Afghanistan was not carried out
efficiently. The mission attributes this to lack of serious commitment on the part of the Ministry
and lack of cooperation between PCU and WMD. Similarly capacity building efforts have not
been up to the mark due to deficiencies in the technical assistance provider as well as lack of due
diligence from the Ministry. The technical assistance team could have relied much more on the
technical expertise available at its headquarters in Rome, particularly for remote sensing and GIS
applications in irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation and monitoring and evaluation efforts. It
could have also derived much more technical support from its regional office in Bangkok.
31.      Implementation Delays: There were delays at the start-up of the project. A major factor
affecting implementation throughout the project period has been the generally unfavorable
operating environment in the country. This resulted in the inability of the technical assistance
provider to attract and retain well-qualified subject matter specialists in some disciplines and the
inability of MEW to effectively mobilize national staff. In the early years of project
implementation, project proposals were prepared by the technical assistance team. When this
responsibility was gradually shifted to national staff as required in the project design, the rate and
quality of project proposals preparation suffered. In addition, there were delays in procurement
due to misunderstanding of Bank procurement guidelines by both the Borrower and the
Contractors and lack of capacity for contract management in the PCU as well as the technical
assistance team. Hence rehabilitation of some of the larger schemes was delayed. The
rehabilitation of even the simplified hydro-meteorological network has been substantially delayed
and only 54% of the works have been completed at the time of Credit/Grant closing.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

32.     Design: A detailed monitoring and evaluation framework was outlined in the Technical
Annex (Appendix 10) which is the parent document for the entire investment. A project
monitoring and evaluation system is provided in Table 2 of the Technical Annex. This captures
well the parameters to be measured to evaluate achievements against each component leading to
an evaluation of the achievement of the PDO. The design also incorporated a detailed terms of
reference for a monitoring and evaluation consultancy. A consulting firm or independent
organization was to be recruited to carry out monitoring and evaluation of project impacts. The
main objectives were to evaluate the success in meeting the project objectives, and to assess its
physical, agricultural, social, financial/fiscal, and economic impact. The M&E framework
provided for independent and continuous feedback to the implementing entities on the project’s
performance and the impact of its various components so that corrective action or fine tuning
could be undertaken in a timely manner.
33.      An international consulting firm was recruited to carry out the M&E activities in 2006
after substantial delays. The firm worked through 2007 and set up a foundation and baseline for
M&E activities in the Ministry. At the end of 2007, the contract was terminated and an individual
international expert was recruited by the Ministry to continue the M&E activities. An
organization chart with job descriptions was prepared at this time but was not followed up



                                                  8
properly by MEW and an inadequate unit was set up. The M&E functions specific to the project
were then assigned to the technical assistance team.
34.      Implementation: From 2008 until Credit/Grant closure, the international M&E specialist
of the technical assistance team located full-time in Kabul worked together with national staff on
monitoring and evaluation. Since the revised key performance indicators after the restructuring
exercise in 2006 were restricted to increase in irrigated area and agricultural productivity, the
M&E focused on these aspects by conducting field surveys at the end of each crop season. M&E
surveys and analyses covered Component A only and the outputs/outcomes of the other three
components were either not covered or not covered systematically. Given the insecure operating
environment in the country the M&E implementation could have benefitted substantially with the
use of advanced technologies available.

35.     Utilization: The M&E results were to be used in adjusting the implementation of the
project and also to fill in data gaps identified during the monitoring. The mission held detailed
discussions with the International M&E specialist as well as project management and based on
the information derived from these discussions has concluded that M&E results were not utilized
in implementation course correction as required. Hence the project implementation did not learn
from the M&E activities and in turn did not guide further M&E activities.
36.     Overall, the M&E performance of the project is rated as moderately unsatisfactory


2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
37.      The project had a “B? environment category and “S2? safeguards classification. No
significant adverse environmental or social impacts occur during the project life. The project has
followed the guidelines of ESMF developed in the Technical Annex in 2003, and applied for both
social and environmental screening of subprojects in the planning/design and implementation
stages. Furthermore, EMPs for larger schemes were developed and shared with the Bank.
Following the social and environmental screening, limited environmental and social assessments
were carried out for some medium irrigation schemes which were anticipated to have some
limited adverse impact. Regarding land requirements, government land has been used for building
meteorological stations, offices for the provincial WMDs as well as establishment of nursery for
Nahr-e-Lashkari canal green belt. Where small strips of land along the right of way of canals and
rivers were required for hydrological stations, these were contributed by community or through
individual voluntary donation. Such practices are very common in Afghanistan and socially
accepted when impact is insignificant; however documentation of procedures followed have not
been done consistently. In one case only, construction work on sub-project was stopped following
a complaint from an individual land owner: construction of Panjsher Water Management
Department office building was dropped when MEW was unable to find a solution satisfactory to
the private owner of the land in question.

38.      During project implementation a safeguard focal point was placed within M&E unit to
oversee the implementation of ESMF. The project has provided training on ESMF to relevant
staff and project engineers from different regions who were also assigned to work with an
international consultant in developing Limited Environmental Assessments (LEAs). Hence some
capacity building of MEW/PCU on social and environmental safeguard related to irrigation
rehabilitation and development has taken place.
39.     Since most of the rivers in Afghanistan, on which the sub-projects supported under the
project were located, are international waterways Bank’s policy OP 7.50 was triggered. However,
the sub-projects were emergency rehabilitation of existing infrastructure which did not involve


                                                9
works and activities that would exceed the original scheme, change its nature, or so alter or
expand its scope and extent making it appear a new or different scheme. The task team had
determined that the rehabilitation works did not adversely change the quantity and quality of
water flowing to the other riparians and were also not affected adversely by the other riparians’
water use. Accordingly as provided for under OP 7.50 paragraph 7, a waiver was sought from the
notification requirements and was approved by the Regional Vice President.

40.     Overall, the safeguard performance of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Procurement

41.     The project was implemented by the technical assistance of FAO. FAO provided a
competent international procurement specialist (IPS) throughout the project implementation.
Besides input from IPS there were national procurement officers working in the FAO/PCU team
as well. The National officers were working under the guidance of the IPS. The IPS was able to
develop the capacity of procurement staff in MEW to a limited extent.

42.     During project implementation there were certain contract packages which were handled
in the regional offices and due to weak capacity in the regional offices there were several
deviations found during Post Procurement Review (PPR).

43.    Delay in approval of the TOR, technical specification, bill of quantities was another issue
which impacted negatively on the procurement process throughout implementation.

44.     The project had problems also due to poor contract management. Majority of the
contracts were not completed within initial implementation period and there were considerable
delays in the contract implementation. The lack of capacity in contract management resulted also
in the PCU requesting IDA for no objection of contract extensions on post- facto basis.

45.     There were certain issues on the technical quality of the procurement process. For
instance the client prepared an unrealistic BOQ for Nahir Lashkari Large scheme and the
contractor did the construction work beyond the BOQ and due to inadequate supervision by the
project staff/technical assistance provider there was considerable variation and the project had to
request the Bank for no objection on post-facto basis.

46.     Another procurement issue was related to the rehabilitation of WAPICA building. The
project team issued bidding document without proper design and BOQ which resulted in huge
contract amendment.

47.     Overall, the procurement performance of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Financial Management

48.     The project which comprised IDA 3845, H284, H398 and H498 operated under the
steadily improving Project Financial Management reforms under implementation by the
Government of Afghanistan with the World Bank assistance. Under these reforms proper records
of grants received and disbursements through the special accounts were maintained by the
Ministry of Finance, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU) which was initially manual and later
migrated to Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS). The funds flow to
the project was timely.


                                                10
49.      Proper records of eligible expenditure for various components and activities were
maintained by the implementing agency – Ministry of Energy and Water through a dedicated
project coordination unit (PCU). The internal controls were adequate and the project introduced
internal audit towards the end of the project. The internal audit arrangements will roll over to all
MEW implemented projects. Regular IUFRs in the agreed format were submitted during the life
of the project.

50.     Annual audited financial statements were submitted regularly though there were some
delays in the initial years. The audit opinion of the Control and Audit Office of Afghanistan was
qualified for the initial three years but thereafter the audit opinion was unqualified (clean). Audit
observations were promptly resolved.

51.      The financial management capacity strengthened during the course of the implementation
of the project. The Bank’s FM unit participated in all supervision missions and provided guidance
and hand holding support to strengthen the FM arrangements. The project closed with a
‘Satisfactory’ FM supervision rating.

52.     The project’s FM performance is Satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
53.      A follow-on operation titled Irrigation Restoration and Development Project (IRDP) has
been approved by the Board and is currently under way. The IRDP with an estimated cost of
about US$ 148.7 million became effective on 15 June 2011. The project duration is about 6.5
years. IDA would finance about US$ 97.8 million and the remaining amount would be covered
by ARTF (US$ 48.4 million) and Government of Afghanistan (US$ 2.5 million). IRDP follows in
general the approach of the EIRP but with an addition of a small dams component. There would
be continued technical and managerial support to the PCU by the EIRP technical assistance team
which has been asked to continue with the assignment. If the implementation lessons learned and
reported in this ICR are followed, the sustainability of investments made in capacity building is
likely. In the follow-on project, training should continue to be provided to the community
organizations and the Mirabs of schemes rehabilitated under the EIRP as well. Given that several
of the rehabilitation interventions are on streams with substantial bedloads, the operation and
maintenance of structures built across or on the banks of these streams would require further
technical and financial assistance to be provided to the communities to ensure sustainability. The
mission found that some of the structures rehabilitated under the project were already damaged
by flood flows carrying significant bed and suspended loads. Other smaller structures would be
maintained by the communities themselves, particularly due to satisfactory training provided to
them in operations and maintenance by the project. The mission is optimistic that the
communities have the ability to operate and maintain the smaller structures.

54.     The sustainability of the interventions also depends upon the capacity of the staff of the
Water Management Department (WMD) of the Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW) both at the
central and regional levels. Since EIRP has not involved these officers in the rehabilitation
program, this would require training of these officers in the follow-on project. MEW should
continue to maintain adequate skilled staff strength in the WMD offices and provide them with
adequate resources such as computers and accessories, vehicles, allowances etc. (which could be
reimbursed on a declining scale through the IRDP).




                                                 11
55.     The build-up of institutional capacity, both in the MEW and the PCU would continue
under the IRDP as specific substantial provisions have been made in that project. The Bank has
made the correct decision to proceed with the follow-on project without gaps, as this would help
in maintaining the momentum currently being generated in capacity building of staff.

56.      Many of the problems encountered in the implementation of the hydro-met component in
EIRP such as (i) the role of the PCU in the procurement and installation of gauging stations; (ii)
role of WMD in taking over responsibility of operation and maintenance of these stations; and
(iii) operationalization of the hydro-met services are being sorted out in the follow-on IRDP.
MEW is now aware of the importance of vetted hydrological and meteorological data in the
preparation of new water resources developments. The Bank-supported AWARD project has also
brought out the requirements of good hydrological analyses in the preparation of a Bankable
investment portfolio. These aspects should be nurtured and fully developed in the follow-on
IRDP.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

57.     The objectives, design and implementation are just as relevant to current country and
global priorities and Bank assistance strategy as they were at appraisal. The overall rationale of
supporting investments in improving irrigated agriculture is in line with the strategy articulated in
the National Development Framework of 2002 as well as the Afghanistan National Development
Strategy (ANDS) developed in 2008. The development and management of water resources has
been accorded high priority in the ANDS. Given these the ICR mission assessment is the
operation is highly relevant to the needs and priorities of the sector. The design of the project
was in line with these highly relevant objectives and the implementation arrangements were also
consistent with the design.


3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives:

58.     The achievement of project development objective has been assessed by the ICR mission
using the key performance indicators provided in the Technical Annex of the original Credit.

59.      Irrigation Rehabilitation: The final targets set after the third additional financing in May
2009 for rehabilitation of 863 medium and lesser schemes and 22 large schemes were almost met
with some delays. 710 medium and lesser schemes and 19 large schemes have been completed.
About 38 schemes had to be abandoned during construction due primarily to substantial security
issues such as killing or kidnapping of project and contractor staff by insurgents. There has been
an increase in the net irrigated area by about 25%. About 910,000 households, distributed in all
the 34 provinces of the country, have benefitted from the irrigation rehabilitation investments. In
terms of area covered under the project against a target of about 716,050 ha already an area of
about 802,619 ha (112% against the target) has been covered which is a phenomenal achievement.
The provision of more reliable water supplies through construction of permanent intake
structures and resilient wash structures to handle the flood flows coming from the steep hills is
contributing to increases in irrigation area (i.e. areas that were once irrigated but were abandoned
or curtailed due to frequent collapses of either intake or wash structures). The rehabilitation has
instilled confidence in the farmers and higher agricultural productivity has been reported by M&E
specialists. More detailed description of the outputs from this rehabilitation component is



                                                 12
provided in Annex 2. Given the operating environment, the achievement under this component
can therefore be termed as highly satisfactory.

60.     Feasibility Study: The target for carrying out feasibility studies for large scale water
resources development was narrowed down to one specific study during the 2006 restructuring
due to non-availability of funds. This feasibility study for the potential Lower Kokcha Irrigation
and Hydropower Development has been completed satisfactorily.

61.      Hydro-Meteorological Network: However, the project development objective was also
to be achieved through restoring and modernizing the hydro-meteorological network and through
building capacity in the public sector institutions and community organizations. Establishment
and operationalizing the hydrological services of Afghanistan together with the installation of the
hydro-met network has not happened yet although some efforts are under way to rectify this
situation in IRDP. Out of the 174 stations to be installed only 105 stations were installed after
substantial delays. Data from these stations is not being collected and analyzed in an appropriate
manner. Only recently, the Ministry has started paying attention to this extremely important
component. The performance of this component was highly unsatisfactory.

62.     Capacity Building: While certain amount of capacity building in the relevant institutions
in Government as well as communities has been achieved, further work is still required to bring
the staff of the MEW to a stage where they can begin to plan and design restoration and
development of irrigation infrastructure without continuous support. This deficiency in capacity
building is borne out by the fact that the follow-on IRDP has employed the EIRP technical
assistance team as their technical assistance and implementation support consultants in
substantially same disciplines for the entire duration of the project again. The performance of
this component was moderately unsatisfactory.

63.    In the context of the above ratings, based on the weighted average of the disbursement
made under each component, the overall achievement of PDO is rated as satisfactory.

3.3 Efficiency

64.      Similar to the analysis carried out at appraisal, the ICR analysis also estimated economic
returns (EIRRs) by region. A summary table comparing IRRs developed at various stages is given
below. The result of economic analysis reveals estimated EIRRs ranging from 21.6% to 34.7%
with an overall EIRR as 25.8%. Although, no financial analysis was carried out at appraisal, it has
been estimated at ICR. Results of financial analysis show FIRRs ranging from 20.8% to 31.8%
with overall FIRR as 23.5%. NPV in economic terms is estimated as US$ 197.5 million and
overall BC ratio comes to 1.98:1 at 12% discount rate. NPV in financial terms is estimated as
US$ 161.8 million and overall BC ratio comes to 1.75:1 at 12% discount rate. Incremental
irrigated area generated additional benefits of $ 341 per ha per annum due to the project
investments in the rehabilitated irrigation schemes. Average farm size is 0.6 ha in the EIRP
command areas and average family size in rural Afghanistan is six adult units1. As such, a farm



1
 The National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 2005, Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and
Development and the Central Statistics Office, Kabul, June.2007.




                                                13
household will get increase in income by about US$ 204, whereas, per capita income in the
project beneficiary household will increase by about US$ 51 per annum. The project will generate
about 4.3 million additional person days as farm labor. Efficiency has therefore been rated as
Satisfactory. Annex 3 provides more details.




                                              14
Economic Analysis Undertaken at:                  ERR (%)                              Assumptions/ Data

Appraisal year 2003                               Ranging     between     17-46%; i) Increase in yield by 30%-75% depending upon farm
                                                  overall 31%                         size)
                                                                                  ii) 20% increase in irrigated area.
                                                                            iii)       iii) Increase in intensity

                                                                                    iii)Wheat was taken as proxy for estimating benefits.

December 2006 (Additional Funding)                ERR for:                          i) Wheat yield increased between 4%-54%
Based on data of 27 completed subprojects in four 17 Schemes > 28%;                 ii) Increase in Irrigated area by 9%-33%
out of the six regions of the project.            One Scheme = 15%
                                                  9 Schemes < 12%

December 2008 (Additional Funding)             ERRs                                  i) increase of 10% to 32% in the irrigated area
Based on the data of 19 completed schemes in 5 6 Schemes >20%;
Regions.                                       5 Schemes > 12%;                     ii) increase in cropping intensity of 10% to 33%;
                                               and the remaining 8 Schemes
                                               <12%
Project ICR March 2012                             EIRRs by Regions ranging from    i) Increase in intensity;
Based on total project costs incurred actually and 21.6% to 34.7% with an overall      wheat 3%-17%
benefits taken from the data collected by M&E EIRR as 25.8%                            Maize 5%-38%; and
Team of the project.                                                                   Vegetables 17%-75%
                                                   Financial analysis was also
                                                   undertaken with FIRR as 23.5%    ii) Increase in irrigated area as 25.8%.
                                                                                    iii) Increase in yield;
                                                                                        wheat 30%-41%
                                                                                        Maize 21%-36%; and
                                                                                        Vegetables 40%-75%
                                                                                    iv) All the four crops were considered for the financial
                                                                                         and economic analysis.




                                                                   15
3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

65.     Since the relevance is High, the achievement of the PDO is overall satisfactory and the
efficiency is rated as satisfactory, the overall outcome rating is Satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

66.      Poverty Impact: According to annual impact assessment reports farmers (landowners
and sharecroppers), Mirabs and elders confirm substantive increases both in crop yield and
cultivated land across all regions as a result of the project. It has been estimated by the ICR
economist that annual production of wheat will increase by about 680,700 tons, maize by 104,000
tons and vegetables by about 1023,000 tons at full development. As such the additional
production of crops (wheat, maize and vegetables) from the benefited area is estimated at about
77% (more than the WOP production). It will improve the food security of the beneficiary farm
households in the project area. The project has enabled some crop diversification with increasing
emphasis placed on vegetable production (onions, tomatoes and carrots), which has meant more
nutritious food available within the household, more money available to purchase goods for the
household. Farmers have reported a significant increase in the value of their land holdings
following completion of the project. They attributed this to enhanced water availability and the
general scarcity of irrigated land. There was little evidence of land exchanging hands within
villages with the exception of returnees from Iran and/or Pakistan who had reclaimed their land.
However, farmers in several of the projects have pointed to problems of limited technical advice
available from extension agents, the high cost of inputs such as fertilizer and difficulties in selling
some crops at local markets.

67.      Gender Aspects: Irrigation management is an almost exclusive preserve of men and
initial consultations on EIRP sub projects were with male village elders only. Despite playing a
key role in many aspects of agriculture women do not seem to have been either directly
informed/consulted at the design stage of EIRP projects or involved in subsequent stages of
project development. However, it is important to note that project benefits are shared with all
members of households, including women.

68.     Social Development: Interventions under EIRP have strengthened the traditional Mirab
system through establishment of water user associations involving more community elders, CDCs
and other stakeholders during decision making process. EIRP has strengthened cooperation and
coordination between MEW, MAIL and FAO regarding protection and management of water
resources as well as building the capacity of water user associations. The Mirabs as well as
farmers of the irrigation schemes rehabilitated under the project have received extensive training
in the operation and management of their schemes. Thus the Mirab system already functioning in
these schemes has been strengthened.

69.      The annual impact assessment also noted general agreement following rehabilitation of
structures, that, the distribution of water between upstream and downstream users had been
satisfactory. This assessment also found that respondents farming in the tail end of schemes
reported that equitable sharing had substantially increased. Availability of water was reported to
have improved after the rehabilitation work in some of the EIRP projects and as a result previous
conflicts were said to have been eliminated.




                                                  16
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

70.      The major risk to development outcome is the external environment. The International
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) is scheduled to leave the country by 2014 and the security of
the country would be transferred to the Government of Afghanistan. If there is any substantial
impact on the governance of the country then the institutional components related to restarting the
hydro-meteorological service and building capacity within the MEW to undertake irrigation
infrastructure rehabilitation would suffer. In an unstable governance environment, trained
personnel would leave the country thus creating a shortage of talent in the country again. The risk
of this happening is rated as substantial.

71.      In terms of the infrastructure already rehabilitated, the risk of it not being maintained and
operated properly is rated as low in the medium and lesser schemes since the farmers have been
involved in the rehabilitation from the time of project planning to completion of rehabilitation
works including providing 10% contribution to cover the costs of rehabilitation. The ownership
from the communities is high. In addition to ownership, they have also received substantial
training in operations and maintenance. The schemes where larger structures have been built may
have maintenance problems since the local communities may not have the capacity and resources
to maintain them at present. The risk of deterioration of some of these structures built across or on
the banks of streams carrying large bedloads and substantial floods is rated as high. The
provincial WMDs would have to take a lead role in either directly maintaining or in assisting the
communities to maintain these structures. Since the follow-on project is already approved, the
risks associated would be mitigated through further capacity building of the WMD as well as the
communities.

72.     Overall the risk to development outcome is rated as Substantial.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

73.      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry at original project approval in
2004: The project was initiated soon after formal hostilities ended and a Transitional government
in place. The Bank along with other donors was involved in providing immediate short-term
assistance to get the country moving. In that respect the EIRP designed as a three-year investment
was appropriate. The Bank team did a thorough analysis of the situation and identified specific
components that were in line with the interim development strategy of both the Government and
the Bank. The need for immediate rehabilitation of a large number of small and medium schemes
together with a limited number of large schemes to get the rural economy moving was recognized
and financing was provided through Component A. A flexible but monitorable framework was
developed for selection of schemes to be rehabilitated with community participation and social
and environmental safeguards. The most significant feature is that the whole of Afghanistan was
covered under this project unlike investments made by other donors which targeted secure areas
of the country. The country had just emerged from war and civil strife and there was almost no
capacity in the Government to undertake the studies, designs and irrigation infrastructure
rehabilitation work. A solid capacity building program was built in with the technical support to
be provided by FAO. The rehabilitation and new development of the irrigation infrastructure
needed reliable hydrological and other climate data and since the entire hydro-meteorological
network was damaged, financing was provided for rehabilitating and modernizing this network




                                                 17
taking advantage of recent developments in the world. As such the mission considers the quality
at entry in 2004 as Satisfactory.

74.      However, the design of additional financing efforts in 2008 and 2009 followed the same
approach which was not quite appropriate. The original design was for emergency rehabilitation.
Both TSS and ISN of April 2006 anticipated more rapid transition from emergency post conflict
status to a more normalized situation and began the transition from a short-run emergency
orientation to a longer term development orientation. Progressively, the approach should have
been modified to use normal rehabilitation and modernization procedures such as holistic
treatment of a scheme, adequate planning of rehabilitation measures and relaxing the cap on
investments to reflect actual rehabilitation needs of the system. The additional financing modality
was used to maintain the momentum generated in the project but there should have been a
balanced approach. Considering these factors, the mission judges the quality at additional
financing as Moderately Satisfactory.

75.      Quality of Supervision: In the initial stage, the project was managed from Washington.
After one year, the Bank decided correctly to move the task management responsibility to Kabul
which resulted in regular supervision and follow-up. The task leadership had good continuity in
that only two task leaders covered the entire period from 2006 to 2011. The deteriorating security
environment in the country made it almost impossible for the supervision team to visit various
sites after 2007. Prior to 2007 supervision missions undertook field visits and after 2007 the
performance of rehabilitated schemes was ascertained mostly through secondary data. In the last
few years of the project, the task team started using innovative techniques using GPS-enabled
cameras which were a marked improvement. In 2010 after the Bank strengthened security by
deploying the close protection guards, the team was able to undertake more field visits. These and
other support provided by the task team enabled the component related to irrigation rehabilitation
to be carried out successfully with some deficiencies in supervision of quality control of civil
works in the latter years. Bank oversight of the outputs of the technical assistance team with
regard to rehabilitation designs pertaining to Large Irrigation Schemes, implementation
scheduling and contract management could have been better. Some of these deficiencies are being
corrected in the follow-on IRDP where the Bank team has ensured that a contract management
specialist and an experienced design engineer are added to the technical assistance team. Overall,
the task team did an excellent job supervising this important component and was even recognized
by an award from the Bank management.

76.     However, the supervision and implementation support provided for the other three
components of the project had moderate shortcomings. The task team employed experts to review
bid documents and specifications for cableways as well as an expert to review the specifications
for snow gauging stations and telemetry However, limited oversight was provided for the non-
performing aspects related to re-establishment of the hydrological services of Afghanistan. This
resulted in the non-achievement of the key PDO indicators associated with this component. Even
though the hydro-met component was performing unsatisfactorily, there was no hydrologist or
instrumentation specialist in any of the implementation support missions. Similarly even though
there were Bank M&E specialists in some of the implementation support missions, the outputs
from the M&E team of the technical assistance provider had some shortcomings. Bank oversight
of the M&E work of the technical assistance provider could have been more focused. Given this
mixed performance, the quality of supervision averaged over components and over the
implementation period of eight years is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.




                                                18
77.   Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance: Given the above, taking into
account the two ratings the overall Bank performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory in
accordance with ICR guidelines.

5.2 Borrower Performance

78.    Government Performance: The government commitment and ownership for the project
was good throughout the project. They generally ensured smooth implementation of this project
in terms of allotment of funds. However, there were procurement delays from the actions of the
Special Procurement Unit. Overall the Government performance was moderately satisfactory.

79.     Implementing Agency Performance: The Ministry of Energy and Water which is the
primary implementing agency had full commitment towards the irrigation infrastructure
rehabilitation component and their performance was satisfactory. However, the MEW ownership
of the hydro-meteorological component which is essential for the future long-term development
of irrigation and hydropower was less than satisfactory. The Water Management Department of
MEW did not take the required actions to establish and build upon the hydrological service and
it did not participate to the extent required in the reinstallation of the hydro-met stations. The
Ministry also did not set up and equip an independent M&E unit as required by the project and
this function was transferred to the technical assistance team after substantial delay. In these
respects the MEW performance was less than satisfactory. Officially the implementing
responsibility rested with the PCU with support from the technical assistance provided. However,
the technical and managerial capacity of the PCU was non-existent in the early years of project
implementation and the technical assistance provider gradually became de facto the implementer
as well. Hence the discussion in the following paragraph refers both to the PCU and the
technical assistance consultants.

80.    The PCU, both at the Center and at the regional offices has built up good staff capacity
with the assistance of the technical assistance team. At the time of Credit/Grant closure, they are
in a position to prepare sub-project proposals according to the template provided by the
consultants. However, the template provided has certain deficiencies with regard to command
area surveys, hydrological analyses, and quality control during implementation. While the target
numbers for the schemes have been met, the quality of the plans and designs and in some
instances the quality of construction is less than satisfactory.

81.    There were some delays and problems associated with procurement of civil works
contracts and contract management. The procurement performance of the project has been rated
as moderately satisfactory by the designated procurement specialist of the Bank.

82.    Financial management of the project has been rated as moderately satisfactory by the
designated financial management specialist of the Bank. However, as noted earlier, the financial
management capacity has not been built within the PCU. The PCU/MEW did not assign a full-
time financial management specialist to be trained with the result that the follow-on IRDP is
fully dependent on the international financial management specialist of the technical assistance
provider.

83.    The PCU did not coordinate well with the WMD officers in the rehabilitation of hydro-
meteorological services. They concentrated on establishing the stations but the sustainability of
these stations was not addressed. This is of course both the PCU as well as the WMD
responsibility.



                                               19
84.    Since the M&E effort was transferred to the technical assistance provider, the mission
would like to comment on this aspect here. The M&E efforts were substantially delayed and got
under way only in 2009. Since the revised key indicators only referred to the rehabilitation
component, the M&E efforts were focused on this. The tools used could have been more modern
and the results should have been used in improving the performance of the PCU and the
technical assistance team. Given that a number of schemes were rehabilitated each year through
the period 2007 to 2011, the project economics would have benefitted greatly if panel data had
been assembled. Other aspects of the project appear to have been ignored in the monitoring and
evaluation. Overall the monitoring and evaluation efforts were unsatisfactory.

85.   Given this mixed performance, the mission rates the implementing agency performance
as Moderately Satisfactory.

86.     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance: Based on these two
ratings, the overall Borrower performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned

Lessons of general application:
87.    Technical Assistance Team: In order to address the capacity, accountability and
governance risks in a weak capacity and poor governance environment, the need for
implementation support technical assistance should be carefully assessed, and the terms of
reference for each individual expert should be clearly defined and agreed with implementing
agency, and advance procurement action taken so that technical assistance teams can be
mobilized by project approval.

88.     Emergency Operations: In a post-conflict environment, emergency re-construction
effort should target interventions that yield quick returns, with appropriate attention to putting in
place basic building blocks to support transition from emergency recovery to regular
reconstruction and development.

89.     Development Oriented Phase: Emergency re-construction effort should be restricted to
short-term investments that are required to assist the communities affected by conflicts so that
they can concentrate on immediate needs. After the initial support, assistance should move
gradually to a development oriented phase.

90.    Investments related to capacity building are usually given a secondary role by the
Borrowers facing emergencies. The Bank should be proactive in getting this capacity building
exercise carried out successfully so that medium to long term developments can be carried out
by national experts with specific targeted assistance from external experts.

91.     Investments related to developing knowledge base such as hydrological information also
get a secondary treatment from the Borrower. Proactive measures are required from the Bank to
implement such components which are vital to meet the long-term development needs of the
country.

Project-specific lessons:
92.    Irrigation Project Criteria ($/ha): While establishing a norm of US$/ha is reasonable to
start an emergency operation, it would be good to relax this criterion based on actual


                                                20
requirement of a system as the project moves from an emergency phase to a development phase.
There were several instances in EIRP where a reasonable holistic technical solution could not be
implemented due to this. In the follow-up IRDP this lesson should be reflected as
implementation progresses.

93.     Monitoring and Evaluation: While regular monitoring of physical and financial
progress can and should be done by the implementing agency, monitoring and evaluation
activities related to evaluation studies and impact assessment surveys should not be carried out
by the institution responsible for the implementation. These should be independent activities
which should be carried out by a third party through outsourcing or by an independent unit in the
implementing Ministry.

94.     Use of advanced technologies: In the extremely insecure environment in Afghanistan,
where access to project sites is limited, innovative concepts such as the use of GPS-enabled
cameras developed by the project should be further enhanced and used. In addition M&E
activities must use information that can be obtained from analyses of satellite imageries.

95.    Twinning Arrangement: A twinning arrangement with an operating hydro-
meteorological service in other developed countries would benefit the hydro-met component.
Similarly a twinning arrangement with an operational irrigation administration or well-run
Government irrigation departments in countries with similar topographic and climatic conditions
would provide support to implement rehabilitation projects in a capacity-constrained situation.

96.     The department responsible for hydrological services in Afghanistan (WMD) should be
completely involved in the implementation of the hydro-meteorological component including
installation of gages. This was not the case in EIRP where the installation was done by the PCU
and there was a lack of ownership from the WMD. The lack of ownership further contributed to
unsatisfactory performance in retrieval and analysis of hydrological data. In the follow-up IRDP
this lesson should be reflected as implementation progresses and the WMD should be made an
important implementing partner together with the PCU.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies

No comments have been received from the Borrower.




                                              21
                                       Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent) some of these numbers have to be
revised.
                                                 Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate                    Percentage of
               Components
                                                  (USD millions)       (USD millions)                           Appraisal
IDA Cr. 3845 AF                                          40.00                38.35                               95.86

Government of Afghanistan                                   35.00                         7.47                     21.33
Component A Rehabilitation of
                                                            45.00                        24.79                     55.09
Irrigation Schemes
Component B Rehabilitation of
                                                              8.50                        0.20                      2.35
Hydro-meteorological Network
Component C Preparation of
                                                              5.00                        3.85                     77.02
Feasibility Studies and Monitoring
Component D Institutional
                                                            16.50                        16.98                    102.88
Development

IDA Grant I H28402 (2007)                                   25.00                        24.87                     99.46
Component A Rehabilitation of
                                                            20.00                        19.91                     99.57
Irrigation Schemes
Component B Rehabilitation of
                                                              5.00                         4.95                    99.06
Hydro-meteorological Network
Component C Preparation of
                                                              -                            -                          -
Feasibility Studies and Monitoring
Component D Institutional
                                                              -                            -                          -
Development

           IDA Grant II H3980 (2008)                        28.00                        25.44                     90.86
         Component A Rehabilitation of
                                                              7.10                         7.44                    104.8
                   Irrigation Schemes



    (b) Financing
                                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                        Type of                                        Percentage of
                Source of Funds                                             Estimate       Estimate
                                                      Cofinancing                                       Appraisal
                                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                                     8.0            8.0           100
 International Development Association
                                                                                40.0              134.53
(IDA)




2
  The original project cost estimate at appraisal was US$75 million. It was expected to be financed from IDA (US$ 40 million Credit)
and Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (US$35 million Grant). IDA provided US$40 million in the form of a Credit, but ARTF
grant financing was not made available. The first additional financing of US$25 million was in the form of an IDA grant which was
required to cover the full scope of the project.

3
 In addition to the US$ 40 million provided at appraisal, IDA provided three subsequent Grants (US$ 25 million, US$ 28 million, and
US$ 33.5 million) totaling US$ 134.5 million at closure. See (a) above for details.




                                                                  22
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes

1.      Component A is designed to restore irrigated agricultural production in rural areas,
through improved and reliable water supply to rehabilitated traditional irrigation schemes – the
major EIRP component that contributes to the project development objective. This component
was revised to include additional schemes in each of the additional financing.

2.       Overall about 728 schemes (medium and large) have been rehabilitated covering about
802,619 ha. Incremental area brought under irrigation through this intervention is about 164,823
ha an increase of about 25% from pre-project situation. EIRP is reported to have benefited about
910,000 farming households, across the 34 provinces. The targets and achievements in each of
the financing changes are summarized in Table 1 below and discussed briefly in the subsequent
paragraphs.




                                              23
                                                    Table A2.1 Component A: Rehabilitation of Irrigation Schemes Dated: 31 Dec, 2011

                                                             Agreed Target                                                           Completion / Achievement against Target
                                                                             Command Area (ha)                                                                                   Command Area (ha)
S.No.   Type of Funding                                                                                     Number of   Awarded          Number of
                             Number of      Rehabilitation                                                                                               Completion                     After
                                                                   Before         After                      Schemes    Cost ($ in        Schemes                        Before                   Increm
                              Schemes       Cost ($ in M)                                    Incremental                                                Cost ($ in M)                  Project
                                                                   project       Project                    Awarded       M)             Completed                       project                   ental
                                                                                                                                                                                     (expected)
        IDA Credit/Grant-I and co-financing
        Small               1,100         10.0                   110,000        137,500      27,500        426.0        11.36          406.0            10.93           296,010      346,692      50,682
        Medium              160           25.0                   120,000        150,000      30,000        197.0        21.68          189.0            20.92           173,684      219,523      45,839
1       Large               20            15.0                   50,000         62,500       12,500        10.0         13.72          9.5              12.14           66,100       100,000      33,900
                                                                                                                                                                                                  130,42
        Sub-Total           1280 *        50.0                   280,000 **     350,000 **   70,000 **     633.0        46.76          604.5            43.99           535,794      666,215
                                                                                                                                                                                                  1
        revised target   760                                     390,050        470,050      80,000
        Second IDA Grant
        Medium          28                3.6                    64,270         96,700       32,430        28.0         3.57           23.0             3.02             20,115      23,534       3,419
2
        Large           4                 3.5                    25,730         35,300       9,570         3.0          4.76           1.0              2.76             2,000       7,000        5,000
        Sub-Total       32                7.1                    90,000         132,000      42,000        31.0         8.33           24.0             5.78             22,115      30,534       8,419
        Total up to
                                                                 480,050        602,050      122,000
        Grant-II
        Third IDA Grant
        Medium              85            15.8                   78,070         96,150       18,080        101.0        17.02          92.0             16.50            68,817      90,320       21,503
3
        Large               8             4.4                    12,930         17,850       4,920         10.0         6.10           8.0              5.40             11,070      15,550       4,480
        Sub-Total           93            20.2                   91,000         114,000      23,000        111.0        23.12          100.0            21.90            79,887      105,870      25,983
                                                                                                                                                                                                  164,82
Grand Total                 885           77.3                   571,050        716,050      145,000       775.0        78.21          728.5            71.67            637,796     802,619
                                                                                                                                                                                                  3
              * Based on the recommendations of the mid-term review in April 2006, the project was restructured in October 2006. It’s PDO and outputs were revised. Component A Revised
              targets included:
              Rehabilitation of 750 medium and lesser schemes, and 10 large schemes [the target for the key outcome indicator (incremental area brought under irrigation) was set at 80,000 ha]
              ** In April, 2007 targets were revised upward with an estimated covered area of 390,050 ha to be increased to 470,050 ha including an incremental area of 80,000 ha.
              *** In total 38.5 schemes (20 small schemes, 15 medium schemes and 3.5 large schemes) with an awarded cost of $ 6.3 M are terminated. Pre-project covered area was 46,652 ha
              planned to increase to 66,347ha including an incremental area of 19,695 ha.




                                                                                                           24
3.      Depending on their size (in terms of area under irrigation), their water conveyance system
(one or several canals supplied by one water source), and the estimated rehabilitation cost, the
existing irrigation schemes were divided into three broad categories: small, medium and large.
The rehabilitation of all irrigation schemes required engineering surveys and design. The final
selection of all (small, medium and large) irrigation schemes for rehabilitation under the project,
were designed to meet the appropriate scheme selection criteria agreed with the Government. In
order to ensure sustainability of irrigation schemes, community water organizations or local water
users’ associations were actively involved in rehabilitation starting from the planning stage
through completion of physical implementation. These organizations were also provided
extensive training in operation and maintenance of the rehabilitated structures. Community
ownership was also ensured through their paying 10% of each scheme rehabilitation cost. As
indicated in the main text, the financing was given in different tranches. The targets and
achievements for each tranche are given below.

Credit, Co-Finance & Grant-I Initial Target
4.       A total of approximately 1,280 irrigation schemes covering 280,000 ha were proposed for
rehabilitation under the project during the three year project period, including 1,100 small
irrigation schemes covering 110,000 ha; 160 medium irrigation schemes covering 120,000 ha;
and 20 large irrigation schemes covering 50,000 ha. Due to the expected increase in water use
efficiency and/or water availability, it was expected that the irrigated area after rehabilitation
would be about 25% larger than the irrigated area before rehabilitation, bringing the total irrigated
area having benefited from the Project to an estimated 350,000 ha. Each scheme (sub-project)
was identified, selected, promoted, appraised, approved, carried out and monitored in accordance
with procedures and other provisions outlined in the Technical Annex with a total budget of USD
50 million allocated to the component.

Revised Target
5.       Based on the recommendations of the mid-term review in April 2006, the project was
restructured in October 2006. Revised target for Component A included; Rehabilitation of 750
medium and lesser size schemes, and 10 large schemes covering 390,050ha area which was
expected to increase to 470,050ha after rehabilitation. The target for the key outcome indicator
(incremental area brought under irrigation) was set at 80,000ha instead of initial 70,000ha with
same budget of USD 50 million for rehabilitation.

Achievement
6.      Against the target, the project has awarded 633 small, medium and large size schemes
with an awarded cost of USD 46.76 million. From the awarded schemes 20 small, 08 medium and
the second phase of a large size scheme Band-e-Sultan (BES) were terminated mainly due to
security reason and to some extent due to non-performing contractors as well. In total 604
schemes and one phase of BES were completed with a rehabilitation cost of USD 43.99 million
covering an area of 535,794ha which was increased to 666,215ha including an incremental area
of 130,421ha.

Grant-II Target
7.       In May, 2008 an additional grant of US$ 7.1 million was provided with additional scope
of work based on the good performance under this component. Additional target included
rehabilitation of additional 28 medium / lesser and 4 large size scheme covering an additional
area of 90,000ha which was expected to increase to 132,000ha including an incremental area of
42,000ha.


                                                 25
Achievement
8.      Against the target, the project awarded 28 medium/lesser and 3 large size schemes with
an estimated cost of USD 8.33 million. From the awarded schemes 4 medium and 1 large size
schemes have been completed while 1 medium/lesser and 1 large size scheme are in advance
stage of completion and will spill-over beyond the credit closing date to the follow-on project
IRDP. Actual cost of the completed schemes under EIRP is USD 5.78 Million and two remaining
schemes will be completed with remaining cost of USD 0.52 million under IRDP. Completed
schemes under EIRP are covering an area of 22,115 ha which was increased to 30,534 ha
including an incremental area of 8,419ha.

Grant-III Target
9.      In March 2009, a further grant of US$ 20.2 million was provided with additional scope of
work. Additional target included rehabilitation of additional 85 medium / lesser and 8 large size
scheme covering an additional area of 91,000 ha which was expected to increase to 114,000 ha
including an incremental area of 23,000ha.

Achievement
10.     Against the target, the project awarded 101 medium/lesser and 10 large size schemes with
an estimated cost of USD 23.12 million. From the awarded schemes 3 medium and 2 large size
schemes were terminated mainly due to non-performance of contractors and to some extent due to
security reasons. In total 92 medium/lesser and 8 large size schemes have been completed while 6
medium/lesser size schemes are in advanced stage of completion and will spill-over to the follow-
on IRDP. Actual cost of completed schemes under EIRP is US$ 21.9 million covering an area of
79,887 ha which is increased to 105,870 ha including an incremental area of 25,983ha.

11.      Overall target from all funding was 885 small, medium and large size schemes covering a
total area of 571,050 ha which was expected to increase to 716,050ha including an incremental
area of 145,000 ha with a total rehabilitation cost of US$ 77.3 million. Against the overall target,
the project awarded a total of 775 small, medium and large size schemes with an estimated cost of
US$ 78.21 million. From the total awarded schemes 728 and first phase of BES have been
substantially completed covering a total area of 637, 796 ha which will increase to 802,619 ha
including an incremental area of 164,823 ha with actual rehabilitation cost of US$ 71.67 million.
The project has achieved the covered and an incremental area targets. On the whole, the average
cost of rehabilitation works for one hectare of incremental area is about USD 434.8.

12.     In large measure, EIRP has helped further improve relations between the Government of
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the communities as well as in the strengthening of peace in
the areas where rehabilitation of traditional irrigation schemes have been carried out. In general,
EIRP staff and contractors’ site engineers have managed to implement many projects in areas
under tense security situation with strong support of elders and communities.

13.     Despite the substantial efforts of all involved, contracts for about 18 schemes were
terminated mainly due to security reasons. For instance, in the case of a large irrigation scheme at
Band-e-Sultan, only one German Construction firm approached to purchase the bidding
documents as others were reluctant due to security reasons. When two members of the firm’s
technical team visited the site, they were abducted by the Taliban. While one died in captivity,
the other was released after 3 -4 months. In another rehabilitation work in Pusht Rud District of
Farah Province, when the contractor’s vehicles were on the way from Farah Rud to Farah Centre,
the Taliban surrounded them, took three staff of the firm including the driver along with two



                                                26
vehicles and one excavator. They killed one person (Admin/ finance officer of the firm) and
released the remaining two after 29 days.

14.      Another 9 schemes were terminated due to internal community discard. The communities
changed their demands conflicting with the riparian rights of downstream beneficiaries which led
to the termination of work on some schemes.

15.     About five schemes were terminated due to poor contractor performance. Some schemes
were terminated to avoid duplication as other partners/donors came in to assist the concerned
communities and hence rendering it unnecessary for EIRP to continue its assistance.

16.      ICR Assessment: This component has been implemented satisfactorily as per design.
The one drawback in the design was that the initial emergency approach was continued in
subsequent additional financing stages as well. This should have been avoided and a more holistic
approach to rehabilitation should have been taken. Otherwise, the implementing agency and the
technical assistance team did a good job in meeting the targets and rehabilitating schemes in a
difficult environment.

Component B: Feasibility Studies and Monitoring and Evaluation

B1.Feasibility Studies

17.     Funds were allocated to carry out feasibility studies of multipurpose water resources
development projects. Out of several identified feasibility studies, the Lower Kokcha Irrigation
and Hydropower Project (LKIHP) feasibility study was selected and a contract was signed with
an international consulting firm from Germany (FICHTNER) in 2006. The LKIHP is a
multipurpose project, providing irrigation water to the agricultural sector and electrical power for
the operation of the lift irrigation parts of the scheme and for sale to the public. The project’s
cultivable area is 131,902 ha with a gross command area of 141,830 ha which is divided into six
zones.

18.      There were some delays in the execution of the feasibility study due to security problems
in and around the project site. Mine clearing took a number of months. When two German
technical experts from another German firm were abducted by the Taliban, FICHTNER
suspended the study for some months until the security situation improved. There was also
limitation related to the availability of reliable topographic maps. The study has been completed
and several options for the development have been found to be feasible.

19.     ICR Assessment: The feasibility study appears to meet international standards. The Bank
and the Borrower should pursue efforts to mobilize funds for the final design and construction of
the LKIHP.

B2. Monitoring and Evaluation

20.     A Monitoring and Evaluation Unit was to be created in MEW to provide independent and
continuous feedback to the implementing agencies on the project’s performance and impact on a
regular basis so that corrective action could be undertaken on a timely manner. A budget of
US$ 1.5 million was provided to achieve this objective. However, such a unit was not created
and maintained throughout the implementation period due to lack of commitment from MEW as
well as difficulty in recruiting and maintaining skilled staff.



                                                27
21.      A basic M&E framework was described in the Technical Annex with terms of reference
for an international firm specializing in M&E to be deployed who were supposed to develop the
full framework and assist in establishing and training the M&E unit in the Ministry. An
international consulting firm from the United States was recruited and they developed a
monitoring and evaluation framework, carried out a baseline study and the first seasonal project
impact assessment report in April 2007. At this point, the Ministry terminated the consulting
firm’s contract and a short-term individual consultant was hired to continue with the assignment.
No capacity building of the fledgling M&E unit in the Ministry was provided. The survey for the
2nd Season was also carried out in late 2007, but the report was finalized only in early 2009.

22.     The consulting firm focused in delivering the baseline and survey reports. It appears that
they did not contribute to the creation of an in-house capability to have a functioning M&E unit
in MEW.

23.      After the recruitment of an International M&E Specialist under the aegis of the technical
assistance provider in August 2009, work began on gradually building up an M&E unit in MEW
but this was not successful and the M&E functions related to the project were carried out by the
technical assistance provider together with PCU staff. A more realistic organizational chart for
M&E was adopted in 2010, additional staff identified, and relevant TORs were developed.
However, even though the organization structure provides for an M&E Unit that fully extends
M&E activities into monitoring and evaluation of project implementation progress, project
activities and outputs for all project components, such work has not been carried out to date.
Only outcome assessment surveys of dubious quality have been carried out.

24.     MEW has not yet taken a decision on how to integrate the M&E Unit within the MEW
structure. This will be considered when the government takes a decision on the creation of an
integrated M&E function within the MEW organogram.

25.     ICR Assessment: The M&E function has not provided requisite information which was
used in shaping the implementation performance of the Project and its technical assistance
consultants. Annual impact assessment reports were prepared but it appears that these were not
actually utilized. There are issues with the quality of data as well as the data collection
mechanisms. Available techniques such as satellite imageries, and GIS have not been deployed
even though the technical assistance consultants have been talking about this over the past three
years. Similarly an adequate Management Information System incorporating the requirements of
M&E has not yet been developed. Essentially, therefore, M&E has been restricted to assessing
project development, training outcomes, including operational and maintenance training provided
for beneficiary farmers, because of lack of an integrated MIS. Compilation of panel data would
have enabled the project team to arrive at more robust conclusions regarding sustainability of
investments. These are lessons learned and to be reflected in the follow-on IRDP. Overall, the
mission rates the M&E performance as unsatisfactory.

Component C: Capacity Building

C1. Construction and rehabilitation of buildings

26.       Construction of new and rehabilitation of existing office premises have been completed
together with the procurement of requisite office equipment (including laboratories and power
facilities), vehicles and field equipment for the diverse project activities. However, these were
provided mostly to PCU staff at Kabul and regional offices. In the offices of WMD visited by the
mission, there was a disparity among office space and computer and other facilities between PCU


                                               28
staff and WMD staff. While the provision of new facilities has enabled the PCU staff at Kabul
and provincial levels to accommodate new equipment, assure quality of works, fill vacant
positions, add comfort in performing duties, provide training space, help in improving staff
attendance, add parking space for vehicles, increase safety standards in the offices and minimize
security risks the same has not been the case with WMD staff.

27.     Construction of buildings for technical facilities, including silt laboratories for
hydrological purposes has also been completed in each region but no tests have been conducted
so far.

28.     ICR Assessment: Similar office facilities and equipments should be provided to the
WMD staff in order to enable them to take over progressively the functions related to preparation
of future sub-projects and operation and maintenance of rehabilitated facilities as required. The
Borrower should make every effort to make use of the excellent silt laboratory facilities,
particularly in view of proposed dam construction on rivers with heavy silt-laden flows.

C2. Training

29.      As at end of December 2011, 658 training sessions were conducted for different targets
of participants for a total duration of 3447 days. In these sessions, a total of 4355 technical staff
and 6545 farmers and Mirabs participated. Information on the training program is given in Table
2 below.

                            Table 1: Summary of All Trainings Conducted
                                                                           No of participations
                                       Total No of        Duration
  No    Type and place
                                       trainings          (days)           Engineers/Technicians          Mirabs/Farmers

  1     General trainings                        39                  153                          1,310                    0
  2     Overseas training                        14                  286                           180                     0
  3     Hydrology                                24                  121                           505                     0
  4     Large schemes                                2               15                              8                     0
  5     Kabul & Bamyan Regional Team            153                  845                           856               1,458
  6     Kandahar Regional Teams                  68                  334                           207                 389
  7     Kunduz Regional Teams                    97                  332                           316               1,560
  8     Jalalabad Regional Teams                120                  671                           337               1,520
  9     Mazar Regional Teams                     53                  194                           161                 807
  10    Herat Regional Teams                     88                  496                           475                 811
        Total                                   658             3,447                             4,355              6,545


30.     ICR Assessment: The training activities coupled with on-the-job training in the
preparation of sub-project proposals have been instrumental in improving the capacity of the
regional teams in implementing Component A. More such training with focus on specific subjects
such as construction quality control, contract management and holistic planning of rehabilitation
of schemes is recommended.

C3. Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Training for Beneficiary Farmers

31.     Training in O&M of rehabilitated structures was initiated based on the recommendation
of the Mid Term Review (MTR). The rationale was that training farmers on appropriate O&M
methods would enhance sustainability of outcomes gained as a result of EIRP intervention. The


                                                         29
project adopted the recommendation, contracted a consultant to develop an O&M training manual,
by augmenting traditional knowledge with appropriate new technologies and processes. After
training of trainers on O&M the program started in earnest in 2007.

32.      Training activities have been successfully completed in about 60% of the sub-projects
rehabilitated under the project. However, as shown in Table 3 farmers in about 40% (295) of
completed sub-projects have not yet received O&M training. MEW, in collaboration with the
WB, plans to undertake this activity in the follow-on project IRDP. As testified by communities
who took the training, such programs would enhance sustainability of EIRP outcomes.

Table 2: EIRP Community O&M Training - Region-wise status as on 31-Dec-2011

                                                                                                   O&M %        Balance O&M
                                                                                      O&M
S.                    Sub-Project        Sub-Project   Sub-Project    Sub-Project                 progress of   Trainings yet
         Region                                                                       Training
No                    submitted          approved      awarded        completed                   completed     to be
                                                                                      conducted
                                                                                                  SP            conducted


         Bamyan                     67           67            67              62            53       85.5%                9
1
         Kabul                 118              118           118             113            44       38.9%               69

2        Herat                 114              114           114             104            70       67.3%               34

3        Mazar                      96           96            96              96            49       51.0%               47

4        Kunduz                     97           97            97              91            66       72.5%               25

5        Jalalabad             158              158           158             145            86       59.3%               59

6        Kandahar              125              125           125             117            65       55.6%               52

Sub - Project Total            775              775           775             728          433        59.5%              295


33.      It has been reported by the technical assistance consultants that the training also resulted
in a reduction in the number of person-days spent on O&M activities by an average of about 31%
compared to the situation before rehabilitation of surveyed schemes.

         Table 4: Comparative labor savings in man/days due to O&M training provided to
                                          beneficiaries
    S.     Operation and Maintenance                      Average Operation and Maintenance Cost in man/days
    No                                                    per surveyed scheme
                                                          Before          After  Savings in Overall Cost
                                                                                 %
    1      Cleaning Canals                                     266         168                37
    2      Repairing structures                                385         215                44
           destroyed by floods
    3      Routine Maintenance                                  331             258                      22
    4      Repairing canals and fields                          515             405                      21
           damaged by wash water
    5      Total Cost of Labor                                 1,497           1046                      31

34.      ICR Assessment: The training of farmers is essential and the technical assistance team is to
be commended for undertaking this work successfully. It is recommended that the training be given
periodically to the farmers in the rehabilitated sub-projects so that sustainability of the investments is
really ensured. In addition, provision of small equipment and continued technical advice is necessary,



                                                             30
particularly in those schemes where interventions such as river regulation works have been
completed.

C4. Technical Assistance and Consultancies

35.     The technical assistance team has been working to improve the technical, managerial and
administrative capacity of both the PCU staff as well as the MEW staff. The final cost of this
assistance was about US$ 28 million against the total project cost of about US$ 135 million, a
substantive portion.

36.     The mission was informed that FAO TA comprised regular backstopping missions, Panel
of Experts from the Technical Centre for Investment and other consultants recruited on a need-
based approach as agreed with the Bank. Backstopping involved among other activities, report
reviews and technical clearances, clearing work scope and consultants’ TORs, approving training
curricula and capacity building plans in addition to interventions as and when requested by the
project Chief technical Adviser (CTA).

FAO team in Kabul provided the following technical assistance:

37.      Managed international consultancy services provided for MEW/PCU relating to:
feasibility studies on rehabilitation of large schemes, project management, individual personnel
contracted to support WMD/PCU activities, M&E services, and developing technical and
managerial training programs.

38.      Supported the MEW Project Coordination Unit (PCU) develop and institutionalize
irrigation rehabilitation project management systems, including: the preparation of a functioning
Construction Management Manual, Construction Bidding Process, Bids Evaluation Framework,
Construction Supervision and Quality Control procedures and processes, Financial Management
System, Project Management and Proposal development, , and Monitoring and Evaluation
System.

39.     Supported the improvements made in work performance of trainees in terms of
productivity, quality of outputs, timeliness, and degree of executing their respective duties
without or less guidance and mentoring support. These results are by and large attributed to
mentoring and guidance provided by FAO Technical Assistance international staff, whose
respective terms of reference included building capacity of national staff.

40.      Assisted MEW to develop a six-year follow-on Irrigation Restoration and Development
project, to be funded by the World Bank

41.     ICR Assessment: The technical assistance provided in implementing Component A has
been satisfactory in that almost all the targeted investments have been completed. However, the
assistance provided regarding M&E and Hydrometeorology has been unsatisfactory. The mission
found inadequate backstopping from the headquarters of the technical assistance provider HQ in
that worldwide knowledge and expertise of the TA provider were not brought to this technical
assistance assignment worth several million dollars (perhaps the largest such TA contract this
technical assistance provider has in the world).Given this, even though the technical assistance
team in Kabul has tried its best to provide good technical assistance, the mission rates the overall
TA performance as marginally satisfactory. It is recommended that in the follow-on project
specific agreements to be written in regarding the backstopping and other expert support for the
team working in Kabul.


                                                31
Component D: Hydro-meteorological network

42.     This component aims to restore and modernize the hydro meteorological network for
better monitoring, planning and management of water resources including contingency planning
for drought. Since 1980 the hydro meteorological facilities have been dilapidated denying
Afghanistan the use of regular and updated information for water resource development planning.

43.     Network of 174 Automatic Hydrologic Stations, 26 Automatic Weather Stations, 30
Snow Survey Stations, and 60 (40+20) river gauging sites with cableway facility has been
carefully designed to restore and modernize the hydro meteorological network in the country.
Due to the existence of a network of hydrologic stations, albeit not functioning due to damage
sustained during decades of conflict, there was no need for the project to design of a new
hydrologic network altogether.

             Table 5: Status of Installation of Hydrology and Meteorology Sections

                                                                        Total       Actual up to end of
            S. No        Name of Contract
                                                                        plan        Dec 2011
                         S&I of 174 Hydrological
            1                                                               174                           105
                         stations
                         2a.Cableways at 40 Gauging
                                                                              40                           36
                         stations
            2
                         2b.Winch cum Guard rooms at
                                                                              40                           36
                         cableway sites
                         Meteorological Network
                                                                              30                           10
                         2a. Snow Survey Stations
            3
                         2b.Weather Stations                                  26                           17
                         2c. Guard rooms                                      30                           18
                         Installation/Commissioning of
            4                                                                   6                            6
                         6 silt Laboratories
                         Supply of Hydrological
            5                                                                   *                            -
                         Equipments
                         O&M of 105 Hydrologic
            6                                                               105                            53
                         Stations

           *Lot 1:60 current meters, Lot 2: 12 Doppler current meters, Lot 3:6 echo sounders, Lot 4:68 sediment
           samplers, Lot 5: 12 boats,40 taglines etc



44.      After almost ten years of project operation, out of the 174 planned hydrologic stations
only 105 (60%), of the 56 meteorological stations only 27 (48%); out of 40 cable ways 36 (80%)
and all the planned 6 silt laboratories have been installed.

45.     By project completion, on-the-job training for operation and maintenance has been
completed only for 53 out of the 105 installed hydrological stations. Again the main cause has
been reported to be the lack of adequate capacity of the Contractor and the local sub-contractor.
About 17 of the remaining stations are also in very insecure areas.


                                                            32
46.      Due to delayed installation of cable ways, rating curves for only 50 sites out of the 105
installed hydrological stations have been established. Non-availability of adequate data has also
inhibited to calculate water balance using at least one year new steam flow data to adjust long-
term series of known river sub-basins.

47.     Difference in original installation schedule and actual installation schedule is
considerable, in the case of some of the lots the delay ranged up to 18 to 20 months.

48.      The data collection was to be based on a tele-transmission system for the remote stations
whilst observers were to be engaged to manually record the observations elsewhere. At present,
data from the 105 automatic hydrologic stations which have been installed is being transferred
manually to the Water Management Department at Kabul. There have been considerable delays in
transmission of data to WMD due to lack of monitoring capacity. With proper supervisory control
and monitoring of the tasks assigned to the staff, delays in transmission and compilation of the
data could have been avoided. On-the-job training/guidance has been regularly provided to the
staff for compilation and processing of the data.

49.       The Ministry has not done any due diligence to establish the hydrological services of
Afghanistan. It has not employed the key professional staff required and has not actively
participated in the establishment and operation of the gauging stations. The project, therefore has
not contributed to improving the institutional capacity of MEW in this very important and crucial
field to the levels required.

50.     Creating in-house repair and maintenance capability of the hydrological and
meteorological instruments is necessary to ensure sustainability of the observation program in the
country.
Availability of accurate, adequate and up to date hydro meteorological data very much depends
on sustainability of stations’ operation and maintenance plan and effective implementation of
capacity building plan.

51.      ICR Assessment: Installation of hydro meteorological facilities has not progressed as
planned because of inadequate management of contractors and poor attention paid to this
component by PCU, and WMD. About 69 stations could not be rehabilitated during project
period due to deteriorating security situation. The hydro-meteorological service expected to be
established and strengthened with requisite analytical capabilities has not materialized due to lack
of commitment from MEW. Only in the last year of project operation, efforts are under way to
correct this situation. It is regrettable that after several years of project operation, no new verified
and usable data has been added in even one river basin and this does impact on analyses related
further water resources development in the country. Given the importance of this component, the
implementation performance is rated as highly unsatisfactory.




                                                  33
                          Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analyses

Background

 1.      At project appraisal in 2003, it was expected that the major project benefits would come
 from increased agricultural production resulting from availability of reliable supply of irrigation
 water. The increased agricultural benefits were expected to result from: (i) an increase of yield in
 the irrigated areas (30% - 75% increase depending on the farm size); (ii) an increase in irrigated
 land (20% increase that is conversion of 20% rainfed areas to irrigated areas), and; (iii) where
 climatic conditions allow, an increase in cropping intensity. It was also estimated that irrigation
 rehabilitation was economically viable with Internal Rates of Returns (IRRs) ranging from 17-
 46% with an average of 31%, even if only wheat is produced. Since farmers grow other crops,
 particularly orchards, that are more profitable than wheat, the overall IRR was expected to be
 much higher than 31%. No financial rate return was calculated at appraisal.

 2.     The economic evaluation of the project was repeated during December 2006 based on 27
 completed subprojects in four out of the six regions of the project. The results indicated: (i)
 average increase of wheat yield in the regions by 4% - 54%.; (ii) increase in irrigated area by 9%
 - 33%; (iii) net return of US$60-160 per hectare after the rehabilitation; and (iv) higher IRRs –
 17 out of 27 subprojects showing IRR greater than 28%, one showing 15% and the remaining 9
 subprojects below 12%. Based on results of this economic analysis, additional funding for the
 project was considered economically justifiable.

 3.      In December 2008, another exercise was done for estimating the economic returns/ result
 parameters, covering 19 completed rehabilitation schemes located in five of the six regions,
 where the project activities were underway. The results of economic analysis indicated: (i)
 increase of 10% to 32% in the irrigated area, with 70% of this increase in the tail and middle
 reaches of the irrigation system, which previously were high and dry. It also indicated
 improvement in equity of water distribution; (ii) increase in cropping intensity of 10% to 33%;
 (iii) an average increase of US$ 389 in the farm income per hectare; and (iv) generally
 acceptable economic rates of returns (ERRs): 6 schemes had ERRs greater than 20%; 5 above
 12%; and the remaining below 12%. These results were found similar to the economic analysis
 carried out in 2006 and the expectations at appraisal. The results proved economic viability of
 the rehabilitation of the schemes and was thus considered economically viable for further and
 additional financing.

4.       At appraisal in November 2003, the project cost was estimated at US$75 million, an
additional grant was approved at US$25 million (March 2007); second additional funding was
made available at US$28 million (May 2008); and third additional funding was approved for
US$33.5 million (April 2009), making the total estimates as US$161.5 million. Some scaled up
activities were also included against these additional funding. Latest estimates for completing the
project are as about US$125.22 million (December 2011). The project defrayed up to seven years
against an estimated period of three years planned at appraisal. The development objective of the
project was to provide farmers in the project areas with improved, reliable and equitable
distribution of irrigation water to increase agricultural productivity and farm income, improve
food security and livelihoods, and reduce vulnerability due to droughts. The project expected to
achieve this objective through (i) rehabilitating and improving the existing dilapidated irrigation
infrastructure; (ii) restoring and modernizing the hydro-meteorological network for better
monitoring, planning, sustainable use and management of water resources, including contingency
planning for droughts and floods; and (iii) developing the institutional capacity of public sector



                                                 34
water institutions, existing community water organizations and farmers for operating and
maintaining irrigation system in a sustainable manner.

5.        At appraisal, the analysis estimated the economic returns likely to benefit from the
investments in rehabilitating the irrigation schemes which were damaged as a result of decades of
war and conflict and in particular because of lack of resources for effective operation and
maintenance. Deteriorated infrastructure led to the significant reduction in irrigated land, low
irrigation efficiencies and tail end deprivations. Benefits to the farm households and to the
economy were expected to derive from (i) improved yields; (ii) increased area of irrigated land;
and (iii) increased cropping intensity. In the absence of reliable data on production of all crops
grown in Afghanistan, wheat being the dominant primary crop was taken (at appraisal) as proxy
for all the crops. The analysis was carried out to determine the impact of water availability on the
production of wheat in all the eight climatic regions of the country, as a result of implementation
of the project activities. No other benefits were quantified at appraisal. In this ICR analyses all the
three crops namely wheat, maize and vegetables have been taken into account.

6.      The purpose of economic analysis at completion of the project is to re-evaluate the
financial and economic impacts of the Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (EIRP)
completed by December 2011.

Summary

7.       EIRDP rehabilitation of irrigation schemes, together with the institutional reforms would
result in the following benefits: (i) reduced water losses and costs of irrigation; (ii) farm area
returned to irrigation; and ( iii) increased productivity and diversified agriculture towards higher
value crops, as a result of improved availability of water (in quantity and opportunity). Reduced
water losses would also reduce the economic cost of irrigation water to users and increase the
availability of water in the irrigation systems.

8.      Similar to the analysis carried out at appraisal, the ICR analysis also estimated economic
returns (EIRRs) by region. Worth of incremental production is estimated as US$ 102.0 million
per annum at full development. The project will also generate about 4.3 million person days per
annum as farm labor at completion. The result of economic analysis reveals estimated EIRRs
ranging from 21.6% to 34.7% with an overall EIRR as 25.8%. Although, no financial analysis
was carried out at appraisal, however, it has been estimated at ICR. Results of financial analysis
show FIRRs ranging from 20.8% to 31.8% with overall FIRR as 23.5%.




                                                  35
         Summary of All Economic Analyses Carried Out for EIRP



Sr.   Economic Analysis Undertaken at:                 ERR (%)                   Assumptions/ Data
1.    Appraisal year 1994                              Ranging between     17-       i)       Increase in yield by
                                                       46%; overall 31%                       30%-75% depending
                                                                                              upon farm size)
                                                                                     ii)      20%       increase in
                                                                                              irrigated area.
                                                                                     iii)     iii)     Increase  in
                                                                                              intensity

                                                                                 Wheat was taken as proxy for
                                                                                 estimating benefits.

2.    December 2006 (Additional Funding)               ERR for:                          iii)     Wheat yield
      Based on data of 27 completed subprojects        17 Schemes > 28%;                          increased
      in four out of the six regions of the project.   One Scheme = 15%                           between 4%-54%
                                                       9 Schemes < 12%                   iv)      Increase in
                                                                                                  Irrigated area by
                                                                                                  9%-33%

3     December 2008 (Additional Funding)               ERRs                              iii)     increase of 10%
      Based on the data of 19 completed                6 Schemes >20%;                            to 32% in the
      schemes in 5 Regions.                            5 Schemes > 12%;                           irrigated area
                                                       and the remaining    8
                                                       Schemes <12%                      iv)      increase in
                                                                                                  cropping intensity
                                                                                                  of 10% to 33%;


Methodology

9.       The initial project design and objective remained unchanged over the project
implementation period. Therefore, the current analysis re-estimates the project benefits from the
irrigation infrastructure rehabilitation following the appraisal methodology but by applying actual
size of rehabilitated area, changes in cropping yields, benefit accumulation phases, project costs
and other parameters based on the findings of M&E Team who collected all the data during and
after implementing the irrigation schemes.

10.      The analysis estimates net incremental returns attributable to the project by comparing
returns in the without project (WOP) scenario and with project (WP) scenario over 25 year
project life and using a 12 percent discount rate. The net incremental benefits are estimated at
crop level, by developing per hectare crop budgets of major crops including wheat, maize and
vegetables. For estimating the net benefits, incremental benefits have been estimated considering
the total area benefitted by the project (i.e. rehabilitated area of 637,796 ha plus rainfed area of
about 164,823 ha brought under irrigation – total area rehabilitated as 802,619 ha).

11.      The analysis mainly based on the data available in the Survey Reports of M&E Team of
the project and particularly presented in the final report issued in December 2011. Data given in
the reports describe socio-economic characteristics of farm households, agricultural production
technology and output and input prices in the project areas. All this data represent: (i) project area
that received rehabilitation assistance from the project; and (ii) control groups, where no
rehabilitation support was available.




                                                           36
12.      The rehabilitated lands are located in six regions with distinctive cropping intensities and
yield levels. Therefore, similar to the appraisal the separate EIRRs are estimated for each region,
as well as at overall project level.

13.     The analysis uses December 2011 constant prices for all inputs and outputs for the entire
project period. Conservatively, the cost of all components of the project is taken into account
including investment for the rehabilitation of hydro-meteorological network and institutional
improvement.

14.      In the economic analysis, the financial prices were converted into economic values by
removing taxes and subsidies from input and output prices and calculating import and export
parity prices of major inputs and outputs (wheat and fertilizers). In the case of Afghanistan, maize
is considered as non-tradable commodity. A shadow wage rate of 0.9 was used to convert a
financial price into an economic value for labor and for non-tradable goods. The financial
analysis is carried out in similar manners and using the same methodology adopted in the
economic analysis except using the financial prices in place of economic values.

15.     Database: The database is drawn from multiple sources as follows: (i) impact assessment
surveys conducted by M&E unit of the PCU during 2006 and 2011 covering more than 30% of
the completed irrigation schemes; (ii) Final Report on third seasonal Impact Assessment issued
by M&E Unit; and (iii) secondary data including statistical data published by GoAfghanistan.
Technical coefficients of the major crops (seed rate, fertilizer rate, labor days, yield etc.) are
compiled from impact assessment surveys for differentiating them by six agricultural planning
regions. Financial price data and labor wages by regions are collected from the published
agricultural commodity price bulletins.

16.      Data for investment costs by project’s component has been taken from project records
available with the project implementation team . Project costs and benefits are estimated at
constant prices over a period of 25 years.

17.     Prices: For the economic analysis, prices of inputs and outputs have been expressed in
December 2011 constant prices. Data on open market prices was collected through various
sources for determining the farm-gate financial prices, including price bulletins issued by the
GoA as well as by the FAO. Economic evaluation has been carried out using economic prices.
Import parity prices have been derived for wheat and fertilizers using commodity price data
issued by World Bank in January 2012.


O&M Costs
18.     Without and with Project Scenario: At appraisal, it was conservatively assumed that: (i)
the before project situation would remain unchanged under the “without project? scenario (which
underestimates benefits since the system would continue to deteriorate and wastage of available
water would increase); (ii) the current situation (2003) would remain unchanged in the future.
Under “with project? scenario; (i) considering requirement for smooth operation and for
maintaining equitable distribution of water through mirabs, a provision for administrative and for
routine maintenance is considered at 10% of the investment costs, similar to the one used for the
analysis carried out at midterm evaluation of the project; and (ii) the benefits of possible




                                                 37
reduction4 in operation and maintenance cost has been ignored, if the reduction in O&M cost is
taken into account the ERR would be higher.

Main Assumptions
19.   Following are the main assumptions used in the analysis:

          a. The life of the civil works supported under the project would be 25 years including
             the investment period of seven-years;
          b. A standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9 has been used for converting cost of non-
             tradable goods to economic/shadow prices;
          c. Total project cost (US$125.22 million) defrayed over seven years has been accounted
             for as per cost incurred actual, again considering this a conservative approach;
          d. Possible reduction in operation and maintenance has been ignored
          e. All the project investments have been brought to the level of December 2011 by
             using MUV Index Values5.

Irrigation Infrastructure Rehabilitation

20.      Despite slow start up of the project, the project implementation gained pace and
momentum after year 2006. Based on two years of implementation experience and in the context
of other efforts and events the PDO was refocused and targets were revised during
implementation. The number of schemes was fixed as 750 medium and lesser and 10 large
schemes altogether. Area under these schemes was estimated at about 390,050 ha against the
original target area of approximately 280,000 ha. This target was further increased to 571,050 ha
(Grant-II & Grant-III). As of December 31, 2011, irrigation rehabilitation supported an existing
irrigated area of about 802,619 ha, which is 2.87 times of the original targeted area. The EIRP
also brought under irrigation a barani area over 164,823 ha against the targeted area as 145,000
ha which is about 13.6% above the target. Total irrigated land developed under the project is
summarized in the following Table A3.1:

                 Table A3.1:         Summary of Land Developed under Irrigation
                                     Rehabilitation Schemes by Region (Ha)
                                                                        Command Area (Ha)
    Sr.                                                      Total           Area           Rain-fed area
                Regions               Scheme Area
    No.                                                    Benefitted     Rehabilitated     brought under
                                                           Area (ha)          (ha)          irrigation (ha)
    1     West Region              Heart                      113,284             80,295              32,989
    2     Eastern Region           Jalalabad                   72,665             62,851               9,814
    3     Central Region           Kabul                      140,985           116,353               24,632
    4     South West Region        Kandahar                   156,653             97,330              59,323


4
          During field visits, mission collected data from farmers and Mirabs on operation and maintenance
          costs. It is clear that the farmers spend considerable resources (time, labor and money) to keep the
          system functional even at the low efficiency, before rehabilitation. After rehabilitation, the O&M
          cost will reduce substantially. However, the benefit of reduction savings in O&M cost has not
          been accounted for in the analysis.

5
          World Bank Price Forecast Bulletin Nov 2011.




                                                     38
                                                                      Command Area (Ha)
    Sr.                                                    Total           Area           Rain-fed area
               Regions              Scheme Area
    No.                                                  Benefitted     Rehabilitated     brought under
                                                         Area (ha)          (ha)          irrigation (ha)
    5     North East Region       Kunduz                    234,170            202,995                 31,175
    6     Northern Region         Mazar                      84,862             77,972               6,890
                                  Grand Total               802,619            637,796             164,823

Benefits

21.      It is general wisdom that the investment for irrigation system rehabilitation generally
yields high economic returns. This is particularly true for Afghanistan. Because of highly
dilapidated state of irrigation infrastructure, large tracts of land which used to receive water in the
past are out of command. Even those areas that do receive water had very low irrigation
efficiencies. Because of the temporary nature of diversion structures and frequent damages
caused by “flood washes? (high velocity run-off or hill torrents) farmers have to constantly invest
labor and time in repair and maintenance of in-takes and other structures to keep the system
functional. In such conditions, rehabilitation including improvement of intake/diversion structures,
and construction of appropriate protective structures (flood water bridges or over-passes)
typically result in (i) substantial increase in irrigated area; improvement in the reliability of
irrigation supplies; and (iii) reduction in O&M Costs. All these lead to increased yields and
productivity.

22.      For quantification of project benefits, it is assumed that the incremental benefits from
expansion and from restoration of irrigation facilities will occur with a one year time lag
following the completion of rehabilitation investments and handing over to the beneficiaries. And
also the benefits will start at 20% level and increase to reach 100% in five years in equal
increments. The time lag and step-wise realization of benefits is due to the fact that about 60% of
the incremental benefited area has been kept either under fallow and/or under rainfed crops for
several years now. Since some abandoned activities are needed to restore the neglected area for
enabling the irrigated crops to be cultivated following the improvements in the irrigation
infrastructure, and for gradual increase in the realization of incremental benefits. As such the
Project’s full maturity is expected to come in Year 7-12 depending on the start of rehabilitation
activities and the completion year for each scheme, individually.

23.     Analysis of data shows that the yields for some crops have also increased even in the
non-rehabilitated areas (control groups). This natural trend is applied to the without-project
scenario and availability of such data contributes to a more accurate estimation of the incremental
benefits deriving solely from Project activities.

24.      Non-quantifiable and indirect benefits: In addition to the direct and quantifiable
economic benefits the project would also have various other benefits that are not quantifiable
either at appraisal stage or at ICR level, these include: (i) the hydro-meteorological network in the
project area will generate information for improved future planning6, development, sustainable
use and management of national water sources; and (ii) the benefits of building capacity in the
MEW.


6
  In the absence of hydrological data, design engineers tend to be conservative and often overdesign
structures leading to higher costs


                                                    39
Economic Analysis

25.      Project costs: Economic analysis is based on the analyses of the schemes spread over all
of the six regions. The total investment cost including the other three components has also been
accounted for, which is again a conservative approach for carrying out the project appraisal.

26.     Economic Rate of Return by Regions: The analysis indicates that irrigation rehabilitation
is economically viable in all the regions, with internal rates of returns (ERRs) ranging from 21.6-
34.7% as summarized in the following Table. The overall ERR is expected to be 25.8%.

               Table A3.2: Summary of Results by Region - Economic analysis
                                                       ICR Estimates           Appraisal
                                   Scheme                                      Estimates
               Region
                                    Areas                         NPV (M
                                                     ERR %                      ERR %
                                                                   US$)
        West Region              Heart               21.6%          20.1           27
        Eastern Region           Jalalabad           24.3%          20.5           36
        Central Region           Kabul               28.7%          51.8           42
        Southern Region          Kandahar            19.4%          23.3           36
        North East Unit          Kunduz              34.7%          66.5           32
        Northern Region          Mazar               23.8%          15.3           42
                     Overall                         25.8%         197.5           31

NPV in economic terms is estimated as US$ 197.5 million and overall BC ratio comes to 1.98:1
at 12% discount rate.

Sensitivity Analysis-Economic

27.     Following is the summary of results for the sensitivity analysis:

                   Table A3.3: Response to EIRR (%) – Economic Analysis
                                                                           Cost
                                                                         Increased
                                            Cost         Benefits                        Benefits
                                                                        by 20% &
      Region          Scheme Areas        Increased     Reduced by                      Delayed by
                                                                          benefits
                                           by 20%          20%                          Two Years
                                                                        reduced by
                                                                           20%

West Region          Herat                     19.2%          17.8%          15.6%          16.1%
Eastern Region       Jalalabad                 21.9%          20.5%          18.3%          18.4%
Central Region       Kabul                     25.9%          24.5%          21.9%          21.3%
South West Region Kandahar                     17.6%          16.6%          14.9%          15.4%
North East           Kunduz                    31.9%          30.6%          28.0%          26.2%
Northern Region      Mazar                     21.1%          19.7%          17.3%          17.6%
               Overall                         25.1%          23.3%          22.0%          19.8%



                                                40
Financial Analysis

28.     Financial Rate of Return by Regions: The analysis indicates that irrigation rehabilitation
is financially viable in all the regions, with internal rates of returns (FRRs) ranging from 20.8-
31.8% as summarized in the following Table. The overall FRR is expected to be 23.5%.

                Table A3.4: Summary of Results by Region - Financial analysis


                                                               ICR Estimates
                                         Scheme
                     Region
                                          Areas
                                                         ERR %         NPV (M US$)

                West Region          Herat                20.8%             17.7
                Eastern Region       Jalalabad            21.8%             16.4
                Central Region       Kabul                26.3%             43.1
                Southern Region      Kandahar             17.1%             15.5
                North East Unit      Kunduz               31.8%             57.4
                Northern Region      Mazar                21.3%             11.7
                             Overall                      23.5%            161.8

NPV in financial terms is estimated as US$ 161.8 million and overall BC ratio comes to 1.75:1 at
12% discount rate.

Sensitivity Analysis-Financial

29.     Following is the summary of results for the sensitivity analysis in financial prices:

                    Table A3.5: Response to FIRR (%) – Financial Analysis
                                                                Cost Increased              Benefits
                                            Cost    Benefits
                                                                  by 20% &                  Delayed
       Region           Scheme Areas     Increased Reduced
                                                               benefits reduced             by Two
                                          by 20%    by 20%
                                                                   by 20%                    Years
West Region          Herat                      18.3%       16.9%                  14.7%        15.4%
Eastern Region       Jalalabad                  19.6%       18.3%                  16.3%        16.7%
Central Region       Kabul                      23.7%       22.3%                  19.9%        19.7%
South West Region Kandahar                      15.5%       14.4%                  12.9%        13.6%
North East           Kunduz                     29.2%       28.0%                  25.6%        24.4%
Northern Region      Mazar                      18.8%       17.4%                  15.2%        15.9%
               Overall                          21.3%       20.0%                  17.9%        18.0%

Project Impacts

30.     Impact on Yield: Data on rain-fed wheat yield was collected from the published statistics,
        and the data on crop yields for irrigated areas was provided by M&E Team of the project.
        Summary of yield under with and without project scenarios has been given at the
        following Table.



                                                 41
                     Table A3.6 : Impact of Project on Yield Per Hectare (kg)
                                                         Without Project            With Project
                         Scheme
No.       Regions                       Crops                       Yr                  Net      %
                          Area                           Yr 2006            Yr 2011
                                                                   2011              Increase Change
1       West            Herat        Wheat
                                                          2,338    2,530     3,223    693      22%
        Region                      Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1200     1200      3,223    2,023    63%
                                     Maize                2,380    2,674     3,240     566     17%
                                     Onion                6,965    9,144     9,998     854      9%
                                     Potato               3,510    5,339     6,450    1,111    17%
2       Eastern         Jalalabad    Wheat
                                                          2,143    2,549     3,038    489      16%
        Region                      Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1203      1203    3,038     1,835    60%
                                     Maize                1,989    2,245    2,561      316     12%
                                     Onion                8,845    13,763   15,841    2,078    13%
                                     Potato               6,955    10,624   12,630    2,006    16%
3       Central         Kabul        Wheat
                                                          2,280    2,521     2,969    448      15%
        Region                      Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1000      1000    2,969     1,969    66%
                                     Maize                1,850    2,041    2,375      334     14%
                                     Onion                7,765    10,270   12,560    2,290    18%
                                     Potato               7,125    10,167   13,165    2,998    23%
4       South West      Kandahar     Wheat
                                                          2,335    2,618     3,165    547      17%
        Region                      Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1,206    1,206     3,165    1,959    62%
                                     Maize                2,085    2,393     2,617     224      9%
                                     Onion                5,075    6,265     7,867    1,602    20%
                                     Potato               6,675    8,019     9,490    1,471    15%
5       North East      Kunduz       Wheat
                                                          2,275    2,476     3,185    709      22%
                                    Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1,250    1,250    3,185     1,935    61%
                                     Maize                2,052    2,172    2,495      323     13%
                                     Onion                7,673    10,137   13,985    3,848    28%
                                     Potato               7,856    9,036    11,150    2,114    19%
6       Northern        Mazar        Wheat
                                                          1,695    1,996     2,350    354      15%
        Region                      Irrigated
                                     Wheat Barani         1,080    1,080     2,350    1,270    54%
                                     Maize                1,895    2,173     2,455     282     12%
                                     Onion                4,845    6,285     8,251    1,966    24%
                                     Potato               4,993    7,862     8,750     888     10%


    31.     Production Impacts: With project, both cereals and vegetables production, realized from
    the rehabilitated as well as incremental irrigated area.




                                                    42
                       Table A3.7: Summary - Incremental Production (‘000 tons)
        Crops          Kunduz          Mazar         Kandahar          Kabul        Jalalabad         Herat          Total
     Wheat                 220.5            45.8           172.4          102.3             42.2         97.6           680.7
     Maize                   24.6            4.2             24.7           18.7             5.8         25.9           104.0
     Vegetables            447.0            76.5           124.1          202.4           109.2          64.0         1,023.2

    32.      As depicted in the above table, annual production of wheat will increase by about
    680,700 tons, maize by 104,000 tons and increase in vegetables is estimated at about 1023,000
    tons at full development. As such the additional production of crops (wheat, maize and
    vegetables) from the benefited area is estimated at about 77% (more than the WOP production).
    It will improve the food security of the beneficiary farm households in the project area.

33.      Income Impacts: Incremental irrigated area generated additional benefits of $ 341 per ha
per annum due to the project investments in the rehabilitated irrigation schemes. Average farm
size is 0.6 ha in the EIRP command areas and average family size in rural Afghanistan is six adult
units7. As such, a farm household will get increase in his income by about US$ 204, whereas, per
capita income in the project beneficiary household will increase by about US$ 51 per annum. As
per estimates of World Bank, per capita income in Afghanistan is US$ 501 (year 2010).

34.     Poverty/Employment Impacts: The project will generate about 4.3 million additional
person days as farm labor.

35.     Conclusion: Although it is too early to fully document the entire Project impact on
agricultural performance, yet the results of the ICR analysis suggest that the project will reach its
development objectives.




7
  The National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment 2005, Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development and the Central Statistics
Office, Kabul, June.2007.




                                                               43
          Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
              Names                           Title                   Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending

Mohinder S. Mudahar          Adviser                                 SASRD Task Team Leader
Masood Ahmad                 Lead Irrigation Engineer                SASRD Engineering
Garvey                       Consultant                                    Hydrology




Supervision/ICR
Xiaokai Li                   Water Resources Specialist              SASRD Task Team Leader
                                                                              Community
Christensen                  Social Development Specialist           SASRD
                                                                              Development
Mir Ahmad Ahmad              Operations Officer                      SASRD Civil Engineering
Christoph Bosch              Environmental Specialist                 SASES Environmental
Shawkat Hasan                Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS Procurement
Asta Olesen                  Senior Social Development Specialist     SASES Social Development
Garvey                       Consultant                               AFTS1 Water Resources
Agrawal                                                              SARFM
Nihal Fernando               Senior Irrigation Engineer              SASRD Task Team Leader
                                                                    Washingto
Theodosia Karmiris           Program Assistant
                                                                       n DC
Vardah Khalil Malik          Investment Officer                     Islamabad
Amit Ramchandani             Operations Analyst                        Delhi
Zabiullah Ahrary             Program Assistant                         Kabul
Mohammed Arif Rasuli         Senior Environmental Specialist          SASES
Kirmani                      Consultant                                Kabul
                                                                              Construction
R.K. Malhotra                Consultant                                Delhi Management
                                                                              Specialist
Juan Morelli                 Project Economist                         FAO
Asis Mondal                  M&E Specialist                            FAO
Deepal Fernando              Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS
                             Senior Financial Management
Kenneth Okpara                                                       Kabul
                             Specialist
Usman Qamar                  Senior Water Resources Specialist       SASRD    Task Team Leader
Rahimullah Wardak            Procurement Specialist                  SARPS    Procurement
Wahida Obaidy                Team Assistant                           Kabul
Asila Wardak Jamal           Consultant                               Kabul
Mio Takada                   Rural Development Specialist              DC
Abdul Mohammed Durrani       Consultant                               Kabul   Social Development
Wazhma Khalili               Team Assistant                           Kabul
Andres Garcia                Young Professional                      AFTFE
Jun Matsumoto                Senior Water Resources Specialist       SASDA    Task Team Leader
Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal     Consultant                                DC     Water Resources



                                                 44
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
 FY04                                       42                        182.38



                          Total:            42                        182.38
Supervision/ICR
  FY04                                      13                         40.27
  FY05                                      53                        188.21
  FY06                                      35                        129.28
  FY07                                      32                         87.07
  FY08                                      33                         88.95
  FY09                                      34                         87
  FY10                                      59                        139
  FY11                                      84                        192
  FY 12                                     32                        105

  Total                                  166                          558.53




                                       45
                             Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR

Summary -Implementation Completion Report presented by the Borrower (Unedited)

1.      EIRP was signed in January 2004 and became effective on March 19, 2004. The project
has been successfully implemented; all the project components designed under the project have
been effectively put into operation. The project costed USD 134.5 Million, funded by WB credit
of USD of 73 Million (including USD 8 Million through co-financing) USD 28 and USD 33.5
Million of grants awarded (H398 SDR 17.1 Million and H498 SDR 22.7 Million respectively) to
allow for more flexible implementation. The credit/grants were closed in December 2011.

2.       Project Development Objective (PDO): The PDO is to restore irrigated agricultural
production in rural areas, through improved and reliable water supply to rehabilitated traditional
irrigation schemes. Key indicators for this PDO are increase in irrigated area and increase in
agricultural productivity. This will assist in reducing rural poverty in rural areas; accelerating the
transition of the existing agricultural system; and laying the foundation for a dynamic rural
economy.

3.    The status of these indicators, based on results from the latest monitoring and evaluation
(M&E) surveys carried out in Autumn 2010 is summarized below:

PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OUTCOMES

Increase in Irrigated Area

4.      EIRP project appraisal was approved with the justification (among others) that the overall
projected increase in irrigated area of 25% after rehabilitation. The project has achieved 25.8 %,
overachieving by 0.4%.

5.     EIRP has attained significant achievements in the rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
overachieving in important targets. In total rehabilitated area, the project overachieved by
(86,569 ha) 12.09% over the target of 716,050 ha, and in total incremental irrigated area by
13.7%; and in increase in irrigated area by an average of 25.8% against project target of 25.4%,
overachieving by 0.4%. In terms of number of completed sub-projects, 728 were rehabilitated
(93.9%) compared to the target of 775, the variance in number is on, covering all 34 Afghanistan
provinces.

6.       Thirty nine (39) sub-projects were terminated due to various constraints including,
security and insufficient contractors resource capacity; and 8 (1 large and 7 small) were spilled
over to the follow-on Irrigation Restoration and Development Project (IRDP).

Increase in Agricultural Yield

Increase in Wheat Yield

7.      Average wheat yield has increased by 50.5%after rehabilitation compared to project
baseline, overachieving by 68.3% compared to the 30% projected productivity target in EIRP
appraisal. Wheat, being by far the most important crop in Afghanistan, accounting for 83% of
cereal consumption, the increase in its productivity, suggests that EIRP intervention has
promising potential contribution to improved food security and poverty alleviation in Afghanistan.


                                                 46
8.     Compared to control group irrigation schemes (those that do not benefit from project)
wheat yield for rehabilitated schemes is 39.2% higher, indicating effect of rehabilitation.


Yield Increase for Major Crops

9.     With regard to other major crops, Maize, cotton, onion and potato, yield has increased by
44.4% 117.9%, 197.7% and 65.4% respectively compared to baseline.

Intermediate Outcomes

10.     Achievements of Intermediate Outcomes, i.e. the lower level results which contribute to
project development outcomes, are presented below in summary form:

       Land Utilization: increased from 42.9% to 56.4%, as a result of EIRP intervention

       Cropping Intensity: has increased from 92% to 108.8% (an increase of 18.3%).

11.    Irrigated Land Value: increased (from 23 076 to US$32 114 per hectare) by an average of
10.4% after rehabilitation, ranging from 6.9 to 15.5% across EIRP regions.

12.      Increase of access to irrigation water: improved by an average of 24.6% after
rehabilitation of irrigation structures with regard to supply of irrigation water, hence the higher
change in access. The highest improvement in access to water, was registered in Herat (35%)
followed by Mazar (34%).

13.     Prevention of Flood Induced Agricultural Destruction: significant percentage of
beneficiary farmers attributed reduction of flood damages to:

       good quality of rehabilitation works (76%),
       provision of appropriate O&M training offered (70%),
       sound diagnosis and design of irrigation structures (64%) , and
       carrying out regular maintenance regime by applying new methods gained from O&M
        training (61%)
14.     Reduction in Water Related Disputes: according to the 65 Mirabs interviewed in the
survey, water related disputes have been reduced from about 98 to 44 per year per sub-project, a
reduction of 55.8%, as a result of EIRP intervention.

15.      Training: As at end of December 2011, 658 trainings were organized for different targets
of participants for a total duration of 3447 days. In these trainings, a total of 4355 participants
were from the technical staff and 6545 farmers and Mirabs benefited from O&M trainings. These
trainings represented over 50,000 man/days in the life of the project.

16.     Over eighty percent of participants rated "Very Good" and "Excellent" for three impact
indicators:
       51% and 36% of participants stated trainings helped improve their respective
        work performance;
       51% and 33% enhanced their knowledge and skills; and
       54% and 30% helped improve their motivation.


                                                47
17.      In relative terms, training provided for PCU/MEW technical personnel and the
beneficiaries farmers made stronger impact. The survey showed that project management
personnel, particularly those responsible for supervision and monitoring require more systematic
training, in order to gradually take over the independent running of follow-on project.

18.      Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Training Efficacy: on the average the number of
man/days spent on maintenance has been reduced by 31% compared to the situation before
rehabilitation of surveyed schemes, as a direct result of training. Overall beneficiary farmers are
appreciative of O&M training provided by the project. Of the 195 interviewed farmers, 145
(74.3%) find training content as practical and 158 (81%) affirm that training is relevant to their
needs. The provision of effective operation and maintenance, as confirmed by beneficiary farmers,
is the key factor for enhancing sustainability of project outcomes.

19.    Level of Community Involvement in Project Processes: substantial proportion of
respondent Mirabs confirms reasonable degree of involvement:

20.      89% state that communities get involved in the crucial first steps of sub-project
identification stage, when outcomes the community wants to achieve are explained and perceived
problems hampering those objectives are outlined;

21.    85% in the articulation of current irrigation problems in greater detail, including, for
example, weak intake structures, low conveyance, lack of flood protection structures and
maintenance skills, etc;

22.     76% in the determination of location and mix of irrigation structures required.

23.     This high degree of participation has strengthened community ownership, which in turn
ensured project relevance and sustainability of project outcomes.

24.     Community Perception on Key Outcomes: There has been clear convergence on value
attached to project outcomes by beneficiaries with those two PDO indicators set in the project
document; affirming strong project relevance to beneficiary needs.

25.     Beneficiaries attach values to the following indicators in the following ranking order: 1st,
“incremental irrigated area?, 2nd, “increase in agricultural productivity (yield)?, 3rd, “improved
access to irrigation water? and 4th, “reduction in operation and maintenance burden?. The high
ranking three intermediate outcomes directly contribute to the two PDO indicators. The 4th
ranking indicator, reduction in operation and maintenance burden, is also very significant. It
shows the magnitude of pressure communities had to face in the period before rehabilitation: in
the prevention of damages from floods, need to coping with repeated clearing of canals from silt
deposits, maintaining irrigation structures, controlling water seepage seems to have been
burdensome. This burden has been reduced by 31% due to EIRPs O&M initiative.

Hydro-meteorology

26.     Against the three key output indicators, EIRP achievement has not been particularly
impressive under this component:

27.      Number of Hydro-meteorological stations rehabilitated: From 174 planned for
rehabilitation/installation, only 105 (60.3%) have been installed at project completion, as at 31st
December 2011, in both existing and new locations.



                                                48
28.      Number of rating curves at hydrological stations established: Rating curves have been
established at 63 gauging stations out of the 105 stations installed.

29.     Number of river sub-basins with water balance calculated (using at least one year new
stream flow data to adjust long-term series): No water balance has been calculated.

LESSONS LEARNED

Component A: Irrigation Schemes Rehabilitation

30.     As outlined in the preceding paragraphs, while EIRP has achieved significant outcomes
for beneficiaries, the national project team has also gained invaluable experience from project
implementation. Future projects will benefit from lessons learned at the managerial, technical
and administrative levels of MEW/PCU personnel.

Sub-project Technical Proposal Preparation

31.     Sub-project technical proposal is a key project document, which seeks to establish
technical diagnosis and rehabilitation measures of irrigation systems on the basis of survey and
analysis of socio-economic, agricultural and engineering issues as well as target community
perceptions and expectations. Experience has shown that the quality of this document much
determines efficiency and effectiveness of subsequent project processes.

32.     PCU realizes that there is room for improvement in: the skills of relevant staff,
community consultation modalities, and determining the timing of proposal preparation to avoid
the need for redesigning engineering solutions.

33.     Communicating with Project Partners - Contractors

34.     Contractors are key partners who exert substantial impact on sub-project rehabilitation
performance. The project has prepared user-friendly general guidelines on duties and
responsibilities of contractors based on World Bank and MEW requirements. A workshop was
also organized for contractors to discuss recurring problems and mitigation measures related to
implementation.

35.     PCU recognizes that in future projects much more should be done to help contractors
improve their efficiency and performance: six-monthly workshops for contractors, training to
contractor site engineers, including, on work scheduling, supervision and quality control.
Invested resources in such support activities could pay in better quality work and shorter
completion times.

Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Tools

36.      Experience has revealed that time and cost monitoring and adherence to quality control
could be improved to ensure cost-effective implementation. The timeline monitoring approach
for activities including sub-project identification, preparation of technical project proposal, bid
document preparation and processing, bid award and approval has helped PCU to monitor this
implementation phase.

37.    For future projects, M&E has been arguing that the physical implementation phase, i.e.
post-award to rehabilitation completion and handover, require a more rigorous system of



                                                49
monitoring and evaluation. Agreed sub-project work plans for activities and outputs should be
organized around practically monitorable milestones with corresponding timelines and costs.
Regular status reporting along this approach could enable the M&E unit to identify milestones
and sub-projects experiencing time and cost over runs; and variances and their respective causes
could be further investigated, and mitigation measures solicited, and lessons learned consolidated.

38.     Establishing an MIS which incorporates the above outlined M&E requirements is critical
in order to monitor and evaluate implementation of hundreds of sub-projects distributed over all
Afghanistan. Instituting this monitoring approach would go a long way for project management
of such scale to benefit from useful information to take proactive management decisions.

Component B: Feasibility Studies and M&E

Feasibility Studies

39.     Out of many identified sites, the study of “Lower Kokcha Irrigation and Hydropower
Project (LKIHP)? was selected, and a contract signed with FICHTNER effective from 1st March
2006. It was successfully completed in 2010.

40.     The LKIHP is a multipurpose project, providing irrigation water to the agricultural sector
and electrical power for the operation of the lift irrigation parts of the scheme and for sale to the
public. The project’s cultivable area is 131,902 ha with a gross command area of 141,830 ha
which is divided into six zones.

41.     There has been some delay in the execution of the feasibility study due to security
problems in and around the project site. Mine clearing took a number of months. When two
German technical experts from another German firm were abducted by the Taliban, FICHTNER
suspended the study for some months until the security situation improved. The fact that only
outdated Russian Maps were available for use also affected the progress of the study.

42.      In support of further MEW efforts, EIRP has also assisted MEW in identifying potential
dams in the closed river basin (the Northern Region) and prepared a TOR for 22 potential small
dams for the preparation of pre-feasibility and feasibility studies for 10 dams. Out of which 2-3
sites will be selected for construction in the follow-on project.

43.      While it is wise to prepare such studies in line with the overall water resource
development strategy, in parallel a funding mobilization strategy should be drawn and acted upon.
Such project ideas raise community expectations, and when not realized within reasonable period,
government credibility could be undermined in the perception of communities. Technically,
studies may also need revising to reflect changing realities on the ground existing at the start of
implementation in the future. For example, funding for the implementation of Lower Kokcha
Irrigation and Hydropower Project (LKIHP)has not yet been secured, and could face this fate.

Monitoring and Evaluation

44.     M&E has prepared EIRP baseline and five successive Impact Assessment survey reports
over the duration of the project. These annual reports provided valuable information assessment
of PDO and Intermediate outcome indicators.

45.    However, the project has not fully benefited from Monitoring and Evaluation function.
Various constraints hampered M&E performance, including: i) delay in establishing the M&E



                                                 50
unit early on; ii)lack of MIS incorporating M&E requirements, particularly relating to the
monitoring of Component A outputs, activities and inputs on a regular basis; iii) recruitment and
retention of qualified staff; v) not using modern technology, including satellite imagery to
measure impact of irrigation rehabilitation on agricultural production, yield and incremental
irrigated area; and vi) to some extent, M&E's place in the organization may have also inhibited
the impartial and independent reporting.

46.      MEW recognizes the role of M&E in strengthening knowledge management and
organizational learning, and to this effect some necessary measures have already been taken to
rectify the above identified constraints. But M&E will need time to evolve and become fully
effective.

Component C: Institutional Strengthening

47.     The project employed technical and managerial trainings for the executing agency staff,
operation and maintenance (O&M) Training for beneficiary farmers and Mirabs, technical
assistance and management of consultancy services Although the above improved the situation
existing at the start of project implementation, there is still the need to continue to institutionalize
the above gains in order to achieve the capacity to plan and implement similar projects
independently in the future.

48.     The above institutional capacity outcomes were achieved through various approaches,
including, developing management systems and tools, formal training, on-the-job training and
mentoring, on-project site training for beneficiaries, and provision of equipment, which all
combined resulted in very good capacity building outcomes.

Component D: Geo-meteorology

49.      Investigation into the major constraints that hampered the performance of this component
reveals the following:

50.      Delayed arrival of equipment from suppliers

51.     Lack of capacity of local contractors awarded to install hydrological stations across the
spread of the country.

52.      Considerable delay in transmission of data to WMD due to lack of monitoring capacity.

53.      Quality of observed data has been found to be poor in some cases as the staff assigned to
the task lack sufficient technical capacity.

54.    In many cases, security problems have also hampered timely installation of hydro-
meteorological stations.

55.      PCU has recognized the foregoing short-comings and will consider taking the following
actions in the medium-term:

      a. In addition to short term trainings, there is a need for longer term training/degree
         level education in relevant subjects. Importantly MEW realizes that there is a
         need for finding ways and means of improving staff motivation.



                                                  51
      b. Creating in-house repair and maintenance capability of the hydrological and
         meteorological instruments is necessary to ensure sustainability of the observation
         program in the country.
      c. A National Institute of Hydrology (NIH) should be established to take care of
         hydrological research and development and capacity building needs of the water
         resource sector of the country. The MEW/WMD’s recently established Vocational
         Centre, with accommodation and class room facilities, could be further
         strengthened and upgraded to gradually assume research and training
         responsibilities. In the longer term, the Institute could create collaboration with
         international and foreign institutions for capacity building in a planned manner

Economic Analysis

Non quantifiable and indirect benefits

56.     In addition to the direct and quantifiable economic benefits of irrigation rehabilitation,
the project would have other benefits which are not quantifiable at ICR stage. The hydro-
meteorological network in the project area will generate information for improved future planning,
development and sustainable use and management of national water sources, as well as the
benefits of institutional capacity building in the MEW.

57.      Internal Rate of Return (IRR) and Economic Rate of Return (ERR)

58.     Project Costs: economic analysis is based on the analyses of the schemes spread over all
of the six regions. Total investment costs, including the other three components have also been
accounted for.

59.      Economic Rate of Return by regions: the analysis indicated that EIRP’s rehabilitation of
irrigation schemes in all of the regions is economically viable with internal rate of returns (IRRs)
ranging from 20.9% - 31.5%. The overall ERR is expected to be 26.9%, as summarized below:

60.      The incremental production of wheat will increase by 361,874 tons, maize by 63,207 tons,
onion by 172,820 tons and potato by 153,922 tons at full development. In addition, incremental
irrigated area generated an average income of US$694 per ha as a result of the project
investments in the rehabilitated irrigation schemes.

61.     Although it is too early to fully document the entire project impact on agricultural
performance, the results of the ICR analysis suggest that the project will reach its development
objectives.

Sustainability

62.     This section outlines possible risks and opportunities for sustainability of EIRP
achievements (outputs and outcomes and institutional benefits) and recommended sustainability
enabling measures.

63.     Enabling Policy Environment: The priority given to water resource development in the
ANDS as well as the establishment of the River Basin Commission is concrete evidence of the
existing government’s commitment at the highest level. It can be assumed that government
support to irrigation community will extend to broader geographical coverage and beyond



                                                52
emergency and rehabilitation to development and strategic transformation of irrigation systems,
pace and scale conditional to availability of funding.

64.     Institutional Internalization of developed Management and Human Capacity within
MEW Structure: Incorporating the PCU along with the: project management systems developed
through the technical assistance provided under the project and retaining the trained personnel are
key to ensuring the sustainability of what has been achieved through EIRP.

65.      Sustainability of Community Benefits: According to EIRP M&E annual survey reports,
improving training Operation and Maintenance is one of the most important measures that could
enhance sustainability of achieved outcomes and introduced irrigation management methods.
MEW is seriously considering how to provide relevant O&M support services to traditional
irrigation communities.

66.     Improving Organizational Learning: The culture of consolidating and learning from
experience should be solidly instituted within MEW. Instituting systematic regular performance
evaluation of policies, programs and projects, including Monitoring and Evaluation systems is
vital to build on what has been achieved. MEW is considering restructuring its internal
performance review processes and structure, which will be anchored on program performance.

67.    Establishing Irrigation National Technical Institute: Modernizing irrigation management
system to support irrigation communities maintain irrigation systems are also strategic in the
improvement of irrigation efficiency thereby improving food security in Afghanistan.




                                                53
                     Annex 6. List of Supporting Documents


1   Technical Annex – Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Report No.
    T7608-AF
2   Project Paper: Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Report No. 38944-AF
3   Project Paper: Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Report No. 43115-AF
4   Project Paper: Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Report No. 47594-AF
5   Development Credit Agreement; 3845-AF
6   Agreement Amending Development Credit Agreement; H284-AF
7   Financing Agreement; H398-AF
8   Financing Agreement; H498-AF
9   Implementation Status Reports; June 2004 (sequence #1) through June 2011
    (sequence #15)




                                      54
                         AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                         U Z B E K I S TA N                                           TA J I K I S TA N




                                                                                                                                                                          300 mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           400 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   m        TA J I K I S TA N




                                                                                   300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       500 m




                                                                                     mm
                                                                                                  ¯
                                                                                             JAWZJAN                                                                                             Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                   ¯Z
                                                                                                                                               KUNDU
                                       T U R K M E N I S TA N                                               ¯
                                                                                                                        BALKH                                                 ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                             Taloqan
                                                                                                         ¯ Mazar-e
                                                                                                 Sheberghan                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                               Kunduz
                                                                                                            Sharif
                                                                                                                 ¯                                                                        BA
                                                                                                                                                                                          B   D A K H SH
                                                                                                                                                                                            A DA      SHA¯N
                                                                                           Saripul                               ¯
                                                                                                                           Samangan                                                TAKHAR
                              mm




                                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                      Baghlan
                                                300




                                                                                Meymaneh                                                                                           m
                                                                                                                                                                ¯            700 m
                                                                                                                                                           BAGHLAN
                             200




                                                 mm




                                                                                  ¯B
                                                                             ¯ R YA                                            ¯
                                                                                                                         SAMANGAN
                                                                            FA                                                                                              PANJSHIR
                                                                                               SARIPUL                                         600
                                                                                                                                                     mm                Bazarak                 ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                             NURISTAN
                                                         ¯DGH¯
                                                        BA   IS                                                                                                                                      KUNAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            500 mm

                                                                   Qal‘eh-ye Now
                                                                                                              ¯ ¯                                                         ¸ ¯ Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                       Mahmud-e        ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯ ¯ Nuristan
                                                                                                             BAMYAN  ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                    Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                 Charıkar
                                                                                                                                                 ¯
                                                                                                                                             PARWAN
                                                                                                                                                   ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                         KAPISA LAGHMAN                  ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Asadabad          400 m
            10                                                                                                                                                                                                                 m
                 0m
                   m                                                                                                                                                  KABUL                 ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                     Mehtarlam
                                                                                   ¯
                                                                            Chaghcharan                                           Meydan
                                                                                                                                       ¯ Shahr                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                      KABUL              Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                         Herat
                                            ¯                                                                                    WA R D A K                                             NANGARHAR

                                                                        GHOR                                                                                Pol-e ‘Alam
                                 ¯T
                              HERA                                                                ¯ZGAN                                               LOGAR        PAKTIA
                                                                                                URU
                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                      Ghaznı               ¯
                                                                                                                                                       Gardız          KOWST
                                                                                                                                                                           Kowst                                   PA K I S TA N                                              INDIA
                                                                                                                           GHAZN¯
                                                                                                                                I
                                                                                                                                                          Sharan
                                                                                                    ¯ Kowt
                                                                                                 Tarın
                                                       ¯H
                                                  FA R A                                                                                     PA K T¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                   IKA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   AFGHANISTAN
                                           ¯
                                        Farah
                                                                                                             Qalat
                                                                                                                ¯
                                                                                                                         ¯BUL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E M E R G E N C Y I R R I G AT I O N
                                                                                                                        ZA
                                                              Lashkar Gah
                                                                       ¯                        Kandahar
                                                                                                     ¯                                                                                                                      R E H A B I L I TAT I O N P R O J E C T
                                                                                                                                        20
                                                                                                                                          0m
                                                                                                                                                           30
                                                                                                                                                             0
                                                                                                                                                                 mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          LOCATION MAP OF IRRIGATION
                                                                                                                                               m
                   ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                  REHABILITATION SCHEMES
                                   Zaranj                   HILMAND
                  REPUBLIC                                                               ¯R
                                                                                   KANDAHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COMPLETED PROJECTS
                                   N¯  ¯Z
                                    IMRO                                                                                                                                                                                                              TERMINATED/CLOSED PROJECTS
                   OF IRAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       300 mm         ISOHYETS
                                                                                                             100
                                                                                                                   mm
                                                                                                                                                           0            50          100         150                                                   PROVINCE CAPITALS

                                                                                                                                                                         KILOMETERS                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                       PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                       PA K I S TA N                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       IBRD 39365
                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
JUNE 2012




                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                            Source: Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW).
                         AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                         U Z B E K I S TA N                                           TA J I K I S TA N




                                                                                                                                                                          300 mm
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        400 m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m     TA J I K I S TA N




                                                                                   300
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    500 m




                                                                                     mm
                                                                                                  ¯
                                                                                             JAWZJAN                                                                                             Faisabad
                                                                                                                                                   ¯Z
                                                                                                                                               KUNDU
                                       T U R K M E N I S TA N                                               ¯
                                                                                                                        BALKH                                                 ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                             Taloqan
                                                                                                         ¯ Mazar-e
                                                                                                 Sheberghan                                        ¯
                                                                                                                                               Kunduz
                                                                                                            Sharif
                                                                                                                 ¯                                                                        B
                                                                                                                                                                                          BA  D A K H SH
                                                                                                                                                                                            A DA      SHA¯N
                                                                                           Saripul                               ¯
                                                                                                                           Samangan                                                TAKHAR
                              mm




                                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                      Baghlan
                                                300




                                                                                Meymaneh                                                                                           m
                                                                                                                                                                ¯            700 m
                                                                                                                                                           BAGHLAN
                             200




                                                 mm




                                                                                                                               ¯
                                                                                                                         SAMANGAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AFGHANISTAN
                                                                                  ¯B
                                                                             ¯ R YA
                                                                            FA                                                                                              PANJSHIR
                                                                                               SARIPUL                                         600
                                                                                                                                                     mm                Bazarak                 ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                             NURISTAN                               EMERGENCY IRRIGATION
                                                         ¯DGH¯
                                                        BA   IS                                                                                                                                      KUNAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   500 mm

                                                                   Qal‘eh-ye Now
                                                                                                              ¯ ¯                                                         ¸ ¯ Raqı
                                                                                                                                                                       Mahmud-e        ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                  ¯ ¯ Nuristan                                      REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                                                                             BAMYAN  ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                    Bamyan                       ¯
                                                                                                                                             PARWAN
                                                                                                                                                   ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                 Charıkar
                                                                                                                                                                          ¯ ¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                         KAPISA LAGHMAN                            400 m                     HYDROMETRIC NETWORK
            10                                                                                                                                                                                     Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                       ¯ ¯                 m
                 0m
                   m                                                                                                                                                  KABUL                 ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                     Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               AND RIVER BASINS
                                                                                   ¯
                                                                            Chaghcharan                                           Meydan
                                                                                                                                       ¯ Shahr                         ¯
                                                                                                                                                                      KABUL              Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                            ¯¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯
                                         Herat
                                            ¯                                                                                    WA R D A K                                             NANGARHAR                                                COMPLETED HYDROLOGICAL STATIONS
                                                                        GHOR                                                                                Pol-e ‘Alam                                                                          PLANNED HYDROLOGICAL STATIONS
                                 ¯T
                              HERA                                                                ¯ZGAN                                               LOGAR        PAKTIA                                                                        PLANNED SNOW SURVEY STATIONS
                                                                                                URU
                                                                                                                                      Ghaznı
                                                                                                                                           ¯               ¯
                                                                                                                                                       Gardız          KOWST
                                                                                                                                                                           Kowst
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 PLANNED METEOROLOGICAL STATIONS
                                                                                                                           GHAZN¯
                                                                                                                                I                                                                                                                EXISTING DAMS
                                                                                                                                                          Sharan                                                                                 POTENTIAL DAM SITES UNDER STUDY
                                                                                                    ¯ Kowt
                                                                                                 Tarın
                                                       ¯H
                                                  FA R A                                                                                     PA K T¯ ¯
                                                                                                                                                   IKA                                                                                           RIVER BASINS:
                                        Farah
                                           ¯                                                                                                                                                                                                         AMU DARYA
                                                                                                                ¯
                                                                                                             Qalat                                                                                                                                   HARIRUD-MURGHAB
                                                                                                                         ¯BUL
                                                                                                                        ZA                                                         PA K I S TA N                                                     HELMAND
                                                                       ¯
                                                              Lashkar Gah                            ¯
                                                                                                Kandahar
                                                                                                                                        20                 30                                                                                        KABUL (INDUS)
                                                                                                                                          0m                 0
                                                                                                                                               m                 mm
                   ISLAMIC                                                                                                                                                                                                                           NON DRAINAGE AREA
                                   Zaranj                   HILMAND
                  REPUBLIC                                                               ¯R
                                                                                   KANDAHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NORTHERN
                                   N¯  ¯Z
                                    IMRO                                                                                                                                                                                            300 mm        ISOHYETS
                   OF IRAN




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IRRIGATED AREAS
                                                                                                             100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  LAKES
                                                                                                                   mm
                                                                                                                                                           0            50          100         150                                               RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                        KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                       PA K I S TA N                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 39366
                                                                                                                                                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
JUNE 2012




                                                                                                                                                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                           Source: Ministry of Energy and Water (MEW).
