                                                               97306 September 15, 2010
Afghanistan: New Irrigation Systems Jumpstarts Farming, and Incomes
 




    IMPROVING AGRICULTURE IN AFGHANISTAN

    New Irrigation Systems Jumpstarts Farming, and Incomes




Overview
Given the critical importance of irrigation water in raising the incomes of Afghanistan’s people,
the World Bank is assisting the government to rehabilitate and restore its irrigation systems.
Since 2003, a US$40 million Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project has been working in
the six major river basins of Afghanistan, benefiting over 600,000 households in all 34
provinces of the country.


Challenge
While the vast majority of Afghans depend on agriculture for
                                                                       More Results
a living, only a little over 10 percent of the country’s harsh
and arid terrain is arable. Most of it requires irrigation. But

                                                                       600,000
after three decades of war and political upheavals,
Afghanistan’s agricultural sector was in shambles. Most of
the country’s basic irrigation infrastructure was damaged
during the conflict years, with only about one-third still intact.     Households in all 34 provinces
                                                                       in the country have benefitted
Even where systems were operational, water supplies were
unreliable, with systems operating at a mere 25 percent
efficiency compared to the norm for irrigation efficiency in the
region of 40-to-60 percent. As a result, the country and its          MORE INFORMATION
rural inhabitants were caught in a vicious cycle —                      Feature Story with Slideshow
productivity and incomes remained low, while food insecurity
and rural poverty loomed large. In recent years, the situation          Beneficiary Voices
has grown worse due to frequent droughts.                               Project Documents

                                                                        IDA Profile

Approach
Financed by the International Development Association
(IDA), the Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was launched in 2004 to improve and
restore Afghanistan’s irrigation systems. The project focused on the country’s six major river
basins in the regions of Kabul, Jalalabad, Kandahar, Herat, Kunduz, and Mazar-e-Sharif.
Communities identified the key constraints then appointed traditional water managers, or
mirabs, to distribute the water equitably in accordance with water shares that farmers had
enjoyed in the past. Farmers provided in-kind labor as a way to earn income. Finally, once the
irrigation systems were rehabilitated, farmers and mirabs were trained to operate and maintain
them.


Active involvement of farmers


Under the project, local communities participate actively in the rehabilitation of their irrigation
systems. They help to identify the key constraints and contribute in kind to the works.
Traditional water managers appointed by the community – knows as mirabs - distribute the
water equitably in accordance with the water shares traditionally enjoyed by each farmer. Once
the irrigation systems have been rehabilitated, farmers and mirabs are trained to operate and
maintain them.
The IDA project has introduced innovative way of supervising schemes in insecure areas by,
for example, using geo-referenced photos and videos to monitor and report progress.


Results
Despite numerous challenges, particularly the lack of security and the government’s low
capacity, the project helped rehabilitate multiple irrigation systems, benefiting over 600,000
households in all 34 provinces of the country. The improved availability of irrigation water has
helped boost yields of staple crops such as wheat, maize, and rice, as well as of onions,
melons, and watermelons. The project has also made a substantial contribution to building
capacity within Afghanistan’s Ministry of Energy and Water through hands-on training,
particularly in identifying, preparing, designing and implementing irrigation rehabilitation
schemes.


Highlights:


- Regular watering boosted yields. Irrigation boosted yields of staple crops of wheat, maize,
and rice, as well as of onions, melons, and watermelons.
- Government capacity increased. The project also made a substantial contribution to building
capacity within Afghanistan’s Ministry of Energy and Water through hands-on training,
particularly in identifying, designing, preparing, and implementing irrigation rehabilitation
schemes.
- Land restored by rehabilitated facilities. Irrigation facilities serving 618,000 hectares of irrigated
areas have been rehabilitated. This has restored irrigation supplies to a previously dry area of
122,000 hectares.
- Rehabilitation schemes spread countrywide. So far rehabilitation of 600 small, medium, and
large irrigation schemes has been completed in various parts of the country.
- Hydro stations installed. So far 98 hydrological stations have been installed in different
locations on the five main river basins.


Voices
The project has helped rehabilitate irrigation systems, benefiting over 600,000 households in all
34 provinces of the country. The improved availability of irrigation water has helped boost
yields of staple crops such as wheat, maize, and rice, as well as of onions, melons, and
watermelons.
72 year old Haji Abdul Qahar is a proud patriarch of a 25 member family that spans three
generations.



     Most people in our village depend on agriculture in some way
   or other. So, to stand on our own feet, it was essential for us to
   boost our agricultural produce as much as we could.
                                      — Haji Abdul Qahar, Kapisa Province



Partners
The Emergency Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was launched in 2004 with an IDA contribution
of US$40 million. Three additional IDA grants amounting to a total of US$86.5 million have
subsequently supported the continuation of the project. Impressed by project achievements, the
Government of Afghanistan contributed another US$6.0 million to expand the project.


Toward the Future
Additional IDA financing of US$33.5 million, approved in May 2009, will help rehabilitate 85
medium and 8 large irrigation schemes. It will also expand the country’s hydro-meteorological
facilities to improve the planning, management, and development of the country’s water
resources. Moreover, it aims to equip the Government to forecast floods and droughts better. .
 
