Document of
The World Bank
Report No.14220-MAU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
APRIL 26, 1995
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENT
Currency Unit                             Ouguiya (IJM)
US$ 1.00                                  UM 125
UM I million             =                USS 8,000
SDR I                                     USSI.558
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MZEASUREs: METRIC
Metric                           U.S. Equivalent
1 meter (m)              =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         =       0.62 miles (mi.)
I square kilometer (km2)   =     0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
I hectare (ha)           =       2.47 acres (a)
I metric ton (t)         =       2,205 pounds (lb.)
I kilogram (kg)          =       2.205 pounds (lb.)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ALMAP           Soc ite de Peche Mfauritano-Alg&rie
ARCB            Agence de Recouvrenerit des Creance Bancaires
BALM            Ban que LibyenneVMauritanienne
BAMIvS          Banque al-Baraka Alauritanienne Islamique
BIMA            Banque Internationale pour Ia Xfauritanie
BMCI            Banque Afauritanienne pour le Commerce et l'Indusirie
BMDC            Banque Afauritanienne du Developpement et du Comnierce
BNM             Banque Nationale Aauritanienne
CBC             Capacity Building Credit for the Development of the Private Sector
CCIA            Chambre de Commierce, d'Industrie et dAgrnculture
CGEM            Confederation Generale des Employeurs Afauritaniens
CNROP           Centre Nationale de Recherchie Oceanographique et de Peche
CSA             Commissariat de la Securite Alimentaire
ESAF             Extended Structural Adjustment Facility
IDF             Institutional Development Fund
GOM              Government of Mauritania
NASR             National Insurance Company
MAUSOV          Societe de Peche Afauritano-Russe
PCU             Project Coordination Unit
PE:   Public Enterprise
PESAP            Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program
PFP             Policy Framework Paper
PSDC            Private Sector Development Program
SMCP            Societ Alauritanienne pour le Developpement de la P2che
SOE             Statemiienit of Expenses
SONADER         Societe Nationale pour le Developpement Rural
SMB             Societe Aauritanienne de Ban que
SNIM            Societe Nationale Industrielle et Afinijre
UBD              Union de Ban ques de Dgveloppement
UNCACEM          Union de Cooparatives pour le Developpement Rural
ZOPP             Zieleorientierte Projektplanung (Objectives-oriented project planning)



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANTA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................i
I. BACKGROUND ....................................................1
A. MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS .................I
B. THE  PRIVATE  SECTOR .............................................................2
1. Foreign Exchange System .............................................................5
2. The Regulatory  Framework  for Private Sector Activities ................................................5
3. The Lack of Adequate Support Services for the Private Sector .........................................6
4. Accounting and Auditing Framework .............................................................6
C. THE  FINANCIAL  SECTOR .............................................................7
D. FISHNG  AND  MINING  SECTORS .............................................................9
1. Fishing Sector .............................................................9
2. Mining Sector ............................................................                                           12
II.  THE  PROJECT ............................................................                                                 13
A.  PROJECT  OBJECTIVES ............................................................                                        13
B. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ............................................................                                        15
1. Financial Sector ............................................................                                        16
2. Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework .................................................. 19
3. Mining Sector .............                                                                                          24
4. Fishing Sector .............                                                                                         26
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN                                           .................................... 27
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                        ..                           .................................. 29
E. PROCUREMENT  ........................................................................................................... 30
F. DISBURSEMENTS ................                                                                                          33
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                          ............................................. 34
H. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING                                             ..................................... 34
I. ENVIRONMENTAL  ASPECTS ....................................................                                             36
J. PROJECT  RISKS AND  BENEFITS ....................................................                                       36
III. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................................... 38
This operation was prepared by a team  comprising Hishamn El-Naggar (Financial Economist and Task
Manager, AF5SE), Fredricka Santos (Economist, AFSE), Noel Tshiani (Financial Specialist, AF5IE),
Susana Hristodoulakis (Operational Analyst, AF5IE), Anne-Marie Chidzero (PSD), Angela Walker
(PSD), Patrice Brand (Consultant), Paulo da Sa (IENIM), Miguel Saponara (Economist, AF5CO), Hovsep
Melkonian (LOAAF), Bernard Abeille (AF5DR), and Hanz Wabnitz (Senior Legal Counsel, LEGAF) and
Sara Gonzalez Flavell (Legal Counsel, LEGAF). Michael Sarris (AF31E) and Loup Brefort (PSD) are the
Peer Reviewers. Celir.e Gavach provided secretarial support. Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Ms. Silvia
Sagari are respectively the Department Director and the Managing Division Chief for the operation.
Mr. Fran9ois Laporte is the Lead Economist, and Mr. Emmerich Schebeck is the Projects Advisor.



2
Contents (Cont'd)
Annexes
Annex I         Implementation Schedule
Annex 2         Letters of Development Policy for the Financial and Private Sectors and for the Fisheries
Sector
Annex 3         Performance Indicators
Annex 4         Supervision Plan
Annex 5         Organization Chart
Annex 6         Disbursement Profile
Annex 7         Estimated Project Costs
Annex 8         Financing Plan
Map: IBRD25935



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE
SECTOR
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Islamic Republic of Mauritania
Beneficiaries:       The Central Bank, Ministries of Planning and others
Credit Amount:       SDR 4.7 million (about US$7.2 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Project Objectives    The objectives of the Project are to: (i) encourage investor interest in
and Description:     pursuing opportunities in the private sector, especially in the mining
and fishing subsectors, via revision of the commercial and tax codes as
well as other activities designed to enhance entrepreneurial dynamism
and efficiency and (ii) strengthen the financial sector, so that it can
better provide credit and banking services needed by the private sector.
The Project will finance activities which will contribute to the
realization of the Government of Mauritania's Private Sector
Development program. That program is supported by the Private
Sector Development Credit (PSDC), which is being presetited to the
Board at the same time as this operation.
The proposed project will finance the following three subcomponents:
(i) upgrading of credit risk and borrower arrears information
(US$0.1 million); (ii) training in banking (US$0.9 million); and (iii)
study for the formulation of a strategy for the second phase of
financial sector development (US$0.1 million).
With respect to the private sector institutional and regulatory
framework, the proposed project will finance the following four
important subcomponents: (i) upgrading of the accounting and
auditing framework (US$0.4 million); (ii) support to the Chamber
of Commerce (US$0.4 million); (iii) strengthening of legal and
judiciary framework (US$2.6 million); and (iv) feasibility study of a
tax free regime for exporters (US$0. 1).
In the fishing and mining sectors, the following components will be
financed by the proposed project: (i) strengthening of the regulatory



ii
and institutional framework of the mining sector (US$ 1.1 million);
and (ii) survey of fishing resources, establishment of a monitoring
mechanism for fish exports and strengthening of environmental
and quality control capabilities (US$0.50 million).
Project              The executing agencies in charge of the components will be as
Implementation:      follows: (i) upgrading credit risk information, bank training and
development of a long-term financing strategy to benefit small- and
medium-size enterprises will be implemented by a small Implementation
Unit at the Central Bank; (ii) development of the accounting and
auditing framework will be carried by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU -- see below), which will work closely with the Ministry of
Finance and the existing Ordre des experts comptables; (iii)
reorganization of the Chamber of Commerce to aid in the promotion of
the private sector, as well as to provide support services to that sector,
will the Ministry of Commerce until such time as the Chamber of
Commerce is fully functional; (iv) legal and judiciary reform will be
carried out by the Directorate for Judiciary Affairs of the Ministry of
Justice for the training prograrn, the PCU (see below) under the
command of the Prime Minister's Office for the revision of legal texts
and the establishment of the commercial register, and the Secretariat
GMngral du Gouvernement at the Prime Minister's office for the
electronic indexation of laws and the publication of the improved
Official Bulletin; (v) study for the possible setting up of points francs as
a mechanism for export promotion will be executed by the Directorate
of Industry at the Ministry of Industry and Mining; (vi) promotion of
private investor interest in the mining sector will be implemented by the
Directorate of Mining at the Ministry of Industry and Mining; and (vii)
survey of fishing production and foreign exchange flows, the
implementation of the action plan it will produce to set up a mechanism
to monitor said flows, and the administration of technical support to the
CNROP (Conseil National de Recherches Oceanographiques et de
Peche) will be carried out by the Technical Advisor specifically given
that responsibility at the Ministry of Fishing.
An existing and experienced unit, the Cellule de rehabilitation du
secteur parapublic in the Ministry of Planning, will be responsible for
coordination of project implementation.
Project Benefits     The key focus of the proposed project is making the regulatory and
and Risks:           institutional framework for private sector development conducive to
attracting private investment. As such, the implementation of the
proposed-project is closely tied to the reforms envisaged under the
PSDC. In the process, the proposed project aims at promoting the
following: (i) better quality banking services and a better financial



iii
sector framework through programs to upgrade the skills of bank
supervisors and commercial bank personnel, accountants, auditors,
magistrates and other legal personnel; (ii) improved access to detailed
informnation on the credit standing of borrowers and on arrears through
revamping the Centrale des Risques and the Centrale des Impayes; (iii)
an enhanced legal and accounting framework which will allow for
more transparent procedures and foster accountability and financial
discipline in the financial and private sectors; and (iv) an ongoing
dialogue between the private sector and the Government of Mauritania
(GOM), as well as a solid mechanism for extending support services to
aid the development of the private sector.
The success of the proposed project is not completely assured. The
vested interests within Mauritania may resist or try to dilute the positive
effect of the reform measures, especially those providing support for
the programs geared to upgrading and enforcing regulation of the
fishing sector. However, the GOM has given every indication that it
has a sense of participation and ownership in the proposed project and
that, in the interests of promoting the private sector, it is committed to
seeing it carried out successfully.
Environmental        No environmental risks are foreseen. Given the concem about the
Risks                depletion of the country's fish resources, the proposed project's survey
of fish resources component will help to provide baseline data that will
help future conservation efforts. Environmental safeguards are built
into various components of the proposed project, notably those dealing
with the revision of legal texts and codes.
Economic Rate        Not applicable.
of Return



iv
Table 1: Estimated Proiect Costs
LOCAL FOREMGN TOTAL
-in USS million-
1. FFmancial Sector                                            0.23      0.86    1.08
1.a. Credit Risk & Borrower Arrears Information                0.01      0.05    0.06
l.b. Training inBnking                                         0.20      0.69    0.88
I.c. Financial Sector Development Study                        0.02      0.12    0.14
2. Private Sector                                               135      2.18     3.54
2.a. Upgrading of Accounting & Auditing                        0.14      0.21     0.36
2.b. Support to Chamber of Commerce                            0.19      0.21     0.40
2.c. Strengthening of Legal and Judiciary Framework             1.02     1.63    2.65
2.d. Tax Free Regime Study                                     0.00      0.13     0.13
3. Mining Sector                                                0.40     0.74     1.14
4. FLshing Sector                                              0.22      0.29     0.50
5. Project Coordination Unit                                   0.38      0.15     0.53
6. Project Audit                                               0.03      0.18     0.21
Total Base Costs:        2.60      4.39    7.00
7. Continzencies:
Physical                                                   0.12      0.18    0.30
Price                                                      0.11      0.12    0.23
0.23     0.30     0.53
8. Refinancing of Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance             0.40     0.40
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                             2.83      5.09    7.92
Table 2: Estimated Financing Plan:
LOCAL FORErGN TOTAL
-in USS milion-
Government                                                   0.70      0.00     0.70
IDA                                                          2.13      5.09     7.22
Total:        2.83      5.09     7.92
Estimated Disbursements (IDA):
Annual                                                 0.40   2.83     2.24      1.52    0.22
Cumulative                                             0.40   3.23     5.47     6.99    7.22
Estimated Project Completion Date: June 30, 1999
Map No:                                              IBRD 25935
: Fi,u= y mat dd up due to munding.



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
I. BACKGROLTND
A. MACRO-ECONOMIC FRAMEWORK AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
1.01. Economic Performance and Recent Economic Developments. For most of the 1970s
and until the mid-1980s, Mauritania's economic development has been uneven and marked by
major imbalances. While exogenous factors contributed significantly to the deterioration of the
country's economic and financial situation, their impact was aggravated by weak economic
management. During this period, the GOM embarked on a large public investment program
financed almost entirely through external borrowing. The program channeled resources toward
low-yielding projects which led to a large external debt and heavy debt service burden.
Domestic demand was sustained by excessive growth of public expenditures, which in turn
contributed to large balance of payments deficits. Price distortions and the regulated market for
agricultural and industrial products discouraged the development of private activities. Poorly
managed, over-equipped and over-staffed public enterprises became increasingly inefficient and
accumulated heavy financial losses.
1.02. From 1986 to 1991, the GOM carried out a number of important structural reforms. In
particular, the GOM pursued a far-reaching price and trade liberalization policy. Import licenses
were abolished and petroleum product marketing and urban transportation were deregulated.
Seven nonviable public enterprises were closed, others were reorganized, and the monopoly on
the sale of various basic items (including rice, tea and sugar) granted to import-export agency
(SONIMEX) was eliminated. The GOM also privatized all rice mills as well as the marketing of
grain products. The private sector rapidly replaced the public sector in land development,
agricultural production and marketing activities. In 1990, 1991 and part of 1992, however, the
economy experienced a series of exogenous shocks which had an adverse impact on the
economic and financial situation. Against this background, the GOM resumed negotiations with
the IMF and the World Bank which made it possible for an agreement to be reached on a Fourth
PFP (Policy Framework Paper) in late 1992.
1.03. Recent Developments. Since October 1992, most of the regulations restricting
competition in the financial sector have been abolished and the GOM has implemented all of the
monetary, credit, pricing, banking, trade, interest rate and exchange rate measures agreed under



2
the Fourth Year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) to achieve long-term macro-economic stability.
In October 1992, the GOM devalued the ouguiya by 27 percent against the US dollar, thus
largely restoring external competitiveness. Since then, the relative stability of domestic prices
has allowed gains in competitiveness to be maintained. This was accompanied by far-reaching
reforms which substantially improved the climate for private sector activities. Measures
liberalizing the exchange system were implemented and restrictive features (export
authorizations, preferential exchange rate for workers' compensation, restrictions on
transactions in the free market for foreign bank notes and travelers' checks) were eliminated. A
system of auctions for import authorizations was introduced in January 1993 and was extended
to all imports except petroleum and those by the fisheries sector (both still allocated by the
Central Bank at that point) and SNUM (Socite Nationale Industrielle et Miniere, which, under
a separate convention, disposes freely of the free exchange earned on its exports). In addition,
most macro-economic targets have been met: consumer prices have stabilized and the goal of
limiting inflation in 1993 to less than 13 percent was achieved (inflation in 1993 in fact stood at
10 percent despite the devaluation which occurred in October 1992, while in the 1994 inflation
stood at 3.8 percent). GDP grew by 1.7 percent in 1992 and 4.5 percent in 1993-1994.
Nevertheless, external imbalances have widened due to the significantly lower prices of
Mauritania's two major exports, iron ore and fisheries products, in intemational markets, as well
as a higher debt service on external debt resulting from rising interest rates.
1.04. In October 1994, the GOM negotiated the Sixth Year PFP covering the period 1994-97.
The main medium-term objectives of the PFP are the attainment by 1996 of sustainable GDP
growth (4.4 percent), the containment of inflation (at about 3 percent a year), and the narrowing
of the current account deficit (excluding official transfers) from 13.8 percent of GDP in 1994 to
6.4 percent of GDP by 1997. To achieve these objectives, the GOM adopted a strategy aimed
at: (a) strengthening extemal competitiveness and reducing domestic absorption; (b)
consolidating structural reform by encouraging private sector initiatives through the provision of
adequate price incentives, reliance on market forces, and the liberalization of the legislative and
regulatory framework; and (c) seeking extemal debt relief and reforming the domestic banking
sector. Notwithstanding significant growth potential given the importance and diversity of
Mauritania's fishing grounds and newly discovered iron ore deposits, the medium-term
development outlook remains fragile.
B. THE PRIVATE SECTOR
1.05. Public/private sector interface. A major drain on the economy has been poor
performance of the public sector, which in 1989 included 80 public enterprises, 22 of which
were of non-commercial nature. The remaining public enterprises -- 40 of which were majority
owned by the GOM -- were involved in economic sectors and accounted for more than half of
public investment, receiving almost one-fifth of the credit disbursed through the domestic
banking sector. In 1989, twelve enterprises dominated the public enterprise (PE) sector,
accounting for over 95 percent of sales and about 75 percent of employment. Overall
performance, reflecting largely the performance of these twelve enterprises, was mostly poor,
with high losses, mounting arrears, a rising debt burden, increasing illiquidity and reliance on
monopoly privileges.



3
1.06. Given the continued financial disequilibria in the PE sector, the GOM formulated in
1989 a Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Program (PESAP) and implemented an ambitious
rationalization plan, which as of today has resulted in: (a) the liquidation of fifteen PEs,
including one large manufacturing firm; (b) the privatization, or initiation of the process for the
privatization, of 15 PEs, including the large stevedoring activity at the Port of Nouakchott; (c)
the elimination of the state monopoly in the insurance sector and for the import of sugar, tea and
rice; and (d) the settling of all major government debt and arrears to PEs, as well as honoring
the GOM's obligation to pay its share capital due to key enterprises. Emphasis was placed on
maximizing the autonomy and enhanced efficiency of those enterprises which remained public,
while resources were shifted away from the public sector as a whole, leaving the private sector
as the most promising vehicle for promoting growth and employment creation.
1.07. Despite limited opportunities for private sector growth and the strong role played by the
public sector through the 1970s and early 1 980s, the Mauritanian private sector has always been
dynamic. This stems in part from the commercial traditions prevalent in Mauritania's trade-
oriented society, and from Mauritanians' active involvement in international trade in the West
Afiican region. It is estimated that the private sector accounts for about 75 percent of total
officially registered employment. Both the formal and informal private sectors are active in rural
as well as urban areas.
1.08. The formal private sector is dominated by a few large enterprises involved in trade,
fisheries, agriculture and some manufacturing. The owners of these businesses are typically
from prominent families, with substantial assets in Mauritania and overseas. Consequently, they
have little difficulty in obtaining financing for their operations, both from Mauritanian banks,
which in many instances are at least partly owned by them or their families, and from foreign
banks, which are happy to lend to them using their overseas-based assets as collateral.
1.09. At the other end of the spectrum, there is a large informal sector, consisting primarily of
individually or family-owned enterprises. The informal sector is estimated to employ, at a
minimum, about one third of the economically active labor force. It is likely to remain the main
outlet for entrants to the labor market. About 85 percent of small businesses are oriented
toward petty commerce (selling food and clothing) and services (laundry and hairdressing).
Only 10 percent are in construction, and about 4 percent engage in light manufacturing. The
fastest growing area of employment is services and commerce, with growth rates in excess of 15
percent in recent years.
1.10. Small operators in the informal sector typically have very limited access to bank credit,
because they have a limited range of assets, cannot provide accurate financial information
regarding their operations, or are intimidated by formal financial institutions. Women are quite
active as owners of private businesses (often no more than a stall in the marketplace), but
evidence suggests that women's access to credit is typically through their husbands. Informal
operators are believed to rely on informal credit circuits. These usually involve closed groups
(the family, the guild or the clan) which are able to minimize the cost of obtaining information
about the borrower, but which are also believed to charge extremely high interest rates.



4
1.11. Policy Framework The GOM's strategy for promoting growth of private sector
activities has pursued the following priorities: (i) a transparent and legally secure framework for
transactions; (ii) non-intrusive, efficient and respected public administration; (iii) competitive
markets that promote factor and product mobility; and (iv) efficient and responsive social,
physical and technological infrastructure. Priorities (i) and (iii) were pursued under the first
stage of liberalization measures; (ii) is the main focus of this project and other donor-assisted
programs; while (iv) is now a key element in the GOM's evaluation of its PIP in concert with the
donor community.
1.12. Compared to the pre-adjustment period, the economy is now less regulated and more
market-oriented. All quantitative import restrictions and price controls have been removed, and
prices are now allowed to move freely with supply and demand. Import tariffs have been
lowered and rationalized; corporate and personal income tax systems have been simplified and
rates reduced. The GOM has reduced its role in employment and wage setting, and has taken
the first steps toward modernizing the investment code. Its presence in agriculture has been
decreased by privatizing the marketing of coarse grains and reducing the roles of the
government owned SONADER (Socite Nationale pour le Developpement Rural) and CSA
(Commissariat a la Securite Alimentaire) enjoying a monopoly in this area. Through the
privatization program and other measures, the GOM has sought to promote the efficiency of the
parapublic sector.
1.13. Apart from macro-economic stability, the major focus of reforms undertaken in the
period 1992-1994 to stimulate private sector activities has been the incentive structure, notably
the trade and foreign exchange regime. To facilitate the transition to a unified system, a number
of intermediate steps have been taken. The GOM has intensified its efforts to liberalize the
foreign exchange system since 1992, notably through the elimination of the export licensing
system and the preferential foreign exchange rate given to Mauritanians resident abroad. As of
February 1993, a bidding system for import licenses was introduced, limited at first to a small
portion of import activities financed by the Central Bank (viz. all activities except imports
covered by the foreign exchange to which SNIM has unrestricted access). As of March 1994,
commercial banks have been authorized to open foreign exchange accounts abroad, on which
they are able to draw to finance imports in their customers' behalf As of the same date,
exporters have had access to 5 percent of foreign export receipts for services and 10 percent for
goods. As of July 1994, the GOM expanded the bidding system to cover all Central Bank
financed import operations except fuel and fishing imports. This raised the percentage subject
to competitive bidding to 60 percent of the total. As of September 1994, the percentage of
foreign exchange export receipts which exporters could retain was doubled. As of December
1994, the GOM has authorized the creation of foreign exchange offices by non-banking
establishments. At the same time, operations which banks could carry out on the free market
were expanded to include import operations and current private transfers.



5
1.    Foreign Exchange System
1.14. Despite substantial and relatively rapid liberalization of foreign exchange operations, the
continued existence of some foreign exchange controls continued to distort the incentive
structure for potential exporters. The maintenance of an official (more favorable) exchange rate
applicable to certain transactions constitutes a hidden subsidy for these activities, at the expense
of potential private foreign exchange earners. This is evidenced by the existence of a gap
between the official and parallel market exchange rate. While the size of the foreign exchange
gap has shrunk considerably in the wake of the 27 percent devaluation of the ouguiya which
occurred in October 1992, the implicit distortion in the foreign exchange market has continued
to penalize foreign exchange earners. Under the reform program supported by the Private
Sector Development Credit (PSDC) which is being presented to the Board at the same time as
this project, the objective is to unify the exchange rate system by December 31, 1995.
2.    The Regulatory Framework for Private Sector Activities
1. 15. The importance of the regulatory framework to the development of private sector
activities has been observed in numerous studies. In Mauritania's case, weaknesses in the
regulatory framework were identified in a FIAS (Foreign Investment Advisory Service) study as
one of the most important constraints inhibiting investment.
1.16. The Regulations Applying to Investment. Despite the reform of the investment code
undertaken in 1989, private entrepreneurs agree that there are persistent problems which the
revised code has not adequately addressed. The current investment code appears to discourage
foreign competition against established local companies. Complex red tape and costly
procedures complicate entry of a new firm into the local market. Among the serious gaps in the
legislation are the absence of a bankruptcy law and the obscurity of legislation governing the
collection of collateral for bank loans (including a 1993 loan recovery law which is proving
difficult to enforce - see paragraph 1.20).
1.17. The Legal Framework of the Private Sector. The legal framework covering private
sector activities in Mauritania is at times ambiguous. Many laws are derived from old French
codes which have since been amended or, at times, exhaustively revised in France itself
Information about legal changes is transmnitted through the Journal Officiel (Official Bulletin),
which is published irregularly and is not complemented with law reports. This results in reduced
transparency and inconsistent treatment of business operators by the legal authorities. There is
a pressing need to classify existing laws and identify the laws applicable to specific business
areas. Equally needed is the regulation of legal arbitration, which is lacking at present but which
is imperative in view of the preference foreign businesses manifest for legal arbitration, given the
ambiguity of the legal framework and the inadequate implementation of the law. Under the
proposed project, legal texts pertaining to private sector activities will be revised in line with the
aforementioned considerations. The proposed project will also finance the upgrading and
regular publication of an up-to-date Journal Officiel and the electronic indexing of Mauritanian
laws. The PSDC has an explicit third tranche release condition which requires the revision of
legal texts to IDA's satisfaction.



6
1.18. Implementation of the Law. Another problem stems from the poor state of the judicial
system. The lack of institutional and human resources, the dual training of magistrates (a result
of the coexistence of both a modem system, based on French colonial law, and the traditional
legal system, based on Shari 'a or Koranic laws) make the recourse to the courts costly and
unreliable. Lengthy delays, uncertainty of enforcement and the proliferation of dubious "expert
witnesses" who are richly remunerated characterize the judicial infrastructure. This has tended
to diminish confidence in the legal system, even where businessmen agree that adequate
legislation has been adopted. The proposed project will finance the training of lawyers and
judges with a view to improving enforcement of the law. At the same time, in order to increase
the efficiency and transparency of the implementation of the law, the GOM intends to abolish
the existing system of judicial experts, at the latest by credit effectiveness. Such a step is long
overdue, since at present virtually anybody can pass for a legal expert, and the supposed legal
experts are responsible for numerous distortions in the judicial process.
3.    The Lack of Adequate Support Services for the Private Sector
1. 19. The lack of vehicles to provide support services needed by private operators, notably
small and medium entrepreneurs, has seriously hindered the scope of their activities.
Furthermore, there is no universally accepted representative structure that can represent the
views of the private sector to the authorities or to donors. The Chamber of Commerce (CCIA
or Chambre de Commerce, d'Industrie et d'Agriculture) is a logical conduit for support to the
sector and notably to small and medium enterprises, following the model applied successfully in
other French-speaking countries, but it will require institutional strengthening so as to become
credible with private operators. The CGEM (Confgderation Generale des Employeurs
MauriUaniens), while much better organized, is domninated by large-scale entrepreneurs and will
continue to be viewed as such by most small- and medium-scale ones, suggesting a limited
potential for acting as a truly representative agency. The proposed project will finance capacity
building for a reconstituted, autonomous Chamber of Commerce.
4.    Accounting and Auditing Framework.
1.20. The inadequacy of the accounting and auditing framework is another problem which has
increased the uncertainty in which private investors operate in Mauritania. Given the lax
standards defining the minimum requirements for qualifying as an accountant or an auditor, the
validity of accounts and audits is often dubious. Furthermore, the organization of the
accounting and auditing professions is less than optimal, resulting in a weak esprit de corps
which has discouraged the basic self regulation commonly practiced by both professions
elsewhere. The plan complable (accounting plan) is likewise antiquated, having been inherited
from the colonial times. Being based on a French code which has since been vastly upgraded in
France itself, it cannot be said to be in conformnity with intemational standards.



7
C. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
1.21. The Mauritanian financial sector consists of four commercial banks, an insurance
company (NASR), the social security system and a cooperative agricultural credit facility
(UNCACEM, or Union Nationale de Cooperatives Agricoles, de Credit et d 'Epargne
Mutuelle). At present, the only institutions which can be said to act as full financial
intermediaries, channeling resources among sectors, are the commercial banks. During the first
banking sector restructuring under the SAC framework which was carried out between 1988
and 1990, the number of banks operating in Mauritania was reduced from 7 to 5, with two,
SMB and BIMA, merging to form BNM (Banque Nationale Mauritanienne); BMDC and FND
merged to form UBD (Union de Banques de Developpement); and the remaining banks (BMCI,
Banque Mauritanienne pour le Commerce et l'Industrie; BAMIS, Banque al-Baraka
Mauritanienne Islamique; and BALM, Banque Libyenne Mauritanienne) were reorganized.
The portfolio of bad debts totaling UM 14 billion (US$112 million) for the entire banking
system was transferred (against government bonds) from the books of the commercial banks to
a special account at the Central Bank of Mauritania. Commercial banks were asked to recover
the bad loans on the GOM's behalf for an 8 percent collection fee. All commercial banks were
recapitalized and an attempt was made to clean up their loan portfolio. The operation was
among the components supported by a structural adjustment credit of US$42.4 million.
1.22. The first restructuring operation did not, however, bring an end to the problems of the
banking sector. The performance of the sector continued to be compromised by inadequate
management, improper application of credit procedures, generally weak bank supervision, an
inadequate legal and judicial framework which complicated loan collection, and government
intervention in the banking sector. (The GOM was a majority shareholder in the development
bank, and maintained a major stake in the commercial banking system.) By 1992, the situation
of the banks had deteriorated to such an extent that the authorities decided that a second, more
radical overhaul of the system was needed. IDA's assistance was solicited, but IDA made clear
that a prerequisite for any intervention on its part would be upfront action and the
demonstration of the political will to reform the sector. As a result, the GOM successfully
completed in February 1993 the total disengagement of the State from the banking sector
through the privatization of all commercial banks but one (see para. 1.24), as well as the closure
of UBD, the sole development bank in the country.
1.23. In order to demonstrate its will to take action in the banking sector, the GOM
proceeded, in consultation with IDA, to do the following: (i) the conduct of bank audits
according to terms of reference prepared by the Bank; (ii) the full provisioning of the banks' bad
loans and the obligatory recapitalization of all banks; (iii) the strengthening of the bank
regulatory framework and its enforcement through strong support from the IMF and assistance
from IDA through a grant from its Institutional Development Fund; (iv) the establishment of a
recovery program for bad loans transferred to the ARCB (Agence de Recouvrement des
Creances Bancaires); the target for 1994 (UM 600 million) agreed with IDA has been fully met.



8
1.24. Detailed audits of the banks' financial situation as of June 30, 1993 (completed in
December 1993 following terms of reference prepared by IDA) indicated that the four
commercial banks had a total of UM 35,661 million (US $285 million) in assets, UM 17,997
million (US $144 million) in deposits, UM 31,338 million (US $251 million) in loans. Bad loans
on that date were estimated at UM 18,840 million (US $151 million, or 60.1 percent of total
loans). Subsequently, the capital of BAMIS was increased from UM 2 billion (US $16 million)
to UM 3 billion (UM $24 million); the capital of Chinguitty Bank (formerly BALM) was raised
by UM 1,480 million (US $12 million) and has been 66 percent paid in, with the remainder paid
in 1994; the capital of BNM was also increased from UM 500 million (US $4 million) to UM 1
billion (US $ 8 million) with the increment to be paid half in 1993 and the remainder in 1994.
At present BMCI, BNM and BAMIS are 100 percent privately owned; Chinguitty Bank is 49
percent owned by the Libyan Bank for Foreign Trade (itself 100 percent owned by the Libyan
Government), with the remaining shares in the hands of the GOM.
1.25. More recent audits of the four banks mentioned above have been completed for their
financial situation as of December 31, 1993. The results suggest that, following substantial
recapitalization by shareholders as well as the assumption by the State of certain losses due to
mandatory provisioning of bad loans, all banks met the capital adequacy ratio (8 percent of
assets) mandated by law. The recapitalization made by shareholders totaled UM 4.55 billion
(US$36.4 million) for all four commercial banks. The losses assumed by the State totaled UM
4.0 billion (US$32 million), of which UM 1.0 billion (US$8 million) represented payment of
guarantees on non-performing public sector (PE) loans, and UM 700 million (US$5.6 million)
the State's share in the recapitalization of Chinguitty Bank, the only bank in which the State
remains a partner. As a result of a portfolio transfer from BNM to the State (included in the
UM 4.0 billion cost mentioned above), the State inherited UM 2.3 billion (US$18.4 million) of
non-performing loans. These loans were transferred to the care of the Agence pour le
Recouvrement des Creances Bancaires (ARCB), in addition to non-performing UBD loans
which were also transferred to ARCB following the closure of UBD.
1.26. To summarize progress, the following has already been or is soon to be completed: (i)
links between the banks and loss-makers have already been severed, with the rehabilitation of
the banks' portfolios, the strict enforcement of prudential regulations (including provisioning
guidelines), and the imminent improvement of credit risk and arrears information systems; (ii)
banks, now fully privatized, have an incentive to recover the part of their portfolio consisting of
loans for which provisions have been made, and indeed are reported to be recovering at a rapid
rate, while the authorities have put in place a recovery plan aimed at collecting roughly 20
percent of the bad loans held by the ARCB; (iii) the possibility of further state intervention in
the banking sector has been excluded, as the authorities have privatized or liquidated state banks
(except for Chinguitty Bank) and furthermore have asserted, and reiterated in the latest PFP,
their intention not to divert funds to the banks; (iv) the bank supervision and regulatory
framework has been significantly strengthened, with support from the IMF and the Institutional
Development Fund (IDF); (v) increased competition among banks has been encouraged through
the progressive liberalization of interest rates and more liberal (though still prudent) entry and
exit rules specified in the Banking Law which will be submitted to the Assembly for approval in
June 1995; (vi) schemes to increase access to credit by small borrowers are being explored, as



9
the second phase of the strategy for the development of the financial sector (formulation of
which is financed by this project) will specifically aim at developing mutualist and other
semiformal schemes to achieve this objective; (vii) a far-reaching debt recovery law has been
promulgated and work on improving the overall legal and judiciary framework has been
initiated; and (viii) the first step toward the development of money markets has been taken
through the issue of T-bills and government intervention on the market to ensure sufficient
liquidity, with further steps anticipated under the second phase of sectoral development
discussed below; this will make it possible to switch from direct to indirect instruments of
monetary control. To streamline information on outstanding credits, this project will finance the
amelioration and updating of the Credit Risk and Arrears Information databases. The proposed
project will also finance training for bankers, so as to improve the quality of banking services
and upgrade credit decision procedures which led to the deterioration of banks' financial
situation in the past. Finally, the proposed project will also finance a study for the formulation
of a strategy for the second phase of financial sector development, with a view to addressing
key issues like the financing of investment and increasing small and medium enterprises' access
to credit.
D. FISHING AND MINING SECTORS
1.    Fishing Sector
1.27. Fisheries activity in Mauritania grew remarkably over 1984-86 when catches
increased from 286,000 mt to 591,000 mt -- a compound rate of about 44 percent per
annum. However, in 1987 the total catch began to decline, from an estimated 563,000 mt in
1987 to 446,000 mt in 1991. This was largely the result of overfishing causing a depletion
of fish stocks, which arose from inadequate control and surveillance. Even with this
decline, Mauritania's fishing activity is one of the largest in the sub-region. Until 1988, the
fisheries sector in Mauritania was a dominant source of foreign exchange and government
revenue. The sector generated about US$308 million (68 percent) of the country's total
foreign exchange in 1988, falling to about US$236 million (54 percent) in 1991. Thereafter,
the sector's share of foreign exchange earnings has stabilized at slightly over 50 percent.
The fisheries sector also makes a vital contribution to the budget, yielding about 20 percent
of total budget revenues.
1.28. The fishing sector is the focus of considerable private sector interest, attracting
sizable investments from Mauritanian and foreign private operators. The sector was
expected to be a major source of economic growth during the 1980s and 1990s; to offer the
greatest potential for increased employment and value-added; and to be a key generator of
foreign exchange earnings and budget revenue. Instead, the fisheries sector now finds itself
in a crisis, evidenced by sharply lower catch rates caused by heavy overfishing and other
problems. Its recent poor performance is therefore particularly worrisome, given the
implications for: lower economic growth; diminished foreign exchange earnings; lower
budget revenues with substantially increased outstanding (and probably uncollectible) debts
due to the banking sector.



10
1.29. By the late 1980s, it was clear that the fishing sector was facing major problems. These
could be summarized as follows: insufficient resources for national research to determine extent
of overfishing, need for conservation measures, etc.; persistence of problems of transparency
and efficiency in the allocation of fishing licenses; an inadequate regulatory framework for
resource management, resulting in overfishing and dangerous depletion of precious fishing
resources in certain areas; and an inefficient institutional framework in which the GOM was
involved as a producer and a marketing agent for fishing products.
1.30. The CNROP (Centre National de Recherches Oceanographiques et de Pche) has been
the major research institution devoted to follow-up of fishing stocks, biological equilibrium in
fishing zones and the appropriate level of fishing that would ensure maximum exploitation
consistent with renewal. The CNROP suffered from inadequate resources, a limited ability to
disseminate information and limited impact of policy decisions concerning the sector.
1.31. The problems of transparency and efficiency in the allocation of fishing licenses were
related to the arbitrary manner in which said licenses have sometimes been granted, the relative
lack of information about what licenses were granted to whom, and the fact that licenses are
granted to individuals rather than to boats. This resulted in instances of considerable overfishing
by individual licensees, and occasionally inadequate standards of storage on some boats (among
them a few which would not pass inspection if the boats themselves were being licensed). The
latter led to a few instances of Mauritanian fishing stocks being denied entry into foreign ports,
with obvious negative implications for the country's reputation in this area. The allocation of
licenses has momentous implications for the development of artisanal fishing, which has to
compete with industrial fishing operators for the same grounds. As artisanal fishing is a
promising area for employment creation, fair access to fishing resources is a crucial
consideration.
1.32. The lack of an adequate regulatory and supervisory framework was a serious constraint,
as it led to numerous violations going unpunished. The lack of control contributed to
overfishing, ecologically dangerous practices, inadequate standards and huge capital flight
through unreported export operations. The latter not only harmed the Mauritanian economy,
but has also contributed to the ill-health of the financial sector, as certain borrowers in the
fishing industry defaulted on loans while channeling revenues elsewhere. The component of this
project dealing with fishing focuses on systematic monitoring of foreign exchange earnings from
fishing exports, with a view to providing the GOM with a proper apparatus for the surveillance
of export activities.
1.33. Finally, while private sector activities dominate the fishing sector, the GOM's
involvement in certain areas of production and in the marketing of fishing products has resulted
in instances of inefficiency, inadequate investment and decision-making determined by non-
market-based criteria. The GOM's involvement in production and marketing is through: (a) a
number ofjoint-venture companies; and (b) the Marketing Monopoly Board (Societe
Mauritanienne pour la Commercialisation de la Peche, or SMCP).



I1
1.34. The joint venture companies comprised three categories: public companies formed with
the participation of other States (the two largest being MAUSOV, with the Commonwealth of
Independent States acting as a successor for the former Soviet Union, and ALMAP, with
Algeria); companies owned by the Mauritanian State in association with private Mauritanian
entrepreneurs as well as foreign interests, and companies owned by Mauritanian citizens and
foreign interests. As a rule, most such companies have suffered substantial financial losses, the
biggest loss-makers being MAUSOV and ALMAP, owing to dubious onshore equipment, poor
utilization of vessels and high operating costs. Although the joint-venture companies have to be
51 percent Mauritanian-owned, foreign citizens control a large part of management and
technical activities. Furthermore, as the centrally planned economies to which Mauritania's
partners typically belonged moved to restructure their enterprises and rationalize use of
resources, Mauritania was forced to contemplate the prospect of assuming full responsibility for
these companies in the near-future, with little or not prospect of continued direct and indirect
state subsidies from the partners in question.
1.35. In addition, the GOM is involved in the marketing of fishing products through the
SMCP, set up in 1984 by decree and given the monopoly for marketing fish that boats were
obligated to land in Nouadhibou (some exemptions to this rule existed; they included the catch
of MAUSOV and ALMAP). The creation of SMCP was inspired by the need of the GOM to
control the payment of export taxes on fishes and the repatriation of foreign exchange earnings.
Over time, however, SMCP became overstaffed and inefficient and its financial transactions
devoid of any transparency. Moreover, in spite of its position, its net profits kept declining,
resulting in a loss in 1991. SMCP's operations led to a decrease in incentives to fishermen and
in a sharp reduction in the fishing fleet operating in the Mauritanian waters. This in tum led to
unpaid loans to the banking sector by the fishing industry.
1.36. Policy Reforms Carried Out. In the closing months of 1994, the GOM has carried out
the following: (i) adoption of an action plan in concert with the donor community stemming
from the policy parameters defined at the Nouadhibou meeting; (ii) presentation of a plan for the
divestiture of ALMAP and MAUSOV; (iii) reduction of the GOM's stake in SMCP to 35
percent; (iv) approval of a maritime code laying the foundations of a transparent and well-
defined regulatory framework; (v) adoption of an action plan for the strengthening of the
CNROP (with technical support from the donor community) and the setting in motion of its
application; (vi) creation of a Maritime Surveillance Authority with budgetary resources to
ensure surveillance, supported through donor capacity building programs; (vii) imposition and
enforcement of absolute compliance with fishing ground limits and restrictions on fishing
equipment and motors as recommended by the CNROP; (viii) permnanent closure of Zone A of
the Banc d'Arguin and the implementation of regulations for Zones B and C, the
aforementioned zones having been identified by the CNROP as having been dangerously
overfished; (ix) establishment of a committee to award licenses for pelagic fishing and access
rights for demersal and cephalopod fishing, according to clearly defined and transparent criteria;
and (x) strict application of the granting of fishing authorizations to boats.
1.37. The donor community, which has been actively involved in dialogue with the
Mauritanian authorities regarding the fishing community, has already offered substantial



12
technical support to enable the authorities to carry out their ambitious program of reforms in the
sector. Such technical support includes: capacity building for the CNROP, support for
strengthening the surveillance of the sector, support for reorganizing the Ministry of Fishing,
and assistance in the implementation of several studies, including the study dealing with taxation
of the sector, and studies which have contributed to the revised text of the maritime codes and
other regulations related to fishing. As a result of the substantial and continuing donor support
already extended, notably by the European Union, France and Germany, the need for
supplemental capacity building under this proposed project is fairly limited. This explains the
relatively small size of capacity building directed to this important sector in the proposed
project.
2.    Mining Sector
1.38. Another focus of private sector activity is mining. Mining represents an estimated 12
percent of Mauritania's GDP and 38 percent of its exports. A major part of the production is
represented by iron ore that, with billions of tons of mineral reserves, will remain a major force
in the next decades. The key actor in this area is SNIM, in which the GOM has a majority stake
but which is run autonomously. SNIM, which is based in Nouadhibou oversees the production
of iron ore at Zoueirate. SNIM's output of iron ore has increased from 8.3 million tons in 1992
to 11.4 million tons in 1994. SNIM has been beneficiary of substantial support from IDA,
notably in the context of the PESAP.
1.39.  Several mineral zones have been identified in Mauritania, notably for gold and copper.
In addition, potential investors have expressed interest in searching for gold and non-ferrous
metals. They have, however, been hindered by lack of geological data and incomplete mining
legislation that introduces uncertainty and negotiating delays. It is, in fact, extremely difficult to
speak of development of the mining sector in the near-complete absence of data, basic
geological maps, a transparent mining code or a tax structure that is competitive with other
countries in the region. Investor interest is stimulated by the fact that numerous finds have been
reported, and successfully exploited, in neighboring countries (notably Ghana and Mali).
1.40. Given the preponderance of iron ore and the need to concentrate on ensuring the smooth
functioning of SNIM as an autonomous company yielding the lion's share of the country's
export earnings, it is only recently that the GOM has directed its attention to the non-ferrous
mining sector. The authorities have adopted an action plan for the development of the sector, in
concertation with the Bank. The plan covers the identification of key areas for further dialogue,
the reorganization of the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie, the revision of the mining code
and the tax code for mining activities, and the training of government staff in order to enhance
regulatory capabilities and ensure greater sensitivity to the needs of private investors.



13
II. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.01. The proposed project will assist the GOM in implementing a program of private sector
promotion through strengthening the legal and regulatory framework surrounding business
activities and creating an environment that encourages and facilitates initiative on the part of
private investors. In order to realize this goal of creating an enabling environment for private
enterprise, the proposed Capacity Building Project (CBP) for the Development of the Private
Sector will focus on financing activities which: (i) encourage investor interest in pursuing
opportunities in the private sector, especially in the mining and fishing subsectors, via revision of
the commercial and tax codes as well as other activities designed to enhance entrepreneurial
dynamism and efficiency and (ii) strengthen the financial sector, so that it can better provide
credit and banking services needed by the private sector. The components of the proposed
project are designed to facilitate the implementation of policy reforms under the GOM' s
program for the promotion of private sector development. That program is supported by the
PSDC, which is being presented to the Board at the same time as the proposed project. The
policy measures to be carried out under the GOM's program are spelled out in the Letters of
Development Policy (Annex 2) prepared in connection with the PSDC.
2.02. Specifically, the proposed project will address the following areas:
(a)   improving the quality and scope of information available to private
investors seeking to make investment decisions, through the upgrading of
credit risk information database (Component l.a. of the proposed project as
described in detail in Section B "Project Description"), amelioration of the
accounting and auditing framework (Component 2.a.), the commercial register
(Component 2.c.ii.), the upgrading and regular publication of the Journal
Officiel or Official Bulletin (Component 2.c.iv.), the electronic indexation of
Mauritanian laws (Component 2.c.v.), the improvement of cadastral procedures
(Component 3.a.ii.) the monitoring of resources and foreign exchange flows in
the fishing sector (Component 4.a.) and the dissemination of information about
the GOM's policy measures by the PCU (Project Coordination Unit -- see para.
2.50);
(b)   enhancing the capabilities of both regulators and operators providing
support services to the private sector in key areas so as to ensure better
enforcement of regulations and better quality of support services to the
private sector, through the training of bankers (Component 1 .b.i. and 1 .b.ii.),
accountants and auditors (Component 2.a.iv.), Chamber of Commerce staff
(Component 2.b.), magistrates and court auxiliaries (Component 2.c.ii.),
technicians for electronic indexation of Mauritanian laws (component 2.c.iii.),
and officials and technicians at the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie
(Component 3.a.iii.);



14
(c)   strengthening the legal and regulatory framework for private and financial
sector operations through the revision of the accounting plan and standards for
the accounting profession (Component 2.a.ii. and 2.a.iii.), the revision of key
legal texts which affect private sector activities (Component 2.c.i.), the revision
of the mining code and tax legislation applied to mining (Component 3.a.i. and
3.a.ii.), and improved monitoring of fish exports and enhanced environmental
and quality control in the fishing sector (Component 4.a.); and
(d)   exploring additional mechanisms to strengthen and support the private
sector, through the elaboration of a strategy for a second phase of financial
sector development (Component l.c.), a feasibility study and scheme for a tax-
free regime for exporters (Component 2.d.), support to the Chamber of
Commerce (Component 2.b.), which will provide a forum for the private, notably
the informal, sector, and improved dialogue between the private sector and other
project beneficiaries through the PCU (see para. 2.50).
2.03. In preparing the proposed project, care was taken to involve, to the maximum extent
possible, representatives of the private and financial sector, as well as the staff of the various
concerned ministries. It was through dialogue with these interlocutors that the areas of
intervention, the scope of intervention, the budget for each component, the implementation
schedule, monitoring procedures, and the performance indicators were developed. This was
done to ensure a sense of project ownership as well as a realistic approach to implementation.
Agreement was reached with the GOM to continue client consultation throughout project
implementation, and to make extensive use of ZOPP (Zieleorientierte Projektplanung,
objectives-oriented project planning) to maximize the efficiency of this participatory effort. The
proposed project includes financing for two ZOPP workshops.
2.04. Lessons Learned. The lessons learned from previous capacity building operations
include the following:
(a)   It is essential to involve project beneficiaries in the design, preparation and
implementation of project components which involve them. The successful
PESAP operation in Mauritania (MAU-2167) was able to involve enterprises
receiving assistance in all stages of dialogue, which proved highly beneficial
during the implementation stage. This participatory approach has been used in
the preparation of this project, and will continue to be emphasized during project
implementation, through, inter alia, the use of ZOPP workshops.
(b)   A unit responsible for the coordination of project implementation is invaluable to
ensure project success. Virtually all technical assistance programs in Mauritania
other than PESAP have suffered from slow implementation and delayed
disbursements. Success was possible in the case of PESAP because of the role
played by the Cellule pour la rehabilitation du secteur parapublic, which
ensured interministerial coordination and handled disbursement and procurement



15
procedures. The proposed project will involve said unit in the coordination of
project implementation, as the implementation of PESAP is now nearing its end.
This will make it possible to capitalize on its experience and on its record of
proven success.
(c)   Rehabilitation of commercial banks requires rigorous follow-up, the upgrading of
the skills of commercial bankers and a better flow of information among banks
and to the Central Bank. The first commercial bank restructuring, which was
supported by a SAC (MAU- 1812), did not prevent the banks from slipping back
into unsound financial practices and poor portfolio maintenance. Inadequate
bank supervision and imperfect data transmission allowed the problem to go
undetected for some time. This project emphasizes improved information flows
and involves the Central Bank, particularly the Bank Supervision Department, in
the implementation of several components.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
2.05. The proposed project will finance the following components:
(1)   Financial Sector (US$1.1 million)
L.a.: Upgrading of credit risk and borrower arrears information database.
L.b.: Training in banking.
l.c.: Study to formulate a strategy for the second phase of financial sector development.
(2)   Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework (US$3.5 million)
2.a.: Upgrading of the accounting and auditing framework, including:
(i)    Study providing recommendations to reorganize and upgrade the
accounting and auditing professions, including the establishment of
minimum standards for both professions;
(ii)    Revision of the plan complable (accounting plan); and
(iii)    Training of accountants and auditors.
2.b.: Support to the Chamber of Commerce.
2.c.: Legal and judiciary reform, including:



16
(i)    Revision of legal texts (in French and Arabic) affecting private sector
activities;
(ii)    Establishment of a commercial register listing companies;
(iii) Training of magistrates and court auxiliaries in both French and Arabic;
(iv)    Upgrading and regular publication of a Journal Officiel (Official
Bulletin);
(v)    Training of technicians and provision of technical support for the
electronic indexation of Mauritanian Laws.
2.d.: Feasibility study of a tax-free regime for exporters (pointsfrancs) and
development of a scheme for its implementation.
(3)   Mining Sector (US$ 1.1 million)
3.a.: Strengthening of the regulatory and institutional framework of the mining sector,
including:
(i)    Formulation of a strategy paper for the development of the sector and
revision of mining codes and taxation of mining;
(ii)    Reorganization of the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie (Mining and
Geology Directorate), and revision of cadastral procedures; and
(iii) Training of staff at the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie.
(4)   Fishing Sector (US$0.50 million)
4.a.: Survey of (fisheries) resources to assess the quantity and quality of resources in the
fishing sector, their current level of exploitation, and foreign exchange flows in
and out of the sector; establishment of a monitoring mechanism for said flows,
and capacity building in the environmental and quality control areas.
2.06. These components are described in greater detail in the following paragraphs. The steps
entailed in their implementation are summarized in Annex 1 (Implementation Schedule).
1.    Financial Sector
2.07. Upgrading of Credit Risk and Borrower Arrears Information Databases (Centrale
des Risques and Centrale des Impayes - Component l.a.). This component will finance the
strengthening of the centralized information database pertaining to credits outstanding and the
size of borrower arrears in the banking system. The centralized credit information database



17
(Centrale des Risques) is an important instrument to ensure that banks share information about
borrowers who have dealings with more than one bank. The system can be used to ensure that
bad borrowers do not have access to further credit, thereby reducing the perceived riskiness of
new borrowers. The system will make it possible for each bank to be informed whether the
prospective borrower is indebted to other banks, whether the borrower's assets have been used
as collateral for other loans, and whether the borrower has acted as guarantor for another
borrower. The second database whose upgrading will be financed under this component is the
centralized information database for arrears (Centrale des Impayes), which provides information
on the extent to which a borrower may be delinquent on a loan or undergoing legal prosecution
owing to nonpayment.
2.08. The Central Bank currently has a Centrale des Risques as well as a Centrale des
Impayes, but both are of very poor quality. This reflects limited equipment and software,
inadequate data processing methods, and staff at the Bank Supervision Department of the Bank
which has received little training in this area. The proposed project will finance: (i) the Central
Bank's purchase of additional equipment (two computers) needed to maintain the data; (ii)
short-term advisory services to update the information in both databases; (iii) the training of
Central Bank personnel working in the Bank Supervision Department to become better qualified
to monitor the process of data transmission and to maintain the databases; and (iv) the training
of commercial bank personnel to fill out the requisite forms accurately and provide the data on a
timely basis. Access to both databases will be ensured, so that any creditor considering making
a loan will have information on the financial condition of the potential borrower supplied by the
Centrale des Risques and the Centrale des Impayes. The Agence pour le Recouvremenl des
Creances Bancaires (ARCB) will also have complete access to these two databases. Two
short-terrn advisors will be recruited from abroad for the purposes of data management design
and training (Terms of reference for these consultants are in the Project implementation file).
This component of the proposed project will be implemented by the Central Bank, as shown in
Figure 1 of the Organization Chart (Annex 5). The component will be executed over a period
of six months.
2.09. Training in Banking (Component l.b.). The training of commercial bank personnel is
a crucial component of this proposed project, given the poor quality of bank management in the
past, and the evident lack of experience in bank accounting, provision of banking services, legal
procedures related to banking operations, information systems and internal auditing. A two-part
training program will offer: (a) professional training for bank employees and (b) a (diploma)
course for the specialized training of bank personnel. The program will be administered by the
Center for Bank Training (Centre de Formation Bancaire - CFB), an entity established by the
commercial banks under the guidance of the Central Bank.
2.10. The cost of the program will be partially recovered for the professional training (fees will
total 50 percent of actual costs) and fully recovered for the diploma course. The justification of
partial cost recovery in the case of professional training stems from the externalities involved.
There is an advantage in insisting on a minimum level of training offered to the staff of all banks,
according to a uniform methodology consistent with international standards. The commercial
banks will be required by the Cent'ral Bank, in its role as supervisory agency, to send selected



18
staff to the professional training courses. This will ensure a homogeneity of basic methods and
standards across banks, regardless of other training programs each bank may adopt individually.
The emphasis on course-oriented training as opposed to on-the-job training reflects the fact that
on-the-job training is already a component of training programs applied by the banks themselves
internally, and that, by its very nature, on-the-job training is not easily adaptable to a uniform
format.
2.11. The courses for both professional and diploma training will be held in Mauritania and
will comprise: (i) six short-term (three-week) professional training courses over a period of a
year offered for bankers in the areas of resource mobilization, liability management, letters of
credit, foreign exchange operations, lending decisions and portfolio management; and (ii) a
three-year diploma program, offered in three six-month cycles. The professional training will be
received by 30 students (some attending more than one seminar). The diploma will aim to train
15-20 students per year.
2.12. This component will be implemented with the help of local and foreign short-term
consultants. The terms of reference for these short-term consultants are in the Project
implementation file. The component will finance the use of short-term consultancy services
(namely, the services of a consulting firmn) for: (i) the teaching of the professional training
courses; (ii) six interventions of six months each by foreign instructors in the diploma program
over a period of three years. The interventions of the foreign instructors will be timed as
follows: three the first year, two the second and one the third, the objective being the teaching
of courses and, simultaneously, the training of local trainers who will progressively take over
from the foreign instructors. The first year will be dedicated entirely to the training of local
trainers. The diploma training program is expected to be self-sustaining once the training of
local instructors is completed. The component will also finance the purchase of equipment for
instructional purposes (six computers with software) and the preparation of instruction
manuals and other pedagogical materials which can be used by the local instructors once they
are fully trained.
2.13. As shown in Figure 1 of the Organization Chart (Annex 5), the Central Bank will be
responsible for the implementation of this component, which will be cover a period of a year for
(a) and three years for (b). Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the implementing
agency will submit, by September 30, 1995 at the latest, a short-list of consulting firms to
execute this component, from which the selection will be made. This will ensure that the
training program will be clearly defined and ready for launching once candidates for the courses
have been identified.
2.14. Formulation of a Strategy for the Second Phase of the Development of the
Financial Sector (Component l.c.). Under this component, the proposed project will finance
(a) a study to prepare a strategy paper for the second phase of the development of the financial
sector, the first phase (restructuring of the banks) having been completed; and (b) short-term
advisory services for the production of promotional materials for new financial institutions or
instruments, should it be concluded in the course of discussions between the GOM and IDA that
such a step is warranted. The emphasis of this phase will be on widening access to credit



19
(notably to small- and medium-size enterprises), and promoting the availability of medium- and
long-term financing. The underlying objective is to make the financial sector more responsive to
the needs of private sector operators, without jeopardizing the private and autonomous nature
of key credit institutions or compromising minimum performance standards established by the
prudential regulatory framework.
2.15. The study will focus on: (i) exploring the scope for new, privately-owned financial
institutions (GOM limited to minority participations only) to mobilize longer-term resources and
provide medium- and long-term financing; (ii) exploring the feasibility of setting up a Credit
Guarantee Fund, which has been employed successfully in more than a dozen countries
(including the Carneroon and Ghana in Africa), provided the fund was not financed by
budgetary resources or counterpart funds; (iii) developing mutualist (or cooperative)
mechanisms (which have proven successful in a broad range of countries, especially in Asia and
Latin America) for mobilizing savings from, and, subsequently, providing credit to, small- and
medium-size private enterprises; (iv) examining the role of the institutional investors (the
privatized insurance company and the social security system) and exploring means of
transforming them into dynamic participants in the financial system; and (v) coordinating
existing and new schemes so as to avoid excessive sectoral concentration and to ensure proper
supervision and regulation.
2.16. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the conclusions of the study will form
the basis of a subsequent dialogue with IDA for the formulation of a detailed strategy, including
incentives and regulatory measures, for the second phase of the development of the sector, and
that recommendations will be implemented in light of the dialogue with IDA. To the extent that
said strategy calls for eliciting foreign investors' interest in new financial institutions or
instruments, this component will finance short-term advisory services for the preparation of
promotional material for that purpose. As shown in Figure I of the Organization Chart (Annex
5), the Central Bank will be responsible for the implementation of this component, which will
carried out over a period of eight months. The Terms of Reference for this study are in the
Project implementation file.
2.    Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework
2.17. Upgrading of the Accounting and Auditing Framework (Component 2.a.). This
component will finance two studies and a training program designed to improve the quality and
effectiveness of monitoring of financial accounts and the reporting thereof across enterprises.
The first study which will examine and comparatively evaluate ways to reorganize the
profession and enhance its standing. The study will also make recommendations for capacity
building in both professions, and will recommend the necessary modification of rules and
standards for the practice of accounting and auditing so as to define stringent minimum
qualifications for practicing as a professional accountant or auditor, in contrast to the current
situation where unqualified people can offer their services as "experts". The second study
financed by this component will focus on revising the Plan Comptable (accounting plan),
updating it, and bringing it fully in line with current international standards. It will also include
the preparation of a reference manual.



20
2.18. Both studies will be carried out over a period of a year by short-term consultants
according to terms of reference which are in the Project implementation file. Assurances have
been provided by the GOM that the conclusions and recommendations of both studies will be
the basis of subsequent dialogue with IDA concerning the upgrading of the accounting
profession and the revision of the accounting plan, and that the recommendations of the study
will be implemented in light of the dialogue with IDA.
2.19. The component will also finance a subsequent training program designed to enable
those with basic qualifications to upgrade their skills and qualify as accounting technicians or
auditors under the newly adopted stringent minimum requirements for practicing. In particular,
the component will finance: (i) short-term advisory services for the detailed design of the
training program, including adaptation of the curriculum for the needs of candidates; the terms
of reference for the consultant to carry out this task are in the Project implementation file; (ii)
training seminars for approximately ten candidates in two cycles (about five months apart) of
three weeks each; this will be carried out by two foreign instructors, assisted by a group of four
local instructors who will receive on-the-job training, the objective being the provision of basic
upgrading of skills for candidates to meet the minimum level of qualifications. The courses
will be operated on a full cost recovery basis. The objective is to ensure a minimum level of
competency, enabling local accountants to work with foreign accounting firm whose services
will be needed for the foreseeable future. By bringing foreign and local instructors together, and
training a modest number of locals who meet basic qualifications, the idea is to promote
twinning arrangements between foreign accountants and auditors and their local counterparts,
and provide local with the first level of minimal qualifications, after which they can supplement
their training with courses abroad or correspondence courses.
2.20. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the implementing agency will submit,
by September 30, 1995 at the latest, a short-list of consulting firms to carry out the detailed
design and execution of the training program, from which the selection will be made. This will
ensure that the training program will be clearly defined and ready for launching once candidates
for the courses have been identified.
2.21. As shown in figure 2 of the Organization Chart (Annex 5), this component will be
implemented by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU -- see para.2.50) in collaboration with the
Ministry of Finance, which will coordinate its efforts with the existing Ordre des experts
comptables. The objective is to involve member of the profession in implementation of the
project component, as well as to develop a sense of professional consciousness among
accountants and auditors which would encourage their espousal of more stringent standards.
2.22. Support to the Chamber of Commerce (Component 2.b.). Design of this component
was based on the conclusions of the study of support needed by the private sector, conducted by
SOFRECO according to terms of reference prepared by IDA and financed by a Japanese grant.
In the course of subsequent discussions of that study between the GOM and IDA, the Chamber
of Commerce was selected as the representative agency for private operators and investors of all
sizes. In French-speaking countries and elsewhere, foreign investors typically turn first to the



21
local Chamber of Commerce as a repository of information. Other agencies were considered by
the aforementioned study and, while some may be more developed (e.g. the Confederation
Ginerale des Employeurs Maurilaniens), their ability to benefit the interests of the private
sector appears to be limited as they tend to be dominated by large operators and reflect vested
interests.
2.23. This component will focus on the strengthening of the Chamber of Commerce through
the training of newly elected officers and newly appointed staff in administrative skills and
through the development of basic support services to be made available to private enterprises
(e.g. information about regulations, international market information and surveys, directory of
existing facilities and services available to operators in Mauritania, preparation of credit
applications). This will help make the Chamber of Commerce more responsive to the needs of
the formal and informal sectors, since both foreign firms seeking entry into the market, and local
businesses with limited capital, will be able to draw on services like: foreign market advisories,
sectoral surveys, improved accounting procedures (to facilitate access to bank credit), and
financial planning. The Chamber of Commerce would also coordinate with donors their
programs benefiting the private sector, most notably microenterprises.
2.24. This component will be implemented by the Ministry of Commerce until such time as the
Chamber of Commerce is fully functional and can operate in conditions of complete autonomy.
Under this component, the proposed project will finance two consultants who will provide
short-term advisory services for the reorganization of the existing Chamber and the setting up
of its basic new structure, which will be carried out over a period of three months. The
proposed project will also finance the subsequent training of new Chamber of Commerce
personnel in client relations, administrative techniques and product promotion. Short-term
advisory services, provided by a consultant, will also help set up and conduct two workshops
to be administered by the newly reconstituted Chamber of Commerce, bringing together
representatives of the private sector and government officials. The objective is to sensitize
government officials to the needs of the private sector, while at the same time enable the
Chamber of Commerce to gain credibility as a forum for private sector interests. The analysis of
issues concerning the financing of these entrepreneurs will be closely coordinated with the
analysis undertaken in the context -of the formulation of the strategy for the second phase of the
development of the financial sector (see paras. 2.14 and 2.15). The proposed project will also
finance the purchase of office equipment. The entire program for the development of the
Chamber of Commerce will be carried out over a period of fifteen months. Thereafter, the
Chamber of Commerce will operate autonomously, relying for its financing on: (a) dues from
members; and (ii) other sources, which may include an earmarked allocation of tax revenues.
One of the key responsibilities of the Chamber of Commerce once it is functional, for which
funding is available under this component, is to work with representatives of the private sector
and with the authorities to articulate a strategy for the development of microenterprises,
including an analysis of the assistance microenterprises may need and ways of promoting donor,
including NGO, support for microenterprises. The Project will also finance a studies fund which
will be administered by the Chamber of Commerce, equivalent to US$ 100,000, to which small
and medium enterprises will have access according to specific conditions. These include the
following: the enterprise in question must finance a minimum of 50 percent of the cost of the



22
study upfront, and also must assume all costs in excess of US$20,000. The studies may cover:
the identification of new markets or products, or the preparation of credit applications.
2.25. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that it will revise, by December 31, 1995 at
the latest, the charter of the Chamber of Commerce so as to establish it as an autonomous
agency empowered to act as a convincing representative of the private sector. This will better
equip the Chamber of Commerce to represent private sector interests vis-i-vis the GOM in
accordance with the appropriate Mauritanian law, and advocate laws and regulations favoring
private sector development. The revision of the charter will be accompanied by a financing plan
for the Charnber of Commerce detailing anticipated financing from dues and other sources, as of
the time the elections are held and the Chamber of Commerce is considered fully functional.
Assurances have also been provided by the GOM that it will submit to IDA, by September 30,
1995 at the latest, a short list of consultants from which one will be selected to carry out the
reorganization of the existing Chamber of Commerce, as well as a short list of consultants from
which one will be selected to implement the training of Charnber of Commerce personnel. This
will ensure that these two important steps will be carried out without delay as anticipated by the
implementation schedule.
2.26. Strengthening of Legal and Judiciary Reform (Component 2.c). The activities to be
included in this component were agreed with the authorities in light of a discussion of the
conclusion of a study of the scope for legal and judiciary reform in Mauritania. The study,
which was financed by a Japanese grant, was conducted by Cabinet Roussel according to terms
of reference prepared by IDA. Under this component, the proposed project will finance short-
term advisory services to carry out the following: (i) the revision of the legal and regulatory
framework pertaining to commercial law, including the investment code and the Code des
Obligations et des Contrals (1989), to commercial and civil procedural law, including the status
of the auxiliaires dejustice and expert witnesses, to national and international arbitration, and
to bankruptcy proceedings; all preceding revisions will be done in both French and Arabic; (ii)
the establishment of a commercial register for companies; this will include a register for
ownership titles which can then be used as collateral; (iii) the upgrading of the Journal Officiel
(Official Bulletin) and its regular publication to report on decisions of the Supreme Court, the
Courts of Appeal and the Commercial Courts (Chanbre Mixte); and (iv) the implementation of
a program to ensure electronic indexation of, and the establishment of electronic archives for,
Mauritanian laws after training by experts from the United States Library of Congress, thereby
making Mauritanian laws more accessible to interested local and foreign parties.
2.27. The revision of the legal and regulatory framework will require the services of a
consulting firn working periodically over a period of three years. It will also cover the
publication and electronic indexation of the revised legal texts. Especially important in this
component will be emphasis on evaluating the environmental impact of code revisions, to
avoid any negative impact on the environment. Owing to the need for extensive coordination in
the implementation of this component, it will be administered by the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU -- see para. 2.50 -- which will play a coordinating function in the implementation of the
proposed project as a whole) under the direct management of the Prime Minister's office. The
PCU will also assume responsibility for the subcomponent establishing a commercial register.



23
The latter subcomponent will require the services of an international expert in commercial
registers, assisted by a local expert in information system, who will carry out the work over a
period of twelve months.
2.28. The electronic indexation of Mauritanian laws, which will be carried out over a period of
eight months, will require the financing of travel of Mauritanians to the United States to attend
free training seminars offered to officials at the S&retariat General du Gouvernement by the
United States Library of Congress. It will also require the financing of the publication of the
users guide and the needed equipment to carry out the electronic indexation. Given the role it
plays in the processing of legislation, the Secretariat General du Gouvernement will be
responsible of the implementation of the electronic indexation of laws (see Figure 2 of the
Organization Chart, Annex 5). So will the upgrading and regular publication of the Journal
Officiel, which will require the services of two local legal experts working periodically over a
period of a year.
2.29. The proposed project will also finance a training program for magistrates (judges) and
court auxiliaries (lawyers). This is crucial given the difficulty encountered in enforcing laws, the
lengthy delays in court procedures, and the unreliable nature of recourse to law in general, all of
which tends to discourage prospective private sector investors. The training program will entail
the training of approximately 200 lawyers and 100 judges over a period of two and a half years.
It will comprise two phases, each consisting of a series of seminars spread over a period of six
to eight months. Both foreign and local instructors will preside over the seminars from the
moment of their inception. As the program moves from Phase I to Phase II, the number of
foreign instructors will decrease and more local instructors, who will have themselves been
trained during Phase I, will be used. An ideal arrangement would be five foreign instructors
during Phase I and three during Phase II. The program could be extended thereafter, with local
instructors taking over, assisted by occasional interventions of foreign experts. The experts
hired under this component will be specialized in training and will be expected to have close
familiarity with legal systems applied in Mauritania, especially as these are modified in the
course of the revision of legal texts under this component. Training will be carried out in both
French and Arabic and will include language training as needed. Training courses will be
offered free of charge to lawyers and judges, given the major externalities that would result
from having adequately trained lawyers and judged thoroughly familiar with the laws and with
international legal practices as both applies to private sector activities. The component will also
finance the purchase of equipment for pedagogical purposes (mostly computers and software)
and the publication of instruction manuals. This subcomponent will be implemented by the
Direction des Affaires Judiciaires, which will in turn rely on a local Training Coordinator who
will oversee coordination efforts (see Figure 2 of the Organization Chart, Annex 5).
2.30. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the implementing agency will submit,
by September 30, 1995 at the latest, a short-list of consulting firms to carry out the detailed
design and execution of the training program, from which the selection will be made. This will
ensure that the training program will be clearly defined and ready for launching once candidates
for the courses have been identified.



24
2.31. Feasibility Study and of a Tax-Free Regime for Exporters (Component 2.d.). With
a view to fostering export-led growth and eliminating problems stemming from high tariffs
(effective protection is around 40 percent), this component will finance the short-term advisory
services to carry out a follow-up to a study already conducted, with financing from a Japanese
grant, which evaluated options for export-processing zones. That study, conducted by GOPA
(Gesellschafiffir Organisation, Planung undAusbildung, mbH) according to terms of
reference prepared by IDA, concluded that the establishment of a tax-free regime (points
francs) within Mauritania would likely be the best mechanism to foster export-led growth.
2.32. Following discussions between the GOM and IDA, it was decided that it would be
advisable to launch a follow-up study to carry out a cost/benefit analysis of this a tax-free
regime. The study will also make recommendations as to appropriate administrative and legal
measures that need to be taken. Terms of reference for a short-term foreign consultant to
conduct a feasibility study are in the Project implementation file.
2.33. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the conclusions of the study will form
the basis of a subsequent dialogue-with IDA, and that the recommendations of the study will be
implemented in light of the dialogue with IDA, notably with regards to the setting up or no of a
tax-free regime for exporters. If cost/benefit analysis favors the setting up of such a regime, this
component will comprise short-term advisory services for the implementation of said regime.
The study and full implementation of its conclusions is scheduled to take fifteen months.
Implementation will be the responsibility of the Direction de l 'Industrie at the Ministry of
Industry and Mining.
3.    Mining Sector
2.34. Strengthening of the Mining Sector Framework (Component 3.a.). In order to
establish an environment conducive to promoting interest in the mining sector on the part of
private investors, this project will finance the subcomponents listed below. To facilitate the
administration of the component, the proposed project will finance (under subcomponent (i)
below), a local coordinator who will be responsible for monitoring the progress on the studies,
on reorganization efforts at the Direction des Mines et de la Geologie (Mining and Geology
Directorate) at the Ministry of Industry and Mining, and on the design and administration of
training courses. (See Figure 2 of Annex 5.)
(i)   Strategy paper, review of the mining code and of tax code as it applies
to mining
2.35. The first subcomponent will focus on policy issues and reforms. The objective is to
assist the GOM in preparing a clear statement of policies and objectives with respect to the
development of the minerals sector and devise a consistent strategy to implement policies. For
this to be achieved, short-term foreign and local consulting firms will be hired to conduct a
study covering the following areas: role of GOM in the sector, intemational mining cost
competitiveness, intemational tax regimes, artisanal miningAocal industry development



25
prospects, environmental safeguards. Given the large scope of the work involved, emphasis will
be placed on twinning arrangements between foreign and local consulting firms.
2.36. Based on the conclusions of the above-mentioned study, the consulting firm(s) executing
this subcomponent will make recommendations for the revision of the mining code and the tax
code. In revising the mining code, special emphasis will be placed on evaluating any possible
impact of regulatory changes on the environment. The completion of study of the mnining code
and the application of its recommendations are explicitly linked to the fulfillment of the third-
tranche release condition of the PSDC being submitted to the Board at the same time as this
project, stipulating the adoption of a new mining code satisfactory to IDA.
(ii)    Reorganization of the Directorate of Mines and Revision of Cadastral
Procedures
2.37. This subcomponent will finance the completion reorganization of the Directorate of
Mines and Geology, which is the key supervisory body in the mining sector. The
reorganization, which will be carried out with technical support from a consulting company, will
be designed to optimize the functions of appropriate supervisory institutions in accordance with
international standards, define roles and functions for said institutions, establish operating
procedures, and upgrade ability of all ministries connected to mnining to deliver information
pertaining to the sector.
2.3 8. As an extension of the review and strengthening of the institutional framework of the
sector, this subcomponent will also finance short-term advisory services for the revision of
cadastral procedures. These services will be provided by a consulting firm which will assist the
authorities in the setting up of title registry procedures, including the establishment of a
computerized information system. This will be backed up with the compilation of geological
information, in such a way that the system could later be extended to a GIS (Geographic
Information System). In additional, the consulting firm will assist the GOM in defining cadastral
procedures, will propose criteria for evaluating and granting exploration and exploitation
permits, and specify all the procedures, quantitative and qualitative data required, information
on the permit holder, etc.
(iii)    Training of staff at the Directorate of Mining
2.39. This subcomponent will finance the training of officials at the Directorate of Mining in
the following areas: mining economics/finance, environmental, health and safety legislation,
norm-setting and monitoring, organizational management and investment promotion, mining
accountancy and tax regimes, and mining cadaster and information systems.
2.40. The training program will be conducted in parallel to the other two subcomponents, with
the explicit intention of making the results of the other subcomponents self-sustaining through
capacity-building which would enable Mauritanian officials to take over the application and
monitoring of procedures outlined above. In addition, this subcomponent will be designed to
sensitize and educate key government officials as well as stakeholders in the development of the



26
sector in Mauritania in the dynamics and the best practices of the world mining industry. It will
also sensitize government officials to the needs and concerns of the private sector. Many
seminars will be designed so as to bring officials and other stakeholders in the sector together,
thereby promoting dialogue and exchange of information.
2.41. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the implementing agency will submit,
by September 30, 1995 at the latest, a short-list of consulting firms to carry out the detailed
design and execution of the training program, from which the selection will be made. This will
ensure that the training program will be clearly defined and ready for launching once candidates
for the courses have been identified.
2.42. All three subcomponents pertaining to mining will be implemented by the Directorate of
Mining and Geology at the Ministry of Industry and Mining. The three subcomponents will be
carried out over a period of a year and a half, their implementation being coordinated to ensure
proper sequencing. A more detailed implementation schedule appears in Annex 1. More
detailed terms of reference for the three subcomponents are in the Project implementation file.
4.    Fishing Sector
2.43. Survey of Fisheries Resources and Foreign Exchange Flows In and Out of the
Fishing Sector and Establishment of a Permanent Mechanism for the Monitoring of Said
Flow. In order to support the GOMNs effort to implement a medium-term strategy for
developing the fishing sector and actively manage, monitor and promote the sector, this
component will finance short-term advisory services for a survey of fisheries resources. This
will include: an assessment of the quantity (statistics) and quality (e.g., product condition) of
fish, by collecting the statistics pertaining to species by weight and market price will be
collected, as well the quantities exported by country of destination, customs encountered, and
enterprises importing. Product quality will be analyzed according to product type (commercial
versus industrial), quality control at different stages of production, and type of product
treatment. The survey will also recommend a system for the regular monitoring of foreign
exchange flows in and out of the sector. The survey will be conducted by a consulting firm over
a period of six months. The terms of reference for a foreign fishing expert to provide short-term
advisory services are in the Project implementation file. This component will be implemented by
the Ministry of Fishing, as shown in Fig. 2 of the Organizational Chart (Annex 5). Assurances
have been provided by the GOM that the conclusions of the survey will forn the basis of a
subsequent dialogue with IDA, and that the recommendations of the survey will be implemented
in light of the dialogue with IDA, notably with regards to monitoring of fishing activities and of
export operations. The survey will comprise the preparation of an action plan, the
implementation of which will then be financed by this component. The latter is explicitly linked
to the conditionality of the PSDC which specifies that, as a condition for second tranche
release, the GOM will strengthen the monitoring scheme for the export of fishing products.
This component will also provide financing (equivalent to US$ 100,000) of technical support for
the CNROP, notably in the area of environmental capacity building and quality control of
exports, an important consideration given the need to upgrade quality control to meet the
market access requirements of the European Union which will be enforced as of January 1996.



27
2.44. The proposed project will also finance a Project Coordination Unit, an audit of the
proposed project. (See para. 2.60.) An advance from the Project Prefinancing Facility
(US$400 thousand) has already been approved and has been used to provide partial financing of
bank audits as well as the hiring of consultants to evaluate said audits, and also to pay for the
travel staff at the Secretariat General du Gouvernement who attended training seminars at the
Library of Congress. (See para. 2:28.)
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
2.45. The total cost of the proposed project, net of taxes and duties, is estimated at US$7.9
million, with a foreign exchange component of about US$5.1 million (71 percent). Cost
estimates are based on January 1995 prices, and include physical and price contingencies. Price
contingencies amount to 3.3 percent of total project costs (excluding the PPF), and are based on
an assumption of a price escalation of 3 percent per year locally and 2 percent per year
internationally. A total of US$290,000, or roughly 4 percent of total project costs, is made for
physical contingencies. A summary of cost estimates is presented in Table 1 on the next page.
Detailed project cost estimates are provided in Annex 7.
2.46. The high proportion of local costs (36 percent) reflects efforts made during project
design to: (i) maximize the capacity-building element in project implementation; (for example,
all long-term consultants are local); (ii) involve local elements in the technical aspects of the
work, both to promote capacity-building and to emphasize on-the-job training through joint
efforts by foreign and local consultants; and (iii) involve the staff of the existing ministries in
project implementation, follow-up and coordination, with support from a Project Coordination
Unit (see para. 2.50) which will be temporary in nature and staffed entirely by Mauritanians.
2.47. The proposed financing plan includes an IDA credit of US$7.2 million equivalent,
which will finance 91% of the estimated project costs, net of all taxes and duties. This will
cover all of the foreign exchange costs (US$5.1 million) and 75 % of the local costs (US$2.1
million). The GOM will finance the remainder of the local costs (US$0.7 million).



28
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs
LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL
-in USS miUion
1. Financial Sector
l.a. Credit Risk & Borrower Arrears Information                  0.01      0.05       0.06
1.b. Training in Banking
(i) Professional training                                   0.03       0.08       0.11
(ii) Diploma course                                          0.17       0.61      0.77
l.c. Financial Sector Development Study
(i) Preparation of strategy paper                           0.02       0.06       0.07
(ii) Production of Promotional Material                      0.00      0.07       0.07
Subtotal:           0.23       0.86      1.08
2. Private Sector
2.a. Upgrading of Accounting & Auditing
(i) Study: Reorganization and Upgrading                      0.01       0.08      0.09
(ii) Revision of Accounting Plan                             0.03       0.07       0.10
(iii) Training                                                0.10       0.07      0.17
2.b. Support to Chamber of Commerce                              0.19       0.21      0.40
2.c. StrengtherAing of Legal and Judiciary Framework
(i) Legal texts                                              0.42       0.31      0.73
(ii) Establishment of Commercial Register                    0.05       0.06       0.10
(iii) Training                                               0.38       1.16       1.54
(iv) Regular publication of Joumal Officiel                  0.01       0.07       0.08
(v) Access to Inforrnation                                   0.16       0.03       0.19
2.d. Tax Free Regime Study                                       0.00      0.13       0.13
Subtotal:           1.36       2.18      3.54
3. Minina Sector
3.a. Strengthening of Mining Sector
(i) Policy Dialogue: mining code review & tax reform         0.24       0.26       0.50
(ii) Institutional Reform & Upgrading Mining Carinter          0.08      0.19       0.26
(iii) Training                                                 0.09       0.29      0.38
Subtotal:           0.40       0.74       1.14
4. Fishing Sector                                                0.22       0.29      0.50
5. Proiect Coordination Unit                                     0.38       0.15      0.53
6. Project Audit                                                 0.03       0.18      0.21
Total Base Costs:          2.61       4.39      7.00
7. Continzencies:
Physical                                                    0.11       0.18       0.29
Price                                                       0.11       0.12       0.23
0.22      0.30       0.52
8. Reflnancina of Proiect Preparation Facility (PPF) Advance               0.40       _40
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:                               2.83      5.09       7.92



29
D.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
2.48. Given the multiplicity of subcomponents that are designed to assist the GOM's effort to
promote the private sector and the extensive need for capacity building in Mauritania in order to
carry out the reforms envisaged by the PSDC, the following elements have been emphasized: (i)
close coordination with, and involvement of, counterparts in the GOM; (ii) establishment, based
on close consultations with the authorities, of an implementation schedules (Annex 1), including
several intermediate target dates; (iii) establishment, in close coordination with the executing
agencies, of performance indicators (Annex 3) which will make it possible to track progress in
all components; and (iv) preparation of a supervision schedule (Annex 4) which identifies the
input needed for the supervision of the project, including probable timing and scope of
supervision missions.
2.49. The executing agencies in charge of the components (see the organization chart in
Annex 5) will be as follows: (i) the upgrading credit risk information will be implemented by a
small Implementation Unit at the Central Bank; (ii) the bank training component will also be
implemented by the same Implementation Unit at the Central Bank; (iii) the development of a
long-term financing strategy to benefit small- and medium-size enterprises will be implemented
by the Implementation Unit reporting directly to the Governor of the Central Bank; (iv) the
development of the accounting and auditing framework will be implemented by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU -- see para. 2.50) in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and in
coordination with the Ordre des experts comptables; (v) the reorganization of the Chamber of
Commerce to aid in the promotion of the private sector, as well as to provide support services
to that sector, will be implemented by the Ministry of Commerce until such time as the Chamber
of Commerce is fully functional and can operate autonomously; (vi) the legal and regulatory
reform will be implemented by the Directorate for Judiciary Affairs of the Ministry of Justice for
the training program, the PCU (see para. 2.50) for the revision of legal texts and the
establishment of the commercial register (the PCU will work under the direct supervision of the
Prime Minister's Office on the revision of legal texts), and the Secretariat General du
Gouvernement at the Prime Minister's office for the electronic indexation of laws and the
improvement and regular publication of an improved Official Bulletin; (vii) the study for the
possible setting up of pointsfrancs as a mechanism for export promotion will be implemented
by the Directorate of Industry at the Ministry of Industry and Mining; (viii) the promotion of
private investor interest in the mining sector will be implemented by the Directorate of Mining at
the Ministry of Industry and Mining; and (ix) the survey of fishing production and foreign
exchange flows and the setting up.of a permanent mechanism to monitor said flows will be
implemented by the Technical Advisor specifically given that responsibility at the Ministry of
Fishing.
2.50. It was agreed that the coordination of all project components will be entrusted to the
Cellule de rehabilitation du sec/eurparapublic established as an executing agency within the
Ministry of Planning for the Public Enterprise Sector Adjustment Project (PESAP, Credit 2167-
MAU) (see Annex 5, Fig. 3). Said organization will be reconstituted as a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) for this project, and will be designated as a temporary structure. The PCU will



30
have the advantage of being staffed entirely by Mauritanians; to the extent that it will require
the hiring of temporary staff to handle the added administrative, accounting and legal burdens
imposed by the proposed project, the credit will finance the hiring of said staff. It will also
benefit greatly from the experience acquired during the implementation of the PESAP. The task
of the PCU will essentially be coordination, not implementation (the latter being left to
executing agencies), except in the case of the legal component where the need to work with
numerous different government agencies makes it essential that the PCU, operating under the
direct command of the Prime Minister's Office, should handle the implementation (see para.
2.27), as well as the accounting and audit component, where the PCU will work with the
Ministry of Planning and the autonomous Ordre des experts comptables. In addition, the PCU
will: (a) assist in the preparation of annual project and Special Account audits (see section on
Accounting and Auditing) and semi-annual statement of expenditures (SOE) audits, (b) process
payment requests, (c) enforce budgetary control and (d) ensure compliance with the
procurement, disbursement and other procedures required by the Bank. The PCU will be under
the direct supervision of the Minister of Planning and will receive reports and transmit
information directly to a group of representatives from other ministries associated with the
Private Sector part of the proposed project (Industry and Mining, Justice, Commerce, and
Finance). The GOM will appoint a Project Manager who will act as Director of the PCU no
later than credit effectiveness. Another important role the PCU will have is management of a
Social Communications Fund to explain and disseminate information about the measures
undertaken by the GOM in the context of its program. The PCU will also be in charge of
ensuring maximum client consultation at all stages of project implementation. Agreement was
reached with the GOM to continue client consultation throughout project implementation, and
to make extensive use of ZOPP to maximize the efficiency of this participatory effort. The
proposed project includes financing for two ZOPP workshops. The procedure proposed for the
workshops, funding for which is included in the budget for the PCU, is described in the Project
implementation file.
E. PROCUREMENT
2.51. Table 2 summarizes project costs by disbursement category and procurement method.
Mauritania's procurement laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement guidelines. No
special exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in credit documents for international
competitive bidding (ICB), as Mauritania's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to
take precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
2.52. Consultant services. Consultant services financed by the proposed project (US$3.17
million) will be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981). Services to be contracted include technical assistance, studies, training, and
auditing. Contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more for firns or US$50,000 or more for
individuals will be subject to prior review by IDA.



31
Table 2: Procurement Arranqements
(in US $ million)
TOTAL
ICB          NCB             OTHER    COST
1. Consultants
LT Consulting Services                                                                     0.5            0.5
(0.3)         (0.3)
Studies                                                                                    3.0            3.0
(2.6)         (2.6)
Training                                                                                   1.7            1.7
(1.6)         (1.6)
Audits                                                                                    0.2            0.2
(0.2)         (0.2)
2. Equipment
Office equipment (e.g., computers)                          0.4                                           0.4
(0.4)                                         (0.4)
Workshop equipment and supplies                                           0.4             0.01             0.4
(0.3)                           (0.3)
3. Operating Costs
Maintenance (incl. amortized rent)                                                          0.2           0.2
(0.1)         (0.1)
Communications                                                                            0.05           0.05
(0.05)         (0.05)
Local temporary Staff                                                                       0.3           0.3
(0.2)         (0.2)
Travel & other expenses (incl. per diem)                                                    0.9            0.9
(0.8)         (0.8)
4. PPF Refund                                                                                   0.4            0.4
(0.4)         (0.4)
TOTAL:            0.4           0.4               7.1           7.9
TOTAL IDA:            (0.4)         (0.3)             (6.4)         (7.2)
Ia) Fiures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA credit. Cost igures shows above are ,vundad. and include
price and physical contingencies.
(bi About 20 contracts over a pefiod of 5 yea,.



32
2.53  Goods. Goods financed by the IDA credit (US$0.8 million) include computer
equipment, software, scanner, office supplies, and vehicles. Goods will be grouped into
packages of at least US$ 150,000 each and procured through ICB in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelinesfor Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995). The Bank's
standard bidding documents should be used. A preferential margin of 15% or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is less, over the c.i.f prices of competing goods for all ICB
procurement will be given to domestic firms in accordance with Bank guidelines. Because
foreign bidders are unlikely to be interested in bidding on limited quantities of goods, and local
firms can produce at competitive prices, goods that cannot be grouped into packages of at least
US$150,000 each will be procured through NCB provided that the aggregate amount of such
procurement does not exceed US$0.4 million equivalent. Draft standard bidding documents for
NCB have been reviewed by and agreed with IDA.
2.54. Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for goods above a threshold value of
US$150,000 will be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process will cover
56% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods. Selective post-review of awarded
contracts below the threshold levels will apply to about one in three contracts. Prior IDA
review will not apply to consultant contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000 and
US$100,000 equivalent for individuals and firms, respectively. However, the exception to prior
IDA review will not apply to the terms of reference of such contracts, to single-source hiring of
firms and individuals, to assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, and to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to US$50,000 and US$ 100,000 or more for
individuals and firms, respectively.
2.55. Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements. The GOM
will take necessary measures to ensure that: (a) procurement phases do not exceed the time
periods shown in Table 3 below; and (b) customs formalities for importing goods and services
under the proposed project will be processed within one month of the date of application.
Table 3
Maximum period of time in weeks
NCB              ICB
Preparing Bidding Documents                      8-16              8-16
Reviewing Bidding Documents                       2-3               2-3
Revising Bidding Documents                         1-2              1-2
Preparing Bids                                    4-6               6-8
Bid evaluation                                     1-2              1-2
Proposed contract award                           1-2               1-2
Review of contract award decision by IDA            -               1-2
Contract preparation                               1-2              1-2
Review of contract by IDA                            -              1-2
Contract signature                                2-4               2-4
_    20-37            24-43



33
F. DISBURSEMENTS
2.56. The proposed project is expected to be disbursed over four fiscal years, according to
categories shown in Table 4. This disbursement is shorter than the profile for the Region, but is
closely linked to disbursements of the parallel PSDC (see Annex 6). The project is forecast to
be completed June 30, 1999, and the credit will be closed December 31, 1999.
Table 4
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Proposed IDA Allocation    % of Expenditures
Cateeory of Expenditure           (US$ million)          Financed by IDA
1. Goods                                    0.76              100 % of foreign and
90 % of local
2. Consultants                               3.17                      100 %
3. Training                                  1.60                      100 %
4. Operating Costs                           1.21                       75 %
5. PPF Refund                               0.40                         n/a
6. Unallocated                               0.08
TOTAL:                         7.22
Note:  - Categories 1 through 4 include price contingencies. Category 6 reflects physical contingencies
financed by the Project.
- All items financed by IDA are exclusive of taxes and duties.
- Percentages of IDA financing are rounded.
- The average of 75 percent for operational costs reflects a declining scale of financing, namely: 90
percent in FY 96 and FY97, and 70 percent thereafter.
2.57. All disbursements of the IDA credit will be based on full documentation, except for
contracts of less than US$150,000 equivalent (except for consultants), which will be submitted
on the basis of SOEs. SOE ceilings for consultants will be US$100,000 for firms and
US$50,000 for individuals. The Project Coordinator will have the responsibility for the
preparation of withdrawal applications for all components. The documentation for withdrawals
under SOEs will be retained at the Ministry of Planning for review by IDA staff during
supervision missions and for regular semi-annual audits.
2.58. To facilitate disbursement, the GOM will establish (a) a Project Account for the GOM's
counterpart funds; and (b) a Special Account in the Central Bank to cover IDA's share of
eligible expenditures. The initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent into the Project Account will
be a condition of effectiveness to cover the GOM's contribution to financing in the first year,
which will be small given that financing of operational costs will be on a declining basis (see
Table 4 above.). Also, an initial deposit of US$500,000 equivalent will be made into the Special



34
Account from the proceeds of the proposed credit upon effectiveness. IDA will replenish the
special account monthly, upon receipt of satisfactory evidence of incurred eligible expenditures,
with supporting documentation, copy of an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation form
showing the status of funds at the moment a request for replenishment has been submnitted to
IDA. Details of the establishment and operations of the Special Account and other
disbursement procedures have been discussed and agreed upon during preappraisal discussions
with the authorities. An agreement was also reached that adequate budgetary provision for
local costs will be inscribed in the annual operating budget of the Ministry of Planning. The
estimated disbursements, by fiscal year, allocation, and component of the proposed IDA credit
are shown in Table 5.
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
2.59. Monitoring and evaluation of project performance will be carried out by the
implementing units over the life of the proposed project, with the PCU playing a coordinating
role. Key monitoring indicators are shown in Annex 3. In its role as Project Coordinator, the
PCU will: (i) organize, in June of each year, a joint IDA-Government review of project
implementation, based on the progress reports and on an annual work program and budget for
the next year; (ii) carry out a mid-term review of project implementation, jointly with IDA in
July 1997. Details on IDA's supervision plan and on the mid-term review are provided in
Annex 4. Based on the results of the mid-term review, the GOM will prepare and implement
an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the proposed project.
Assurances have been provided by the GOM to this effect.
H. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
2.60. The PCU will establish and maintain, in accordance with International Accounting
Standards, separate accounts and records to be used exclusively for the Capacity Building
Project. Since the PCU will take over the accounting system already being applied by the
Cellule de la rehabilitation du secteurparapublic. Audits of project accounts will be carried
out annually, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by an independent auditor
under an annually renewable contract acceptable to IDA. The reports will be submitted within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. Disbursements under the SOEs will be audited semi-
annually. Assurances have been provided by the GOM that the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) in the Ministry of Planning will submit to IDA: (i) a semi-annual report on the progress
of project implementation; (ii) annual work programs and budgets for the following year
(including the GOMs contribution to the financing of the proposed project), no later than
October 31 st of any one year; and (iii) an implementation completion report, according to terms
of reference acceptance to IDA, within six months of the credit closing date describing the
proposed project's implementation as well as current and future costs and benefits derived. An
independent auditor will be appointed as of the date of credit effectiveness. This auditor will be
selected to carry out an audit that has been elaborated according to standard terms of reference
which have been agreed with the GOM.



35
Table 5: Scheduled Disbursements by Fiscal Year
(US $ million)
FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98   FY99    Tocal
1. Fmnancial Sector
Credit Risk & Borrower Arrears Information        1.a.             0.02     0.02     0.02               0.1
Bank Training                                     1.b.
Professional Training                            L              0.04     0.03     0.03     0.01      0.1
Training (Diploma course)                       ii.             0.35     0.24     0.16     0.04      0.8
Financial Development Strategies                  l..
Scudy                                            i.             0.03     0.02)    0.02               0.1
Producton of Promotional Mate.ral                i.             0.03     0.03     0.01               0.1
2. Private Sector
Strengthening of Accounting & Auditing            2.a.
i              0.04     O.04                        0.1
iu.            0.03     0.03     0.03               0.1
inU.           0.06     0.06      0.03               0.2
Support to Chamber of Commerce                    2.b.             0.13     0.13     0.12               0.4
Legal Reform                                      2.c.
Legal tex                                       i.              0.34     0.17     0.17               0.7
Establishment of Commncrcial Register           ii              0.05     0.02     0.02               0.1
Trainring                                      iW.              0.70     0.54     0.31                1.6
Regular publication of Journal Oficil           iv.             0.04     0.02     0. 02              0.1
Access to Infonnation                            V.             0.10     0.03     0.03               0.2
Feasibility Study & Scheme for Implementation of Tax
Holiday                                           2.d.             0.06     0.08                        0.1
3. Mininn Sector
Polcy Dialogue-Mining Code                       i.             0.17     0.17     0.14               0.5
Institutional Reform & Upgrading Mining Cadastcr    iH.         0.09     0.09     0.08               0.3
Training                                        ii.             0.13     0.13     0.11                0.4
4. Fishine Sector                                                  0.24     0.19     0.05               0.5
S. Proiect Coordinatioo Unit                                       0.12     0.12     0.12    0.12       0.5
6. Proiect Audit                                                   0.05     0.05     0.05    0.05       0.2
Subtotal:                                                 0.0      2.83     2214     1.52     022       6.8
Refunancing of PPF advance:        0.4                                           0.4
Total Costs (IDA financing):       0.4     2.83     2.24     1.52     0.22      7.2
Government contribution:                                                      0.7
Total Project Costs:                                                     7.9



36
I. ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
2.61. The Capacity Building Project does not present the prospect of any detrimental
environmental impact. The Project was designed to ensure no detrimental impact of the
environment. To the extent that it promotes the development of the fishing and mining sectors,
which can have environmental implications, the following steps have been taken to ensure that
the impact will be neutral: (a) institutional strengthening for the CNROP, will include a budget
for environmental capacity building; (b) legal and judicial reform, which will include the revision
of codes affecting business, will emphasize the environmental dimension; and (c) the mining
sector component includes environmental capacity building at the Directorate of Mining, and
emphasizes the role of environmental protection in the revision of the mining code.
2.62. Mauritania's environment is fragile given: (i) the exposure of its predominantly bare
surface to wind erosion; and (ii) the fast growth of urban areas. The GOM, the United Nations
Sudano-Sahelian Office (UNSO), and other agencies are focusing on the crucial problem of land
degradation manifested in Mauritania, most visibly in the form of dune encroachment. The
urban explosion calls for measures to address issues, such as the water supply and sewage
disposal. To facilitate the link between environmental matters and broader developmental
strategies, the GOM is working with the World Bank and other partners on a National
Environmental Plan. Depletion of fisheries resources is another problem and, certainly, the
survey of fish resources component of this project will help to provide a more precise estimate
of the country's resources.
J. PROJECT RISKS AND BENEFITS
2.63. The key focus of the proposed project is making the regulatory and institutional
framework for private sector development conducive to attracting private investment. As such,
the implementation of the proposed project is closely tied to the reforms envisaged under the
PSDC being presented to the Board at the same time as this proposed project. In the process,
the proposed project aims at promoting the following: (i) better quality banking services and a
better financial sector framework through programs to upgrade the skills of bank supervisors
and commercial bank personnel, accountants, auditors, magistrates and other legal personnel;
(ii) improved access to detailed information on the credit standing of borrowers and on arrears
through revamping the Centrale des Risques and the Centrale des Impayes; (iii) an enhanced
legal and accounting framework which will allow for more transparent procedures and foster
accountability and financial discipline in the financial and private sectors; and (iv) an ongoing
dialogue between the private sector and the GOM, as well as a solid mechanism for extending
support services to aid the development of the private sector.
2.64. As the reform measures supported by the PSDC are carried out with technical support
extended under the proposed project, and as the project components are implemented over the
next four years, the expectation is that Mauritania will have become more attractive to foreign
and local private investors. The private sector will be better informed about investment
opportunities, relevant laws and regulations and existing support services. Regulators will have



37
been made more conscious of the need to enforce regulations in a uniform and rigorous manner,
and will have better tools at their disposal (improved credit information, improved accounting
and auditing framework) to carry out their duties. The legal and regulatory framework will
have become more transparent, more responsive to private sector needs and more enforceable.
The fishing sector will be functioning more efficiently as the GOM disengages itself from
production and marketing and carries out its supervisory function, with a special emphasis on
resource conservation. The mining sector will offer more attractive opportunities to investors
as the mining code and taxation of mining will have become more investor-friendly, and as
procedures will have been streamlined and made more transparent.
2.65. The proposed project emphasizes institutional support and capacity building in the
ministries as well as supervisory and regulatory agencies. Most of the funds are devoted to
overhauling, reorganizing, strengthening, modernizing, and upgrading the efficiency of the
Ministry of Justice, the Direction des Mines el de la Geologie, and the Central Bank. Training
is a key element in this approach; training costs represent 25 percent of total project costs.
Another factor that is specifically incorporated in this project is the need to ensure broader
access to information, so as to promote greater transparency and better understanding of
existing regulations. This is represented by the attention given to the Centrale des Risques and
the Centrale des Impayes, the upgrading of the accounting and auditing framework, the
improvement of the Journal Officiel, and the electronic indexation of Mauritanian laws, the
setting up of the Chamber of Commerce as a repository of infornation on the economy and on
existing regulations for use by investors, the upgrading of cadastral procedures to ensure a
better and more transparent allocation of mining concessions, the carrying out of an survey of
the resources of the fishing sector, and the setting up of a mechanism for monitoring the flow of
funds for exports and imports by the fishing sector.
2.66. The success of the proposed project is not completely assured. The vested interests
within Mauritania may resist or try to dilute the positive effect of the reform measures,
especially those providing support for the programs geared to upgrading and enforcing
regulation of the fishing sector. However, the GOM has given every indication that it has a
sense of participation and ownership in the proposed project and that, in the interests of
promoting the private sector, it is committed to seeing it carried out successfully.



38
III. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.01. The GOM has submitted a Statement of Policy (Annex 2) which defines its commitment
to private sector development. This policy statement endorses policy measures to be taken in an
effort to realize the development of the private sector, in general, and the financial, fishing, and
mining sectors. These policy measures, which appear as tranche release conditions in the
PSDC which is being presented to the Board at the same time as this project, can be
summarized as follows:
(a)   Progressive implementation of the first phase of the access fees system for
demersal and cephalopod (deep sea) fishing, said fees being fixed set to rise to 11
percent of the estimated value of production by mid- 1997.
(b)   Adoption by the Assembly of a new Banking Law satisfactory to the Bank and
its continuous application thereafter.
(c)   Recovery of an additional UM 800 million by ARCB in 1995 and UM 700
million in 1996.
(d)   Formulation, in agreement with the Bank, of new standards for the accounting
and auditing professions, and adoption of said standards.
(e)   Launching of invitation to submit bids in the context of the action plan for the
privatization of MAUSOV and ALMAP in case decision is made not to liquidate
one or both of them.
(f)   Strengthening of the monitoring scheme for the export of fishing products, and
completion of the second phase of the study of taxation of the fishing sector.
(g)   Revision of commercial code, investment code, arbitration and bankruptcy rules,
and the code of civil and commercial procedures in accordance with the study
completed in January 1995.
(h)   Revision and adoption of a new Mining Code satisfactory to the Bank.
3.02. In addition to the aforementioned policy measures, the following specific assurances,
pertaining to this proposed project, have been provided by the GOM:
(a)   That the implementing agency will submit, by September 30, 1995 at the latest, a
short-list of consulting firms from which the selection will be made to complete
the detailed design of, and to carry out, the training programs financed under this
project. (See paras. 2.13, 2.20, 2.25, 2.30 and 2.41.)
(b)   That the conclusions of the studies financed under this project will: (i) form the
basis of a subsequent dialogue with IDA, and that their recommendations will be



39
implemented in light of the dialogue with IDA, and (ii) be disseminated to the
public through workshops or conferences organized under the initiative of the
GOM, and short publications to be made available to the public. (See paras.
2.16, 2.18, 2.33 and 2.36 and 2.43.)
(c)   That by December 31, 1995 at the latest, the Chamber of Commerce will be
established as an autonomous agency empowered to act as a convincing
representative of the private sector. (See para. 2.25.)
(d)   That the PCU, in its role as Project Coordinator, will: (i) organize, in June of
each year, a joint IDA-Government review of project implementation, based on
the progress reports and on an annual work program and budget for the next
year; (ii) carry out a mid-term review of project implementation, jointly with IDA
in July 1997. (See para. 2.59.)
(e)   That the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry of Planning will submit
to IDA: (i) a semi-annual report on the progress of project implementation; (ii)
annual work programs and budgets for the following year (including the GOM's
contribution to the financing of the proposed project), no later than October 31 st
of any one year; and (iii) an implementation completion report, according to
terms of reference acceptance to IDA, within six months of the credit closing
date describing the proposed project's implementation as well as current and
future costs and benefits derived. (See para. 2.60.)
3.03. The effectiveness of this credit will be subject to the following conditions:
(a)   Appointment of an independent auditor to carry out an audit according terms of
reference which will be finalized during negotiation. There is no need to agree on
an accounting system being in place by project effectiveness, as the PCU will
take over the accounting system already in use by the Cellule de la rehabili1ation
du secteurparapublic. (See para. 2.60.)
(b)   Appointment of a Director of the PCU. (See para. 2.50.)
(c)   Initial deposit in the Project Account. (See para. 2.58.)
3.04. Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and condition, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$7.2 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



40                                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of6
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                      TIMING              EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
1. Financial Sector
l.a. Upgrading of Credit Risk and Borrower's
Arrears Information
*  Selection of consultants                   July 1995    Strengthen information system pertaining
  Definition of procedure for both data-bases  Sept. 1995   to credit and arrears in banking system;
*  Updating both databases                    Nov. 1995   improve flow of information between
*  Training Central Bank staff in data- base  Dec. 1995    banks; reduce costs to banks of working
management, input and retrieval                         with new clients; increase cost of
*  Training bankers to provide requisite      Jan. 1996    accumulating arrears for borrowers.
information
l.b. Training in Banking
(i) Professional training
I   Selection of consultants                  July 1995     Enhance skills of commercial bank staff;
|   Identification of existing skills         Nov. 1995    upgrade quality of bank services; increase
!   Designation of candidates for courses     Dec. 1995    scope of bank activities; develop
-   Final design of courses                   March 1996   professional association of bankers.
.  Teaching of courses                        May 1996
.  Cycle completed                            Nov. 1996
(ii) Training (diploma course)
.  Selection of consultants                   Mar. 1996    Creation of pool of qualified bankers;
.  Final design of courses                    May 1996    development of banking as a career
.  Launching year I of program                Oct. 1996     option; encourage competition between
.  Launching year 2 of program                Oct. 1997     banks for qualified labor market entrance.
.  Launching year 3 of prograrn               Oct. 1998



41                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                     TIMING              EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
1. Financial Sector continued
l.c. Formulation of Strategy for Financial
Development
(i) Study                                    July 1995     Formulate Action Plan for next phase of
*  Selection of consultant                   Oct. 1995    financial sector development, design
*  Submission of preliminary report          Nov. 1995    strategy for mobilizing private sector
*  Discussion of strategy and proposed                    interest (local and foreign) in development
promotional materials                     Dec. 1995    of financial mechanisms; prepare
*  Submission of final report                              promotional material as necessary.
(ii) Production of Promotional Materials
*  Selection of consultant                   Sept. 1995
*  Production of written material            Oct. 1995
*  Evaluation of written material and proposed    Jan. 1996
publicity campaign
*  Launching of publicity campaign           Feb. 1996
2. Private Sector Institutional and Regulatorv
Framework
2.a. Upgrading of Accounting and Auditing
Framework
(i) Studies (reorganization and upgrading of
accounting profession)                    July 1995    Review status of accounting profession;
.  Selection of two consultants to study                   propose action plan for development of
reorganization                            Oct. 1995    profession; agree on action plan with
.  Report on status of profession            Nov. 1995    Government authorities.
.  Discussion of strategy paper              Jan. 1995
. Implementation of strategy paper
.  Selection of consultants to formulate norms  Jan. 1995  Define minimum qualification for public
.  Completion of study                       Feb. 1996    accountants and auditors; create demand
.  Formulation of norms for accounting       April 1996   for improved formal training in
profession                                             accounting.
.  Adoption of these norms                   May 1996



42
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                      TIMING             EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
2. Private Sector Institutional and Refulatory
Framework continued
(ii) Revision of Accounting Plan
.  Selection of four consultants              Sept. 1995    Update existing accounting plan taking
.  Report with recommendations (first draft)  Dec. 1995    into consideration changes in accounting
.  Reference manuals                          April 1996    procedures in other countries and realities
.  Final report                               June 1996    of the Mauritanian economy; ensuring that
transparent, reliable accounting rules are
in place; ensuring comparability of
statements.
(iii) Training
.  Selection of consultant                    Jan. 1996    Enhance skills of local accountants and
.  Design of program                          April 1996    ensure their ability to provide world class
*  Launching of 1st cycle of program          Oct. 1996    service.
.  Launching of 2nd cycle of program          Feb. 1997
2.b.   Support to Chamber of Commerce
.  Selection of consultant                    June 1995    Establishment of permanent support
.  Finalizing of organization chart           July 1995    structure to act as spokesman for private
.  Appointment of staff           -           Sept. 1995    sector and provide vehicle for dispensing
.  Training of staff                          Feb. 1996    support to private sector.
.  Purchase of equipment                      Feb. 1996
.  Elections                                  Sept. 1996
. Launching of studies cofinanced by private
sector                                    Oct. 1996
.  Completion of studies                      Oct.1997
2.c. Legal and Judiciary Reform
(i) Revision and Elaboration of Legal Texts
.  Selection of consultants                   July 1995    Update legal code as it pertains to
.  Exhaustive review of existing codes and    Dec. 1995    business; make legal environmnent more
comparative analysis of other countries                 investor friendly; enhance transparency
.  Preparation of draft codes                 June 1996    and legal security; ensure consistency with
.  Adoption of new codes                      Dec. 1997    respect to Mauritanian's treaty obligations
with trade partners.



43                                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                     TIMING              EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
2.c. Legal and Judiciary Reform
(ii) Establishment of Commercial Register                  Provide information on existing
.  Selection of consultants                   Sept. 1995    companies in Mauritania.
.  Setting up of registration procedure      Dec. 1995
.  Completion of compilation of company records  Sept. 1996
(iii) Training
.  Selection of consultants                  Sept. 1995    Enhance quality of court officials and
.  Setting up of program                     Dec. 1995    magistrates; ensure smooth functioning of
.  Selection of candidates                   March 1996   dual legal system; make possible the
.  Beginning of French language training     June 1996    requirement of high standards among legal
.  Beginning of Phase I of legal training    Dec. 1996    officials.
.  Beginning of Phase II of legal training   Oct. 1997
.  Completion of Phase II of legal training  Mar.1998
0
(iv) Regular Publication of Up-to-date Journal
Officiel
.  Selection of consultants                  Sept. 1995    Provide up-to-date, reliable information
.  Purchase of computers and software        Dec. 1995    on Mauritanian laws.
.  Design of format                          Mar. 1996
.  First regular updated issue               Sept.1996
(v) Access to Infonnation
-   Training of Mauritanian officials (financed by
PPF)                                      April 1995
,  Issue of hard copy of indexation of       Sept. 1996    Provide handy computerized indexation of
Mauritanian laws                                       Mauritanian laws; increase access of
i  Issue of Users Guide                      Dec. 1996    foreign investors to Mauritanian legal
texts; improve dissemination of legal
information; integrate Mauritanian legal
system into international database;
improve quality of "Journal Officiel".
2.d. Feasibility Study and Scheme for
Implementation of Tax-Free Regime for
Exporters
.  Selection of consultants                  Sept. 1995    Offer advantages to export-oriented
.  Submission of preliminary report (discussion of Dec. 1995    investors; enhance Mauritania's reputation
introduction of" regime)                  March 1996  as a viable locale for investment; draw
.  Submission of final report                              maximum advantage from a competitive
.  Preparation of regulatory texts           June 1996    exchange rate.
.  Adoption of new texts                     Dec. 1996



44
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                     TIMING              EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
3. Mining Sector
.a. Strengthening of Mining Sector Framework
(i) Policy Dialogue
* Selection of consultants
*  Drafting of preliminary strategy paper     Sept. 1995    Design action plan for attracting investors
*  Adoption of strategy paper                 Oct. 1995    to mining sector; sensitize and educate key
*  Agreement on revisions of mining code      Dec. 1995    officials in dynamics and best practices of
*  Adoption of revised mining code            June 1996    world mining, as well as in Government
*  Agreement on revision of tax code          June 1996    priorities; review and update mining code
*  Adoption of revised tax code               Dec. 1996    to make environment more investment
Dec. 1996    friendly; review tax code to increase
incentive for private investments in mining
sector.
(ii) Institutional reform and Upgrading of
Mining Cadastre
*  Selection of consultants                  Jan 1996      Strengthen supervision of mining sector;
*  Investment promotion seminar               Feb. 1996    improve procedures and documentation;
*  Agreement on institutional reforms         April 1996    make institutional environment more
*  Reconfiguration of institutions            June 1996    investment friendly; upgrade mining
*  Definition of new procedures               June 1996    cadastre.
*  Implementation of new procedures          June. 1996
*  Definition of new cadastral procedures     Sept. 1996
  Purchase of equipment                      Sept. 1996
  Implementation of new cadastral procedures  Mar. 1997
(iii) Training
*  Selection of training experts              Sept. 1995    Improve administrator's grasp of mining
*  Training seminars abroad                                economics and finance, improve
* 1st seminar                      Dec. 1995    environmental monitoring; consolidate
* 2nd seminar                      June 1996    institutional build up; enhance quality of
*  Basic training course in Mauritania        Dec. 1995    mining accounting and implementation of
*  Advanced training course in Mauritania     Sept. 1996   tax regime, strengthen mining cadastre
capabilities; improve administrator's
negotiation skills as they pertain to mining
sector.



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
MAJOR ACTIVITIES                      TIMING             EXPECTED IMPACT
TARGET
4. Fishine Sector
4.a. Survey: Implementation of Action Plan
.  Selection of consultant                    July 1995    Verify compliance with regulations
.  Preparation of preliminary report          Sept. 1995   introduced and identify violations; track
.  Preparation of final report                Oct. 1995    foreign exchange flows from fishing
.  Application of new mechanism for export    Dec. 1995    sector; monitor environmental impact on
control                                                 fishing sector; provide technical support
.  Technical support to CNROP                 Dec. 1996-   to CNROP.
Jan. 1997
5. Proiect Coordination Unit (PCU)
  Selection of all staff                     May 1995    Monitoring imnplementation of all
.  Unit fully operational                     June 1995    components; coordinate strategy with
.  Communications campaign                    Sept. 1995-   other ministries; maintain contact where
June 1997   necessary with private sector coordination
  Mid-term report                            June 1997    structure; provide information for project
.  Final Report                               May 1999    supervision; disseminate information
about GOM policy measures.
6. Proiect Audit
.  Selection of consultants                   March 1999   Verify compliance with Government and
.  Preparation of preliminary audit           May 1999    Bank procurement, expenditure and
3  Submission of final audit                  July 1999    reimbursement rules; verify accounting for
each component; verify use of special
account



46
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 21
Islamic Republic of Mauritania
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FOR THE FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE SECTORS
(Translated from French)
INTRODUCTION
1.     Mauritania's financial system and private sector have undergone far-reaching changes during the last few
years. In the context of the continuous dialogue established between the World Bank and the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania, and particularly of the negotiations concerning the 1994-97 economic policy
framework paper, we should like to set forth the broad lines of our development policy for the financial and
private sectors.
2.     First of all, however, it will be useful to describe the overall economic setting within which this policy is
to be implemented.
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK
A.    Status of the Economic Reform Program
3.     Since 1992, on the basis of the fourth framework paper, drawn up at the end of that year, Mauritania
has stepped up its adjustment efforts aimed at correcting the structural imbalances that have accumulated since
the 1970s, in order particularly to limit the deterioration of the macroeconomic situation that characterized the
first two years of the decade. With the support of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, the
GOM has drawn up an economic recovery plan, the broad lines of which were set forth in the 1992 framework
paper and which was subsequently revised to take account of exogenous developments and the progress achieved
in implementing the program.
4.     The GOM's strategy has put the emphasis on continuation of the liberalization policy initiated in 1986 in
the context of the adjustment programs (supported by the 1987 SAC, the 1989 PASA and the 1990 PASEP),
whiclh have contributed greatly to the goals of substantial liberalization of the economy, increased private-sector
participation in economic activity and a greater role for market forces.
5.     The economic difficulties (fall in export receipts, relaxation of budgetary and monetary policies and loss
of solvency of certain banks) encountered during the period 1990-91, owing essentially to exogenous factors,
were rapidly overcome as a consequence of Mauritania's continued restructuring efforts and its evolution toward
a democratic system.
6.     In order to contain these problems, in October 1992 the GOM embarked on an ambitious program of
action designed to rekindle the adjustment process and deepen the structural reforms. The implementation of
these important reforms in the various areas has yielded positive results.



47
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 21
7.     Price instability has been brought under control, wvith an estimated rate of inflation of 3.8 percent in
1994. The economic growth rate for the period 1993-94 was close to 5 percent, against an original target of 3.5
percent.
8.     Mauritania's current monetary and budgetary policies have been implemented in conformity with the
prograrn drawvn up together with the IMF and the World Bank and set forth in the 1995-97 econornic policies
frarnework paper. More resolute application of monetary policy has enabled Mauritania to combat inflationary
trends and cope With the fall in export prices more effectively.
9.     Despite the decline in inflation, the rediscount rate has been maintained at I1 percent, and the ceiling on
lending rates, currently 20 percent, is being progressively relaxed. The experience gained with the Public
Treasury bonds auction system introduced in June 1994 will henceforth serve, among other purposes, as basic
indicator for setting base rates, and base lending rates have been liberalized. The minimum remuneration on
deposits has been abolished.
10.   The price stability that has prevailed since devaluation confirmns that Mauritania has conserved the gains
achieved in export competitiveness. All the measures geared to the deregulation of the foreign exchange and trade
system, provided for in the program, have been implemented.
11.    The free foreign exchange market is operating normally and without restrictions with respect to
operations in invisibles, and the banks have gained experience in transactions in foreign currency transactions.
This market has been opened to non-banking foreign exchange houses in order to stimulate competition and take
a first step toward a true exchange market. Foreign currency transfers to finance the imports of goods and
scrvices are authorized in this market.
12.    Turning to foreign debt, Mauritania is on good terms with its various creditors. Arrangements on terms
broadly comparable to those accorded by the Paris Club were obtained in 1984, and an armngement wMith the
FKDEA is imminent. The introduction of the auction system for import licenses, the conclusion of rescheduling
agreements, the settlement of public arrears, and the abstention from contracting new loans on non-concessional
terms are major steps in the right direction.
13.    In December 1994 Mauritania requested the second arrangement under the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) at the IMF, in collaboration With the World Bank. The major benefits gained by the
arrangement were: (i) maintenance of price stability through continued application of restrictive budgetary, fiscal
and monetary policies; (ii) creation of a transparent, market-linked exchange and international trade system in
order to stimulate competition and eliminate the obstacles to investment and production; (iii) reform of the legal,
judicial and regulatory framewvork; (iv) refomi of the fishing sector through the installation of a transparent
system based on access fees (taxes based on the expected value of production), the strengthening of surveillance,
the move toward the privatization of marketing, and the adoption of an exit mechanism for non-viable enterprises;
(v) strengthening financial intermediation, and (vi) resolution of the extemal debt problem.
14.    The program's macroeconomic objectives are as follows: (i) a sustained average economic growth rate
of 4.4 percent, thus assuring a moderate increase in income and consumption per capita; (ii) stabilization of
annual inflation at about 3 percent, and (iii) reduction of the external current account deficit (excluding official
transfers) from 14.2 percent of GDP in 1994 to 6.4 percent in 1997, together with an increase in the Central
Bank's intemational reserves so that they cover imports for 2 months in 1995 and 3 months by 1997. The key



48
ANNEX TI
Page 3 of 21
factor in achieving such a growth rate would be expanded private sector investment apart from that undertaken
by the mining company. Investment should rise from about 13 percent in 1994 to about 15 percent in 1997. In
addition, investment aimed at raising the value added of exports of fish and mineral products, together with a
more liberalized economic environment, should enhance the productivity of existing capital. In order to narrow
the external and domestic imbalances, it is projected that the fiscal deficit of 4.3 percent of GDP in 1994 will be
transformed into a small surplus in 1997. The net reimbursement of government debt to the local banking sector
would create possibilities for the satisfaction of the private sector's financing needs, as well as permit a growth of
the money supply compatible with the program's inflation goal.
B.     Relative importance of the financial and private sectors
15.    The economic setting described above brings out the importance of the financial and private sectors in
the GOM's medium-term strategy. It goes without saying that improving the situation of the external sector will
depend in large part on increasing exports, which can only be achieved by assigning a more dynamic role to the
private sector. The GOM is therefore acting to improve the sector's incentives structure, especially in the area of
export promotion.
16.    Outside the external sector, the private sector has an extremely important role to play in the process of
expanding economic activity and thereby rekindling econormic growth. The GOM sees the private sector as the
driving force of the economy, in line with the strategy of trimming the role of the public sector (reflected in its
public enterprises reform program instituted in 1989 with the support of the World Bank, which granted a
structural adjustment credit for the sector and a technical assistance credit for implementation of the reform
measures). Expanding private-sector activity has thus become a top-priority goal in order to stimulate
employment and mitigate the negative impact on it of budgetary and monetary austerity and to ensure the high
level of budget receipts required to be able to achieve the program's macroeconomic objectives.
17.    The financial sector also has a key role to play in the GOM's program. In the first place, the soundness
of its macroeconomic policy wvill depend on the future health of the banking sector. The GOM has already stated
its intention not to grant any financial support to the banks from now on. It is therefore essential that the banks
regain their profitability and pursue their development in a context of strict compliance with the prudential
regulations.
18.    The GOM's macroeconomic policy will be reflected in the immediate future in tightening of policiies for
managing demand, and the consequent reduction in absorption will necessarily be accompanied by an increase in
saving. In addition to the efforts of the authorities in the taxation area, this will call for action to revitalize the
financial sector's capacity to mobilize resources. Efficient financial intermediation must play a larger role in the
channeling of funds toward the most remunerative economic uses.
ll. REFORM OF THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
19.    The first bank restructuring program, which covered the period 1988 to 1990, was implemented vith
substantial support from the World Bank. It was among the financial components financed by a structural
adjustment credit. The results of this restructuring did not entirely come up to expectations. In particular:



49
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 21
(a)    This first restructuring exercise did not basically alter the way the banking system functions. It
remained largely dominated by the state, which until 1990 was owner of the country's twvo largest banks (UBD
and BNM) and co-owner of the Chinguitty Bank.
(b)    The rehabilitation was only partial, since the need for provisions to cover possible borrower
default was under-estimated.  In this context the (public) banks remained dependent upon Central Bank
refinancing operations for their daily cash flow, thereby preventing implementation of a judicious monetary policy
based on an indirect control of liquidity.
(c)    The State's intervention in the activity of the banks caused the latter to incur risks, especially in
the fishing sector, whose activity posted negative fluctuations.
20.    After audits of the situation of the banks, as of June 30, 1993, were completed in December 1993, bad
debts rose again to UM 18.84 billion (US$151 million or 60.1 percent of bank loans), part of which (at least UM
5 billion) represented bad debts transferred to the state but still carried on the balance sheets of certain banks.
The uncertainty that afflicted the sector led to a general slowdowvn of the credit system, which penalized the
private sector in particular.
21.    In light of this situation the monetary authorities, with the support of the IMF and the World Bank,
instituted a major program of reform of the financial sector. The first phase of this program, restructuring of the
banking system, is now nearing completion. Its most important measures were as follows:
(a)    The GOM wvithdrew from the banking system completely and transferred all the shares it held in
the banks to the private sector, except for the Chinguitty Bank, to which it is linked through international
commitnents.
(b)    The Union of Development Banks (Union des Banqtues de Developpemenf-UBD), the only
development financing agency, was liquidated on June 24, 1993.
(c)    All the development banks were financially  rehabilitated  by  means of substantial
recapitalization.
(d)    Supervision and oversight of the banks was strengthened, and vigorous measures are currently
being implemented to provide the Central Bank with all the tools it needs for efficient quality control; the World
Bank fumished substantial assistance, through its Institutional Development Fund.
(e)    An ambitious, precise and monitored programn  is under way of recovcry of bank debtor
balances transferred to the GOM's portfolio, just as of all other receipts. A recovery agency has been set up for
the purpose. The recovery target for 1994 (UM 600 million) has already been achieved.
22.    The GOM now proposes, with the continued help of the IMF and the World Bank, to launch the second
stage of the banking sector reform program, i.e. the consolidation stage. The main objectives of this stage are to:
(i) consolidate the bank rehabilitation and debtor balances recovery process; (ii) institute a stricter supervision
system in order to avoid any repetition of banking crises; (iii) strengthen the skills of bank management staff, (iv)
promote investnient financing through markct mechanisms, and (v) improve the incentive structure of the banking
system and thereby enhance the efficiency of financial intermediation.



50
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 21
A.    Consolidating the Restructuring of the Banking System
23.    As mentioned above, during 1993 the GOM maintained a dialogue with the commercial banks while
carrying out technical studies designed to identify ways to definitively rehabilitate the banking system. These
technical studies received substantial support from the World Bank, which helped to finance them. The GOM
felt that, in withdrawing from the banking system, it wvas incumbent upon it to bear part of the restructuring costs.
However, all bank owners were constrained to make a substantial contribution in order to restore the financial
health of their respective institutions.
24.    The cost of rehabilitating the commercial banks has thus been bome by the private owners as well as by
the GOM. The GOM's involvement was due to the followving considerations: (i) the GOM could not wvithdraw
from the sector without bearing part of the rehabilitation costs, having regard to its responsibility as a former
shareholder with, in the case of one bank (BNM), a major role in management, and (ii) the banks' losses were due
in large part to non-repayment of loans by public enterprises. This being so, the cost to the GOM was UM 4
billion, wvhich falls within the budgetary and monetary limits established in the Policy Framework Paper. By Nvay
of comparison, the costs borne directly by the other owners of the banks total so far the equivalent of UM 4.55
billion. Following the payment of UM 2.3 billion to BNM in the form of bonds and cancellation of liabilities to
the Central Bank, the GOM became the owner of a portfolio previously held by the BNM with a nominal value
equivalent to the same arnount. These credits were added to those of the UBD whiich are managed by the ARCB
(Agence pour le recouvrement des creances bancaires).
25.    The GOM's strategy for successful implementation of the commercial banks restructuring program for
commercial banks is based on the following measures:
(a)    Bad debt recovery. The GOM has drawn up a plan of recovery of bad debts held by the
ARCB, with the following recovery targets:
December 31, 1994: UM 600 million
December 31, 1995: an additional UM 800 million
December 31, 1996: an additional UM 700 million
The first recovery target, that of 1994, has already been met. The above timetable represents a realistic
recovery plan compared with the targets adopted at the beginning of 1993. This is mostly due to the delays in the
transmission of loan files from the BNM to ARCB; the process was completed in October 1994. Note however
that according to an analysis perforned by several experts, the proposed recovery ratio represents the maximum
that could be expected, given the poor quality of the loan documentation delivered to the GOM. It should be
noted also that the banks themselves are successfully pursuing recovery of the loans remaining in their portfolio.
(b)    Compulsory recapitalization of all banks. The GOM has already notified all the banks that
they will have until March 31, 1995 to complete their recapitalization so as to bring them into compliance with
the capital adequacy ratio in force (8 percent of assets), taking into account the data deriving from the
compulsory audits completed in January 1995. On the basis of these audits and with the increase in BNM's
capital, all banks have been adequately recapitalized. A additional capital increase of UM 700 million has also
bcen decided by the Board of BAMIS. Said capital wiJl be paid up during the first half of 1995.



51
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 21.
(c)    Submission of medium-term financial programming plans to the Central Bank by all the
banks, detailing their strategies to ensure profitability. The GOM also inforned the banks that they are
required to present to the Central Bank before March 31, 1995 financial programming plans sununarizing their
strategy for regaining profitability. Note that this represents the final stage of the financial restructuring of the
banks, which are henceforth private (except for one of them) and completely autonomous. These plans are the
exclusive responsibility of the primary banks. Said plans were received and are being used as guidelines for
evaluating future financial performance by the banks. The plans will fuirnish a point of departure so that by the
bank supervision authority can evaluate the banks' evolution in terms not only of financial accounting but also of
implementation of a coherent strategy for regaining their profitability. This will make it possible to set up
indicators wvhereby crises can be anticipated well in advance.
26.    The GOM is consulting with the World Bank in order to implement a debt reduction operation for short-
term extemal loans. Completion of this operation can only strengthen the financial situation of the entire banking
system. Concerning the part of the debt not covered and deposited in ouguiyas by the banks with the Central
Bank, the GOM wishes to deal with this problern in close consultation with the World Bank.
B.     Strengthening Bank Management and Staff Skills
27.    In parallel with strengthening of the financial sector regulatory frameework, the GOM intends to require
the banks to undertake major capacity strengthening of their capacity so as to avoid repetition of the past mnistakes
that led to the deterioration in the financial situation of the banking sector. This wrill be done by setting up,
trining courses, under the aegis of the Central Bank and with the technical and financial assistance of the World
Bank under its Capacity Building Project (CBP) for the financial and private sectors. The training courses will
be of two kinds:
(a)    Professional training, which will take place in a training center where the emphasis will be
placed initially on training of trainers, designed to provide continuous training of bank management and line staff.
The training will comprise local courses covering, inter alia, the following topics: loan approval procedures,
bank accounting, liquidity management, resource mobilization, documentation of credits and internal auditing.
(b)    Diploma training, spread over three years, designed to train the banks' future management and
line staff.
28.    The banks will be required to participate in the professional training courses, which they will later be
able to strengthen by means of intemal training courses tailored to their specific needs and long-term strategy.
C.     Incentive Framework for the Financial Sector
29.    In order to redress the problems stemming from the relative lack of incentive to Mauritania's financial
sector to mobilize savings and the limited financial deepening of its economic system, the GOM will continue to
implement the following measures:
(a)    Maintenance of a positive interest rate in real terms. At the same time, the banks will continue
to be entirely free to set their deposit rates, the ceiling on six-month deposits (7 percent) having been abolished in
January 1995.



52
ANNEX TT
Page 7 of 21
(b)    Continuation of the periodic public treasury bond auctions instituted in June 1994, as provided
for in the program contained in the Policy Framework Paper. The creation of a treasury bonds market furnishes
an important instrument for both management of the public debt as well as the conduct of monetary policy. At
the same time it makes it possible to set up a true money market, enabling the banks to manage their surplus
liquidity, and this wvill encourage them to mobilize resources. It is also expected, in view of the development of a
market for Treasury debt instruments, that monetary policy will increasingly be implemented through indirect
instruments of control. This will make it possible to reexamine the required reserve ratio and gradually to
abandon credit ceilings on individual banks by the end of 1996. To ensure transparency and encourage wider
participation in bond auctions, the results are now published in the newspapers and the minimum purchase
amount has been substantially reduced. To encourage the development of a secondary narket, the Central Bank
has stated that it is prepared, effective January 1, 1995, to intervene on the market in order to enlarge it and to
implement monetary policy. The monetary policy instruments will be increasingly linked to the functioning of the
market, in accordance with the mechanisms devised, w%ith the assistance of the IMF, in February 1994. Since
September 1994 this has included access to a Central Bank rediscount window based on Treasury instruments
within the framework of monetary policy constraints as laid down in consultation with the IMF. The ceiling on
lending rates has been relaxed. This rate has risen from 18 percent to 20 percent at the end of 1994.
(c)    Maintenance of the system of incentives to banks to mobilize deposits of Mauritanians living
abroad, i.e. authorization to the banks to freely deploy the foreign exchange captured through these accounts.
D.    Investment Financing
30.    Since the liquidation of the UBD, the country's only development financing agency, the Mauritanian
financial system has been characterized by the absence of long-term resources, the only ones suitable for finance
investment projects. In light of the great need for such financing, as evidenced by the banks' current volume of
lending operations, the GOM considers it urgent and essential that a mechanism be set up through Nwhich to
alleviate the current deficiencies and promote the creation of new instruments.
31.    To this end the GOM, with the support of the World Bank, undertook a study of this question which
focused on examination of possible mechanisms and comparison with experience in other countries. The study,
and the ensuing dialogue with the World Bank, yielded a number of important recommendations, including the
following:
(a)    Emphasis needs to be placed on mobilizing Mauritanian and foreign savings. This includes
savings of Mauritanians resident in the country itself (particularly rural savings, in which local banks are
beginning to show interest), savings of Mauritanians living abroad, and foreign savings which could be channeled
through local financing mechanisms if the latter prove to be attractive.
(b)    The possibility should be exanmined of setting up an investment bank, on condition that the
GOM's shareholding in it is limited (a maximum of 20 percent would be desirable) in order to avoid a repetition
of the UBD situation.
(c)    The possibility should also be considered of setting up a specialized institution (for example, a
housing bank). on condition that it is adequately capitalized, that there is limited governmnent participation and
that its activities are closely monitored, particularly with respect to asset/capital ratio.



53
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 21
(d)    In order to promote long-tern financing, the feasibility of setting up a guarantee fund should be
studied, on condition that it not be financed out of budget resources or counterpart funds.
(e)    SME (small and medium enterprises) financing could be promoted through the fornation of
mutualist groups whose primary purpose would be to mobilize the savings of the members of the group and
channel them toward the most promising uses.
32.    These conclusions reflect the GOM's policy as expressed in the new Banking Law. At the same time, the
GOM feels that it would be appropriate to carny out a more detailed examination of the issues raised by the
above-mentioned study and to pursue the dialogue with the World Bank concerning themn, with a view inter alia to
harnessing the support of private investors and donors for the next stage of development of the financial sector.
33.    To this end the GOM, under the CBP, w%ill carry out a second study, with the following objectives: (i) a
more thorough analysis of the prospect for savings mobilization; (ii) an appraisal of various alternative ways to
finance investment, given that certain circles in the Mauritanian and foreign private sector have shown interest;
(iii) an examination of the role of institutional investors (insurance companies, social security, postal checking
service-CCP) and of ways of steering them towvard the financing of investment, and (iv) preparation, where
appropriate, of material for promoting approved courses of action among private investors.
34.    The GOM undertakes, in light of the findings of that study, to pursue the dialogue with respect to the
second stage of development of the financial sector. It will coordinate its sectoral development strategy with the
World Bank.
E.     Regulatory Structure
35.   In view of the prime importance of strict application of a coherent, clearly-defined and adequate set of
prudential regulations, the GOM has already instituted an intensive program of action to strengthen the structure
of regulation and oversight of the banking sector.
36.    Under the aegis of the IMF, the GOM has launched a process of strengthening the Central Bank's
management and line personnel skills. This effort has also been supported by a grant from the Bank's
Institutional Development Fund. With financial support from the IMF, the Central Bank has recruited an expert
adviser on supervision of banks and banking oversight. In parallel, the Institutional Development Fund grant has
enabled the Central Bank to review the current banking regulations, the procedures through which the regulations
are applied and the banking accounting plan.
37.    With the support of the World Bank through the IDF grant, the Central Bank has carried out the
followving: (i) the launching of training courses for Central Bank management and staff covering banking
oversight, intemal auditing and information system; (ii) the preparation of bank supervision and bank portfolio
appraisal manuals, and (iii) the improvement of the infomiation system as well as the establishment of bank data
transmission procedures.
38.    A draft revision of the Banking Law has been prepared, covering provisions relating to the granting of
loans to bank shareholders, to managers and to staff, and to increase disciplinary penalties for failure to comply
with the rules of sound management as defined by the banking regulations. This draft law, which has been the



54
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 21
subject of discussions with the World Bank, will be finalized in consultation with the Bank and will be presented
to Parliament at its next session in June 1995.
39.    The Central Bank will require the banks to be in compliance with the banking regulations by June 30,
1995, on which date it will begin to apply the penalties instituted at the beginning of the year. From that date, the
transmission of bank data, preparation of on-site and off-site inspection reports, and application of the bank
accounting plan will be effected in conformnity w ith the procedures established during 1994.
40.    By the end of 1995 the Central Bank, with the help of the World Bank through the CBP, will have
updated the Credit Risk Information System (Centrale des Risques) and the Credit Arrears Information System
(Centrale des Impayes), using a more highly developed information system. These two centers will improve the
availability of data on borrowers and enable the banks to check on the financial status of each loan applicant and
the existence of any other debts already secured by the collateral offered by the applicant.
41.    It should be added that the regulatory structure of the banking sector will also be strengthened with
support from two components of the Bank's Capacity Building Project (CBP): first, revision of the national
accounts chart and strengthening of the accounting and auditing professions, and second, revision of the business
legislation (for example, to facilitate application of the debt recovery law) and strengthening of legal staff
capacities.
III. REFORMS SUPPORTING THE PRIVATE SECTOR
42.    A comerstone of the GOM's strategy of promoting the growth of the private sector consists of action to
encourage private-sector activity in the form of measures to improve the incentives system, reform the regulatory
fiamcwork and strengthen the institutional framework.
43.    The GOM's approach is based on the hypothesis that Mauritania's private sector is best able to create the
jobs necessary to absorb the labor force created by a growing population. The sector is moreover destined to play
a key role in export expansion, necessary to improve Mauritania's extemal situation. The GOM's objective is
therefore to promote private-sector activity in general and encourage export growth in particular.
A.     Improvement of the Incentive Framework
44.    The restauration of macroeconomic stability which has taken place during the last few months represents
a substantial improvement in the framework of incentives to private activity. The estimated inflation rate for
1994 of 3.8 percent means that it will be much easier for private entrepreneurs to program their activities. The
relatively low inflation rate since the 27-percent devaluation of the ouguiya in October 1992 enhances the
economic competitiveness of activities based in Mauritania.
45.    In addition, the progressive deregulation of prices and trade opens up the prospect of an increasingly
distortion-free economic system in which relative prices reflect the economic costs of production. The GOM has
decided to put the emphasis on improving the other types of incentives to private economic activity. The main
target of the GOM's proposed reform is the foreign exchange system. The GOM has stepped up its efforts to
liberalize the exchange system since 1992, for example by abolishing export licenses and the preferential
exchange rate accorded to Mauritanians living abroad. Note that the differential between the official exchange
rate and the parallel rate has narrowed substantially since the October 1992 devaluation.



55
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 21
46.    In February 1993, the GOM instituted an auction system for licenses to import, lirnited to imports
financed by the Central Bank. Since March 1994, the commercial banks have been authorized to hold foreign-
exchange accounts abroad, to which they have access to pay for imports. Also from that date, exporters have
access to 5 percent of foreign exchange receipts from exports of services and 10 percent of those from goods
exports.
47.    From July 1, 1994 the GOM widened the auction system to include all imports except fuel and fishing-
sector imports. It should be noted that the effect is to raise the proportion of exchange operations covered by the
auction system from 49 to 60 percent of the total controlled by the Central Bank (the part not controlled by it
consists essentially of imports covered by foreign exchange receipts freely available to the SNIM).
48.    From September 1994 the percentages of access by exporters were doubled, to 10 percent for services
and 20 percent for goods. Also noteworthy is the creation of 12 foreign exchange offices on March 31, 1995,
with the authorization of the Central Bank. At the same time, the scope of the operations in which the
commercial banks may engage on the free market has been widened to include foreign exchange purchases for the
settlement of goods and services import transactions and current private transfers.
49.    A study will be conducted by the end of April, 1995, with the help of the IMF, to identify the modalities
of a unified exchange rate system. Exchange rate policy will be directed to narrowing the gap between the official
rate and that of the free market and the parallel market, wvith the objective of eliminating the practice of multiple
exchange mtes by the end of December 1995. The improvement in the external current account, the total
climination of public and private external arrears in 1995, the reform of the fishing sector and the application of
stringent budgetary and monetary policies should facilitate exchange rate unification and the transition toward a
more liberal exchange system and prepare Mauritania to accept the provisions of Article VIII (sections 2 through
4) of the IMF's Articles of Agreement.
B.     Institutional Framework
50.    To improve the dialogue betveen the Government and the private sector, the GOM proposes to set up a
private-sector consultation mechanism. This structure will bring together representatives of the private sector,
ensure continuous and open dialogue between the govemment and the private sector and help the GOM and the
donors to define their policy of support to the sector.
51.    In 1994 the GOM carried out a study, financed by the Japanese grant administered by the World Bank,
aimed at designing the best possible scheme for setting up an institution that would serve as spokesman for the
private sector in any dialogue with the GOM, furnish support to private-sector operators and investors, both
Mauritanian and foreign, that seek to play a role in the economy, and help donors to channel their assistance to
the private sector. The conclusions of this study were the basis of important discussions between the authorities
and the Bank. It was subsequently decided to undertake the following action: (i) to designate the Chamber of
Comnnerce as the private-sector support agency; (ii) to take the necessary steps, with the financial assistance of
the World Bank, to reorganize of the Charnber of Commerce, including its charter (before end-1995) as an
autonomous institution, and the choice, by election, of a new president; (iii) to select and train the Chamber's staff
and procure the necessary equipmcnt to enable the Chamber to be functional by June 1996, and (iv) to train the
Chamber's staff and, in consultation with representatives of the private sector and the donors, set up mechanisms
enabling the Chamber to contribute to the promotion of the private sector.



56
ANNEX ll
Page 11 of 21
52.    Another study was conducted in 1994, again financed by the Japanese grant administered by the World
Bank, to assess the feasibility of setting up one or more free trade zones or systems within Mauritania. This
feasibility study showed that a free trade regime (sysIeme de points francs) for new exporters is currently the
most suitable wuy of accomplishing this purpose under the socioeconomic conditions prevailing in Mauritania.
Such a system could help greatly to promote export-oriented production, especially for food products, in which
Mauritania possesses a comparative advantage. The GOM therefore proposes to conduct a detailed study of the
feasibility of such a system, again under the CBP. The study will seek to define the arrangements for setting up
free trade points, particularly with respect to the necessary administrative, legal and regulatory measures. A
decision whether to set up such a scheme will be taken by June 1996 at latest. If it is decided to do so, a deadline
of December 1996 is envisaged by which to establish the free trade points system and adopt the necessary
regulations.
C.     Business Laws and Regulations
53.    The GOM considers it essential, as a basic condition for injecting dynamnism into the private sector, that
an appropriate legislative and regulatory framework be created that ensures legal security in the conduct of
business, inviolability of contracts, recoverability of bank loans and transparency of and better access to laws and
regulations.
54.    With this in mind the GOM has conducted a study, financed by the Japanese grant administered by the
World Bank, designed to identify the essential components of a program of reformn of the legal and judiciary the
framework. The study yielded a detailed analysis of the deficiencies of the current system, together with a
comprehensive plan of action covering: (i) the revision of laws and regulations that create problems in the
conduct of business; (ii) the implementation of an ambitious program of training of judges, lawyers and paralegal
personnel, and (iii) the development of a data base to provide an exhaustive compendium of Mauritanian laws,
their regular and speedy publication in the Official Gazette (Journal Officiel) and the incorporation of the
compendium into an international information network. On the basis of these recommendations the GOM
negotiated World Bank financing, under the CBP, of the following components of the reform of laws and
regulations governing the private sector:
(a)    The revision of the principal elements of the regulatory framework relating to business, in
accordance wkith the very detailed recommendations produced by the above-mentioned study, in order to fumish
an envirormient favomble to Mauritanian and foreign private investment. The most important part of the
technical work wvill be launched during the coming months with a view to adopting the nev versions of the
commercial and investment codes, an improved set of arbitration rules and clearly-defined bankruptcy rules,
among other legal reforms, by December 1996. This will be accompanied by the establishment of a commercial
register (of property).
(b)    The strengthening of the legal institutions, in accordance with the recommendations of the
above-mentioned study, and implementation of a program of training for judges and paralegal staff; this program
will be started in January 1966.
(c)    The establishment of a data bank on legal texts and regulations in effect in Mauritania, using a
classification system that ensures rapid and easy access; the manual necessary to this operation is scheduled to be
ready by December 1995.



57
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 21
(d)    Also under the CBP the reorganization, expected by December 1995, of the accounting
profession by preparing a plan of action and identifying the necessary components of a program to strengthen the
accounting and auditing framework; revision of the national accounting plan and the mandatory auditing rules,
and preparation of a new accounting procedures manual, by April 1996; promotion of the accounting profession
through the adoption, by April 1996 at the latest, of professional standards that ensure a high quality of service,
and training of auditors and accountants, to be spread over the years 1996 and 1997.
IV. FISMHNG SECTOR
55.    In 1993 the fishing sector accounted for 48 percent of Mauritania's total current receipts (excluding
official transfers); realization of the sector's potential ranks among the GOM's highest priorities. The recent fall
in fishery export receipts underscores the importance of speedy implementation of the GOM's plan of action.
Reform of the fishing sector forms an integral part of the GOM's program. Its sectoral development strategy is
described in detail in the separate letter of development policy for the fishing sector.
V. MINING SECTOR
56.    Mauritania enjoys favorable geologic conditions, such that the mining sector represents a major source
of national wvealth. A number of mineralized zones (notably gold and copper deposits) have been identified in
Mauritania; interest on the part of geological investors is relatively low, however, owing to the inadequacy of
available geologic data and the limitations of resources available to the government agencies responsible for the
sector.
57.    Deposits of gold and certain base metals have been worked for a number of years or have recently been
discovered within the subregion (Mali-Ghana). It is therefore hoped that Mauritania, with a legal and tax codes
framework that is competitive in light of international practices and with an adequately developed geologic data
base, Will experience strong growth in the precious and non-ferrous metals sector.
58.    Mauritania's mining industry is currently dominated by iron ore which, with reserves totaling several
billion tons, will continue to occupy a leading place in the economy during the decades to come. The World Bank
has vigorously supported the development of this activity and has carried on a sustained dialogue with the GOM
concerning ways to promote investnment in the mining sector. In light of these discussions the GOM has drawn up
a sectoral development program wNith the following major components:
(a)    Fornulation, in consultation with the World Bank, of a strategy for the mining sector that spells
out the sector's development goals, together with the necessary incentive measures to make it more attractive to
private investors; this strategy will be formally adopted in December 1995.
(b)    Adoption of legal and tax frameworks that are competitive with those of other mining-oriented
countries; the new mining and tax codes applied to niining will be adopted by December 1996.
(c)    Strengthening of the government institutions responsible for regulation and oversight of the
mining sector; to that end, the GOM proposes to adopt and apply new procedures within the Mining Directorate
(Direction des Mines) by June 1966, together vith new cadastrai procedures which will take effect in March
1997.



58
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 21
(D)    Finally, taining of Mining Directae stag in 1995 and 1996, in order to stengthen the
Directorate's skills base and make government staff aware of investors' needs and intemational mingindustry
stadards.
VI. MACROECONOMIC AND SECTORAL FRAMEWORK
59.    The adjustment program for the fiancial and private sectors forms an intgal part of the GOIvfs overall
adjustmert progriam, set forth in the 1995-97 medium-tern economic and financial policy fimework paper
approved by the IMF and the World Bank in January 1995. The maarecononic fiamework as defined in that
policy letter, particlarly the chapters on private-sector and invesment prorwoion policy, developmeat stwategy
for the fishing and mining sectors, and financial and credit policy, is compatible witi the objectives of the
financial and private sectors adjustenet project.
Washington,                . 1995
H.E. hIr. Mohamed Lemine Ch'Bih Ould Cheikh Melainine
Ministre du Plan



59
ANNEX TI
Page 14 of 21
Islarnic Republic of Mauritanlia
LETTER OF SECTOR DEVELOPMENT POLICY
FOR TBE FISHERIES SECTOR
(Translated from French)
.1.    As part of the ongoing and open dialogue established in 1985 with the international donor
communitv, the Government of Mauritania sets out below the thrust of its policy to revitalize the fisheries
sector based on sustainable and balanced development.
Backaround
2.     Since 1985, with the support of the intemational donor community, the Government of Mauritania
has worked to overcome the adverse effects of the economic and financial crisis of the 1980s and to
remodel its economy on the bases of competitiveness and social betterment within a framework of greater
institutional democratization and respect for the major macroeconomic equilibrium.
3.     Given the importance of fish resources to the general development of the country in terms of value
added, budget receipts and inflows of foreign exchange, the Government has formulated a development
policy tailored to that sector.
4.     Following a number of studies and analyses, in April 1987 the Governnent adopted a development
policy statement for the fisheries sector, which focused on the rational economic utilization of the country's
resources in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), based on a new system of access and exploitation that
facilitated the integration of fisheries activities into the national economy.
Performance
5.     The implementation of the new fisheries policies dramatically reshaped the sector, by opening the
way for:
(a)    the establishment of a national industrial-scale fleet for deep-sea fishing, i.e. 110 cold
storage vessels and 45 refrigerated trawlers;
(b)    the development of a traditional fishing fleet;
(c)    the construction of onshore freezing and storage facilities;
(d)    an increase in national production;
(e)    the introduction on international markets of Mauritanian fish products with a higher value;
(f     national benefits in terms of jobs and products wvith a higher value added.
6.    In tandem with these encouraging developments, the sector faced major problems, namely:
(a) over-indebtedness with the banks;
(b) obsolescence of a portion of the national fleet;
(c) insufficient resources for scientific research;



60
ANNEX rl
Page 15 of 21
(d) overfishing of the preferred target species.
7.     In an effort to inject new life into the sector, the Government has just formulated a new sectoral
policy. This letter of development policy sets forth its objectives and strategies.
Maior obiectives
8.     The Government's objectives for the sector will henceforward be prioritized as follows:
8.1    compile data and ensure the preservation and protection of fish resources through rational
management and surveillance to ensure their continued availability;
8.2   turn the fisheries sector into a catalyst for growth in GDP by maximizing value added, in particular
through the processing of products, vocational training and creation of local jobs;
8.3    maximize net foreign exchange gains:
(a)    by increasing and diversifying sector exports through new products, access to new markets
and constant upgrading of quality;
(b)    by reducing the foreign exchange costs of sector operations (foreign labor, ship repair,
refueling);
8.4    ensure that the sector generates an optimum volume of tax receipts.
Strateojes
9.     With a view to achieving these objectives, in accordance with the measures contained in the
Economic Policy Framework Document, the Governmnent - together with its development partners - will
implement a consistent strategy supported by an action plan specifying the measures to be taken as well as
an appropriate investment program for the various branches of activity in the fisheries sector.
A.     Research of Fisheries
10.    Despite the efforts by the Centre National de Recherches Oceanographiques et des Peches
(CNROP), data on fish resources remain insufficient with regard to biological balance, reproduction and
balanced economic exploitation of target species.
11.    With a view to increasing the data on fish resources for the ultimate goal of rational and prudent
resource management, the CNROP needs to be reorganized and strengthened, which would entail a
reformulation of its missions.
12.    This reformulation and strengthening of the CNROP's mission would cover three main areas in
particular:
(a)    better knowledge of the fisheries sector environment with formulation of periodic research
plans and the establishment of a specialized, multi-disciplinary team;



61
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 21
(b)    resource management through the issuance of fishery maps, classification of commercial
species in terms of biological properties and availabilitv, evaluation of the permissible annual catch in view
of changes in potential, a study of the most appropriate fishing equipment and the monitoring of its impact
on the resource;
(c)    sanitary control of onshore plants and products of the sea, in the form of authorization of
handling companies and health certification of products in accordance with intemational standards.
13.    The following measures have already been carried out:
(a)    a decree dated March 2, 1994 has reorganized and redefined the mission of CNROP;
(b)    a five-year development plan covering the period 1993-1998 has been forrnulated outlining
main direction in CNROP's research. Said plan has been supplemented with an increase in the budgetary
allocation allowing for its implementation.
(c)    the scientific views of CNROP concerning the permissible level of fishing has been
officially published.
B.    Maritime surveillance
14.    To improve the protection of fish resources, the Govemment has created, at the Ministry of Fishing
and Maritime Economv, a department responsible for surveillance and oversight at sea, in accordance with
Decree 94.125 issued December 31, 1994. In this context, the Government has decided:
(a) to transfer budgetary resources and equipment from the Fishing Command to this department,
which wvill enjoy the necessary autonomy in the financial, personnel and resources areas, and will be in
charge of enforcing compliance with laws and State regulations at sea.
(b)    to amend the fisheries and merchant marine codes as necessary in order to better reflect
new aspects of maritime activity (rescue and pollution control) and ensure that proper disciplinary
measures are taken in the event of violations, as well as the effective collection of penalties;
(c)    to strengthen the airbome and sea-going capacity in order to improve the scope and quality
of maritime surveillance.
(d)    to insist on absolute respect of fishing zones and of limits and fishing equipment as
reconmmended by CNROP.
(e)    to collect fines (equivalent to 80 percent of fines due at a minimum) accrued by violators
during the previous fiscal year.



62
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 21
15.    Missions
In addition to fisheries surveillance, which is its main function, the department will:
(a) combat marine pollution;
(b) Wipe out illegal marine trade;
(c) enforce national legislation and regulations related to vessel safety and hygiene;
(d) participate in sea rescue operations.
16.    Institutional framework
The Marine Surveillance and Oversight Department will be attached to the Ministry of Fisheries
and Maritime Economic Activities. It will have financial and functional autonomy.
17.    Sea and air capacitv
The Department will be provided with appropriate resources, which will be supplemented by a
procurement and replacement program.
18.    Personnel
The Department's manning table will include the mnilitary personnel necessary to crew the ships,
aircraft and radar stations that will be assigned to it in accordance with current regulations.
19.    Cost and financing
The maritime surveillance budget has three chapters:
(a)    normal operations, covering the wage bill as well as the operating costs connected with
surveillance equipment;
(b)    maintenance costs, including careenage and servicing of surveillance equipment;
(c)    the investment program, including new purchases of equipment.
The surveillance operating budget is financed exclusively from the State budget. The Government
is seeking donor assistance for the financing of the last two chapters.
20.    Violations
The Government will revise the Fisheries Code as it relates to maritime surveillance so as to
include, in particular for serious infractions, mandatory re-routing of ships and the posting of a mandatory
temporary bond equivalent to the applicable minimum penalty prior to any legal proceedings or
adrrinistrative action, for which the cases will be precisely defined. Likewise, the procedure for penalty
collection will be both strengthened and streamlined. In addition, the pertinent judicial and adninistrative
personnel will receive appropriate training in fishing violations.



63
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 21
C.     Resource mana2ement
21.    As of January 1, 1995, the Government will irnplement a newv fish resource management system,
taking into account both economic and biological considerations. The Government's primary concern is to
avoid the risk of overfishing, wvhich can threaten the very existence of fish resources, and to optimize
exploitation in terms of the economic results for Mauritania. The new system will be applied to the twvo
main types of export-oriented fishing, i.e. demersal (deep-sea) and pelagic (surface) species.
22.    To that end, the Government will allocate the resource on the basis of the permissible potential and
the optimum fleet level, which will be set annually for each type of species.
23.    For bottom species fishing, the Government will introduce an access fee in 1995 that will gradually
replace, over a three-year period, current taxation based on export duties. The access fee will stand at 2
percent (1995), then 8 percent (1996) and then 11 percent (1997) of the estimated value of production. The
reform is intended to improve the efficiency of the national fleet, by introducing incentives for production
and fleet replacement, while simultaneously ensuring that the Public Treasury receives an appropriate level
of receipts. The first phase of this access rights regime has begun to be applied under Finance Law 1995.
In this contexct, the Government will continue the study of the tax system as it applies to fisheries so as to
assess its efficacy.
24.    For surface species, the Government wvishes to provide access to this significant resource to all
interested parties and in particular those who are potential investors in onshore processing. Open licenses
have been offered via international competitive bidding as of September 1, 1994.
25.    Capture quotas  will be determined annually by the Minister of Fisheries, who is also the
competent authority for authorization of access to the resource. These fishing permits will be given
exclusively to boats. In addition, an auctioning committee for pelagic fishing licenses for national and
foreign operators has been instituted, and will also be in charge of monitoring access fees assessed against
the of demersal and cephalopod (both deep-sea species) fishing. This committee, presided over by the
Ministry of Fishing, comprises also the Minister of Finance and the Governor of the Central Bank.
26.    The Government will encourage the development of coastal fishing which represents high value
added and new jobs. It will consequently make regular adjustments for the different types of species,
reflecting changes in traditional fishing. It will also help improve infrastructure for unloading and
processing, and ensure that storage and freezing capacities match the development of production. It will
encourage the renovation and adaptation of existing facilities to meet the dictates of product revaluation.
To that end, it will in particular promote commercial and industrial joint ventures for processing and
packaging plants. The Government will also implement the practical measures needed to implement the
plan for the privatization/liquidation of ALMAP and MAUSOV.
27.    The Government %kill use appropriate provisions to promote a climate attractive to foreign
investors, who can be instrumental in improving the integration of the fisheries sector into the national
economy. That effort will take the form of incentives under the general investment code, foreign exchange
legislation and corporate law.



64
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 21
D.     Sectoral infrastructure
28.    Sectoral production costs should fall folloving the improvements in conmmon infrastructure.
Planned investments will be limited to the major basic infiastructure vital for sector promotion, so as to
preserve the major economic equilibrium as part of the ongoing structural adjustment process.
29.    In this context, the Government will build a pipeline in Nouadhibou to bring in diesel oil for boat
fuel. It wvill also complete its efforts to remove obstacles and plans to support the construction of a ship
repair yard.
30.    The Govemment wants to create a new fishing center in Nouakchott, in order to promote a more
geographically balanced and better distributed development of the fisheries sector. To that end, it plans to
construct a fishing wharf and related facilities that would help open up the coast.
31.    In the short term, it is also planned to establish two units that would provide rescue and fire-
fighting services at Nouakchott and Nouadhibou ports.
32.    Because of the priority now  accorded to the export of fresh and processed products, the
Government wvill upgrade the airstrips at Nouakchott and Nouadhibou and will build in-bond cold storage
facilities there.
E.     Sector financina
33.    The Government would like the donor commrunity to make funding available for the financing of
investments (ships, rehabilitation and new projects) and lines of credit to meet the sector's financing needs.
F.     Marketingk
34.    In order to improve marketing, the Government has decided to liberalize the exportation of all fresh
products in any form as well as processed products such as filleted, salted, dried and pressed fish. The
liberalization of processed demersal fish will be carried out gradually. Such liberalization will be consistent
with the regulations and practices protecting the interests of the national economy (foreign exchange,
taxation, brand image).  In particular, the rules of international trade must be respected and private
economic interest groups promoted.
35.    All products frozen onshore or at sea other than pelagics remain the exclusive domain of the
Fishery NIarketing Board (SMCP), to allow for economies of scale and to avoid any fragrnentation of
supply in a very specific market. The privatization of 65 percent of SMCP was completed in September
1994, and will be accompanied by the strengthening of control of exports of fish products.
36.    To promote foreign trade, in association with sector agents, the Government will establish a Fish
Export Promotion Center (market identification, clientele research, tracking of prices on the international
market and at unloading). It will also apply the required hygienic and sanitary standards to fish products
destined for export.



65
ANNEX IT
Page 20 of 21
G.    Vocational trainina
37.    With a view to short-, medium- and long-term human resource management planning through
consistent training projects, the Government has drafted a four-year training and employment plan, which
will seek to develop national resources in line with the demand for skilled labor in the sector.
38.    In related sectors, the Government will develop basic, advanced and continuing trairing in order to
upgrade skills in those sectors.
39.    With a view to improving the latter stages of training, the Government has also approved
legislation and regulations that would make it mandatory for all crews on board ships flying the
Mauritanian flag to include two trainees (a student officer and a trainee crew member).
H.    Institutional and incentives framework
11.1   Institutional framework
41.    The success of the fishery policy hinges largely on the institutional capacity for resource
management, oversight and in particular regulation of fishing. Together with a strengthening of research,
surveillance and training capacities, the Ministry of Fisheries will be restructured and given resources
commensurate with its objectives.
42.    A new Mferchant Marine Code has been adopted in December 1994 ed in order to improve the
administration of sector activities and implementing decrees will be adopted to supplement existing
legislation.
43.    One of the priority tasks of the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economic Activities will be to
promote and reorgarize the sea-going trades in order to ensure that training leads to the actual employment
of a growing number of Mauritanian seamen and officers.
44.    In addition, Mauritania will seek to improve international cooperation in fishing natters. In this
connection, it vill strengthen its consultation with its partners on the management of migratory species.
H.2   Incentives framework
45.    The investment code, which is now being revised, will strongly promote the development of coastal
fishing, product processing, joint ventures and the introduction of appropriate taxation.
46.    In addition, steps will be taken to control the price of sector inputs. The Government will also
encourage all those working in the sector to buy locally produced inputs and to use supply pools for the
sake of economies of scale.
47.    The Government will maintain ongoing consultations with the private sector, which will take the
form of more frequent contacts culminating in conferences and workshops on sector-related issues.



66
ANNEX I
Page 21 of 21
I.     Fishinz-related occupations
48.    The Government will help improve organization among sector workers so that they are better
informed about resources and markets and are able to comply with the new standards required by the
international markets.
49.    Sector operators will be encouraged to join economic interest groups (GIEs). One GEE, consisting
of producer-exporters of pelagic products, and another of producer-exporters of fresh, salted and dried fish,
will be created, with a participation by the State which cannot exceed 35 percent.
J.     Environment
50.    The Government plans to implement an appropriate strategy to protect the marine environment,
upon which the durable preservation of marine resources largely depends. It is in particular aware that
Mauritania's coast is an invaluable part of the world's marine assets.
51.    As marine environmental protection begins with an understanding of its parameters, scientific
research and monitoring programs will receive support. In this connection, the research conducted by the
CNROP in conjunction with the Banc d'Arguin (PNBA) will be supported and coordination among the
entities involved will be ensured so as to protect breeding areas in particular.
52.   With a view to eliminating polluting discharges into the sea, especially from hydrocarbons, the
enforcement of legislation will be tightened in tandem with the establishment of waste recovery capacity.
Washington,
H.E. Mr. Mohamed Lemine Ch'Bih Ould Cheikh Melainine
Ministre du Plan



67
ANN?EXMil
Page 1 of 3
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1.     Financial Sector
L.a.   Credit Risk Information                   End 95    End 96    End 97    June 98
Fichier entered in Centrale des Risques    200        250        300        350
Fichier entered in Centrale des Impayes    200        250        300        350
Central Bank staff trained                   4          4          6          6
Commercial Bank staff trained                15        15          15        15
;.b.   Bank Training
(i)  Professional Training                End 96
Number of students taught                   30
Number of seminars launched                 06
(ii)  Training (diploma course)           End 96    End 97    End 98    June 99
Number of trainers trained                    0         3           4         4
Number of students in courses               20         33         46         46
Number of students completing Ist year        0        13         26         26
Number of students completing 2nd year        0         0          13        26
Number of students completing 3rd year        0         0           0         13
(iii) Financial Development Strategy
Strategy paper:                           December 1995
Promotion of materials for financial mechanisrns: February 1996
2.     Private Sector
2.a.   Strengthening of Accounting and of Auditing Framework
(i)  Studies (reorganization and upgrading) Strategy Paper:           January 1996
New accounting norms:       May 1996
(ii)  Revision of Accounting Plan         Reference Manual:           April 1996



68                                      ANNEX BI
Page 2 of 3
(iii)  Training                                     End 96    Mid 97
Number of trainers trained                              2          4
Number of students in courses                           12        24
Number of students completing 1st cycle                 0          8
Number of students completing 2nd cycle                 0          0
2.b.   Support to Chamber of Commerce                      End 96    End 97    June 98
Number of members                                     250        470        600
Number of PNE members                                 200        400        500
Number of women members                                50        100        200
Number of files under care of Chamber                   0          5          6
of Commerce
2.c.   Legal Reform
(i)   Adoption of Legal texts            December 1997
(ii)  Commercial registry                 September 1996
(iii) Legal Training                                Mid 96    Mid 97    Mid 98
Number of auxiliaries trained                           0        100        200
Number of judges trained                                 0        50        100
(iv) Journal Officiel                     September 1996
(v)  Access to Information
Index                                     September 1996
Users Guide                               December 1996
2.d.   Free Trade Regimes                        End 95    End 96    End 97    June 98
Number of enterprises enjoying benefits       0          0         5           7
(if applies)
3.     Mining Sector
3.a.   Policy dialogue, mining code review, and tax reform
(i)  Policy Dialogue, etc.
Strategy Paper                            December 1995
Revised Text Codes                        December 1996



69                                      ANNExM
Page 3 of 3
(ii) Institutional Reform and Upgrading of Mining Sector
Revised institutional procedures of Mining:    June 1996
Revised cadastral procedures             June 1996
(iii) Training                           Mid 96    Mid 97
'Number of Mining officials trained          6         10
Number of taining seminars                   2          8
4.     Fishing Audit
Final evaluation of sector (violations of regulations,
flow of foreign exchange, environmental impact): Decemnber 1995



70                                              ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
SUPERVISION PLAN
ApproxL         Activity           Expected Skills Required        Staff Input         Comp.              Activity
Date             _                                                                                     Supervised
0 + 2     P?oject launch     * Financial analyst/Economist      6 weeks         l.a. Credit Risk    Selection of
(July 1995)   Workshop start-up   *Procurement and disbursement                       Information      consultants
activities          specialist
Financial Sector Specialist
l.b. Bank training
(i) Prof. trainring  Selection of
consultants
I.c. Phase II -     Selection of
Financial Dev. Strat.  consultants
(i) Study
2.a. Accounting
(i) Studies         Selection of
consultants
2.b. Support        Selection of
to Chamber of    consultants
Commerce
2.c. Legal Reform
(i) Revision of     Selection of
Codes            consultants
(v) Access to       Review of training
Information     results
5.  Poject          Unit fully
Coordination    functional
Unit (PCU)
Disbursement
procedures
Procurement
______________________________ __________________        ___________          procedures
o + 8     Supervision          Financial sector specialist      8 weeks        L.a. Credit Risk     Completion of
(Jan. 1996)                     * Legal expert                                        Information      work:
* Accounting expert                                                    * Operational
* Mining Expert                                                          database
* Computer specialist                                                  * Trained staff
L.b. Bank training  Completion of
course design:
(i) Prof. training  Candidates chosen
I.c. Phase l -      Review of
Financial Devp.  implementaion
Strategy        report, and assess
(i) and (ii)     promotional
materials



71                                              ANNEX IV
Page 2 of S
Approx.         Activity     |     Expected Skills Required       Stafflnput           Comp.               Activity
Date    I                                                                                          I   Supervised
0 + 8     Supervision                                                          2.a. Accounting
(Jan. 1996)                                                                       (i) Studies          ' Agree on action
plan
' Selection of
consultants to
formulate norms
(ii) Revision of      Discussion of
Accounting Plan    report, with
recorrunendations
(iii) Training        Selection of
consultants
2.b. Support to       Revision of
Chamber of        organization chart
Commerce.         and staff
2.c. Legal Reform
(i) Revision and     Review of existing
elaboration of     codes
Codes
(ii) Establishh      Revise procedures
Commercial Register
(iii) Legal Training  Review of final
course design
(iv) Journa/ Officiel    Review equipment
and consultants
(v) Access to         Review results
Information
2.d. Tax Free         Discussion of
Regime            preliminary report;
discussion of
introduction of
regime
3.a. Private         Discussion and
Investment in the     agreement on:
Mining Sector
(i) Policy Dialogue   ' Strategy paper
(ii) Institutional    ' Selection of
Reform and          consultants
Upgrading of
Mining Sector
(iii) Training         Review of 1st
seminar
4..a. Fishing Survey  '   Review of
application of
report &
recommendations



ANNEX IV
72                                             Page 3 of S
Approx.        Activity           Expected Skllls Required      Staff Input          Comp.              Activity
Date                    7l     Supervised
0 + 13    Supervision        * Financial sector specialist    7 weeks        L.b. Bank training
(July 1996)                    * Legal expert                                  (i) Professional      I st courses taught
Accounting expert                             training
Mining expert
(ii) Training        Selection of
(diploma course)   consultants
I.c. Phase If -      Follow-up on action
Financial Devp.    plan and publicity
Strategy (i) and  campaign
(ii)
2.a. Accounting
(i) Studies         Evaluation of new
accounting norms
(ii) Revision of     Evaluation of
Accounting Plan    reference manual
and final report
(iii) Training
EvaluaLion of final
training program
design
2.b. Support to      Evaluation of
Chamber of       training
Commerce.
Purchase of
equipments
2.c. Legal Reform
(i) Revision and     Review of draft
elaboration of    codes
Codes
(ii) Estab. of       Review of
commercial register    application of
procedures
(iii) Legal Training  Review of
candidates'
language training
(iv) Journal Off7ciel    Review of format
design
2.d. Tax Free        Discussion of
Regime           proposed regulatory
._____________________________________________________________________  texts (if applicable)



7 3                                            ANNEX TV
Page 4 of 5
Approx.         Activity           Expected SIlUs Required     |Staff lnput            Comp.               Activity
Date    I                  I                                                                            Supervised
0 + 13     Supervision                                                         3.a. Private
(July 1996)                                                                          Investment
in the Mining
Sector
(i) Policy Dialogue   * Revised tax code
* Revised mining
code
(ii) Institutional    Revised procedures
Reform and        at Ministry
Upgrading of
Mining Sector
(iii) Training       Evaluation of
semainars abroad
and in country
4a. Fishing component  Follow-up of export
monitoring
mechanism and of
technical support to
CNROP
O + 19     Supervision        * Financial sector specialist     7 weeks         I.b. Bank training
(Jan. 1997)                     'Legal expert                                    (i) Training           Ist cycle in
* Private sector expert                             (diploma course)    progress
* Mining expert
2.a. Accounting
(ii) Training of      1st cycle in
accountants       progress
2.b. Support to       Evaluation of the
Chamber of       functioning body
Commerce         and of studies.
2.c. Legal Reforn
(ii) Estab. of
commercial register    Review of register
(iii) Legal Training  Review of Phase I
(iv) Journal Oficiel    Review of issue of
Journal Officiel
2.d. Free Trade       Adoption of
Regime            regime, if
applicable
3.a. Private
Investment
in the Mining
Sector
(i) Policy dialogue   Review of new
codes
(ii) Institutional    Evaluation and
reform & upgrading  application of new
mining cadaster    procedures
(iii) Training        Completion of
training courses



74                                               ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
ApproL          Activity           Expected Skills Required       Staff Input          Comp.               Activity
Date                                                                                                    Supervised
0 + 25    Mid-term review    * Financial sector specialist      5 weeks        Ib. Bank training
(July 1997)                    * Legal expert                                     (ii) Training        Ist year completed
* Financial analyst - Economist                      (diploma course)
2.a. Accounting
(i) Training of      2nd cycle launched
accountants
2.b. Support to       Evaluation of the
Chamber of        functioning body
Commerce          and of studiies.
2.c. Legal Reform
(iii) Legal Training  Final review of
Phase I
2.d. Free Trade      Follow-up (if
Regime            applicable)
4a. Fishing component  Follow-up of export
monitoring
mechanism and of
technical support to
CNROP
5. PCU               Mid-term review
Evaluation of
communications
campaign
0 + 37    Supervision         * Financial sector specialist     8 weeks        I .b. Bank training
(July 1998)                    * Accounting expert                                (ii) Training        3nd year of studies
* Legal expert                                       (diploma course)   completed
2.a. Accounting
(iii) Training of    2nd cycle
accountants       completed
2.b. Support to       Evaluation of 2nd
Chamber of        year of functioning
Commerce          body
2.c. Legal Reform     Evaluate overall
(iii) Legal Training  training program.
2.d. Tax Free         FoUow-up (if
__________________ ____________________________________________________________  Regime  applicable)
0 + 48     Closing uission    * Legal expert                    8 weeks        I b. Bank training    Evaluation of Bank
(June 1999)                     * Financial analyst-economist                                          staff skills
e Financial sector specialist
2.a. Strengthening of
Accounting and
Auditing
(iii) Training       Evaluation of
accounting and
auditing skills
2.c. Legal reform
(i) Legal texts       Evaluation and
application of new
codes
(iii) Training        Evaluation of legal
and judiciary skills
2.d. Free Trade       Follow-up (if
Regime            applicable)
3.a. Private invest. in   Evaluation of
the mining sector   regulatory and
(ii) Institutional    supervisory
reform & upgrading  framework and
mining cadaster    application



Organigramme et Circuit d'Information
(Composante 1)
Gouverneur de
la Banque Centrate de
Mauritanie
Cellule de             Elaboration de la 26 me phase de
Gestion                la strate gie de de veloppement
financier
l.a.                             l. b.
Renforcement de la Centrale des        Formation Bancaire
risques et Centrale des lmpay6 s
i. Formation
Professionnelle
LEGENDE:
I I                           ii. Formation                                 x
Conscillcr Cours  1Employ lca .
Consul.                                       Diplomante                               o
F?IGIJRE I



CIRCUIT D'INFORMATION
(Composantes 2 A 5)
Direction de I'lad.,
5                              Miitr de t   'utree
Cellule du Suivi
du Projet
(PCU)
Coordinateur du                          Direction des Mines
Projet                             Ministlre de l'lndus. et
Projet                                   des Mines
|  Coorinater de la |_
Formalion  |          I           Conseiller                                       Lr d
Coordinateur de la |_.
Juridique                             CoIL   osant Mines I
Direction des Affalres
Judicla. Min. de la    _                    Secretariat
Justice
2.a Mwclin. des
Finances)
2.c.iv           Direction de la LUgislation                  2.c.l. (.Iao Buroeu                      Conscille Technique             4
2.c.v               et de Journ. Olficiel                      duPirmierMinlstioat                       Min. des P8chcs
Secr6tariat Gdn6. du                         utres MInlst6res)
Gouvernement                                2.c.ii.
LEGENDE
Conseiler e                                                    Conseliler Long
Cours Terme             Employc local                                Terne
et Consultants                                                       Terrne      llrot 
FcE
0
FIGURE 2



ORGANIGRAMME
(Canposare 2 i 5)
|  eIr hfinWlre  |
| Mnis re di Comtnerc    |  FSile t de b k*e       ta nlG t  SMIMCI                l  Unwi n 1b Man   |                        l nwis re I idde Isei t. kes             WW WiXt d Pi dhes
mus pecn clnde   |      Di Gmemetned                                                                                                        el de IEcnomk lurbm
IIorMM A,                I     _                   ,          I                                 .1 c                    I          I    m
1 ictA i      tllc           GtI ri rik                  IAcd j 1k                                        1 u dri  l                                   OrW  OndEIK Pc n Mr
arrut~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ur h arc L)|                it Inj PEr" 5A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~di Io % It Ixmib IudI                                                                  l          J11k
d~~~~~~~~crk IFomlls I11 fIwi           IASOW                I Rioh4IuA1                                                               rdwwvk du(tluzlP
|31 R lbXI t *im MAm  d ado.f
Ii RiIUM^tAd*tIic3IC.
LEGENDE
Conseiller Cours                                    Consciller
Termeet ConsultanIs           Employd!         I   I ngTerme
(bri
I/ En collaboration avec le Ministre dc Finance t en coordination avec l'Ordre des Experts Comptables.
I/ Sous gestion directe du Ministirc du Plan ct ep collabomtion avec la Secrelarial Gdn6ral du Gouverncmcnct et le Ministlrc de Justice.                                                         c
FIGURE 3



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE PRIVATE SECTOFI
IDA FISCAL YEAR                     ORIGINAL         PROFILE/PROFIL
ANNEES BUDGETAIRES IDA  BY QUARTER    CUMULATIVE       CREDIT         COUNTRY/PAYS                                  ----Capacity Bldg.  -u-Country P!iI. 
QUARTER  PAR TRIMESTRE   CUMULATIF
TRIMESTRES  (USS milrion)    (USS mIfion)   (in %)            (in %)                   100%          
1995    IV           0.4            0.4           6%                2% 
1996     1           0.8            1.2           17%               8% 
If          0.7            1.9          26%               14%
111         0.7            2.6          36%               20%
IV          0.6            3.2          45%               26%                      80%                                  /
1997     1           0.6            3.8          53%               29%
11          0.6           4.4           61%               32%
III         0.6            4.9          6S%                35%                  E
IV          0.5            5.5          76%               38%                   u
199S     1           0.5            5.9           82%              42%                      60/
If          0.4           6.3           87%               46%
111         0.4            6.7          93%               50%                  00               /c
IV          0.3            7.0          97%               54%
1999     I           0.1            7.1          98%               59%                   4 U
11          0.1           7.2           100%              64%                  t  40%
III                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~69%
11                                                        874%                              /
E
2000      1                                                         77%
If                                                        80%
III                                                       83%                      20%
IV                                                        86%
2001      1                                                         89%
11                                                        91%
III                                                       94%
IV                                                        96%                       01
2002      1                                                         98%
11  1009                                        Fiscal Year (Exerckel
OQ Z
FWSCCWO.XLS a_bQ-,
'n2"6 %&es ~



79                                            ANNEX VII
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF TE  PRIVATE SECTOR
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
(in thousands US$)
LOCAL            FORETGN                   TOTAI
1. Financial Sector
Operating Expenses                              209.6              177.1              386.7
Consultant Services                               6.0              590.6              596.6
Equipment                                         10.0              21.0              101.0
Sub-total:                           225.6              858.7             1,084.3
2. Private Sector
Operating Expenses                              372.2              179.0              551.2
Consultant Services                             948.5             1,615.5            2,564.0
Equipment                                        36.5              380.0              416.5
Sub-total:                          1,357.2           2,174.5            3,531.7
. Minin2 Sector
Operating Expenses                              126.0              158.5              284.5
Consultant Services                              266.5              390.0              656.5
Equipment                                         6.5              189.5               96.0
Sub-total:                           399.0              738.0             1,137.0
4. Fishin2 Sector
Operating Expenses                                6.8                6.5               13.3
Consultant Services                              210.0              280.0              490.0
Equipment                                         0.1                O 5                0.6
Sub-total:                           216.9              287.0              503.9
5. Proiect Coordination Unit
Operating Expenses                               40.0               44.0               84.0
Consultant Services                              339.0               90.4              429.4
Equipment                                          20                13.0               15.0
Sub-total:                           381.0              147.4              528.4
6. Project Audit
Operating Expenses                               23.7               12.5               36.2
Consultant Services                                0.0              159.5              159.5 ..
Equipment                                          2.0                8.0               10.0
Sub-total:                            25.7              180.0              205.7
7. Total Base Costs                                2,605.4            4,385.5            6,990.9
Price & Physical Contingencies                    225.8             305.7               531.5
8. Refinancing of PPF Advance                                           400.0              400.0
TOTAL:             2,831.1            5,091.2             7,922.3



80                                           ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 1
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
CAPACITY BUTLDING PROJECT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF TEE PRIVATE SECTOR
FINANCING PLAN
(in thousands US$)
IDA        GOVERNMENT                  TOTAL
1. Financial Sector
Operating Expenses                            334.3              52.4              386.7
Consultant Services                           595.1               1.5              596.6
Equipment                                      98.5               2.5              101.0
Sub-total:                       1,027.9              56.4            1,084.3
2. Private Sector
Operating Expenses                            458.2              93.1              551.2
Consultant Services                         2,365.3             198.6            2,564.0
Equipment                                     407.4               9.1              416.5
Sub-total:                       3,230.9             300.8            3,531.7
. Mining Sector
Operating Expenses                            253.0              31.5              284.5
Consultant Services                            556.1             100.4              656.5
Equipment                                     194.4               1.6              196.0
Sub-total:                       1,003.5             133.5            1,137.0
4. Fishing Sector
Operating Expenses                             11.6               1.7               13.3
Consultant Services                            437.5             52.5              490.0
Equipment                                       0.6               0.0                0.6
Sub-total:                         449.7              54.2              503.9
5. Proiect Coordination Unit
Operating Expenses                             74.0              10.0               84.0
Consultant Services                            344.7             84.8              429.4
Equipment                                       14.5               0.5               15.0
Sub-total:                         433.2              95.3              528.4
6. Project Audit
Operating Expenses                             30.3               5.9               36.2
Consultant Services                            159.5              0.0               159.5
Equipment                                        9.5               0.5               10.0
Sub-total:                         199.3               6.4              205.7
7. Total Base Costs                              6,344.3            646.6             6,990.9
Price & Physical Contingencies                 475.0              56.4              531.5
8. Refinancing of PPF Advance                      400.0                                400.0
TOTAL:           7,219.3             703.0            7,922.3



MAP SECTION






183                  16'                  14                   12-                  10                       For-e' --
MAURITANIA                                                                                 30-
30-       PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                                                   :
-   SECONDARY ROADS                                                                              _'                      'T
TRACKS                                                                                  *S GAL
SEN EGAL
-----RAILROADS                                                                            THE  ---
GAMBIA                      I~
0     SELECTED TOWNS                                                                        CBIA o,.
(@)    REGION CAPITALS                                                                       BIS'A-    GlEINEA       / .
28'           4      AIRPORTS                                               MOROCC                 28 -       ConoIry-,. _     :_.IF D 1__':-. F,   \ \ . ''
PORTS-                                                                                   8
REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                    To- TTcndout-  ___
-   -    INTERNATIONAL                                    ,-..                                                     't.      '
BOUNDARIES                                                                                               -d 1c loin, u  ,ic,e'-
100      200       300
KILOMETERS                                       r                         A,n Ben Tll                                             A
To'Lrv Youn- ' BXRkE: ir Moygreli n                               , _, _ .\
FORM ER
24'                                      SPANISH   !                                                                                                N
SAHARA   I,
(        T /ouerat|
Fd6ri           Tourine
22'                                                      I    T                                                                                    22
r-       ~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.-                                                                .
Nouaidhibou#bo BoTneiht                                Cam
la Gou6a&      Lau                                               0Ouad6ne
, > 4      ChInguettI
20'                                 Akjou                 Ouiefi                                                                                  2
Nouamghor r
'AgA I&I FoI TTomassoumitu                                                                   
Aquddl Fa,     0          Tidjikia             TicAt
0                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~0
-1 8'       NOUAKCHOTT                       ' -  ,              0Mod8r|
t                 ~~~~~~~~~Cangra,dFa e   mcucljriq
BoutImt       Mcsqtjo [h jar
4          'outli m it> >               1;=tTamchekket                           o0u0 01(.
MOd rdrao Rez             * . Aleg
Bogu -                   B akewl Kffa               4Ayo0n el Atros
1 6                  |     *To .?.J%. .  t                     Gur2   4Kankossa                                  O  +  Alour1T  BcSsstko!nor|    I c
t-Mbouat    lt               u       L       Diun 
\~~jr/eMh    0~KOCLossO       KobenI-l'o                                              it
SNoMraye .                   To                 D,un
SENEGAL   Goure                                                                        M A L I
14'  18'                 166                  I                                          10                    8                    6
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EP 'aF IA 12)












