Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 21561
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(27300; P7990)
ON A
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$7.2 MILLION
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FORA
FINANCIAL/PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
December 28, 2000
Private Sector Unit
Africa Region
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effiective 09/30/2000)
Currency Unit = Ouguiyas (UM)
UM 1.00 = USS 0.004
US$ 1.00 = UM 250.00
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APBM         Association des Professionnels de Banque de Mauritanie
(Association for Bank Professionals of Mauritania)
BNM          Banque Nationale de Mauritanie
BUC          Bureau UJnique de Contr6le des Exportations du Secteur de la Peche
CCIA         Chambre de Commerce, d'lndustrie et dAgriculture
CFPB         Centre de Formation Professionnelle Bancaire
(Training Center for Professional Bankers)
CGEM         Conftd6ration Generale des Employeurs de Mauritan)e
CMDET        Centre d'Information Mauritanien pour le D6veloppement Economique et Technique
CNROP        Centre National de Recherche Oceanographique et de la Peche
(National Center for Research on Oceanography and Fishing)
FIAS         Foreign Investment Advisory Services
PFP          Policy Framework Paper
PSDC         Private Sector Development Credit
UCP           Uniue de Coordination du Projet (Project Coordination Unit)
QAG          Quality Assurance Group
Vice President    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director    Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager/Director    Demba Ba
Task Team Leader/Task Manager    Francois Nankobogo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FINANCIAL/PRIVATE SECTOR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Cr. 2730 - MAU
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 11
6. Sustainability                                                                     13
7. Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                                      13
5. Lessons Learned                                                                    15
9. Partner Comments                                                                   16
10. Additional Information                                                            23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                  33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  34
Annex 5, Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                     37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 38
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project JD: P038661                                        Project Name: FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI
Team Leader: Francois Naiikobogo                           TL Unit: AFrPS
I('R Type: Core JOR                                        Report Date: December 28, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: FIN/PRIV.SCTR.CAPACI                            LICITF Number: 27300; P7990
('Countrv/Department: MAURITANIA                                          Region: Africa Regional Office
,S;ector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCID:  05/19/93                                Effective: 09/22/95            11/29/95
Appraisal:  03/30/95                                   MTR:                       06/03/97
.Approval:  05/23/95                                Closing:  12/31/99           05/31/2000
BorrowerllmplementingAgency: Islaniic Republic of Mauritania/
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
l "ice President:    Callisto E. Madavo                         Edward K. Jaycox
Countryv Manager:    Hasan A. Tuluy                             Jean-Louis Saibib
Nector Manager:      Demba Ba                                   Silvia Sagari
Team Leader at ICR:   Francois Nankobogo                        Hisham El-Naggar
ICR lritmaryAuthor:   Francois Nankobogo
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Eighly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
I Iilikely, HIlJ=Highly tUnsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
,Sustainahilily: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
P rci? j 7  supervisiOn Was reliewcd bi) itle W['orl Bank's Qualitv'Assurance Group in 1999 anid 1 ralted satisfactorv.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objective was to assist the Government of Mauritania in implementing a program of
private sector promotion through strengthening the legal and regulatory framework and creating
an enabling environment for private investment. To achieve this objective, the project would focus
on activities which: (i) encourage investor interest in having opportunities in the private sector,
particularly in mining and fishing areas, by revising commercial and tax codes and implementing



other activities designed to enhance their dynamism and efficiency; and (ii) strengthen the financial
sector for providing better credit and banking services needed for the development of the private
sector activities.
Following a number of years of structural reforms implemented by Mauritania, the Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) covering the period 1994-97 emphasized the need to encourage private
sector initiatives through the provision of adequate price incentives, reliance on market forces and
the liberalization of the legal and regulatory framework. The 1997 Country Assistance Strategy
also put an emphasis on private sector-led growth; this approach was confirmed at the Mauritania
Consultative Group meeting of March 1998, which triggered the Government's utilities reform
which seeks to enhance the country's competitiveness through reduced factor costs and increased
quality service.
The project deepened and extended reforms initiated under the adjustment program in the
mid-eighties, and it was put in place at a time when major macroeconomic imbalances had already
been addressed. The project objective was thus in line with the Government's development
strategy which sought to promote growth of private sector activity by improving the incentives
system, reforming the regulatory framework, strengthening institutional capacities, and
consolidating the financial sector. The Government strategy was reflected in (i) the letter of
development policy for the financial and private sectors, and (ii) the letter of sector development
policy for the fisheries sector. Both letters, which reflected the Government's firm commitment to
carry out the reforms supported by the project, were submitted to the Bank at the time of project
preparation and served as a reference throughout project implementation.
The project objectives were ambitious but clear. The project turned out to be complex, as
project implementation arrangements involved a large number of institutions which hampered
coordination effectiveness. Although project implementation arrangements were complex, the
project was not risky, as there was Government commitment, the project components were well
designed and project coordination was very good. The appraisal document noted that the project
had some risk in that vested interests in Mauritania might try to dilute the positive effect of the
reforms proposed. However, given Government commitment, the appraisal team considered the
risks manageable. Given the accomplishments of the project, the risks were correctly assessed.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objective was not revised.
3.3 Original (Components:
The project consisted of the following five components:
(i) Financial Sector (US$ 1.1 million). This component consisted of:
(a) upgrading credit risk and borrower arrears information databases;
(b) training in banking; and
(c) formulation of a strategy for the second phase of financial sector development.
-2-



(ii) Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework (US$3.5 million). Activities under
this component were the following:
(a) upgrading of the accounting and auditing framework which included: (i) study to reorganize
and upgrade the accounting and auditing professions and to establish minimum standards for both
professions, (ii) revision of the accounting plan, and (iii) training of accountants and auditors;
(b) providing support to the Chamber of Commerce to make it more responsive to the needs of
the formal and informal sectors;
(c) strengthening of legal and judiciary reform which included: (i) revision of legal texts, in French
and Arabic, affecting private sector activities, (ii) establishment of a commercial register listing
companies, (iii) training of magistrates and court auxiliaries in both French and Arabic, (iv)
upgrading and regular publication of the Official Bulletin ("Journal Officiel"), and (v) training of
technicians and provision of technical support for the electronic indexation of Mauritanian laws;
and
(d) carrying out a feasibility study for a tax-free regime for exporters ("points francs") and
development of a scheme for its implementation.
(iii) Mining Sector (US$1.1 million). This component aimed at strengthening the regulatory and
institutional framework for the mining sector through:
(a) formulation of a strategy paper for the development of the sector and revision of the
mining code and taxation of mining;
(b) reorganization of the Mining and Geology Directorate and revision of cadastral
procedures; and
(c) training of staff at the Mining and Geology Directorate.
(iv) Fishing Sector (US$0.5 million). Activities under this component consisted of a survey of
fisheries resources, and the establishment of a monitoring mechanism for foreign exchange flows
in and out of the fishing sector and capacity building in the environmental and quality control
areas.
The above components were reasonable for supporting the project's objectives. Project
implementation benefited from the existence of capacity built under previous Bank-financed
operations. The implementation agency had established capacity to handle both administrative and
financial management issues. The project appraisal team took into account lessons learned in
previous Bank-financed operations, particularly the "Public Enterprise Sector Adjustmnent
Program" (Cr. 2167-MAU). These lessons included: (i) the use of a participatory approach
throughout the project cycle, which was of the utmost importance in the process of business law
modernization in order to overcome potential conflicts with the traditional law; (ii) the use of
coordination of project implementation arrangements through a project unit in the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Development which handled procurement and disbursement procedures for
the various entities involved in the project; and (iii) the involvement of the Central Bank in the
implementation of a number of components to improve information flows, e.g. activities
pertaining to the financial sector and the establishment of a monitoring mechanism of foreign
exchange flows in the fishing sector.
3.4 Revised Components:
-3 -



The project components were not revised, albeit a couple of adjustments which were decided at
the time of Mid-Term Review in June 1997 and which did not need Board approval as they did
not entail any change of development objectives, were decided at the time of mid-term review in
June 1997. The Bank agreed with the Government that the project should support the start up of
a microfinance scheme and US$0.4 million was set aside to assist the "Agence de Promotion des
(aisses Populaires d'Epargne et de Credit" (PROCAPEC) in developing a network of savings
and credit associations. The survey of fisheries resources was abandoned as the Ministry of
Fisheries.and Maritime Economy was doing the work through the
"( entre National de Recherche Oc&anographique et de la Peche" (CNROP). The report on the
fisheries resources was published in December 1998 ("Evaluation des stocks et des pecheries
mauritaniens"). In addition, provision was made to support: (i) the privatization of Air
Mauritania; (ii) the preparation of a land transport study; and (iii) the electronic archiving, on CD
ROM, of important project documents pertaining to private sector development.
There was only one extension of the Credit's closing date, from December 1999 to May 2000 to
allow the completion of critical activities that were underway, particularly in the areas of
institutional and regulatory framework for private sector development and financial sector.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Besides standard reviews at various stages of project preparation, there was no other official
assessment of quality at entry. Nevertheless, the ICR finds the quality at entry, on balance, to be
satisfactory because: (a) the objectives were consistent with country assistance strategy and met
critical needs of the financial sector; and (b) the design was generally adequate to meet the
project's overriding objective, which was to encourage private sector development in the country.
However, since the project sought to address several aspects of the Mauritanian private sector, it
involved too many activities and institutions. This resulted in some complexity and created
coordination difficulties. For example, in light of its small resource allocation, the fishing sector
appeared as an add-on even though the issues to be addressed were important. In hindsight, it also
appears that the political willingness to change the Chamber of Commerce into an independent,
private sector run institution was overestimated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outconle/achieve)nent of objective:
The project achieved most of its major development objectives; hence, it is rated satisfactory. In
spite of the ambitious scope of the project which sought institutional changes in many sectors, the
successful implementation has allowed a number of important outcomes. The quality of policy
dialogue between the Government and the Bank over the project implementation period
contributed to this good performance. It created a favorable environment with a clear focus on the
private sector development agenda. The dialogue was strengthened by an important supervision
effort. The substantial improvement in the legal. and regulatory framework as well as the judiciary
and progress made in creating an enabling environment has indeed increased business confidence
in Mauritania, and resulted in (i) an improvement in the range and accessibility of financial
services through a larger number of banks and microfinance institutions; (ii) an increase in private
investment, particularly in the mining sector where about 12 international companies have been
- 4 -



granted licenses to explore various minerals; and (iii) the development of consulting and training
services, notably in the area of accounting. The project predates the establishment of the logical
framework approach and thus none was prepared at appraisal. A logical framework matrix was
prepared using the appraisal objectives and indicators, and is presented in Annex 1.
In the financial sector, the credibility and soundness of bank operations is improving as a result
of enhanced risk management facilitated by the credit risk and borrower arrears information
database maintained at the Central Bank. Microfinance became part of the Mauritanian landscape
thanks to the support provided by the project, and an active network of microfinance institutions
is contributing to addressing the needs of the poor. The strategy for addressing the needs of
investment financing, however, was not advanced, which has delayed reforms to encourage the
development of new financial instruments.
The modernization of the accounting and audit framework and the design of a new Accounting
Plan are expected to improve corporate financial information and reporting. Enhanced
development of a business information flow to and from the private sector was also fostered
through the support. provided to the Centre d'information mauritanien pour le developpement
economique et technique (CIMDET) for its institutionalization and control by the private sector.
The establishment of a one-stop-center (Guichet unique), thus allowing fast and quality service to
private investors, contributed to the improvement of the business environment.
Business confidence has increased with the modernization of business legislation, Mauritania's
adhesion to international business treaties, and an enhancement in the functioning of the judiciary
system. Commercial matters are now handled by specialized chambers and information on court
decisions is accessible through the official gazette. The effectiveness of the commercial law
reform will, in the medium term, contribute to foster a transparent and competitive business
environment, thus encouraging more private investment. The liberalization of the professions of
court auxiliaries such as judiciary experts, notaries and court clerks, is contributing to improve the
efficiency and credibility of the judiciary. Moreover, the revision of the mining code and sector tax
legislation and the design of new mining cadastral procedures have attracted major foreign
investors who, once the exploration phase is conclusive, are expected to make large investments
that will generate employment and increase both export and fiscal revenues. Despite significant
achievements listed above, the reform of the chamber of commerce was not completed, although
the law was enacted in January 2000. In addition the strengthening of the fishing sector remained
below expectations.
4.2 Outputs bY comnponents:
The Financial Sector Component
The performance of this component was satisfactory. Executed by the Bank Supervision
Directorate of the Central Bank ("Direction du Contr6le des Banques"), it was focused on
helping the financial sector better manage its risks, improve its employees skills and consolidate its
development through the implementation of a sector strategy. The outputs of each activity are
discussed below.
-5-



The Credit Risk and Borrower Arrears Information Database. Owing to project support through
the financing of consultant services to design the software and computer equipment, this database
is operational since November 1999 and all the banking system is using the information to manage
the risk exposure. On 20th of each month, all commercial banks provide the Central Bank, which
maintains the database, with an update on the situation of each borrower, identified by a code.
The consolidated information is subsequently shared with commercial banks. Some enhancement
was made to the database to capture and provide information on credit concentration. Major
shareholders of each company are listed, which allows to match individuals with their
shareholding in various enterprises. However, commercial banks still fail to document and report
bounced checks. Once the financial sector will have understood the advantages of this database
for risk management, cooperation is likely to improve. A useful upgrade of the database would be
to establish linkages among the banking system's computer network so as to allow electronic
transmission of data and on-line access to consolidated information. Over 3,000 borrowers were
listed in the database by the project closing date, a performance which far exceeds the 1,100
entries initially targeted in the Staff Appraisal Report in spite of the late operationalization.
Banking Training: The project supported both on-the-job professional training for bank
employees and a diploma course in order to enhance the quality of bank management. The
program involved the French Banking Training Center (CFPB) which delivered the courses and
trained the trainers. To ensure easy access to training and program sustainability, the project also
assisted the Mauritania Professional Banking Association (APBM) in setting up and equipping the
Center for Bank Training ("Centre de Formation Bancaire" --CFB--). The project financed the
feasibility study of the training center and the equipment, including instruction manuals and
computers. A convention was established between the CFB and the Paris-based CFPB to ensure
that the latter provide support for trainers' training, curriculum quality assurance and pedagogical
guidance.
Formulation of a Strategy for the Second Phase of Financial Sector Development: A sector
strategy study was completed in 1997. However, this study was judged unsatisfactory because it
just provided a detailed description of the financial sector but did not offer any strategic
orientation on how to meet the key challenges mainly associated with the access of investment
financing and expanding coverage of the financial system to assist small and medium enterprises
(SMEs). It failed to propose ways to strengthen the financial sector and develop linkages with the
real sector, for example through term finance instruments to meet private sector development
needs. Due to a change in management at the Central Bank, no action was taken for eight months
to seek capable expertise for this task. A decision to hire a high standard firm to prepare a good
sector strategy was made in 1999. Terms of reference were updated and the recruitment process
was carried out during the project extension period. However, when the consultant was selected
in April 2000, it was too late to complete the study by the project closing date. The Central Bank
has indicated it would finance the study with its own resources.
Microfinance: The project has provided support to the emergence of microfinance in Mauritania
since 1997. This activity, which was introduced in the project at the time of the mid-term review
with an allocation of $400,000, consisted in the preparation of the regulatory framework and the
support to microfinance institutions expansion. This has allowed the establishment of a network of
- 6 -



11 "ai.sses populaires d'epargne et de credit" (CAPEC) within three years. This Bank support
has encouraged other donors such as Canada and the African Development Bank to provide
additional support to the microfinance network. Studies on the microfinance institutions
sustainability and on their human resources development strategy were financed under the project.
While some CAPECs already appear to be sustainable, most of the network will rely on operating
subsidies for a while before reaching that point. The project also financed a study on how the
microfinance network should manage and develop its human resources.
The Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework Component
The overall performance of this project component was satisfactory. Most of the component's
activities were successfully carried out, particularly the accounting framework upgrade, the legal
reform, the commercial register and the investment incentives. The reform of the chamber of
commerce was not, however, completed as initially envisaged. The outputs of each set of
activities are discussed below.
UJpgrading of the Accounting and Auditing Framework: This activity was implemented by the
Public Enterprise Directorate in the Ministry of Finance. As originally planned for, the project
financed studies and training activities. A study on the reorganization of the accounting and
auditing professions defined stringent minimum qualifications for practicing as a professional
accountant or auditor. This allowed a revitalization of the two professions which have become
effective and credible partners for their clients. Another study focused on the revision of the
accounting plan by updating it and bringing it in line with international standards. The study also
prepared a reference manual. A revised and modernized accounting plan was adopted by
Government in 1997 and passed by Parliament in 1998. The project financed the printing and
wide dissemination of the new plan and the reference manual. A training program on a
cost-sharing basis for auditors and accountants was launched in December 1999. This activity has
contributed to boosting the national chartered accountants' association (Ordre national des
experts comptables), notably through the development of consultant and training services that
they provide to the private sector.
Support to the Chamber of Commerce: Transformation of the Chamber of Commerce into an
entity effectively representing the broad-based private sector proved to be a long, arduous and
yet-to-be completed process. The modification of the Chamber's legal status was adopted by
Parliament in January 2000. However, implementation decrees have not yet been adopted. In
order to have a Chamber of Commerce which would be an effective forum for the private sector,
especially small enterprises, the membership will need to be established so as to allow credible
elections of various representatives thereafter. Difficulties encountered reflect the hesitation by
both the Government and the well established employers! association --CGEM-- to allow
emergence of a more inclusive organization which could play an important role in the dialogue on
private sector development policy. Future efforts to reinforce the Chamber probably should go
hand in hand with a program to allow private entrepreneurs - especially emerging ones - to set up
their own specific associations which might better represent their interests,
Legal and Judiciary Reform: This key project sub-component was implemented by the Ministry
- 7 -



of Justice. Under this sub-component, most of the activities consisted of revising various codes,
upgrading systems and building capacity through training. The legal reform process was faced
with the challenge of ensuring consistency between modem and Islamic laws, as well as
consistency between French and Arabic versions of the codes/laws. In 1997, the Government
liberalized the professions of court auxiliaries (e.g. notaries, clerks of court and judiciary experts)
which are essential to improve the efficiency and credibility of the judiciary. The commercial law
was enacted in January 2000 and will soon become effective in 2001. This is a major achievement
in modernizing an outdated and scattered legislation. The summary table below shows the main
codes/laws prepared with the support of the project:
Type of code/law                        Adoption / Comment
Commercial code                         Enacted in January 2000. Effectiveness in
January 2001.
Obligation and contract code             Enacted in January 2000.
Investment code                          Drafted in 1999 and put on hold pending
completion of ongoing fiscal reform which will
minimize the need for special tax regimes.
Commercial, civil and administrative procedural Enacted in 1999 and already effective.
code
Status of justice auxiliaries and expert witnesses Enacted in July 1997; various implementation
texts (decrees and ministerial decisions or
"arrdtgs') adopted in 1999. Unlike in the past,
ustice witnesses now have to meet specified
minimum qualifications.
Law on the organization of the judiciary system Enacted in 1999. Commercial chambers were
and law on judiciary fees.               created in tribunals whose functioning was
I simplified.
Note: Implementation texts of codes enacted by Parliament in January 2000 are sfillpending.
The Government also implemented a training program of over 300 judges and court auxiliaries,
accounting for over 80 percent of staff of these professions, to improve the quality of legal
services and application of law. A comprehensive second phase training program was formulated
by the Ministry of Justice involving capacity building and training of judges, clerks and other
members of the legal profession so as to reinforce the rule of law and property rights and facilitate
the prompt and fair settlement of business. Commercial chambers were created in various
jurisdictions and arbitration courts are now operational. Moreover, the justice inspection function
has been re-established, which contributes to improving judiciary services.
The Official Bulletin (Journal officiel ), under the responsibility of the Legislation Directorate,
was upgraded and its regular publication resumed to report on decisions by the Supreme Court,
the Courts of Appeal and the Commercial Courts. In addition electronic indexation of, and the
establishment of electronic archives for, Mauritanian laws was initiated, even though the activity
was not fully completed by the closing date. It was also expected that an information center on
legal matters be opened to improve access to law for end-users. The office that the Govemment
provided for this purpose however was not appropriate and would have required civil engineering
- 8-



work to meet the requirement. To allow financing for this activity under project resources, the
Credit Agreement was amended a couple of months before the closing date. However, the work
could not be carried out on time.
Mauritiania's business legislation was also supplemented by the ratification, in 1997, of major
international business conventions such as the 1958 New York Convention on international
arbitrage, the 1980 Vienna Convention on international sales and the United Nations Convention
on sales dispute settlement. This contributed to bringing the Mauritanian business law to
international standards and to providing more comfort to foreign investors.
A workshop, aimed at discussing progress made in the area of legislation and legal reform since
1970, took place in Nouakchott in April 2000. The Government intends to publish the
proceedings of that workshop in the near future.
C(ommercial Register: the project supported the strengthening of the commercial register, thus
contributing to the improvement of business information and to the securitization of business
transactions. In addition, registers for ownership titles can be used as collateral. The commercial
register computerization to facilitate information treatment and access was well advanced but not
completed by the closing date as the needed customized software was not yet in place.
Investment Incentives: This activity was under the responsibility of the Public Investment
Directorate of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. On the basis of a 1996 FIAS
recommendation to simplify access to investment incentives, a one-stop-window (Guichet unique)
was established for investors in 1997. Its operation was, for some time, constrained due to the de
facto suspension of the investment code: However, since 1999, the guichet unique has been able
to process investors' requests within the time limit of 45 days.
In March 1999, FIAS produced another report on administrative barriers to investment; and the
Government adopted, in October 1999, an action plan to eliminate these barriers. The successful
implementation of this action plan and the continued improvement of the business environment in
general will depend largely on an improved dialogue between the public and private sectors. A
revised investment code was prepared in 1999, but it was put on hold, pending the completion of
the fiscal reform. However, international experience has shown that a stable environment with a
low tax common regime is preferable to large scale special tax regimes which are difficult to
manage and tend to introduce undesirable distortions in the economy. Once the fiscal reform is
completed, Mauritania will be in a better position to define the scope of any exceptional tax
regime that may be needed in addition to the general provisions of the investment code, thus
giving comfort to potential investors.
Mining Sector Component
Implementation performance under this component was satisfactory. Executed by the Mining and
Geology Directorate of the Ministry of Mining which was reorganized with the support of the
project, the component's activities were swiftly completed long before the closing date. The
-9-



Government prepared a sector strategy paper, adopted a new mining code and a tax code for the
sector. A computerized information system, to be extended to a geographic information system,
was established thus providing geological information needed to grant exploration licenses. New
cadastral procedures were defined. Training was also provided to officials of the Ministry of
Mining in various areas allowing them to improve their performance. A follow up Bank-financed
project, specific to the mining sector, was approved in 1999 and is currently under
implementation. The project objective is to facilitate and regulate mining activities, and increase
private investment in the sector. A number of intemational mining companies are carrying out
exploration activities in Mauritania. It should be noted also that the current practices comply with
environmental safeguard policies.
Fishing Sector Component
The component was executed by the Ministry of Fisheries. Even though the scope and resources
involved were limited, the activities were only partially completed; hence the component
performance was unsatisfactory. The integrated information system on fish exports ("Bureau
unique de contr6le des exportations du secteur de lapeche -BUC-) was established in 1997 to
monitor foreign exchange flows in and from the fisheries sector. After some initial delays due to
procurement issues, the system was operational at project closing although some improvements
are still needed to allow various institutions involved (the Ministry of Fisheries, the Central Bank
and Customs) to operate as an effective information network. With respect to support to the
national oceanographic and fisheries research center (Centre national de recherche
oceanographique et de la peche -CNROP-) on environmental capacity building and quality
control of fish exports, proper guidance was not provided and resources could not be accessed
because the procedures used to procure goods and services were not in line with Bank
procedures. It appears nevertheless that other donors, notably France and Japan, have provided
support to the CNROP.
Project Management.
The overall performance of project management was satisfactory. In the initial stages, the project
coordination unit faced the problem of over-staffing due to the transfer of the implementation unit
of the previous sector adjustment Credit (Cellule de rehabilitation du secteur public -CRSP-) to
the new project. The issue was eventually resolved; and a small team of four people, including an
accountant and a secretary, constituted the project coordination core team. In spite of project
complexity resulting from the large number of institutions involved in project implementation, the
Project Coordination Unit was quite effective in carrying out the work program. The audits were
also satisfactorily completed.
4.3 Nei Present ValueA/Fconomic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
- 10 -



The project has contributed to the creation and/or reinforcement of several institutions, including:
(i) the Mauritanian information center for economic and technical development ("Centre
d'it?formation mauritanien pour le developpement economique et technique -CIMDET-) which
operates as an independent association fully managed by the private sector and provides an
improved business information flow to and from the private sector; (ii) the credit risk and
borrower arrears information database which provide improved access to detailed information on
the credit standing of borrowers and on arrears to the banking sector; (iii) the banking training
center (C(entre deformation professionelle bancaire -CFPB-) which, although much delayed in its
implementation, provides professional training to bank employees and diploma courses for
specialized courses; (iv) a network of 11 micro-finance institutions which are meeting a strong
demand for alternative savings and loans outlets and which, although still heavily subsidized, are
expected to become financially viable; and (v) the Guichet unique which has been instrumental in
simplifying the investment procedures. On the other hand, two institutions that have received
project support but have failed to show significant progress are the Chamber of Commerce and
the CNEROP.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Fac tors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were no factors outside the control of Government. However, the implementing agency
could not get some activities to be completed on time because of Government reshuffles and
changes in interlocutors and/or Parliament's agenda. This was particularly the case for the
enactment of various laws under the legal reform sub-component.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors subject to Government control caused implementation delays:
(i) Frequent cabinet reshuffles and subsequent changes of senior staff, including those involved in
project implementation, caused several actions to be delayed. For example, this situation affected
the legal reform component and, as a result, many important laws/codes were enacted just a few
months before the closing date.
(ii) Reform of the Chamber of Commerce (CCIA), to modernize it and make it a credible
representative of the Mauritanian private sector, was substantially delayed due to Government's
delay to approve the CCIA's new legal status. The modification to the legal status was adopted
by the Parliament only towards the end of the project in December 1999. In addition, lack of
agreement among stakeholders about the nature, legal status and level of autonomy to be granted
to the CCIA put its reform at risk. The stakeholders agreed on these issues only after long delays.
(iii) Due to ineffective linkages between the Ministry of Fisheries and the CNROP,
implementation of activities identified for project support did not take place as envisaged. Due the
lack of guidance from the executing agency on Bank procurement procedures, the CNROP
prefinanced some activities and sought reimbursement which could not take place. As a result, the
project was not instrumental in helping the Government fulfill its commitments made in its Letter
-1 1-



of Sector Policy for the Development of the fishing sector.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implemenfing agency control:
Changes in implementing agencies and the project coordination unit caused delays in completing
various activities. These delays particularly affected (i) the financial sector component, and
particularly the preparation of the sector strategy; (ii) a number of activities pertaining to the
private sector institutional and regulatory framework including the legal reform; and (iii) the
fishing sector. This could have been avoided if implementation agencies had been more committed
and proactive.
More administration stability would have contributed to minimize delays in the implementation of
work programs; and sustained effort to implement the participatory approach envisaged at the
beginning of the project would have helped build consensus on needed reforms in a more timely
manner. The Concertation Committee between the Government and the private sector created in
February 1996 was intended to be instrumental in this sector dialogue and in making suggestions
for enhanced competitiveness and growth. Over time, it became ineffective and it was eventually
revitalized in 2000. The project performance could have been more than satisfactory if the
executing agencies had promptly acted on factors under their control.
5.4 (osts and financing:
The project cost, net of taxes and duties, was estimated at US$7.9 million, of which $5.1 million
or 71 percent in foreign exchange, at appraisal. In spite of initial preference for international
consultants, the project was ultimately designed to use local consultants extensively for capacity
building and to ensure local expertise in various technical activities such as the legal reform and
systems computerization, the proportion of local costs was as high as 36 percent.
IDA financing was in the amount of US$7.2 million or 90 percent of the project's estimated costs.
As of September 2000, the Credit had disbursed 94.5 percent of its amount. Since US$0.4 million
undisbursed Project Preparation Facility (PPF) was canceled at refinancing upon project
effectiveness in November 1995, the total amount disbursed under the Credit was US$6.12
million. About US$0.33 million was undisbursed. The Government's contribution was estimated
at US$0.7 million. Project financial management was satisfactory, even though ineligible
expenditures were recorded at start of project and were subsequently reimbursed to the Bank.
Audits were carried out in a timely fashion, and auditors recommendations were implemented.
The final audit has been completed.
- 12 -



6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
In view of the irreversible character of the reforms carried out under this project, sustainability of
achievements is likely. The project has contributed to a lasting improvement in the business
environment by supporting improved information flows through the upgrading of the credit risk
and arrears information system, the introduction of a modernized accounting system, wider
dissemination of legal information through the regular publication of the Official Gazette, and
capacity building in the mining sector. The legal reform component has resulted in a lasting
improvement in the legal and judicial environment for business: (i) the introduction of updated and
more transparent legislation has eliminated the source of much confusion and uncertainty; (ii) the
functioning of the judiciary system has improved through training, reform of court auxiliary
functions and the introduction of business arbitration; and (iii) business contract enforcement has
further been improved through the adhesion to key international conventions. The legislation
work will be pursued and capacity building in both the judiciary and the private sector will be
sustained over time.
6.2 TIhansilion arrangement to regular operations:
The Government has indicated its commitment to proceed with the private sector development
agenda through the implementation of its medium term policies reflected in the PRSP. The need
for a follow up operation, which would support both the unfinished agenda of this recently
completed project and the strengthening of the Mauritanian private sector competitiveness, had
been expressed by the Government on several occasions (see comments provided on Bank's draft
ICR in section 10). In the financial sector, the Central Bank has indicated its willingness to finance
the strategy study from its own resources; and the implementation of the recommendations is
likely to require external assistance. Legal reform efforts will be pursued to ensure that all pending
implementation decrees are adopted in due time and that the judiciary system is strengthened.
With the implementation of the FIAS action plan adopted by the Government in late 1999 and the
continuation of the fiscal reform, the business environment is likely to be further improved. The
mandate of the project coordination unit has been extended to the coordination of the entire
private sector support program. This has allowed to retain the expertise strengthened under this
project and to use it for related development purposes.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification and preparation of the project was satisfactory.
Project design was consistent with the Government's development strategy and the Bank's
assistance strategy for Mauritania. During project appraisal, the Bank assessed the project's risks
and benefits, and the Government's commitment to the objectives of the project. However, in
retrospect, it appears that the project design could have been more selective to limit the number of
areas covered by the project in order to increase the focus and minimize coordination flaws. In
addition, implementation schedules set at project appraisal were somewhat optimistic.
- 13-



7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance in the implementation review of the project was satisfactory. A
supervision review was carried out by QAG in October 1999, and rated the quality of supervision
satisfactory. Over the five years of project implementation, there were 10 supervision missions,
about two missions per year. Supervision teams included a private sector development specialist,
a legal expert, a financial analyst, an economist and resident mission staff. Problems were
identified in a timely fashion and brought to Govemment's attention along with suggestions for
remedies in conformity with Bank procedures. The Bank also provided comments to various
studies conducted under the project. Project supervision reports realistically rated the
performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. In hindsight, however, it appears that the political willingness to change the
Chamber of Commerce into an independent, private run institution, was overestimated.
Bank staff worked closely with the Govemment and the implementing agencies. Their working
relationship was cordial and productive. The increased decentralization of the task management
responsibilities to the Resident Mission resulted in timely attention to procurement, disbursement
and financial management matters. In between the formal supervision missions, the Resident
Mission staff was effective in coordinating actions among the Borrower and implementing
agencies.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation. Close collaboration with the Govemment, through the project coordination unit
and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development, helped address project management
issues in a timely fashion, hence allowing substantial achievement of development objectives.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The Borrower
showed commitment to the objectives of the project. Commitment and ownership of the private
sector agenda were helped by the implementation of the Public Enterprise Sector Institutional
Development and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2167-MAU) which closed in mid-1998.
Government officials and staff of implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project
team on an ongoing basis.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory. Most Government
officials were largely committed to the objectives of the project. Although there were signs of
limited drive for change in some instances such as the reform of Chamber of Commerce, the legal
reform, and the implementation of policies in the fisheries sector, in the end, the Government
provided support for key changes, and the most important project objectives were met. The
Government also complied with project covenants. A participatory approach was applied to the
- 14 -



financial sector through regular consultations with commercial banks before new initiatives were
undertaken, In addition, with support from the Bank, the Government launched a program for a
savings and loan association network to support its efforts to mobilize resources and provide
access to microfinance services for low-incorne people. The CAPEC network complements the
banking sector and is expected to expand and consolidate over time. With clear signals from the
Government, implementation schedule would not have significantly slipped, and the project
would have achieved more substantial results in spite of changes in the administration.
7.6 lInplementing Agency:
The implementation coordination unit's performance was satisfactory. Inspite of some difficulties
in the initial stages of the project (e.g. over-staffing, consensus building for legal reform
approach), the agency performed well; and its staff deserves special credit for providing guidance
to various units of the administration involved in the project as well as for good records keeping
and budgeting. The strength of UCP was demonstrated by the fact that its performance was not
affected by two successive changes of director within a short span of four months.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory. Apart from a few months delay at
effectiveness, all legal covenants were complied with in a timely manner. The scope of activities
carried out under this project was large, and yet, most of them were satisfactorily completed by
the closing date.
8. Lessons Learned
Four key lessons can be drawn from the implementation experience of this project:
1. Genuine stakeholder participation in policy reform design is critical to achieving intended
objectives. In the context of this project, Mauritania has managed to carry out the modernization
of its business law without any conflict with the Islamic law thanks to the involvement of the
traditional magistrates in the process of law preparation. Such an involvement has become a
building block for effective dissemination of the reforms.
2. Coordination is not a substitute for selectivity in project design. While the preparation of the
project took into consideration lessons learned from previous operations and put in place sound
coordination mechanisms, the large number of components and institutions involved in this project
entailed complexity and supervision difficulties. It would have been helpful to limit the number of
executing agencies to facilitate project coordination and implementation.
3. Institutional change, particularly where capacities are limited, requires long-term action. The
agenda to be supported by this project in four years was rather ambitious. The legal reform
process took time because of the consensus- building process that had to be carried out before the
laws could be finalized, adopted by the Government and enacted by the parliament. Effective
implementation of these laws will require extensive training of magistrates at all levels of the
judiciary system. The Government is willing to proceed with reform implementation, but it needs
- 15 -



technical assistance to that effect. For the expected impact to materialize, this reform process
should continue to be supported. For example, there is a need for (i) sustained capacity building
for effective implementation of legal and other private sector-related institutional reforms; (ii)
assistance in the fishing sector, particularly for increased access to international markets, artisanal
fishing development and environmental protection; and (iii) design of policies that would foster
private sector competitiveness.
4. Business incentives should not be reduced to a special tax regime. Mauritania prepared a
revised investment code providing tax incentives to potential investors. At the same time, a fiscal
reform, which would substantially improve the business environment and thus reduce dramatically
the need for special regimes, is under way. After having taken a number of tax measures in the
2000 budget, Mauritania will, as of January 1, 2001, reduce the corporate income tax from 40
percent to 35 percent and merge the corporate income tax with the non-commercial profit tax.
Experience has demonstrated that the best climate for encouraging private investment implies a
stable low-tax, low-subsidy environment which is also free of tax disincentives such as
regulations, exchange controls, credit rationing, price and quantity controls. Investment codes
should put an emphasis on those aspects rather than on special tax regimes which are difficult to
administer, often lead to abuses, and narrow the tax even further.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower commented on the Bank's draft ICR and provided its own evaluation of project
implementation. The two contributions are presented below.
A.    Comments on the Bank's draft ICRI
Nous saluons l'excellent travail et la qualite du rapport de fin d'execution (RFE). La partie
mauritanienne par l'intermediaire de l'Unite de Coordinantion du Projet (UCP) juge ce travail
satisfaisant et n'a pas de suggestions a y ajouter.
A l'occasion de ce RFE la question qui se pose, ou plus exactement qui est deja soulev6e
par le Gouvemement, c'est la suite de l'appui que la Banque mondiale doit continuer a apporter
pour le developpement du secteur prive.
B.    Government contribution to the ICR.
-16 -



Republique Islamique de Mauritanie
Honneur - Fraternite - Justice
Minist6re des Affaires Economiques et du Developpement
Unite de Coordination du Projet de Renforcement des Capacites
pour le Developpement du Secteur Prive (UCP)
Resume Analytiaue du RaDport de Fin d'Execution du Proiet de Renforcement des
CaDacites du Secteur Prive et du Secteur Financier
I. Contexte du Proiet
La Mauritanie s'est engagee depuis le milieu des annees 80 sur la voie de la liberalisation de 1'
economie avec la mis en ceuvre des reformes economiques structurelles de grande envergure
qui visaient les objectifs principaux suivants:
- reduction des deficits macro-economiques pour retablir la credibilite de I'Etat;
- desengagement de l'Etat et liberalisation de l'economie;
- assainissement de l'ensemble du secteur bancaire et financier;
- amelioration des politiques d'allocation des ressources.
C'est ainsi qu'apres avoir engage les premieres reformes relatives notamment a la liberalisation
des prix, au desengagement de l'Etat des activites industrielles et commerciales et la
restructuration des entrepfises publiques, a la restructuration du secteur bancaire, a la
suppression des monopoles d'Etat, a restaurer la competitivite de l'economie et renforcer la
position exterieure du pays, le Gouvemement mauritanien a adopte en 1995 un programme de
developpement du secteur prive qui vise les principaux objectifs suivants
- 17-



- renforcer la reaction de l'offre sous forme d'une augmentation de l'investissement prive qui
conduirait a la croissance et a la creation d'emplois,
- promouvoir et renforcer 1'environnement institutionnel y compris un cadre reglementaire a la
fois transparent et uniformement applique,
- ameliorer la qualite de l'intermediation financiere et 6largir l'acces au credit des petites
entreprises,
- favoriser l'augmentation de la production et des recettes d'exportation dans le secteur de la
peche,
- promouvoir l'exploitation des ressources minerales.
Comme support a ce programme, le Projet de renforcement des capacit6s pour le
developpement du secteur prive (PRCDSP) a ete mis en place pour fournir l'assistance
technique necessaire pour la realisation des differentes actions et pour renforcer les capacites
des institutions impliquees dans 1'encadrement du secteur prive.
II. Obiectifs et Resultats du PRCDSP
Ce projet prenait forme autour de 4 composantes qui poursuivent des objectifs
complementaires qui concourent a I'atteinte des objectifs fixes aussi bien pour le secteur
financier, qu'au niveau du cadre legal et reglementaire du secteur prive, qu'en ce qui concerne
le secteur des mines et le secteur de la peche.
Ces objectifs concement:
1 .    la consolidation de la restructuration du secteur bancaire et la definition d'une strategie
pour le developpement du secteur financier
2.    le renforcement du cadre juridique etjudiciaire des affaires;
3 .    Ia revision du systeme d'incitations a l'investissement;
4.    le developpement et la promotion du secteur minier notamment par la revision du code
minier, de la fiscalite du secteur minier, la reorganisation et le renforcement des institutions de
supervision et de reglementation et la revision des procedures cadastrales.
5.    La mise en place d'un systeme de suivi des recettes d'exportation du secteur de la
peche.
Comme il ressort du rapport d'ach6vement detaille la quasi totalite des actions prevues par le
Projet ont ete mises en aeuvre avec des retards parfois importants dus pour la plupart aux
delais irrealistes initialement fixes notamment pour l'adoption des textes legislatifs (code de
commerce, code de procedure, etc.).
Cependant cette performance globale est a relativiser et le Projet n'a pas atteint les objectifs
fixes au niveau:
I .    de la composante secteur financier: la strat6gie de developpement du secteur financier
n'a pas ete elaborbe alors qu'elle constitue un el6ment important de developpement de ce
secteur qui est appele a jouer un r6le primordial pour faciliter les operations des entreprises et
offrir les services financiers de qualite et a des co'uts non prohibitifs.
- 18 -



2.    de la mise en place de la Chambre de commerce: le statut n'a et adopte qu'a la fin du
Projet (Janvier 2000) ce qui n'a pas permis d'accompagner le processus operationnel de mise
en place d'instances elues et de demarrage de la nouvelle structure.
3.    de la composante secteur peche: le BUC cree dans l'objectif d'un meilleur suivi des
recettes d'exportation du secteur n'as pas fonctionn6 convenablement et bien qu'une
assistance technique a ete financee le BUC n'est pas aujourd'hui en mesure de fournir les
informations centralisees sur les exportations du secteur. Cette situation est due en grande
partie au montage institutionnel de cette structure qui connaft des problemes d'echanges d'
information entre les differents intervenants (douanes, BCM, MPEM, CNROP) et une
confusion au niveau des missions.
Toutefois le Projet a permis de realiser des progres importants dans la mise en place d'un
environnement institutionnel, reglementaire et judiciaire favorable au developpement des
initiatives privees.
Ces resultats importants du Projet se traduisent par un ensemble d'elements qualitatifs que 1'
on peut resumer comme suit:
L 'existence d'une reglementation commerciale codifiee et moderne
L'adoption du Code de Commerce a l'avantage de codifier dans un texte unique l'ensemble des
normes juridiques applicables aux commer,ants et aux activites commerciales, d'adapter les
r.gles juridiques a 1'evolution economique du pays et a I'evolution des regles internationales
couramment admises et d'asseoir un cadre juridique transparent et adequat presentant les
garanties et la securite juridiques pouvant inspirer confiance aux investisseurs.
La promulgation de ce nouveau code met fin a plusieurs decennies d'incertitudejuridique
marquee par 1'existence de textes epars dont certains remontent i la periode coloniale et non
connus par la majorite des magistrats et operateurs economiques.
Aussi, 1'effort de modernisation du droit des affaires et de mise en place d'un cadre
transparent des affaires se trouve renforce par l'interet qu'accorde la Mauritanie a l'evolution
internationale de l'uniformisation du droit prive international. Dans ce cadre la Mauritanie a
apporte son i adhesion i la Convention de New York de 1958 sur l'execution des sentences
arbitrales etrangeres et a ratifie la convention de Vienne de 1980 sur la vente intemationale de
marchandises.
L'introduction de F'arbitrage comme mode de reglement des litiges
L'adoption du code d'arbitrage a permis de consacrer ce mode de reglement des litiges, tres
apprecie des operateurs prives, dans le dispositifjuridique mauritanien alors que par le passe
ce recours n'existait pas formellement.
- 19 -



Desormais le nouveau code mauritanien etablit des r4gles claires en distinguant I'arbitrage
interne de l'arbitrage international et en garantissant l'exequatur des sentences arbitrales.
(In appareil judiciaire reorganise et renforce
Outre les efforts de r6vision des textes pour l'laboration d'un droit modeme, coh6rent et
adapte, un ensemble de mesures ont ete engag6es pour assurer 1'effectivite du droit, raccourcir
les delais d'obtention des decisions de justice et garantir leur rectitude.
Ces mesures ont trait:
1.    a la liberalisation des fonctions des auxiliaires dejustice et l'adoption de statuts
adaptes (huissiers, notaires, experts de justice);
2.    a la reorganisation desjuridictions, a la revision des r6gles de proc6dures, et le
renforcement des moyens des juridictions;
3.    a la mise en place d'un systeme d'informations sur les personnes et les biens par la
reforme du registre du commerce qui doit d6sormais 8tre accessible et exploitable; et
4.    a l'amelioration de l'acces au droit par la mise en place d'un centre d'informations
juridiques et la publication reguliere du Journal Officiel.
Le renforcement des competences des magistrats et auxiliaires de justice
Les programmes de formation mis en ceuvre ont profit6 a plus de 300 magistrats et auxiliaires
dejustice et ont porte sur une mise a niveau g6nerale en plus de sessions de formation
specifiques portant sur le droit des affaires et la nouvelle reglementation mauritanienne.
Cet effort a ete complete par des stages dans des pays limitrophes (S6n6gal, Tunisie, Maroc)
organises par les instituts de formation des magistrats des pays en question, qui ont profite a
12 magistrats et 4 notaires nouvellement installes pour leur permettre un echange d'experience
avec leurs pairs et un renforcement de leurs capacites et m6thodes de travail.
Des proc6dures d'obtention des ag,ements au code des investissements simplifides
La reforme de la simplification des procedures a connu une evolution importante avec la
creation d'un Guichet Unique qui a permis de raccourcir les d6lais de traitement des dossiers
qui ont ete ramenes a 45 jours au maximum alors que par le passe ce d6lai pouvait prendre des
annees.
La revision du code des investissements lui meme a e6 diff6r6e en attendant de finaliser le plan
d'action de la reforme de la fiscalite bien qu'un avant-projet de code revise a ete elabore.
La revision des normes comptables et la revalorisation de la profession des experts comptables
et commissaires aux comptes
- 20-



Le Plan comptable a et revise pour tenir compte de l'evolution economique et le mettre en
conformite avec les standards intemationaux. En meme temps un programme de formation a
permis de renforcer les competences de professionnels et les regles et normes regissant la
profession ont et revisees pour definir les conditions d'acces, les criteres de qualification et I'
organisation et le fonctionnement de l'ordre national des experts comptables. L'ensemble des
nouvelles regles adoptees a permnis de redynamiser le Conseil national de la Comptabilite et P'
ordre national des experts comptables qui tiennent desornais des sessions r6gulieres et sont
appeles a definir les normes de deontologie et a veiller au respect du bon exercice de la
profession. Cet effort dont les resultats sont deja perceptibles concoure a l'amelioration de la
qualite des etats financiers et la fiabilite de l'information financiere et comptable. Cependant
les besoins de formation en comptabilite restent importants.
Un nouveau cadre incitatif du secteur minier
L'assistance du Projet a permis:
i) I'elaboration d'une strat6gie de developpement du secteur minier qui fixe les principes de
gestion du secteur,
ii) la revision du code minier et
iii) la reforme du cadastre minier. Ce nouveau cadre semble adapte a l'evolution du secteur et
le nombre de permis de recherches octroye ces dernieres ann6es a considerablement
augmente. Ces efforts ont debouche sur la mise en place d'un projet specifique d'appui au
developpement du secteur minier.
L'emergence d'un reseau des caisses populaires d'epargne et de credit
Le soutien technique et financier apporte par le Projet a partir de 1997 a la strategie de
micro-finance adoptee par ie Gouvemement a permis d'appuyer les activit6s de la structure d'
encadrement du reseau (PROCAPEC) et de financer certains coats operationnels des
premieres caisses pilotes. Le reseau compte aujourd'hui 8 caisses operationnelles et 2 en cours
d'ouverture pour un volume d'epargne de pres de 300 millions d'ouguiya et 8000 adherants.
Les projections pour les annees futures ont conclu a la fiabilite du reseau a terme qui doit se
prendre en charge totalement, financer sa propre expansion et developper des relations avec le
systeme bancaire.
L'amelioration de l'information sur les risques des operateurs en relation avec le systeme
bancaire
- 21 -



Le renforcement de la Centrale des risques a permis d'introduire l'informatique dans les
methodes de travail alors que precedemment la Centrale 6tait geree manuellement et de
concevoir une application informatique propre. n existe aujourd'hui une base de donnees qui
permet de centraliser P'ensemble des informations concernant les engagements aupres du
systeme bancaire d'un individu ou d'un groupe. Ceci constitue un outil important pour 1'
appreciation des risques encourus. 11 a e  recommand6 que les banques puissent travailler en
reseau avec la BCM pour foumir les informations mais aussi pouvoir consulter la base de
donnees en temps reel. Concemant la centrale des incidents de paiements une base de donnees
a ete con,ue mais les informations ne sont pas encore communiqu6es par les banques qui n'
enregistrent pas les incidents de paiement.
IIL Conclusion
Le Projet a permis de mettre l'accent sur I'int6r& que rev& l'assainissement du cadre 16gal et
reglementaire pour le developpement du secteur priv6 dont la problematique d6passe le seul
cadre des reformes economiques necessaires mais pas suffisantes. A cet egard la reforme
juridique apparait comme un instrument complementaire de la reforme 6conomique compte
tenu de I'intrert que revet le droit dans le fonctionnement d'une societe et la consecration de
la propriete privee mais aussi de sa force comme instrument de changement. Le Gouvernement
Mauritanien conscient de cette realite est determinee a aller de l'avant et compte mettre en
place une reforme profonde du secteur de Ia justice pour creer l'environnementjuridique et
judiciaire qui offre les garanties n6cessair.es au bon exercice et au d6veloppement des activites
prives.
Au niveau institutionnel et proc6dural le Gouvernement a dores et deja adopte un plan d'
action, elabore avec l'assistance technique du FIAS pour eliminer les blocages et obstacles au
developpement du secteur priv6 qui subsistent encore au niveau administratif.
En ce qui concerne la reduction des couits des facteurs de production et l'ouverture de 1'
ensemble de secteurs marchands au secteur prive le Gouvemement a adopte depuis 1998 des
strategies dans les secteurs des telecommunications, de l'6nergie et de l'eau qui consacrent I'
implication du secteur priv6 et visent le d6veloppement des services et la r6duction des tarifs
pour ameliorer la competitivite de 1'economie nationale.
Malgre cet ensemble de reformes ainsi que I'assainissement du cadre macro-economique le
flux d'investissements prives reste faible en Mauritanie et leur niveau actuel ne permet pas d'
atteindre les objectifs de developpement et de r6duction de la pauvrete fixes par les pouvoirs
publics.
Ceci signifie clairement que des strategies appropriees sont encore necessaires pour lever les
obstacles qui subsistent et ameliorer l'attractivit6 du pays pour attirer une masse critique d'
investissements prives.
-22 -



Pour cela le Gouvernement compte e1aborer dans l'immediat avec l'assistance de la Banque
mondiale une strategie de developpement du secteur pnve qui doit favoriser la diversification
des activites productives en partant de la base productive existante et du potentiel de
croissance offert, le renforcement des capacit6s des entreprises notamment les capacites
technologiques et le developpement de leur savoir-faire ainsi que la promotion des
investissements etrangers.
(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers for this project.
(c) Other partners (NCGOs/private sector):
The views of various stakeholders, particularly the financial sector and the private sector were
sought at the time of the ICR mission. Overall, the project outcome is considered positive. The
need for sustained support to consolidate the results achieved by the project was underscored. In
addition to further improvement in the business environment, the pfivate sector would particularly
like to get support for the improvement of their competitiveness at the firm level.
10. Additional Information
ICR Mission Aide-Memoire.
Republique Islamique de Mauritanie
Projet de Renforcement des Capacites pour le Dveloppement du Secteur Prive
et du Secteur Financier (Credit 2730-MAU)
Aide-Memoire de la Mission de Preparation
du Rapport d'Achevement
1.    Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de Francois Nankobogo (Economiste, charge du
projet), Charles Schlumberger (Specialiste du Secteur Financier), et Souleymane Sow (Charge d'
Operations), a s6joume en Mauritanie du 20 juin au ler juillet en vue de preparer le rapport d'achevement
du projet de renforcement des capacites du secteur privd et financier (Cr.2730-MAU) et assister le
Gouvemement pour la finalisation de sa propre contribution au rapport.
2.     La mission remercie S. E. M. Mohamed Ould Nany, Ministre des Affaires Economiques et du
Developpement, S. E. M. Ahmed Salem Ould Merzoug, Ministre de la Justice, S. E. M. Ahamdi Ould
Hamadi, Ministre du Commerce, de l'Artisanat et du Tourisme et, M. Mohamed Ould Oumarou,
Gouvemeur Adjoint de la BCM pour les audiences qu'ils ont bien voulu lui accorder. Elle remercie
egalement le Directeur du projet et son personnel ainsi que l'ensemble des responsables des differentes
composantes, le Directeur du CNROP de Nouadhibou pour leur accueil et leur appui qui ont largement
contribue au succes de la presente mission. Les principales conclusions auxquelles la mission a abouti sont
resumees ci-apres.
I. Evaluation des objectifs du projet
3.     Mis en place en 1995, ce projet appuye par un credit de 4,7 millions de Droits de Tirages
Speciaux, soit l'equivalant de US$ 7,2 millions, visait a: (i) renforcer le secteur financier pour ameliorer les
bancaires et de crddit necessaires au developpement du secteur prive ; (ii) encourager les investisseurs a
saisir les opportunites dans la secteur prive, notamment la peche et les mines, grace a l'amelioration du
droit des affaires, des codes fiscaux, et autres mesures susceptibles d'amnliorer l'environnement global des
- 23 -



affaires.
4.     Ces objectifs, qui avaient aussi le merite d'etre clairs, etaient conformes a la strategie de
developpement de la Mauritanie telle que refletee dans la < Lettre de Politique de developpement du secteur
financier et du secteur prive o> ainsi que de la (< Lettre de Politique de developpement du secteur de la peche
> soumises a la Banque mondiale en appui a la demande de financement du projet en 1995.
II. Mise en oeuvre du projet et resultats
A. Composante secteur financier
5.     La composante secteur financier poursuivait trois activites principales a savoir: (i) mise en place
d'un systeme d'information sur le credit et les paiements bancaires (centrale des risques et centrale des
incidents de paiement); (ii) formation bancaire (pernanente et dipl8mante) et, (iii) stratgie de
developpement du secteur financier.
6.     La centrale des risques est operationnelle depuis octobre 1999. Le systeme permet actuellement de
donner la situation des 2700 clients qui ont un engagement par rapport au systeme bancaire. L'affinement a
meme porte sur le scanning des photos de ces clients et pour d6terminer la concentration du risque, il a
meme ete developpe la notion de ogroupe>> en vue de faire l'interface entre les individus et les entreprises
qui leur appartiennent. Ce demier outil est cependant en cours de finalisation. Quant a la centrale des
incidents de paiement, elle est techniquement prete mais n'est toujours pas alimentee du fait que les
banques commerciales ne documentent pas les incidents. Une interconnexion entre les banques
commerciales et la banque centrale permettrait l'6change des donnees et la consultation en temps r6el.
7.     La formation bancaire s'est poursuivie tout au long du projet. Le centre de formation bancaire
occupe ses nouveaux locaux depuis janvier 2000. L'6quipement et le materiel de formation a e  acquis
avant la cl6ture du projet. Un des acquis majeurs de I'appui du projet sera de permettre au Centre de
Formation Bancaire de Mauritanie d'assurer un maximum de formations sur place et donc de pouvoir
accueillir plus d'dtudiants, etant entendu que l'assurance qualite de la formation sera assur6e par le CFPB
de Paris a travers un accord de partenariat.
8.     L'elaboration de la strategie de developpement du secteur financier n'a pas connu d'evolution
majeure depuis le rapport prepare par AFACOR sur les institutions financieres non bancaires en 1998,
rapport juge insuffisant comme base d'une strategie. L'6quipe de travail mise sur pied ensuite pour
developper ladite strategie n'a pas non plus eu plus de succes malgre la possibilite qu'elle avait de s'
adjoindre un consultant international dont le processus de recrutement n'est intervenu que tres tard par
rapport a la date de cl6ture du projet. Etant donnd ]'importance et l'interet d'une telle stratdgie dans le
contexte actuel de developpement du secteur financier en Mauritanic. La Banque Centrale de Maurianie a
indique sa disponibilite a financer cette etude de strategie si son couit ne depasse pas US$ 50.000 (cinquante
mille dollars); et la mission a encourage le gouvemement a aller de l'avant dans ce sens.
9.     Au cours de la mission de preparation du rapport d'achevement, un travail d'analyse des ecarts
bancaires a e  initie par l'equipe de la Banque mondiale. Des reunions ont eu lieu avec la Banque centrale
et toutes les banques commerciales pour passer en revue la situation du secteur et discuter de la portee de I'
analyse des ecarts bancaires. Les donnees demandees aupres des banques commerciales n'ont ete obtenues
qu'a la fin de la mission. Toutefois, des donnees complementaires sont encore necessaires pour faire une
analyse pertinente.
- 24-



11.    Enfin, le projet a contribue au developpement de la micro-finance a travers la creation d'un reseau
de Caisses populaires d'epargne et de credit (CAPEC) initid par la Banque centrale de Mauritanie en 1997.
L'initiative vise essentiellement les populations a faibles revenus non integrees dans la clientele
traditionnelle des banques commerciales. En plus d'une allocation de $400,000 lors de la revue a
mi-parcours du projet, l'IDA a aussi activement participe a la conception du cadre juridique et financier du
reseau. En depit de la cl6ture du projet IDA, le reseau CAPEC beneficiera des appuis de la Banque
africaine de developpement (BAD) et du Canada (ACDI) dont les concours ont e   mis en place plus
recemment, ainsi que de celles de l'Etat jusqu'en 2003. Malgre les resultats deja atteints (10 caisses
operationnelles en 3 ans et surtout le developpement de la culture d'epargne), leur rentabilite demeure
fragile vu les niveaux encore eleves des subventions et des charges relativement elevees d'exploitation.
12.    Le projet a egalement finance une etude de strategie en matiere de ressources hunaines dans le but
d'analyser la dotation actuelle du reseau en ressources humaines, les processus de recrutement, les
qualifications necessaires pour la gestion d'une institution de micro-finance et la strategie de renforcement
des capacites. La mission a rencontre la Direction de Procapec ainsi que l'equipe des consultants et leur a
fait part de ses commentaires sur le rapport provisoire.
B. Composante Reforme Institutionnelle et Reglementaire du Secteur Prive
13.    Reforme Juridique et Judiciaire. Ce chantier a porte a la fois sur (i) la conception, l'adoption et
['edition des textes; et (ii) le renforcement des capacites. Malgre un retard pris dans la preparation des
textes par rapport au calendrier originellement envisage, une r6forme importante du droit et du systeme
judiciaire mauritanien a e  conduite dans le cadre de ce projet.
14.    Par rapport au calendrier initialement prevu, l'adoption des textes a connu un retard considerable.
Cependant le calendrier lui-meme s'avere avoir ete trop amnbitieux au regard du travail preparatoire requis
pour bien conduire la reforme. L'avantage fondamnental du format finalement retenu est d'avoir permis d'
impliquer des professionnels nationaux dans la reflexion pour tenir compte des realites locales, ce qui a
grandement facilite la validation et l'adoption de neuf textes de Loi portant sur le droit des affaires ainsi qu'
un ensemble de textes d'application.
15.    En matiere de renforcement des capacites, plus de 300 magistrats et auxiliaires de justice ont
beneficie de diverses formnules de formation et de perfectionnement. Ceci a ete  coupl6 avec les visites
effectuees par certains d'entre eux dans les pays de la sous-region pour decouvrir d'autres experiences et
methodes de travai. Cette approche a ete tres appreciee par les beneficiaires, et l'impact sur la facon de
travailler est estime important.
16.    Registre du Commerce. Du travail a ete accompli pour la mise en place du registre du commerce,
mais celui-ci n'est pas encore operationnel. L'ensemble des-etudes prdalables pour son organisation ont ete
elaborees et les locaux devant abriter le registre soient deji disponibles. Toutefois, l'acquisition du logiciel
n'a pas pu se faire dans les delais.
17.    Journal Officiel. L'ensemble des activites prevues ont e  executees, a savoir la parution reguliere
du Journal, l'indexation de l'ensemble des textes depuis 1977 a nos jours et tous les nouveaux textes le sont
au fur et a mesure. Son installation dans de nouveaux locaux accessibles au public a 6te differee puisque la
refection des locaux n'a pas pu etre realisee avant la cl6ture du projet. Du fait que la Direction Generale de
la Legislation (DGLTE) a une mission allant au-dela du Journal Officiel, une etude de sa restructuration a
ete elaboree. L'adoption du projet de decret portant revision de ses missions en vue de l'adjonction d'une
structure chargee de l'indexation ainsi que des modalites de son contact avec les usagers devrait etre faite
- 25 -



dans le courant du mois de juillet 2000.
18.    Comptabilite et Audit. Les trois activites suivantes etaient prevues dans cette composante a savoir
(i) la reorganisation et la nonnalisation du statut et de la profession comptable, (ii) la r6vision du plan
comptable, et (iii) la formation des comptables afin de leur permettre de fournir des prestations de qualite.
Les deux premieres activites sont terminees depuis environ deux ans. Le nouveau Plan Comptable
Mauritanien a e  edite et entierement livre et le format d'edition donne entiere satisfaction dans la mesure
ou il permettra de faire, au besoin, des revisions selectives.Quant a la fonnation des comptables, il est
espere que le travail initie au cours du projet pourra etre poursuivi a travers les cabinets de comptabilite
prives.
19.    Guichet unique. A partir de juillet 1997, le guichet unique, ou sont representees l'ensemble des
administrations concemres, est la seule institution a laquelle l'investisseur s'adresse pour obtenir les
avantages du code des investissements. En moyenne, un avis definitif est donne a toute requete dans un
delai de 45 jours. Depuis juin 1999, une cinquantaine d'agr6ments a ete accord6e, eliminant ainsi les retards
qui avaient et accumules au cours des mois precedents.
20.    Code des investissements. Un projet de nouveau Code des Investissements, qui remplacerait celui
de 1989, a e  finalise en octobre 1999. Cependant, il n'a pas atteint le stade d'adoption en raison de
l'evolution recente en matiere de politique economique consistant a preferer le r6gime de droit commun a
une multiplicite de regimes d'incitations fiscales. Un forum d'echange sur cette evolution pemnettrait aux
operateurs economiques de comprendre les avantages intrinseques a la r6forme fiscale en cours. En
complement a cela, le Gouvemement a entrepris une 6tude sur le taux marginal d'imposition pour mieux
identifier les actions complementaires de reforme et d'incitation a l'investissement. Les resultats devraient
etre disponibles vers le mois d'octobre 2000.
C. Composante Mines
14.    L'objectif poursuivi consistait a la mise en place d'un environnement propice a la promotion de
l'interet des operateurs prives pour le secteur a travers (i) la definition d'une Declaration de Politique
minire claire ainsi que la r6vision du Code minier et de la fiscalite du secteur, (ii) la r6organisation de la
Direction des Mines et la revision du cadastre minier et, (iii) la formation du personnel de la Direction des
Mines. L'ensemble des objectifs ci-dessus ont pu 8tre realises a telle enseigne qu'une operation de
Renforcement Institutionnel du Secteur Minier -- Credit 3206 --, finance par l'IDA va consolider l'appui
fourni par le projet. Ceci se traduit par un inter8t marqu6 d'investisseurs prives dans le secteur des mines.
Ainsi l'investissement dans le secteur a e  de l'ordre de US$ 10 millions en 1999 contre moins de 2
millions en 1995.
D. Composante P&he
15.    Cette composante comportait deux activites: (i) Etude sur les ressources halieutiques et les flux de
devises lies A I'exportation; et (ii) Appui au Centre national de recherches oceanographiques et des p8ches
(CNROP).
16. Le Bureau Unique de Contr8le (BUC). Bien que tous les inputs aient ete foumis (etude, assistance
technique, foumiture des equipements infomnatiques et logiciel...), le BUC n'a pas pu devenir operationnel
avant la cl6ture du projet car l'interconnexion des differentes sources d'infofn:ation (douanes, BCM,
MPEM et CNROP) n'est toujours pas au point. Dans ce contexte, des mesures adequates devraient 8tre
- 26 -



prises pour assurer cette fonctionnalite. En l'occurrence, il est necessaire de s'assurer que le consultant
charge de cette tache la mene jusqu'au bout.
17.  L'appui au CNROP. Celui-ci visait le renforcement des capacites dans les questions d'
environnement et de controle de la qualite pour la confornite aux normes des marches d'exportation
notamment. La mission s'est rendue a Nouadhibou pour mieux comprendre les missions de cette institution
et les raisons pour lesquelles I'appui n'a pas pu etre realise. II est apparu que le CNROP n'a pas pu
beneficier des appuis initialement envisages faute d'infornation et d'appui approprie de la part de 1'
interface du projet au sein du Ministere des Peches et de I'Economie Maritime, notamment en matiere de
passation des marches. Grace aux appuis de l'Union Europeenne et du Japon, le CNROP a pu ameliorer
ses capacites de contr6le de conform ite aux normes de qualite intemationales. II a donne les autorisations a
environ 80 entreprises exportatrices et il delivre les certificats de salubrite. Par ailleurs, il a pu realiser en
1998. sur financement de la Cooperation francaise, une btude sur la pollution marine.
E. Gestion du Projet
18.    La mission a procede a la revue, par echantillonnage, de la gestion du projet. Elle a en particulier
revu certaines Demandes de Retrait de Fonds dont les justificatifs sont disponibles. En ce qui conceme les
dossiers de passation des marches, les procedures sont en general respectees. L'audit du projet au 31 mai
2000 a deja ete realisee. Compte tenu de la complexite de ce projet et du nombre eleve de composantes, I'
unite de gestion du projet a fait preuve d'une grande rigueur aussi bien dans la conduite des differentes
composantes que la gestion proprement dite des ressources.
19.    Situation du Credit. A fin juin 2000, le niveau de decaissement du projet est de l'ordre de 92%,
soit DTS 4,31 millions sur un credit de 4,7 millions.
III.    Principaux enseignements.
20.    Les resultats satisfaisants qui ont ete atteints dans le cadre de ce projet de renforcement des
capacites pour le developpement du secteur prive et du secteur financier sont le fait d'un engagement
gouvemnemental soutenu et d'une collaboration etroite entre les autorites mauritaniennes et la Banque
mondiale.
21.    Quatre principales lecons peuvent etre tirees de 1'experience:
*      La qualite de la participation des partenaires dans tout programme de d6veloppement est le garant
du succes de sa mise en oeuvre. Ceci a e  particulierement illustre dans le cas de ce projet par le mode de
conduite de la reforme juridique. II aura fallu impliquer et consulter les experts de la loi islamique pour
pouvoir regler les conflits potentiels entre la tradition et la modernite dans le processus de reforme lgale,
particulerement le code de commerce.
*      Quelle que soit la qualite de la coordination, la selectivite dans la formulation d'activites a conduire
dans le cadre d'un projet est essentielle pour la qualite de son execution. Ce projet de renforcement des
capacites du secteur prive et du secteur financier avait un nombre trop eleve de structures impliquees dans
1'ex6cution: Banque centrale, Direction de la Promotion de l'Investissement au Ministeres des Affaires
Economiques et du Developpement, Direction de la Tutelle des Entreprises Publiques au Ministere des
Finances, Ministere du Commerce, Ministere de la Justice, Direction de la Legislation, Direction de la
Geologie et des Mines au Ministere des Mines, Ministere des Peches et de I'Economie maritime, Centre de
Recherches Oceanographiques et des Peches. L'Unite de Coordination du Projet, malgre son efficacite dans
- 27 -



le suivi des differentes activites, ne pouvait pas faire avancer tout le programme au rythme souhaite. Une
limitation du nombre de chantiers aurait facilite l'ex6cution et mene a de meilleurs resultats.
*      Tout changement institutionnel demande une periode de temps assez longue pour pouvoir s'operer
et s'enraciner. Le programme appuye par ce projet impliquait des transformations fondamentales,
susceptibles de se materialiser pleinement quand les capacites auraient ete durablement renforcees. La
courte duree de ce projet et ses ressources limit6es ne permettaient pas de faire beaucoup plus que ce qui a
e  realise. Toutefois, un appui continu et sans longue interruption est necessaire pour pouvoir garder et
consolider les acquis.
*      Les incitations a I 'investissement ne doivent pas etre reduites au regime fiscal special. Dans la
mesure obi la Mauritanie a engage une action de r6forme fiscale en profondeur qui permettra d'avoir un
regime commun incitatif, il faudra ajuster, le moment venu le contenu du code des investissements pour
mettre l'accent sur les avantages decoulant d'un environnement stable, sans entraves administratives, avec
une faible fiscalite, la s6curite du droit de propriet et des couts concurrentiels.
22.    Dans 1'ensemble la performance de 1'emprunteur tout comme celle de la Banque sont satisfaisantes.
Fait a Nouakchott le ler Juillet 2000
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Private sector promoted and business
environment improved through:
1. reduced risk and transaction costs in the  - Improved ftow of hnfbrmation between  - Improved flow of information between
financial sector with banking sector risk  banks thanks to operational credit risk and   banks for risk management has improved.
management databases, and improved    borrowers arreers database.
quality service through banking training;
- Upgraded quality of bank servioes owing to - Availability of well trained bank employees
better Improved skls                  has improved quality and coverage of
banking sector, number of commercial banks
Increased from 4 to 7.
- Microfinance scheme established, allowing
access to financial services to low income   - Microfinance network increased to 12
people.                               regional institutions (CAPECs) with
sustainability potential.
2. modernized pnvate sector institutional and - Accountants and auditors profession  - Same as last PSR
regulatory framework, including accounting  revitalized and providing services to the
standards, legal reform, mining sector and   private sector, using the new accounting
fishing sector support.               plan.
- Improved business environment ensured by - Effectiveness of legal reform and alignment
modem business law, in ine with       to intemational standards represent major
international standards; improved     improvement in business environment;
effectiveness of the judiciary and access to  improved effectiveness of the judiciary and
legal information.                    access to legal information
- Capacity strengthened In the Ministry of    - Effective administration of the mining sector
Mining and sector management tools    and predictable environment for private
modemized. Increased number of licenses.  operators. Increased number of licenses
- Tracking system of foreign exchange flows
- Improved tracking of foreign exchange  from fishing sector in place but needing
flows from fishing sector.            further improvement for an effecfive network
among institutions involved.
Output Indicators:
1. FINANCIAL SECTOR                   The "centrabe des risques" had 2699 files    The database has over 3,000 entries, i.e.
A. Credit nsk information improved:   processed by the closing date. The "centrale largely more than the onginal performance
processing about 250 files in each database  des incidents de paiemenrt had much less  target even though the system became
per year, during the first three years of  files because of insufficent reporting by  operational late.
operation.                            commercial banks.
B. Training of bankers: (i) professional  (i) Professional trainers was provided to  About 275 bankers trained since the
training of about 26 bankers, including  about 200 bankers, including students and   beginning of the project.
students and trainers; (ii diploma training of  trainers; (ii) diploma training of bankers at the
an about 40 bankers per year, at the CFPB,  CFPB in Nouakchott has just started.
Nouakchott.
C. Banking sector access: prepare strategy  A financial strategy paper was produced by  Same as last PSR. Central Bank indicated it
for sector development of medium and long  a local consuitant. Its quality needed an  would finance the financial sector strategy
term financing and establish microfinance   improvement which was stil considered by   study.
network.                              the closing date. The support to the
micro-finance scheme, initiated in 1997,
helped develop a network of 10 "caisses
populaires d'pargne et de cr6dit", of which 6
were already profitable.
- 29 -



II. PRIVATE SECTOR                    - #) The status of accourntn profesion, i.e. Same as last PSR.
A. Accounting standards modemized and    ordre des experts comptabbb was enacted
accounting profession revitalizd through    in 1998. (1 The new accounting plan Is
implementation of new accounting plan and  being implmnted In bott the pubbc and
training of over 24 accountants per year in   private setors. Ill) Training of accountants
96-97.                                started In 999 and Is berg carred out by
the private sctor.
B. Chamber of commerce modemized and   - Law enacted in Janualy 2000; no    The reform of the Chamber of Commerce
250 to 600 enterpres joining between 1996 membersNp yet.                    was delayed. The law restructuring the CCIA
and 1998                                                                    was passed in January 2000, and fhrther
progress still hnges on the adoption of a the
implementation decree. No eleions held yet
C. Legal reform completed: (i) enactment of () Commercial law enacted In January 2000, Same as last PSR. Implementation decrees
new commercial legiatlon and legal texts   and effectiveness In January 2001. (Ii)  for the commerdal code still pending.
liberalizing the profssions of court  Intemratlonl businetss convntions ratified In
auxiliaries; (ii) ratfication of major  1997
international business conventions.
(iii) training of magistrates and auxiarles of  (ii) 377 magletate trained and 191  Quantitative targets for trairing were met and
justice; (Iv) regular pubicatIon of Joumal    auxillHaes of Jutic trained; (iv) offical  the govemment plans to sudain the effbrt.
Offciel and indexation of Mauritanian laws.  buietin regularly published and laws indexed. Official bulletin publdised regularly and legal
information center to become operational.
Ill. MINING SECTOR
(i) GOM's adoption of a mining sector  Policy paper adopted In 19987 and mining   Satisfactory performance under the project
development policy letter; (ii) enactment of a  code enacted in 1998; cadastral procedures and achievements sustained under the
new mining code; (ii) upgraded minig  in place in 1998.                     ongoing mining project.
cadastre;
IV. FISHING SECTOR
(i) Capacity of the CNROP developed and (ii) Capacity building for the CNROP not done;  CNROP benefited from other donors!
monitoring of fish export control improved.  Fish exports montoring system operational  assistance; Foreign exchange flows trackdng
but still needing enhancement        system (Bureau Unique de Contr6le) in place
but still needing enhancement
End of project
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
1. Financial Sector                                   1.08            1.30           120
2. Private Sector                                      3.54           2.79            79
3. Mining Sector                                       1.14           1.05            92
4. Fishing Sector                                     0.50            0.25            50
5. Project Coordination Unit                          0.53            0.49            92
6. Project Audit                                      0.21            0.19            90
7. PPF Refinancing                                    0.40            0.05            13
Total Baseline Cost                                    7.40           6.12
Physical Contingencies                               0.29
Price Contingencies                                  0.23
Total Project Costs              7.92            6.12
Total Financing Required               7.92            6.12
The undisbursed PPF balance was canceled upon project effectiveness.
Project Costs b Procurement Arran ements (A  raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0 .00)      (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.40          0.40         0.01          0.00         0.81
(0.40)       (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                   0.00          0.00         5.24          0.00         5.24
(0.00)       (0.00)        (4.85)        (0.00)       (4.85)
4. Operating Costs            0.00          0.00         1.45          0.00         1.45
(0.00)       (0.00)        (1.25)        (0.00)       (1.25)
5. PPF Refinancing            0.00          0.00         0.40          0.00         0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.40)        (0.00)       (0.40)
6. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      0.40          0.40         7.10          0.00         7.90
(0.40)       (0.30)        (6.50)        (0.00)       (7.20)
Figures are rounded.
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                      0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                      0.00          1.07         0.20          0.00         1.27
(0.00)       (0.96)        (0.14)        (0.00)       (1.10)
- 31 -



3. Services                      2.27           0.67           1.88           0.00           4.82
(2.27)         (0.67)         (1.55)         (0.00)        (4.49)
4. Operating Costs               0.00           0.00           0.69           0.00           0.69
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.48)         (0.00)        (0.48)
5. PPF Refinancing               0.05           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.05
(0.05)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.05)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         2.32            1.74          2.77           0.00           6.83
________________________        (2.32)          (1.63)         (2.17)         (0.00)        (6.12)
ICR mission estimates.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component'       Q.  *:.A !i&.........  4         Z           t          E       m
Financial Sector          1.03      0.06                 1.30       0.08              126.2  133.3
Private Sector            3.23      0.30                 2.79       0.25               86.4   83.3
Mining Sector             1.00      0.13                 1.00       0.08              100.0  61.5
Fishing Sector            0.45      0.05                 0.25       0.03               55.6   60.0
Project Coord. Unit       0.43      0.10                 1.21       0.08              281.4  90.0
Project Audit Unit        0.20      0.10                            0.09               0.0    90.0
PPF Financing             0.40                                                         0.0
Price & Physical          0.47      0.01                                               0.0    0.0
Contingency
ICR mission estimates.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Given the nature of this project which was a technical assistance operation, there was no economic analysis
carried out. Nevertheless, the project had a number of economic benefits, albeit indirect, including
productivity gains induced by capacity building activities and increased private investrnent resulting fiom
improved business environment, particularly in the mining sector.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Pr. t Ccle                 No. of Person and Specialty               Pderormance Rtmng
( e.g. 2 Econiosts, 1 FMS. etc.) P  Implmentatibn     Deelop eXn
MontW-Year.C.     n       Scal       ..                   Pors.             Obje.t..e..
Identification/Preparation
January 93                    6   Financial Economist, Financial
Specialist, Country Economist,
Lawyer, Mining Expert,
Operations Analyst
Appraisal/Negotiation
March/Apnl 95                 8   Financial Economist,
Financial Specialist,
Country Economist, Lawyer,
Mining Expert, Operations
Analyst, Procurement
Specialist, Disbursement
Officer.
Supervision
July 95                       1  Financial Economist                   S                 S
November 95                   1  Sr. Economist                         S                 S
November 96                   3  Economist, Financial Analyst,         U                 S
Counsel
March 97                      2  Counsel, Sr. Economist                S                 S
June 97 - Mid-tenn            4  Technical Manager, Financial          S                 S
Review                            Analyst, Economist, Mining
Specialist
September 97                  3  Economist, Financial Specialist,      S                 S
Sr. Economist
October 97                    2  Economist, Counsel                    S                 S
March 98                      2  Counsel, Sr. Economist                S                 S
March 99                      4  S. Economist, Private Sector          S                 S
Development Specialist,
Operations Officer, Economist
December 99                   2  Economist, Operations Officer         S                 S
ICR
June 2000                     3   Economist, Financial Sector          S                 S
Specialist, Operations
Officer
(b) ,Sta.ff
- 34 -



Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/atest Estimate
__No. Staffweeks-            US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation                10.8                        25.8
AppraisaUNegotiation                     23.6                         51.4
Supervision                              124.5                       252.9
ICR                                        4.6                        17.5
Total                                    163.5                       347.6
- 35 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N-Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
OZMacro policies                           O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
OI Sector Policies                         OH  * SU O M  O N  O NA
WI Physical                                O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
W Financial                                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
El Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
FI Environmental                           OH  O SU *M   O N  O NA
,Social
O Poverty Reduction                 OH  OSUOM  ON  * NA
OI Gender                           O H O SU O M O N * NA
l Other (Please specify)            OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
W Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
W Public sector management                 0 H  * SuI 0 M  O N  C) NA
WI Other (Please specify)                  0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
The overall project rating for the achievement of objectives/outputs of components is satisfactory.
Substantial progress was achieved for sector policies, institutional development, private sector development
and public sector management. Given that the formulation of a second phase financial sector development
strategy and the support to CNROP were did not fully meet the expectations, achievement of
objectives/outputs is rated modest for financial and environmental policies.
- 36 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
* Lending                                           OHS OS OU OCHU
* Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
X (Overall                                          O HS * s   C u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
E Preparation                                       OHS *S   C  U  O HU
r, Government implementation performance            C HS * S   C U  C HU
Z Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  C  u  0 HU
h Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
The performance of both the Bank and the borrower is satisfactory.
- 37-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Aide-Memoire and Back-to-Office Reports
2. Consultant Reports
3. Consultant Studies included in the Project
4. Borrower's Evaluation Report
5. Staff Appraisal Report
- 38 -



