CREDIT NUMBER 2730 MAU
Development Credit Agreement
(Private Sector Development and Capacity Building Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      22 , 1995


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2730 MAU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               22. , 1995, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
OF MAURITANIA (the Borrd er) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)    the Association has received two letters from the Borrower, dated
April 30, 1995, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
improve the Borrower's financial and private sectors and the Borrower's fishing sector,
respectively, (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution
of the Program; and
(C)    the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)    The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)    The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of
any country which is not a member of the Association or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to
the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations."


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)    "ouguiya(s)" and "UM" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(b)     "PCU" means the project coordination unit within the MP to be
maintained until the completion of the execution of the Project to coordinate Project
implementation in the manner referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement;
(c)     "BCM" means the Central Bank of the Borrower;
(d)    "SME" means small and medium enterprises operating within the territory
of the Borrower;
(e)     "JO" means Journal Officiel, the official legal gazette of the Borrower;
(f)     "MP" means the Ministere du Plan of the Borrower;
(g)     "MF" means the Minist6re des Finances of the Borrower;
(h)    "MC" means the Minist6re du Commerce de l'Artisanat et du Tourisme
of the Borrower;
(i)     "MJ" means the Minist6re de la Justice of the Borrower;
(j)     "MMI" means the Minist6re des Mines et da l'Industrie of the Borrower;
(k) "MPEM" means the Minist6re des P6ches et de l'Economie Maritime of
the Borrower;
(1)     "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a July 9, 1993 letter by the
Association, confirmed on August 3, 1993 by the Borrower;
(M)     "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;


﻿-3-
(n)    "Project Director" means the head of PCU appointed in accordance with
the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(o)    "CNROP" means the Centre National de Recherche Oc6anographique et
de Peche" of the Borrower.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to four million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 4,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)    The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain
in ouguiyas a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)    Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999, or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set


﻿-4-
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1 %) per annum.
(b)    The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)    The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 cf 1 %) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2005 and ending February 15, 2035.
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2015, shall be
one percent (1 %) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)    Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five
consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification


﻿-5-
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained
under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)    If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE M
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the obiectives of the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Pr,ject with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate geological,
pelagic, administrative, financial, accounting and legal professional practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for the Project.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project:
(a)    open and maintain in ouguiyas in the name of the Project an account (the
Project Account) in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)    deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equivalent to $50,000;
(c)    thereafter, deposit into the Project Account not later than March 31,
June 30, September 30 and December 31 in each year during the implementation of the
Project, the amount necessary to replenish the Project Account to the amount of $50,000
equivalent or such greater amount as may be required for the purposes of the Project; and


﻿-6-
(d)    ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to
paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be used only to make payments to meet expenditures
made or to be made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the
Project not financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Article IX of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Association a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, designed to preserve the achievements of the Project;
(b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)    thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association's comments
thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)    The Borrower shall:
(i)     have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section including those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;


﻿-7-
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)     maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)   enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records; and
(iv)    ensure that: (A) such records and accounts are audited semi-
annually according to the procedures referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section; (B) a certified copy of the
auditor's report be submitted to the Association within six (6)
months after the end of such semiannual audit report; and (C)
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such auditing period, together with the procedures and
internal controls involved in their preparation, may be relied
upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)    the Project Director referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph;
(b)    the independent auditor referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement,
acceptable to the Association, has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)    the Borrower has opened the Project Account referred to in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement and deposited therein an initial amount equivalent to $50,000; and
(d)    an accounting system, satisfactory to the Association, has been established
and an accountant with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association has
been recruited.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re du Plan
BP 238
Nouakchott
Mauritania
Cable address:             Telex:
MINIPLAN                          5540 MTN
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:             Telex:
INDEVAS                           248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.                   82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN  WITTESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By   O/V
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /6/44
a4Regional Vice President
-~                   Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Goods and vehicles                 500,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(2) Consulting services              2,000,000          100%
(3) Training                         1,000,000          100%
(4) Operating costs                    800,000          90% until
December 31,
1997 and
70% thereafter
(5) Refunding of Project               300,000           Amounts due pur-
Preparation Advance                                 suant to Section
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                        100,000
TOTAL                      4,700,000
2.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;


﻿- 12 -
(b)     the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)     the term "Operating Costs" means recurring costs required for the Project
in respect of the following:
(i)    per diem and overnight allowances for contractual staff;
(ii)   operating vehicles, premises and equipment;
(iii)  maintenance of vehicles, premises, equipment, and office
facilities; and
(iv)   office administration and communication.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.     The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures made for: (a) goods, vehicles,
training and operating costs under contracts not exceeding $150,000 equivalent; (b) for
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (c) for
individual consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to elaborate and implement policy and regulatory
reforms in the Borrower's financial, legal, mining and fisheries sectors to promote
private sector development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:
Part A:       Financial Sector
1.     Upgrading of information databases related to credit risks through the
strengthening of: (a) a system of centralized commercial-bank credit information
(Centrale des Risques); and (b) a regularly updated database on commercial-bank
borrower arrears (Centrale des I6pay).
2.     Provision of training through the center for banking training, including: (a)
professional training for commercial bank employees; and (b) a diploma course for the
specialized training of bank personnel.
3.     Formulation of a strategy for the second phase of the development of the
Borrower's financial sector through: (a) the preparation of a strategy paper aimed at
implementing the second phase of the Borrower's financial sector development program;
and (b) the production of promotional material for new financial institutions and
instruments, as necessary.
Part B:       Private Sector Institutional and Regulatory Framework
1.     Upgrading of the Borrower's accounting and auditing framework to improve
quality and effectiveness of monitoring of financial accounts and the reporting thereon
through:
(a)    Carrying out a study to examine ways to reorganize the accounting
profession and development of recommendations for modifying rules and standards of the
practice of accounting and auditing in the territory of the Borrower.
(b)     Revision of the Borrower's Code and Plan Comptable to bring them in
line with current internationai standards.


﻿- 14 -
(c)     Carrying out of a training program to enable accounting technicians and
auditors with basic qualifications to upgrade their skills.
2.     Support to the Chamber of Commerce through:
(a)     reorganization and strengthening of the Borrower's Chamber of
Commerce to become an autonomous organization, capable of representing and
supporting the interests of the private sector, particularly SMEs; and
(b)     training of Chamber of Commerce personnel.
3.     Judicial and Legal Reform through:
(a)     review of existing, and drafting of, new regulations, in French and
Arabic, peitaining to: (i) commercial code, civil code, and company law; and
(ii) investment code, commercial and civil procedural law, and judicial organization,
including the status of the auxiliaires de justice and court experts;
(b)     strengthening systems for enterprise legislation (r6gistre de commerce)
and for the registration of liens and other debt collaterals;
(c)     training of judges and the auxiliaires de justice in the areas of the law
referred to under paragraph (a) above;
(d)     strenghening of the JO and editing of a gazette for a regular publication
of sentences rendered by courts and tribunals of the Borrower; and
(e)     establishment of a computerized database of the laws of the Borrower.
4.     Feasibility Study of a Tax Free R6ame for Exporters
Carrying out a feasibility study for a tax-free r6gime for exporters and
development of a scheme for its implementation.
5.     Mining Sector
Strengthening of the mining sector framework through:
(a)     formulation of a strategy paper for the development of the mining sector;


﻿- 15 -
(b)     revision of the Mining Code (including mining taxation);
(c)     reorganization of the Direction des Mines and training of its staff; and
(d)     carrying out of a study with a view to establishing a mining cadastre.
6.     Fisheries Sector
(a)     Assessment of the fisheries sector's resource base through an analysis of
the quantity and quality of fisheries yields, including the collection of statistics pertaining
to species by weight and mark-tet price, quantities of fish exported by country of
destination, and importing enterprises;
(b)     carrying out a study to develop a system to monitor foreign exchange
flows in and out of the fisheries sector on a regular basis; and
(c)     provision of technical assistance to CNROP inter alia in the fields of
ecological management and quality control of fish exports.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Part A:       General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:       International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B, namely, that
goods shall be grouped into packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000.
Part C:       Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part D:       Other Procurement Procedures
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or less per contract and $400,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.


﻿- 17 -
Part E:        Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.     Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
2.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.     Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other
standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets,
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the employment
of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However,
said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent
or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual consultants
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall empower the PCU        within MP to coordinate the
implementation of: (i) Part A of the Project through BCM; (ii) Part B. 1 of the Project
through MF; (iii) Part B.2 of the Project through MC; (iv) Part B.3 of the Project
through MJ, the Secretariat General du Gouvernement and MP; (v) Part B.4 and B.5 of
the Project through MMI; and (vi) Part B.6 through MPEM.
2.     (a)    The PCU shall be headed by a Project Director whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association; and
(b)     the Borrower shall maintain the PCU with suitably qualified and
experienced staff in adequate numbers, throughout the duration of the Project.
3.     The Borrower, through its appropriate ministries and the PCU, shall:
(a)     undertake the studies referred to in Parts B.1, B.4, and B.6 of the
Project with due and professional diligence; furnish a copy of each study to the
Association within three months of each respective studies completion; consult with the
Association on the findings of such studies and carry out their recommendations with due
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account
the Association's comments thereon;
(b)     undertake all action necessary to disseminate the conclusions of the
studies carried out under the Project to the public, including through appropriate
workshops and conferences held periodically for interested parties and the printing and
distribution of short publications made available to the public free of charge; and
(c)     take all necessary action to: (i) meet the monitoring indicators for Project
performance; and (ii) comply with the Implementation Plan.
2.     (a)    The Borrower and the Association shall jointly undertake, not later than
June 30 of each year until completion of the Project, an in-depth review of Project
implementation (hereinafter referred to as the annual review or, in the case of the review
to be held not later than July 31, 1997, the mid-term review), during which they shall
exchange views on all matters related to the progress of the Project, the Program and the
performance by the Borrower of its obligations under this Agreement, including, but not
limited to: (i) status of monitoring indicators for Project performance; (ii) progress in
implementation of policy measures and their impact on SMEs, the accounting profession


﻿- 19 -
and the mining sector; (iii) progress in all studies undertaken; (iv) the progress reports
and expenditure statements of the current year referred to under sub-paragraph (d) of this
paragraph; and (v) the Project work program and budget (including counterpart funding)
for the following year.
(b)     Not later than two months prior to the mid-term review, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project and the
Program, and giving details, in particular, on the matters to be addressed at the mid-term
review and referred to in sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, including proposals, if any,
to improve the effectiveness of Project implementation.
(c)     Following the mid-term review, the Borrower undertakes to promptly and
diligently take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any shortcomings noted
in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other measures as may have
been agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association in furtherance of the
objectives of the Project and the Program.
(d)      Without limitation to Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and to the
preceding sub-paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this paragraph, the Borrower shall,
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, furnish to the Association for its
review and comments, not later than October 31 until completion of the Project, annual
reports on the progress and implementation of the Project, including: (i) status of Project
implementation indicators; (ii) summary of implementation progress of each Project
component enumerated in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (iii) financial statements of
Project expenditures; (iv) updated procurement and implementation schedules; and (v)
status of contract advertising, bidding awards and completion dates.
3.     By no later than September 30, 1995, the Borrower, through PCU, shall prepare
a shortlist of consultants for: (a) the design and carrying out of the training programs
under Parts A.2, B.1, B.2, B.3, and B.4 of the Project; and (b) promptly thereafter, shall
engage consultants for these purposes under contracts awarded in accordance with
paragraph 1 of Section II of Schedule 3 of this Agreement.
4.     By no later than December 31, 1995 the Borrower shall adopt new bylaws
acceptable to the Association to transform the Chamber of Commerce into an autonomous
agency, with full authority and mandate to represent the private sector, in a manner
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)    the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4) set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)    the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term  "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b)     (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 21 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have
been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a)
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit
reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
(d)     once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the


﻿-22-
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the.
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit
by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)     If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)     The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)     Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the oriainal in the archives of the International
-Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


