Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13595
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
(LOAN 2784-CHA)
OCTOBER 12, 1994
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bY recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name - Renminbi
Currency Unit - Yuan (Y)
At appraisal (1987): $1.00 = Y 3.70
At PCR (1994):    $1.00 = Y 8.70
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  = 3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)  = 35.31 cubic feet
1 kilogram (kg)  = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNC       -   Computerized Numerically Controlled
ERR       -   Economic Rate of Return
GOC       -   Government of China
ICB       -   International Competitive Bidding
IRR       -   Internal Rate of Return
MMBI    -   Ministry of Machine Building Industry
NC        -   Numerically Controlled
PCR       -   Project Completion Report
PIU       -   Project Implementation Unit
SBMEIA  -   Shanghai Bureau of Mechanical and Electrical Industries Administration
SMG       -   Shanghai Municipal Government
SMTC    -   Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation
SMTW    -   Shanghai Machine Tool Works
SPC       -   State Planning Commission
TCC       -   Technical Cooperation Credit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:        Project Completion Report on China - Shanghai Machine Tool
Proiect (Loan 2784-CHM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on China - Shanghai Machine Tool Project (Loan
2784-CHA), prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office, with Part II prepared by the
Borrower.
The project, approved in March 1987 and closed in December 1993, consisted of four
subcomponents: (i) plant rehabilitation and modernization covering four cast iron foundries, one
forging plant, six accessory equipment manufacturing plants, five metal cutting machine manufacturing
plants, two metal forming machine manufacturing plants and two research institutes; (ii) technology
transfer; (iii) management system reform; and (iv) training programs. These plants and research
institutes were owned by two state owned enterprises.
The PCR finds that, despite the absence of an explicit sector policy reform and conditionality, the
project achieved most of its objectives. The quality of foundry and forged products improved
substantially; the production of Numerically Controlled (NC) machines quadrupled; there were spill over
effects on other manufacturing sectors, especially suppliers of parts and components; and exports of
machine tools increased substantially. The ex-post economic rate of return is estimated at 16.6% for
Shanghai Machine Tools Corporation and 19.4% for Shanghai Machine Tool Works. The project
realized much of its institutional development objectives including transfer of technology, the creation
of a management information system for each enterprise and the training for nearly 2230 persons.
Based on the above findings, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory, and its institutional
development impact as substantial. Given the sustained process of market-oriented reform in the
industrial sector; the widespread dissemination and absorption of imported technology; and the existence
of a vibrant and dynamic industrial market, skilled management and sound financial situation at the
enterprise level, the sustainability of this project is rated as likely.
The PCR is of satisfactory quality. An audit is planned.
Robert Picciotto
By H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
|his document has a retricted distribution and nay be used by recipients only in the perfornunce of their official duties. It contenta
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT (LOAN 2784-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface    . ......................................                                 i
Evaluation Summary .....................................  ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .     .................................                   1
Background  .     ...................................                      1
Project Objectives and Description  ......................                 2
Project Design and Organization  .......................                   2
Project Implementation  .........          ....................            4
Project Results  .     .................................                   5
Project Sustainability  .........        .....................             7
Bank Performance  ...........            .....................             7
Borrower Performance  .........            ....................            8
Project Relationship  ..........         .....................             8
Consulting Services  ..........          .....................             9
Project Documentation and Data  .......................                    9
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ....   10
Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part IH ........    10
Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I ...............    10
Evaluation of Bank's Performance  ........         ..............    13
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance  .....          ...........    13
PART Im: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  .....................                            15
Related Bank Loans ..............................                         15
Project Timetable ..............................                          15
Loan Disbursements .........            ......................    16
Project Implementation  .........          ....................    17
Project Costs and Financing  ..........................    18
Project Results  ...........          .......................   21
Status of Covenants  ..........          .....................    25
Use of Bank Resources ........            .....................    25






CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT (LOAN 2784-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Shanghai Machine Tool
Project in China, for which Loan 2784-CHA for $100.0 million equivalent was approved
on March 3, 1987. The loan was closed on December 31, 1993 after a one-year extension
of the closing date.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations
Division of Country Department II of the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR started during the Bank's PCR mission in December
1993, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Loan Agreement,
the Project Agreement, the supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and the
beneficiary enterprises (SMTC and SMTW), and internal memoranda of the Bank.






- 11 -
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT (LOAN 2784-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMlMARY
Project Objectives
1.          The objectives of the project were: product rationalization and product
upgrading; modernization and rehabilitation of manufacturing facilities; expansion of the
design and engineering capabilities; and improvements in management systems for the
machine tool sector in Shanghai.
Project Design
2.          As a first-generation industrial project in the Bank's China portfolio, the
project design was simple and focused on technological restructuring of the project
enterprises. There were no financial intermediaries or agents, and the loan was directly
onlent by the Borrower to the two project enterprises: Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation
(SMTC) and Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SMTW). This project concept may be
understood in the context of political and economic environments that were not ripe for
large-scale experimentation at the time of the project preparation.
3.          Under the circumstances, the project was well prepared and designed. The
project was prepared by numerous Bank missions and on the basis of feasibility studies that
provided guidelines on restructuring the project enterprises technologically. Technology
transfer agreements were negotiated in the early stages, and training as well as investment
needs were adequately addressed. However, the project could have been improved in the
areas of corporate building and project scope.  Although building an integrated
management framework was an important first step for SMTC which was transformed
from an administrative agency to a corporate headquarters, the project design did not fully
address this issue. As a result, the transformation was delayed as SMTC's 45 subsidiary
factories individually entered into management contracts with the Shanghai Municipal
Government (SMG). It was only in the later phase of the project implementation that
SMTC was able to consolidate its financial operations. The project design could also have
been improved in the areas of modern management building by addressing organizational
behavior, business strategies and managerial finances of the project enterprises.  In
addition, there was no clear economic rationale presented for excluding almost two thirds



- iii -
of the subsidiary factories from the project scope. Extending it to all factories could have
been considered to enhance corporate building.
Implementation Experience
4.          Within the given constraints (as above), the project was satisfactorily
implemented despite some of the usual problems that the Bank's other China projects also
encountered. They were problems in: scheduling, provision of domestic funds and
procurement. The project closing was delayed by one year, partly because domestic
counterpart funds were not sufficiently available in the initial phase of the implementation.
There were procurement problems due to tight budgets or quality of equipment procured.
Most of these problems were eventually resolved and the modernization of productive
assets and training progressed at a fairly regular pace.
5.          The project, however, had limited successes in the areas that were identified
during the project preparation as having risk: technology and market. Post licensing
technology risk-absorption and dissemination of transferred technology-was well taken
care of during the project preparation. Pre-licensing risk-identifying willing sources of
technology-seemed well taken care of too until the project had difficulty finding sources
for 2 technologies. This difficulty arose because the technology sought for was so
advanced that only a few specialized international firms could supply, and the project
enterprises did not offer enough incentives to the prospective licensors. If bundling the
technology with future profit potential as joint venture arrangements had been considered,
the project might have had better chances of obtaining the technology.
6.          As to the market risk, new products manufactured with transferred
technology were marketed at a scale lower than forecasted. This was primarily due to
unpredicted macroeconomic environment changes and partly to optimistic market forecasts.
The austerity measures in macroeconomic policy during 1988-91 were an unexpected blow
to the project.  They adversely affected the project with disappearing demand and
intensifying financing problems. This explains the major part of the performance variances
between the actual and the appraisal. Optimistic market forecasts might explain the
remaining part. Despite the intended conservatism in forecasting, the project performed
consistently below the SAR projections and even had difficulties meeting financial
covenants. Although the sociopolitical environment that led to the austerity measures was
unique and unpredictable, at least the cyclical characteristics of the machine tool industry
that had been so often observed in many economies could have been reflected into the
market forecast.
Project Results
7.          The project accomplished the objectives of technological restructuring. The
project enterprises rehabilitated their production facilities by installing 1,040 new machine
tools including 345 imported ones. They rationalized the product mix by phasing out 35



- iv -
models, upgrading 16 models, and introducing 117 new models. Technology transfer
agreements with 13 different technology houses were established. A total of 2,300 staff
members were trained including 730 staff members trained overseas. Both project
enterprises installed computer systems and were advised by international management
consultants on setting up MIS systems.
8.          Although having performed more poorly than expected on both economic
and financial indicators, the project yet managed to prove that it was economically viable
with actual economic rates of return surpassing the Bank threshold rate of 10-12 percent:
16.6 percent for SMTC and 19.4 percent for SMTW. Furthermore, the project was
completed within a reasonable range of cost variances. The enterprises finished the project
with a total of $243 million equivalent against the appraisal estimates of $223 million
equivalent.
Sustainability
9.          There is no doubt that technological benefits of the project will be sustained
for some time; however, assessment on the financial and managerial sustainability is
mixed. Rehabilitated production capacity will remain productive for years to come, and
transferred technology will continue to be disseminated within the project enterprises and
indirectly within the Chinese machine tool sector. However, the enterprises will have to
face myriad challenges to be financially and managerially sustainable operations. To meet
these challenges, the project enterprises need to continue to put great efforts in organization
building and management improvement. This is partly because building an efficient
managerial framework takes longer than the time horizon of this project and because the
project enterprises had never been seriously exposed to the ultimate tests of the market yet.
Financial and managerial sustainability is important because it will eventually affect the
technological sustainability in the long run.
Flndings and Lessons
10.         The major findings and lessons are:
(a)   Access to advanced technology is not necessarily always possible with
licenses. Bundling technology with future profit potential as joint ventures
could enhance chances of getting top-notch technology;
(b)   Although market risk assessment is always difficult, sector-specific driving
forces behind market development need be brought into consideration when
forecasts are made. In the machine tool sector, the cyclical nature of
market development could have been addressed;



v 
(c)   Restructuring a managerial framework is more difficult than physical
restructuring of productive capacity or technical restructuring of product
engineering;
(d)   Restructuring is an ongoing process that cannot be accomplished with the
completion of a single project but should be a continuing challenge to
management;
(e)   Similarly, improvements in technology will continue even after the official
closing of a project as it takes time for technology to mature;
(f)    Project preparation including feasibility studies for facility renovation,
training arrangements, and financial planning is a sine qua non for an
effective start on a major industrial restructuring project.



- 1 -
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT (LOAN 2784-CHA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Project Identity
Name                 Shanghai Machine Tool Project
Loan Number          2784-CHA
RVP Unit             East Asia and Pacific Region
Country              China
Sector               Industry
B.    Background
1.          With the open-door policy of the Government of China (GOC) in late 1970s,
China's policymakers realized the technological backwardness of the Chinese machine tool
industry and need for its technological restructuring. For nearly three decades before,
China had solely depended upon indigenous technical resources and had been isolated from
technological advances that had been taking place in the world. The machine tool
subsector was among those most affected by this slow and costly indigenous technological
development.
2.          The machine tool sector has strategic importance in any economy and was
expected to play a significant role in the 1980s China. This sector is strategically
important because it has the capacity of regenerating productive assets by making machine-
making machines. It was expected to play a significant role in China because the Chinese
industrial sector as a whole was seriously outmoded and antiquated in its productive assets
and needed to be extensively resupplied with new, technically advanced machines. With
massive demand emerging on the horizon, it was an urgent concern to policymakers to
ensure that China could have a reliable, economical source of domestic supply for the high-
tech machine tools that would otherwise have to be imported.
3.          The project chose two enterprises, Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation
(SMTC) and Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SMTW), to lead the technological
restructuring of the Chinese machine tool sector. Shanghai was chosen because it had a
high concentration of machine tool users in this area and carried weight in the machine tool



industry in China. Shanghai was and still is, inter alia, the most industrialized city in
China and there were many machine tools users including booming light industry
businesses. The Shanghai machine tool industry covered a wide spectrum of metal-cutting
and metal-forming machines and accounted for about 10 percent of the country's machine
tools output and about 20 percent of the exports.  Thus, a project aimed at the
rationalization and modernization of the Shanghai machine tool subsector was timely and
appropriate in the then prevailing economic transition in China. SMTC and SMTW were
chosen as the project beneficiaries since they accounted for most of the machine tool
production in the area and had been successful machine tool exporters, though on a limited
scale.l/
C.   Project Objectives and Description
4.          The major objectives of the project were:  (a) product rationalization;
(b) rehabilitation and modernization of production capacity; (c) expansion of design and
engineering capabilities; and (d) improvement in management systems.
5.          The project consisted of: (a) rehabilitation and modernization of 18 plants
and 2 research institutes of SMTC and SMTW; (b) technology transfer; (c) establishment
of a modern management structure and system; and (d) training programs.
D.   Project Design and Organization
6.          As a first-generation industrial project in the Bank's China portfolio, the
project design was simple and focused, with direct lending to the two project beneficiaries.
This approach may be considered to have been adequate to meet the objectives of the
project. There were no financial intermediaries or agents in the project. The project did
not have a policy component that would enhance the roles of central or municipal
governments in creating an enabling environment for industrial restructuring for the
Shanghai area or for the Chinese machine tool sector. The two project beneficiaries were
the only project agencies, and the Shanghai Municipal Government was not even a party
of the project agreement. This may be largely and understandably because the political and
economic environment was not ripe for large-scale social experimentation at the time of
project preparation. One could say that the role of the Shanghai Machine Tool Project as
a first-generation industrial project was building a foundation for the next-generation
projects:  for the Chinese side, getting acquainted with the Bank's approach of
restructuring; and for the Bank, getting to know about the Chinese industry. Next-
generation industrial projects began to address the roles of governments and institution
building with increasing sophistication, and understanding and experiences gained through
the Shanghai Machine Tool Project proved to be a useful springboard.
1/  The combined output of machine tools of SMTC and SMTW amounted to over $100 million equivalent
in 1982, corresponding to about 50 percent of India's machine tool production in that year. Staff
Appraisal Report, para. 3.1.



7.          Given the above project concept, the project was well prepared and
designed. The project was prepared with numerous Bank missions and with four Bank-
financed feasibility studies intended to provide guidelines on: the foundries and the
machine tool complex; the forge works; SMTW; and, rehabilitation of SMTC. Based upon
the priorities identified through these preparatory phases, the 16 factories and 1 research
institute from SMTC's 44 factories were selected into the project scope, together with
SMTW.  The project also incorporated into its scope the introduction of modem
management practices and human resources building. Within this project scope, the roles
and the responsibilities of the project agencies were also well defined.
8.          The project design, however, could have been improved in the area of
corporate building. SMTC was created only in 1984, the year during which the project
was prepared, by transforming an administrative agency of the Shanghai Municipal
Government into a corporate headquarters supposedly responsible for managing 44
formerly independent factories. Transforming an administrative unit into a functioning
corporate headquarters and building an integrated managerial framework was a particularly
important first step for SMTC in pursuing the strategy of "interdependency among
factories. "2/ Although this was partly addressed in the project design with the
introduction of Management Information System (MIS), the project did not address
sufficiently in its design the question of how to forge the 44 independent factories into one
coherent corporate structure. The introduction of modem management practices was only
translated into setting up a computerized system, while building a corporate management
framework was ignored. As a result, SMTC's role as the headquarters remained limited
and the 44 factories individually entered into management contracts with SMG under the
contract responsibility system. This situation was rectified only in the later phase of the
project when SMTC replaced 44 individual management contracts with its own contract
with SMG. SMTW did not have this problem but still could have benefited in a similar
manner as SMTC if modern corporate management building like organizational behavior,
business strategies and managerial finance were more emphasized in the project design
phase.
9.          There was no economic rationale presented for excluding about two thirds
of SMTC's subsidiary factories from the project scope. Out of SMTC's 44 factories, only
16 factories were included into the project scope. Limited funds to support physical
restructuring might be a reason. However, organizational restructuring and training for
all factories would have been possible without major outlays and would have enhanced the
organization building.
2/  Staff Appraisal Report, para. 4.3.



- 4-
E.   Project Implementation
10.         Within the given constraints, the project was satisfactorily implemented,
despite some of the usual problems that the Bank's other China projects also encountered.
They were problems in: scheduling, provision of domestic funds and procurement. The
project closing was delayed by one year partly because domestic counterpart funds were
not sufficiently available in the initial phase of the implementation.  There were
procurement problems due to tight budgets or quality of equipment procured. Most of
these problems were eventually resolved as the project came near to the completion.
11.         The project, however, had some successes in the areas that were identified
during the project preparation as having major implementation risks.  They were:
technology risk-whether the technology can be transferred to the project enterprises; and
market risk-whether the products developed under the technology transfer could be
marketed at an anticipated scale. The post-licensing technology risk-absorption and
dissemination of transferred technology-was well taken care of during project preparation.
However, prelicensing risk-identifying willing sources of technology-became an
implementation problem when the enterprises had difficulty finding sources for two
technologies in the electrodischarge machine and levels. This difficulty arose because the
technology sought for was so advanced that only a few specialized international firms could
supply, and the project enterprises did not offer enough incentives to the prospective
licensors. The licensors had no incentives to sell off their future income potential without
assurance for sharing future prospects together. If bundling the technology with future
profit potential like joint-venture arrangements were considered, the project enterprises
could have had a better chance of obtaining the technology desired.
12.         As to the market risk, new products manufactured with transferred
technology were actually marketed at a scale lower than forecasted in the appraisal. This
was primarily due to unpredicted macroeconomic environment changes and partly to
optimistic market forecast. The austerity measures in macroeconomic policy during
1988-91 was a totally unpredicted blow that affected the project most adversely with
disappearing demand for machine tools and intensifying domestic financing problems.
Because of disappearing demand, all products showed poorer marketing and sales
performances than the appraisal forecast, although new products in general performed
better than old ones. Partly as a result of domestic financing problems, the project was
delayed and adversely affected by opportunity losses from foregone sales as the new
production capacity was not fully ready for the surging demand in the postausterity boom
in 1992 and 1993.
13.         Optimistic market forecasts may also explain part of the variance between
the appraisal estimate and actual performances in sales and profitability of the project.
That the project could be subject to an adverse macroeconomic environment apparently was
not brought into the market risk analysis even as a remote possibility. On the contrary,
the market forecasts were thought to be very conservative at the time of the appraisal and



the risk of too much optimism in market forecasting was ruled out as only minimal.
Although the sociopolitical environment that led to the austerity measures was unique and
unpredictable, the cyclical characteristics of the machine tool industry that had been so
often observed in many economies could have been reflected into the market forecast.
Despite the purported conservatism in forecasts, the project performed consistently below
the SAR projections and even had difficulties meeting the financial covenants. Although
the financial covenants were met thanks to preferential tax concessions from the Shanghai
Municipal Govemment, the project enterprises could have better prepared if their
operational plans were based upon conservative forecasts.
F.   Project Results
14.         The project accomplished most of the project objectives when the project
results were judged on the operational indicators. The project enterprises rehabilitated
their production facilities with the installation of 1,040 new machine tools including
345 imported ones. They rationalized the product mix by phasing out 35 models,
upgrading 16 models, and introducing 117 new models. Technology transfer agreements
with 13 different technology houses were established. A total of 2,300 staff members were
trained, including 730 staff members trained overseas. Both project enterprises installed
computer systems and were advised by international management consultants on setting up
MIS systems.
15.         Although having performed more poorly than expected on both economic
and financial indicators, the project yet managed to prove to be economically viable with
actual economic rates of return surpassing the Bank threshold rate of 10 to 12 percent, as
shown below:
Financial IRR (%          Economic IRR (%
SMTC
a. SAR                        24.5                        30.5
b. PCR                         12.8                       16.6
SMTW
a. SAR                        23.1                        30.6
b. PCR                         12.4                       19.4
Actual financial rates were lower than economic rates but still managed to show respectable
return of 12 percent. The discrepancy between economic and financial rates was because
the project's products were sold at the price level of 60 to 70 percent to the international
prices for comparable products.
16.         Even within the same macroeconomic environment, there was a wide
disparity among factories and products in how they performed financially. Factories like



- 6 -
No. 2 and No. 4 Machine Tool Works of SMTC that produced high-tech products
outperformed other factories. All foundries, forge shops and grinding wheel shops showed
poor financial performances with very low rates of return.  Although the foundry
performances might have been better but for equipment problems with the new sand
treatment systems, these poor financial performances clearly showed that factories
producing mundane products need to continue rationalizing their products toward the high
value-added end of the range. Though financially disappointing, these foundries made
positive contributions to the project with the supply of high-quality raw materials at low
prices. These low prices could be interpreted as cross-subsidies from the foundries, and
the economic rates of the foundries were higher than their financial rates when the prices
were adjusted to the international level. Yet, they still could not reach the 12 percent
threshold. Dismal performances at the No. 8 Factory and Level Works resulted from the
failure in establishing technology transfers in the planned products, electrodischarge
machines and levels. The wide disparity among factories and products presents a strong
case for continuing restructuring that should continue after the completion of the project.
17.         The project made some, if not enough, contributions to the growth of the
machine tool sector and related industries despite the absence of an explicit sector policy
component in the project. The production of NC machine tools quadrupled through the
project. This increase had great multiplying impacts on the machine tool subsector as
many NC machine tools users were themselves machine tool producers producing precision
machine tools, NC machine tools included. The project also made positive impacts on
backward industries through raising quality expectations when inputs were inspected
according to international standards of the technology licensors. Quality of foundry and
forge, producer of important raw materials, also improved because of production capacity
rehabilitation under the project. In addition, there had been spillover effects to other
manufacturing sectors as the project's outputs replaced antiquated manufacturing facilities.
Another contribution of the project to the Chinese economy was made through increased
machine tool exports, which grew from less than $10 million to over $40 million during
the project life. This increased exports clearly indicated the increasing quality level and
acceptability of the products manufactured by the project enterprises.
18.         But for the overruns in the renminbi portion of the budget, the project
enterprises managed the project costs within a reasonable range of the appraisal estimates.
The project actually costed Y 484 million for domestic expenditures and $136 million
equivalent for foreign exchange expenditures. Compared with the appraisal estimate of
Y 332 million plus $133 million equivalent, the actual renminbi portion incurred cost
overruns of about 45 percent. These cost overruns were largely the results of inflation that
had taken place simultaneously with the project implementation with the accompanying
50 percent devaluation of renminbi against the US dollar during the same period. When
the local project costs in US dollar equivalent were compared between the appraisal and
the completion, the cost variances were about 10 percent of the appraisal estimates with
the completion costs of a total of $243 million equivalent and the appraisal estimates of a
total of $223 million equivalent.



19.         Local and overseas training were conducted for managerial, professional
staff as well as technicians and operators. The equipment suppliers provided technical
training to the project enterprises' staff. Managerial training was conducted by foreign
consulting firms. A total of 732 people were trained abroad, among which 412 were
SMTC employees and 320 SMTW. A total of 1,500 people were trained locally, among
which 900 were SMTC employees and 600 SMTW.
G.   Project Sustainability
20.         There is no doubt that technological benefits of the project will be sustained.
Rehabilitated production capacity will remain productive for years to come and transferred
technology will continue to be disseminated within the project enterprises and indirectly
within the Chinese machine tool sector. Having had its own indigenous development
capabilities for long, the Chinese machine tool sector has the technical capacity to
maximize the leverage of the project benefits by quickly adapting transferred technology
into innovations.
21.         Assessment on the financial and managerial sustainability is mixed with some
positive and negative prospects. The project enterprises would have good prospects
because the demand for machine tools would rise with the growth of China's economy.
Moreover, with the enterprise reform continuing in China, the project enterprises would
be allowed greater freedom in business decisions and would have chances to raise
operational efficiency and profitability. However, they also face a number of difficulties.
Adopting generally accepted intemational accounting principles would negatively affect
reported incomes of the enterprises in a short to medium term. The preferential tax
concessions that helped the project enterprises meet the financial covenants would be gone
with the tax reform, and the enterprises will have to face hard budget constraints. All
these opportunities and problems pose demanding challenges to the managerial capacity of
the project enterprises.
22.         To meet these challenges, the project enterprises need to continue to put
great efforts in organization building and management improvement. This is partly
because building an efficient managerial framework takes longer than the time horizon of
this project and because the project enterprise have not yet been seriously exposed to
ultimate tests of the market. In addition, the project enterprises should continue to
restructure their productive assets as evident from the great disparity in financial return
among products or factories. This is important because the technological sustainability in
the long run will be affected by how successful the enterprises would be in pursuing
financially and managerially sustainable operations.
H.   Bank Performance
23.         The Bank missions played an important role during project preparation in
developing project scope and evaluating available options. This project was one of the first



- 8 -
industrial projects in China and there were not many precedents from which to draw
experiences and lessons. In addition, China was going through then unparalleled social and
economic experimentation. In this difficult environment, the Bank missions laid out
helpful analytical steps to provide guidelines for undertaking the project. These included:
commissioning four feasibility studies; helping the project enterprises prepare detailed cost
estimates and financial proforma; helping prepare training programs; helping identify areas
for management improvement.
24.         The Bank remained accessible to the management and staff of SMTC and
SMTW throughout the project and mounted two supervision missions on average every
year to keep in touch with substantive issues or problems that the project enterprises
encountered during the implementation phase.   The Bank also maintained the
communication channel open with the Shanghai Municipal Government and promptly
notified it of the issues that needed its immediate attention. The Bank remained helpful
to the Chinese side by positively responding to its requests for problem solving.
I.    Borrower Performance
25.         With full knowledge of their plants and development needs, the project
enterprises participated constructively in project preparation. They also satisfactorily
implemented the project despite some initial difficulties in familiarizing themselves with
the Bank procedures. As agreed upon with the Bank, the project agencies established the
Project Implementation Units, observed the Bank procurement guidelines, and submitted
quarterly progress reports and audited financial statements in a timely manner. The project
enterprises' staff were extremely helpful and cooperative with the Bank missions. The
Shanghai Municipality also remained supportive all the time through the project and
provided timely support such as preferential tax measures when the financial health of the
enterprises were in doubt. Thanks to this support, the project enterprises managed to meet
the project financial covenants.
J.    Project Relationship
26.         The Borrower and the Bank maintained a cooperative and responsive
relationship. The project enterprises, especially SMTC, responded positively to Bank's
comments on improving business plans with genuine efforts and interest in making
improvements. The Bank also remained involved with the project enterprises by providing
expertise whenever sought by the project enterprises. The 1991 October mission to help
the enterprises develop a long-term financial forecast was such an example.  The
procurement exercises, though time-consuming, introduced transparency and objectivity
into the Chinese procurement system, lessons of which could be drawn later for China's
own projects. However, with Chinese experiences on international competitive bidding
process being accumulated, future Bank projects could be designed to delegate more
procurement decisions to the Chinese side. The Shanghai Municipal Government remained



- 9 -
involved with the project and remained open in its dialogue with the Bank on the project-
related matters.
K.   Consulting Services
27.         Management consultants played an important role in setting up the
management information systems. Foreign equipment suppliers also provided useful
technical services that helped the project enterprises gain technical insights and train their
technical staff. Technology licensors were critical sources of advanced technology in the
areas where the project enterprises were left behind from the ever-evolving world-class
machine tool technology.
L.   Project Documentation
28.         The Loan and Project Agreements for Loan 2784-CHA were adequate and
appropriate for achieving the project objectives in all the key areas. The staff appraisal
report and the project files in Asia Information Service Center provided an adequate
background to the Bank missions for efficient review of the project implementation.
However, information in the Bank MIS database, though useful, were not compiled exactly
to meet the need of the PCR. Improvement in this area would be helpful. The project
enterprises have provided statistics for their individual components. They have also
provided additional information requested by the Bank. This Project Completion Report
began to be prepared by a Bank mission in December 1993.



- 10 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.   Adequacy and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part m
1.          The factual information of Shanghai Machine Tool Project (the Project)
presented in the tables of Part III, prepared by the Borrower's related institutions including
Shanghai Electrical and Mechanical Industries Administration (SEMIA), Shanghai Machine
Tool Corporation (SMTC) and Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SMTW), were reviewed
and cross-checked thoroughly with the Bank's mission in December 1993. They are
adequate and accurate.
B.   Comments on the Analysis Contained in Part I
2.          Most of the analyses made by the Bank are based on the factual information
in the tables of Part III.  The comments and analyses made by the Bank are
comprehensive, fair and objective.
3.          The Bank's analysis of project implementation was compared primarily on
the basis of the staff appraisal report (SAR) prepared in 1985. If compared with the actual
status of the project implementation, the results are as follows:
SAR       Actual   Comparison
Project completion date    End-1992    End-1993    Delayed by one year mainly
due to the cost overrun
Project cost
Foreign ($ million)       100.0       112.6   Increased by 12.6
Local (Y million)         124.5       222.8   Increased by 98.3
Of which: SMTC
Foreign ($ million)        64.0        73.6   Increased by 9.6
Local (Y million)          66.3       132.8   Increased by 66.5
Of which: SMTW
Foreign ($ million)        36.0        39.0   Increased by 3.0
Local (Y million)          58.2        90.0   Increased by 31.8
4.          Because the solution of the issue for the project cost overrun (including
foreign exchange and local fund) took long time, the procurement was delayed. Besides,
the implementation for the training of SMTC managerial staff was delayed. Therefore, the
project completion date was delayed by one year as compared with that in SAR. During
the period of project implementation, due to the factors including the devaluation of US
dollars against other foreign currencies and the rising in the price of imported equipment,
the project cost in foreign exchange was overrun by $12.6 million. Meanwhile, because
- ~~ - - - - - - -_



- 11 -
of the rising in the price of domestic raw materials (including materials for civil works and
equipment) and the increase in other expenses (including expenses for transportation
installation, commodity inspection), the project cost in local currency was overrun by
Y 98.3 million.
5.          The Project is the first industrial project using Bank loan for sector technical
renovation in Shanghai, China, it plays an important role and has far-reaching impact on
China machine tool industry, which are reflected in the following aspects.
(a)   After the implementation of the Project, Shanghai machine tool sector was
provided with the ability of developing and producing high level and high
value added products (NC machine tools, precision machine tools and high
class presses) and the ability of producing high quality castings, welding
parts and accessories for precision products. Moreover, the production
environment was improved and the product-mix was changed. With the
transfer of foreign advanced technology for designing and manufacturing
and under the guidance and services of foreign consultants, the ability of
developing new products was greatly improved. During the period of
project implementation, the Project developed 117 kinds of new product of
which SMTC 64 kinds and SMTW 53 kinds; the Project upgraded 12 kinds
of existing products of which SMTC 12 kinds and SMTW 4 kinds. The
level of Shanghai machine tool products is close to that of machine tool
products of foreign advanced countries and the requirements on the domestic
and overseas markets can be met with.
(b)   The Project procured international advanced NC equipments, automatic
production lines and high precision measuring and testing instruments
resulting in the remarkable improvement in manufacturing technology and
quality of machine tool products, in the enhancement in the ability of
supplying complete set of equipment, in the narrowing gap with the
international manufacturing level for machine tools and in the strengthening
of the sustainability of Shanghai machine tool industry.
(c)   With the help of foreign consultants including Booz Allen & Hamilton Co.,
USA and Voest-Alpine Industrial Services, Austria, the factories involved
in the Project use computers in the whole process of production and manage
the factory with MRPII advanced management system improving the level
of factory management.
(d)   Local and overseas training were conducted for medium and high ranking
managerial staff, technicians, operators and maintenance workers for
equipments and precision instruments of the headquarters and the factories
involved in the Project. The staff trained abroad amounted to 732 of which
SMTC 412 and SMTW 320; the staff trained locally amounted to 1,500 of



- 12 -
which SMTC 900 and SMTW 600. Therefore, the capability of the staff
was elevated.
6.          The direct benefits derived from the Project were summarized as below.
(a)   The product-mix was changed greatly.
1985                    1993
Percentage              Percentage
accounted               accounted    Comparison
NC machines and  Output      for the      Output     for the      Percentage
precision machines  (set)   total output   (set)   total output    increased
The Project       648        3.34%        1,264       8.78%         5.44%
Of which: SMTC   502         2.92%        1,050       8.40%         5.48%
SMTW       146        6.57%          214      11.30%         4.73%
(b)   After the technical renovation, the export of the two enterprises from 1985
to 1993 was raised from $9.6 million to $39.5 million of which SMTC from
$8.5 million to $35 million increased by 3.12 times and SMTW from $1.1
million to $4.5 million increased by 3.09 times.
(c)   After technical renovation under the project, the productivity of SMTC was
from Y 12,170/man to Y 37,500/man increased by 2.08 times and that of
SMTW was from Y 9,565/man to Y 30,900/man increased by 2.23 times.
7.          The indirect benefits derived from the Project were summarized as below.
(a)   Because the production of technology intensified and high value added
products was increased, from 1985 to 1993 the output of machine tools of
SMTC was decreased from 17,186 sets to 12,000 sets and that of SMTW
was decreased from 2,221 sets to 1,894 sets reducing the consumption of
raw materials and energy.
(b)   Because the adoption of the advanced resin sand castings technology and the
closing of foundries in downtown, the environment was greatly improved
with pollution controlled.
(c)   The development of China machine tool industry was accelerated.



- 13 -
8.          Therefore, the Project was successful and  the result of project
implementation is good.
C.   Evaluation of Bank's Performance
9.          From the experience gained under the Project, we found that the Bank's
project cycle procedures and management in handling its projects are scientific and
effective. It played an important role in making possible the successful achievements of
the Project.  We are very grateful to the Bank for providing assistance in fund
arrangements introduction of ICB procedures for equipments, financial projection and staff
training. Meanwhile, we are also grateful to the consultants for their successful and
effective role in preparing feasibility study report and bidding documents and providing
management consultancy and staff training for the Project.
10.         The supervisions made by the Bank mission were strict.  During the
implementation period, the visits and supervisions made by the Bank mission twice a year
were imperative, especially the assistance provided to help us solve the issues in the crucial
period of cost overrun was timely, proper and principled. When problems and conflicts
occurred between the suppliers and us in the procurement of equipments or difficulties met
in technology transfer or the progress delayed in management consultancy and staff
training, valuable assistance was also provided timely by the Bank.
11.         The feasibility study reports were prepared separately in accordance with the
requirements of the Bank and our government. It took two and a half years to have the
reports prepared, examined and approved. It was one of the reasons taking a long period
for the early preparatory stage of the Project. According to the Bank's requirement for
the procurement of equipment, ICB must be followed for any equipment and instrument
worth more than $200,000, but ICB procedures were quite complicated which took long
time to go through. We think these can be improved and simplified.
12.         Technology transfer was one of the key components of the Project.
Referring to the characteristic of the Project, technology transfer was quite difficult to have
the negotiation successful. Therefore, we think that various ways should be dealt with in
technology transfer for different types of projects.
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
13.         We concurred fully with the observations made by the Bank in Part I
regarding the Borrower's performance. Full support was provided to the Project by State
Planning Commission, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Machine Building, Shanghai
Planning Commission, Shanghai Economic Commission, Shanghai Electric and Mechanical
Industries Administration (SEMIA), Shanghai Finance Bureau and Shanghai Key Projects
Engineering Office. SEMIA, as agency responsible for the overall management of the
Project, played an effective and successful role in coordinating, supporting and managing



- 14 -
among the consultants, the designer, No. 6 Design Institute of Ministry of Machine
Building (No. 6 DI) and the beneficiaries. With the assistance of consultants, No. 6 DI
did an excellent job in the design for engineering and construction of the Project.
14.         In the preliminary stage of the Project, Shanghai Electrical and Mechanical
Industries Design Institute (SEMIDI) collected a great deal of data and information for the
Project which provides good base for foreign consultants to work out feasibility study
report. The foreign consultants dispatched experts to make investigation on spot and
exchanged views with SEMIDI and beneficiaries and worked out a detail feasibility study
report which was conducive to the smooth implementation of the Project.
15.         With the assistance and guidance of the Bank, the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) of the beneficiaries worked diligently, conscientiously and efficiently in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement and management and met with
relative requirements.
16.         Lessons learned from the Project are:
(a)   The foreign consultants did successfully a lot of work in the implementation
of the Project but their work could not be separated from the cooperation
of SEMIDI in consultancy.  It is desirable that the method of joint
employment of local and foreign consultants be adopted for the projects later
on.
(b)   The construction period of industrial projects is required to be shortened so
that the products can be supplied on the markets as soon as possible and the
economic benefits can be gained. Otherwise, it will not be competitive.
Therefore, we hope that the Bank will improve its complicated and time-
consuming procedures such as the procedures for procurement should be
further simplified and improved.
(c)   In order to have the project implemented according to the schedule of the
SAR, the changes in external condition should be taken into account
adequately such as fluctuations in exchange rate among foreign currencies
and the rising in the prices of equipments and materials so as to prevent the
project from suffering shortage of funds to affect the implementation of the
project.
(d)   Because the time required for the preparatory and implementation period
was quite long (it took nine years for the Project), reasonable adjustment
should be allowed for the completion status of the project in accordance
with the actual changes happened so that the objectives of the project can be
reached.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Approval
Loan Title/Number                   Purpose                  Date           Comments
Tianjin Light Industry Project  Technological restructuring of  1989    $154 million,
(Ln-3022)                       the light industry sector              completion date:
06/30/96
Shanghai Industrial Development  Development of four industrial    1991  $150 million,
Project (Ln-32880, Ln-32881,    Subsectors in Shanghai                 completion date:
Ln-32882, Ln-32884)                                                    06/30/96
Tianjin Industrial Development  policy and enterprise reform at    1993  loan has not yet
Project (Ln-35720)              the regional level                     been signed
2. Project Timetable
Items                                                               Actual Date
Identification Mission                                            September 1983
Project Brief                                                        June 1984
Preparation Mission                                                  June 1985
Appraisal Mission                                                   October 1985
Loan Negotiations                                                   January 1987
Board Approval                                                     March 3, 1987
Loan Signature                                                    October 8, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                                               December 16, 1987
Loan Closing                                                     December 31, 1993
Loan Completion                                                    April 27, 1994
COMMENTS: The original loan closing date was December 31, 1992 and was
extended by one year to December 31, 1993.



- 16 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
($ million)
Year         Appraisal         Revised                         Actual/
Semester       Estimate         Estimate         Actual        Revised (%)
1987              0.9
II               9.5
1988
I              23.8              2.6            0.9                5
II             40.3              17.2            1.84
1989
I              57.0             32.1            2.38               7
II             70.7              50.2           10.2               20
1990
I              82.0             63.8           21.4               34
II             91.1              77.5           44.5               58
1991
I              97.4             86.6           56.4               65
II             99.6             95.7            69.9               73
1992
I             100.0             98.7           81.2               82
II                              100.0           86.2               86
1993
I                                              90.8               91
II                                              96.3               96
1994
I                                              96.5               97



- 17 -
4. Project Implementation
Component completion dates
Indicators                                  Appraisal             Actual
Estimate
SMTC
Civil Works                             June 1992             December 1992
Equipment Procurement                    June 1990            October 1993
Technology Transfer                      September 1991       February 1993
Management System                       June 1990             October 1993
Training                                June 1992             December 1993
SMTW
Civil Works                              December 1990        December 1990
Equipment Procurement                    June 1990            June 199lLa
Technology Transfer:                     September 1991       December 1993
Cylindrical grinder technology                               August 1992
3-D measuring machine technology                             August 1991
NC system technology                                         July 1993
High-strength cast-iron technology                           December 1993
Management System                       June 1990             December 1993
Training                                 June 1991            December 1993
La Procurement was almost completed by this date with a few accessories procurement
being delayed until December 1993.
COMMENTS: (1)  Price increases in raw materials and resulting shortage of domestic
counterpart funds caused delay in civil works.
(2)  The implementation of management information system was
adversely affected with the delay in computer hardware procure-
ment.



5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Poect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                                   Actual
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total     Local Foreign   Total   Local ForeignTotal
------ (Y million) ---      ($ million) ------      (Y million)          -    (S million) -
SMTW
Plant Cost                     55.6  104.3  159.9   15.0   28.2   43.2         88.0  152.4    240.4   19.4   29.448.8
Engineering/Management          2.6    7.5   10.1    0.7    2.0    2.7          2.0    6.6        8.6    0.5    1.62.1
Training                         -      4.1    4.1      -      1.1    1.1        -      5.5       5.5     -      1.01.0
Technology Transfer              -     16.6   16.6      -      4.5    4.5        -     35.6      35.6     -      6.76.7     _
Base Cost Estimate           58.2  132.5  190.5   15.7   35.8   51.5         90.0  200.1    290.1   19.9   38.758.6
Physical Contingencies          5.8   13.2   19.0    1.6    3.6    5.2           -       -        -       -      --
Price Escalation               12.5   11.0   23.5    3.4    2.9    6.3           -      -         -       -      -
Installed Cost               76.5  156.7  233.2   20.7   42.3   63.0         90.0  200.1    290.1   19.9   38.758.7
Incremental Working Capital    44.4    4.0   48.4   12.0    1.1   13.1         75.0      -       75.0   17.8    -17.8
Interest During Construction   10.0   10.7   20.7    2.7    2.9    5.6          16.4   29.4      45.8    3.9    7.010.9
Total for SMTW              130.0  171.4  302.3   35.4   46.3   81.7    181.4  229.5    410.9   41.6   45.787.3
... Continued



5. Project Costs and Fnancing (cont'd)
A. Proect Costs (cont'd)
Ampraisal Estimate                                  Actual
Local Foreign  Total   Local Foreign  Total    Local Foreign   Total   Local ForeignTotal
- (Y million)            -- ($ million)        ---- (Y million)        -    ($ million) -
SMTC
Plant Cost                    61.3  197.4  258.7   16.5   53.4   69.9    125.9  309.0    434.9   27.5   63.390.8
Engineering/Management         5.0   13.0   18.0    1.4    3.5    4.9         6.9   11.6       18.5    1.8    2.44.2
Training                        -     10.3   10.3     -       2.8    2.8       -      8.3      8.3     -       1.51.5
Technology Transfer             -     17.0   17.0     -       4.6    4.6       -     33.4     33.4     -       6.4 6.4
Base Cost Estimate          66.3  237.7  304.0   17.9   64.3   82.2    132.8  362.3    495.1   29.3   73.6102.9
Physical Contingencies         6.6   23.8   30.4    1.8    6.4    8.2          -      -         -      -       -
Price Escalation               9.7   25.4   35.1    2.6    6.9    9.5          -      -         -      -       -  -
Installed Cost              82.6  286.9  369.5   22.3   77.6   99.9    132.8  362.3    495.1   29.3   73.6102.9
Incremental Working Capital   96.5    8.4  104.9   26.1    2.3   28.4    130.0   10.9    140.9   28.3    2.330.6
Interest During Construction  22.5   25.9   48.4    6.1    7.0   13.1        40.0   73.0    113.0    8.3   14.723.0
Total for SMTC             201.6  321.2  522.8   54.5   86.9  141.4    302.8  446.2    749.0   65.9   90.6156.5
Total Financinsf Reauired  332.5  492.6  825.1   89.9  133.2  223.1    484.2  675.7  1J159.9  107.5  136.3243.8
Notes: Currency equivalents: $1.00 = Y 3.7 as in the appraisal estimate. As in actual disbursements, historical exchange rates are used as below:



- 20 -
5. Project Costs and Financing (cont'd)
B. Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate             Actual
Foreign                  Foreign
Local       Exchange     Local        Exchange
(Y million)   ($ million)   (Y million)   ($ million)
SMTW
World Bank Loan            -          36.0           -          34.0
Domestic Loans           86.6          9.2        150.0          4.7
Self-generated funds     44.3          1.1         31.4          7.0
SMToItOal              130.0        46.3        181.4         45.7
SMTC
World Bank Loan            -          64.0           -          62.7
Domestic Loans           105.2        20.6        241.8         10.9
Self-generated funds     96.4          2.3         61.0         17.0
SMTC TOW              201.6         8.9         302.8         90.6
Total Project Financing
World Bank Loan            -         100.0          -           96.7
Domestic Loans           191.8        29.8        391.8         15.6
Self-generated funds     140.7         3.4         92.4         24.0
Total                 352.5        133.2        484.2        136



- 21 -
6. Project Results
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal      Actual at
Indicators                                          Estimate      Closing Date
Product Rationalization
SMTC
Phased-out product models (number)                 33                 29
Upgraded models                                    18                 12
New models                                         52                 64
SMTW
Phase-out models                                    7                  6
Upgraded models                                     4                  4
New models                                         13                 53
TOTAL
Phased-out models                                  40                 35
Upgraded models                                    22                 16
New models                                         65                117
Production Capacity Rehabilitation
SMTC
New equipment installed - domestic (sets)         390                390
New equipment installed - imported                236                236
SMTW
New equipment installed - domestic                305                305
New equipment installed - imported                109                109
TOTAL
New equipment installed - domestic                695               695
New equipment installed - imported                345                345
Total                                       1Q4Q              1.040
Technology Transfer
SMTC
Number of technology transfers                     11                  9
SMTW
Number of technology transfers                      4                  4
TOTAL
Number of technology transfers                     15                 13



- 22 -
6. Project Results (cont'd)
A. Direct Benefits (cont'd)
Appraisal      Actual at
Indicators                                         Estimate      Closing Date
Training
SMTC
Overseas training (staff members)                250               412
Domestic training                                400               900
SMTW
Overseas training                                100               320
Domestic Training                                150               660
TOTAL
Overseas training                                350               732
Domestic training                                550              1,560
Management Information System
SMTC
Computer hardware                                yes           installed
Management Information System                    yes         introduced
SMTW
Computer hardware                                yes           installed
Management Information System                    yes         introduced



- 23 -
6. Project Results (cont'd)
B. Economic Impacts
Economic Rate of Return   Appraisal Estimate (%)   Actual at the Closing Date (%)
SMTC                    30.5                       16.6
SMTW                    30.6                       19.4
Underlying Assumptions:
(1) The economic life of the project assets was assumed to be 20 years for the rate-of-
return analysis, starting from 1987.
(2) Same conversion factors as those in the SAR were used.
COMMENTS: The variances between the rates of return at the time of appraisal and
completion could be explained with adverse macroeconomic
environment in 1989/90 and too optimistic market forecasts at the time
of appraisal. The project enterprises had difficulties meeting financial
covenants at one point during the project implementation. These diffi-
culties were resolved with preferential tax measures from the municipal-
ity. Although the performance was below than appraised, economic
rates of return surpassed the Bank threshold of 10 to 12 percent.
C. Financial Impacts
Financial Rate of Return    Appraisal Estimate (%)   Actual at the Closing Date (%)
SMTC                    24.5                       12.8
SMTW                    23.1                       12.4
COMMENTS: Although the actual rates are lower than what were predicted at the time
of appraisal, the project proved to be a financially viable one with the
rates higher than 12 percent. However, there is a wide disparity among
individual factories in financial performances. Two factories among
SMTC's 16 project factories showed return higher than 20 percent,
while 6 factories were below 10 percent. This disparity could be
explained with the fact that profitable factories were manufacturing
high-tech products, while loss-making ones produced low value-added
products. Specifically, No. 2 and 4 factories produced NC during
lathes and milling machines that could ask for premium prices in China.
The poor performances of No. 8 factory and Level Works is linked to
their failure in establishing technology transfer agreements for the
planned products. Foundry, forge and grinder factories produced low
value-added products. Following is rates of return for individual facto-
ries in SMTC.



- 24 -
6. Project Results (cont'd)
Financial Rates of Return for
SMTC Project Plants
l_________________ SAR ACTUAL
No. 1 Foundry               18.3      5.6
No. 3 Foundry               15.1        -
No. 5 Foundry               11.1      1.1
Forge                       25.1        -
No. 1 Accessory Plant       13.J     14.6
No. 3 Accessory Plant       27.6     15.9
No. 6 Accessory Plant       13.2     12.7
Gear Plant                  32.0     13.1
Grinding Wheel Plant        32.6     12.3
Level Works                 34.4        -
No. 2 Machine Tool Works    46.9     26.6
No. 3 Machine Tool Works    27.8      9.7
No. 4 Machine Tool Works    19.3     21.1
No. 8 Machine Tool Works    30.2      1.2
Metal Forming Works         35.6     18.8
No. 2 Metal Forming Works   33.7     15.7
SMTC Project Plants Consoli- 24.5    12.8
dated                       =
- Denotes negative rate
D. Studies
The following five studies were prepared during project preparation.
1. 'Development of the Machine Tool Foundries," eight volumes, prepared by Foundry
Management and Design Co. Ltd., UK, October 1985.
2. 'Feasibility Study of the Forge Works," three volumes, prepared by Forging Devel-
opments (International) Ltd., UK, October 1985.
3. "Feasibility Study of the Shanghai Machine Tool Works," two volumes, prepared by
Roland Berger and Partner of the FRG in association with Hayek International Ltd.
of Switzerland, August 1985.
4. "Feasibility Study for Rehabilitation and Modernization of Shanghai Machine Tool
Corporation's Selected Plants and Research Institute," six volumes, prepared by
Ingersoll Engineers, Inc., United States, October 1985.
5. Detailed cost and benefit data by plant; prepared by the Appraisal Mission January
1986 and updated October 1986.



- 25 -
7. Status of Covenants
Covenant                        Subject                          Status
Project
Agreement
2.02      Employ consultants                                 Complied with
2.04      Maintain the Project Implementation Unit           Complied with
2.07      Training program was prepared and finished to the Bank Complied with
4.01a     Maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect corpo- Complied with
ration's operations and financial conditions
4.01b     Corporations accounts, financial statements and the spe-  Complied with
cial account for each year audited by independent auditor
and the audited financial statements and auditor's report
furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the
end of the year.
4.01c     Maintain separate records and accounts for all expendi-  Complied with
tures on the basis of Statements of Expenditure available
for the Bank's examination
4.02      Maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities not Complied with
less than 1.5
4.03      Maintain the debt service coverage ratio not less than 1.5 Complied with
Loan
Agreement
2.02(a)    The closing date shall be December 31, 1992       Extended for
one year
2.06      Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually  Complied with
on March 15 and September 15 in each year
3.02(a)    Sign the subsidiary Loan Agreement with Ministry of    Complied with
Finance
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle                                     Actual Staff-weeks
Project Preparation                                              225.9
Project Appraisal                                                 26.5
Loan Negotiation                                                  13.2
Supervision                                                      137.5
ToQ                                                           40Q3.



- 26 -
8. Use of Bank Resources (cont'd)
B. Missions
/a        /b                      /c
Stage of        Month/  No. of   Days in  Specialization      Performance      Types of
project cycle      year    persons   field    represented       rating status    problems
Through Appraisal
Preparation 1     09/83       8       35   EN, EC, 0, S, F
Preparation 2     02/84       3       14       EC, F, S
Preparation 3     06/85       3        6       EC, F, S
Appraisal         10/85       7       35    EC, F, S, EN, 0
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Mission 1         04/86       1        3
Board Approval through
Effectiveness
Mission 1         05/87       3        5
Mission 2         11/87       1        3
Supervision
Mission 1         06/88       2       15        EN, 0             1
Mission 2         12/88      2        10        EN, 0             2        Fl
Mission3          06/89       3       10       EN, O, F           2        F1, O
Mission4          11/89       3       10       EN, O, F           2        F1, O
Mission 5         06/90       3       15       EN, 0, S           2        Fl, P
Mission 6         10/91       2       10        EN, 0             2        F2
Mission 7         11/91       2        3
Mission 8         05/92       6       10   EC, O, F, EN, S        2        F2
Mission9          11/92       3       10      EC, EN, O           2        F2
Mission 10        08/93       2       10        EN, 0             1
Mission 11        12/93       2       10        EN, EC            1
/a   EN: Engineer, EC: Economist, F: Financial Analyst, 0: Operation Officer, S: Specialist (Machine
tool specialist/Financial specialist/Consultant).
Lb   1 = Problem-free or minor problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems.
/c   Fl: Financial problems due to lack of funds, F2: Financial problems due to project enterprise prof-
itability, P: Project management problems, 0: Operational problems resulting in delayed procure-
ment.



SMTC KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1988-92
(Y'000)
1988         1989          1990          1991           1992
Year Ended Dec. 31                  SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR AckE
Sales Revenue                      439.2  552.4  517.5  592.3  599.9  588.9  699.6  708.6  840.1921.5
Gross Profit                       121.1   87.5  157.7  78.6  172.2  35.8  195.0  45.3  278.064.3
Net Income (income retained)        41.3  36.5  75.0  37.1  86.4  20.2  106.1   19.4  185.832.0
Gross Profit Income Ratio (%)       27.6   15.8  30.5  13.3  28.7   6.1  27.9   6.4  33.17.0
(gross profit/sales revenue)
Return on Sales (%)
(net income/sales revenue)          9.4    6.6  14.5   6.3  14.4   3.2  15.2   2.7  22.13.4
Total Assets Tumover Rate
(sales revenue/total assets)       0.62   0.72    0.6   0.6  0.64    0.4  0.71    0.4  0.780.4
Return on Total Assets (%)
(net income/total assets)           5.8   4.8   8.7   3.8   9.2   1.4  10.7   1.1   17.31.0
Pixed Asset Turnover Rate
(sales rev) (net fixed asset +
work in progress)                  0.97    1.8  0.91    1.7  0.98    1.1  1.21    1.0  1.541.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio         12.7   7.8   7.6   4.3   3.1  4.44    4.0  4.13    3.91.58
Current Ratio                        2.6   1.83    2.7   1.61    3.0  1.57    3.0   1.66    3.71.49
Acid Ratio                          0.56   0.44   0.69    0.4  0.81   0.55   1.04    0.8   1.530.73
Long-term Debt (long-term debt +
equjty)(%)                         38.0  24.0  43.0  31.0  42.0  49.0  36.0  61.0  28.069.0



SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL WORKS
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1988-92
(Y million)
1988         1989          1990         1991           1992
Year Ended Dec. 31                  SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR Actual   SAR A"
Sales Revenue                      108.4  101.6  129.0  109.1  158.5  109.4  206.7  160.3  242.5190.2
Profit (before tax)                 34.3  16.83   40.8  17.03   39.0  13.68   44.6  4.86   64.87.6
Net Profit                          19.5  6.63   26.0  7.11   24.2  4.69   29.8  3.55   49.95.54
Profit (before tax /sales) (%)      31.7  17.0  31.6  15.6  24.6  12.5  21.6  3.04   26.74.0               00
Return on Sales                     18.0   6.5  20.2   6.5  15.3   4.3  14.0   2.2  20.62.9
Turnover of Total Assets            56.0  70.5  45.6  54.2  45.8  36.4  54.0  39.2  62.339.4
Earning Power of Total Assets       10.0   4.6   9.2   3.5   7.0   1.6  7.79    0.9  12.81.1
Turnover of Fixed assets (%)       101.3  195.0  72.2  156.0  68.1  119.0  86.6  126.0  112.463.0
Debt Service Coverage Ratio            -   5.7   6.5  2.65    2.0  2.53    2.5   2.4   2.11.4
Current Ratio                        3.6  1.61    3.4   1.39    3.0  1.51    2.6  1.53    2.91.55
Quick Ratio                         17.8  16.0  16.6  18.7  17.0  20.0  14.1  42.2  15.772.09
LT Debt/LT Debt + Equity (%)        49.0  20.1  59.0  28.24   63.0  56.26   60.0  70.1  51.078.69



SMTC BALANCE SHEET, 1988-92
(Y million)
1988           1989            1990              1991             1992
SAR  Actual   SAR  Actual   SAR   Actual    SAR   Actual          SAR    Actual
Cash                                 65.40  10.20   85.90   9.40  103.10    52.20  158.20    71.50    236.60    79.50
Receivables                           5.00  89.70    5.60  138.60    6.20   286.60    6.90   372.50      8.10   413.70
Prepaid expenses                      5.00    -      5.60    -       6.10     -       6.80      -        7.90    32.00
Inventories                         177.70 308.70  196.80 395.10  216.00   448.80  240.20   478.50    277.90   542.00
Current assets                      253.10 408.60  293.90 543.10  331.40   787.80  412.10   922.50    530.50  1,067.20
Government bonds                      -      -        -      -       -       22.80    -       28.20       -      42.00
Gross fixed assets                  592.20 388.00  721.60 415.50  780.00   445.90  795.50   482.80    809.00   740.60
Depreciation                        190.60  176.00  204.40  191.80  218.70   203.90  266.40   217.90    314.80   232.80
Net fixed assets                    401.60 212.00  517.20 223.70  561.30   242.00  529.10   264.90    494.20   507.80
Special assets                        5.30  145.40   51.30 217.10   51.30   307.09   51.30   493.20     51.30   529.00
Total Assets                     706.00 766.00  862.40 983.90  944.00  1,360.50  922.50  1.708.80   1.076.00  2.146.00
Current liabilities
Advances from customers             23.10  114.90   25.50  163.40   28.00   304.20   31.20   347.90    36.10   148.00
Other payables                      -0.2    -      -0.2     -      -0.2      -      -0.2      -        -0.2    371.00
Short-term loan                     62.00  109.60   62.00  169.20   62.00   174.30   62.00   208.30    62.00   203.00
Unpaid taxes                        13.30  -0.8    20.20   4.00   22.10      0.40   45.90    -1.00     45.90    -0.70
Subtotal liabilities              98.30 223.70  107.50 336.60  111.90   478.90  138.90   555.20    143.80   716.00
Long-term liabilities               229.80  128.50  326.90 200.10  352.80   453.40  309.40   709.30    263.10   990.00
Equity
State fixed funds                  171.80 212.10  190.40 220.90  208.50   246.00  219.70   270.80    231.10      n.a.
State circulating fund              76.50  79.50   76.50  79.90   76.50    78.00   76.50    78.00      76.50     n.a.
Enterprise circulation fund         0.10   3.10    0.10   4.00    0.10      5.00    0.10      5.50      0.10     n.a.
Special funds                      129.60  119.10  161.00  142.40  194.20    99.20  247.90    90.00    361.40    n.a.
Subtotal equity                  378.00 413.80  428.00 447.20  479.30   428.20  544.20   444.30    669.10   439.00
Total Liabilities and Equitv     706.00 766.00  862.40 983.90  944.00  1.360.50  992.50  1.708.80   1,076.00  2.146.00
ti



SMTW BALANCE SHEET, 1988-92
(Y million)
1988            1989             1990             1991             1992
SAR   Actual   SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual
Assets
Current assets
Operating cash & deposits                 2.2     1.5      2.6     2.5      3.2     5.5      4.1     7.4      4.8    30.7
Accounts receivable                       1.8     4.4      2.2    10.5      2.7    10.9      3.5    30.3      4.1    48.0
Prepaid expenses                          1.6     -        1.9     0.3      2.4     0.2      3.1     0.4      3.6     5.7
Surplus cash                             28.0      -      36.0      -      31.3      -      38.3     -       51.6     -
Inventories
Finished goods
In transit                              4.3      9.7     5.2    25.1      6.3    40.0      8.3      -       9.7      -
In warehouse                            4.9      5.7     6.3      9.9     8.1      9.2    11.2    23.9    13.9       9.8
Semifinished goods                       24.6    40.4    27.6    42.7    31.7    54.4    38.6    60.8    42.0    51.3
Materials & consumables                  18.6    18.0    22.4    23.5    27.8    21.6    36.5    22.7    43.3    28.3
Total Inventories                      52.5    73.8    61.4   101.2    74.0   125.2    94.6   107.4   108.8    89.4
Total Current Assets                   86.2    79.7   104.1   114.5   113.5   141.8   143.7   145.5   173.1   173.8
Gross fixed assets                       165.0   102.4   241.2   109.1   299.8   109.7   329.1   112.1   329.5   180.7
Less: Depreciation                       69.9    70.0    74.4    75.9    79.1    80.6   102.3    89.3   125.7    95.6
Net Fixed Assets                       95.1    32.4   166.8    33.2   220.7    29.1   226.9    22.8   203.8    85.1
Government bonds                           0.3      2.1     0.3      2.4     0.3      2.4     0.3      2.4     0.3      2.4
Special assets                            11.9    30.0    11.9    51.2    11.9   127.5    11.9   238.2    11.9   221.5
Total Assets                          193.4   144.1   283.1   201.3   346.3   300.8   382.7   408.9   389.0   482.8
... Continued
3I~



SMTW BALANCE SHEET, 1988-92 (cont'd)
(Y million)
1988            1989              1990             1991              1992
SAR   Actual   SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual    SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual
Liabilities and Equity
Current liabilities
Advances from customers                    8.6    15.7    10.2       1.1    12.5    28.2    16.3    25.3    19.2    30.8
Accounts payable                           1.3     0.8      1.5    24.3       1.9     6.2      2.5    12.5       2.9     9.5
Short-term loans                           8.6    32.5      8.6    50.4       8.6    55.0      8.6    59.4       8.6    62.5
Unpaid taxes                               0.1     0.4      0.1      6.3      0.1     4.6      0.1    -2.1      0.1      0.4
Long-term debt due                         5.5      -      10.2      -       13.2      -      28.4      -      28.4      9.4
Total Current Liabilities               24.1    49.4    30.7    82.1    36.4    94.0    55.9    95.1    59.2   112.6
Long-term debt
World Bank loan                           46.8      2.5    84.9      6.2   119.2    44.2   119.9   115.2   106.2   143.5
Domestic loans                            36.9    11.0    64.5    21.0    75.3    41.0    75.2    62.0    60.1    109.9
Other loans                                -       5.5      -        6.4      -      31.2      -       42.8      -      38.0
Total Long-Term Debt                    93.8    19.0   149.4    33.6   194.5   116.4   195.1   220.0   166.7   291.4
Equity
State fixed funds                         11.4    32.4    17.4    33.3    26.2    29.5    31.7    29.9    37.1    29.9
State circulating funds                   17.6    17.2    17.6    17.2    17.6    17.2    17.6    17.2    17.6    17.2
Enterprise circulating fund                -       0.5      -        1.0      -       -        -        -        -       1.4
Special reserved funds                    28.8    25.6    24.2    34.1    16.8        1.2    12.7       1.4     8.8    30.3
Current-year profit                       27.9      -      43.8      -       54.9    42.5    69.5    45.3    99.6         -
Total Equity                            85.6    75.7   103.0    85.6   115.5    90.4   131.6    93.8   163.1    78.8
Total Liabilities and Equity           193.4   144.1   283.1   201.3   346.3   300.8   382.7   408.9   389.0   482.8                m



