Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
10  /. 10) 1> -K
Report No. 5994-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
January 28, 1987
Industry Department
This docunent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. lts rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Name  -  Renminbi
Currency Unit   -  Yuan (Y)
US$1.00         =  Y 3.70
Y 1.00          =  US$0.27
(as of October 1986)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (nm2)    =  10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)     =  35.31 cubic feet
1 milligram (mg)       =  0.001 gram or 0.015 grain
1 kilogram (kg)        =  1,000 grams or 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (ton, t)  =  1,000 kilograms or 2,205 pounds
1 carat (ct)           =  200 milligrams
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
cif    -  Cost, Insurance and Freight
ct     -  Carat
CNC    -  Computerized Numerically Controlled
ERR    -  Economic Rate of Return
GOC    -  Government of China
ICB    -  International Competitive Bidding
IRR    -  Internal Rate of Return
kg      -  kilogram
in      -  meter
...mg  -  milligram
MMBI   -  Ministry of Machine Building Industry
NC     -  Numerically Controlled
PCS    -  Pieces
PIU     -  Project Implementation Unit
ppm    -  parts per million
SBMEIA -  Shanghai Bureau of Mechanical and Electrical
Industries Administration
SD      -  Synthetic Diamond
SMG    -  Shanghai Municipal Government
SMTC   -  Shanghai Machine Tool Corpration
SMTW   -  Shanghai Machine Tool Works
t       -  tons
tpy    -  tons per year
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFMCL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY       .........................................  iv - v
Io INTRODUCTION ......          .....eooo ...............................  I
II. THE MACHINE TOOL SECTOR ...............          ......................  2
A. International Status of the Sector    .......................        2
B. Status of the Sector in China ............................           2
C. The Government's Sector Objective and Strategy ...........    6
D. Project Justification and the Rationale for Bank Support .    6
III. THE PROJECT BENEFICIARIES .....    ..............................       7
A. Organizational Structure ... ... . .......................           7
B. SMTTW .....................................................          8
C* SMTC ......................................... .........             9
IV. THE PROJECT **.......... ................................   10
A. Project Objectives  ..*            ............................   10
B. Project Descriptions ... -           ...............   ..........   10
1. Plant Rehabilitation and Modernization Component ......   11
2. Technology Transfer Component   .........................    17
3. Management System Component         ...........................   18
4. Training Component .... *.........* ................    18
C. Materials, ':omponents and Energy Inputs O-*..............   18
D. Demand and Market Aspects .....                     ...........   20
E. Environmental Aspects ............. .............. . .. .....   21
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ......... .............................. ........   21
A. Project Management .......................................   21
B. Engineering ............................................ .*.......   22
C. Technology Transfer, Management System and Training ......   22
D. Implementation Schedule ...... ..... .... .... ... .....  ..... * ...   23
E. Status of Preparation .......        .............................    24
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBTRSEMENT .   25
A. Capital Costs .... ................... ....... de......*.......     25
B. Financing Plan ............ .............................. ......   26
C. Channelling of the Proposed Loan         .........................    27
D. Procurement        ..............................................   28
E. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan .................          29
This report has been prepared by M.R. Amin, A.J. Ewing, K.K. Zamani and
S-W. Leong of the Industry Department. Mrs. V. Sellappan provided word
processing assistance, and secretarial support was provided by Mmes.
F. Tate and E. Tam.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by rcipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authrization



- ii-
Page No.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...... ................   31
A. Basis of Projections *...................................   31
B. Sales Volume and Revenues  o.o......ee ...........   31
C. Production Costs ........       ...............................   32
D. Financial Projections ............* ........................   32
E. Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis .......  34
F. Financial Covenants ......           .............*   37
G. Auditing and Reporting Requirements         ......................  38
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................     ...... .........   38
A.  Adjusted Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis *s....s   38
B.  Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis ........  39
C.  Net Foreign Exchange Savings .* ..........................  40
D.  Other Benefits ........ ...................... .  ........  41
E.  Risks .. ......... ..... ... ......... ..... *........   41
IX. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...   42
ANNEXES
2     World Machine Tool Production and Trade .....................  44
3-1   SMTW's Organization Chart .... ........................ ..............   45
3-2   SMTC Headquarters' Organization Chart      .......................   46
4-1   List of SMTC Plants and Institute ...........................  47
4-2   Guidelines for the Control of the Foundry Environment .......  48
5-1   Scope of Work for Engineering Consultancy Services ..........  52
5-2A  SMTC Terms of Reference for Management Consultancy Services .  53
5-2B  SMTW Terms of Reference for Management Consultancy Services .   59
5-3   SMTW Project Implementation Schedule sscsscescssescccccsecccs   64
5-4   SMTC Project Implementation Schedule ............  .........c....   65
6-1   Plant Capital Cost Estimates ..........................   66
6-2   Projected Di-bursement Schedule for Proposed Bank Loan ...c...  67
7-1   Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis ....... ..........c......  68
7-2   SMTW Production and Revenue Tables
Table 1:  Projected Production Volume  .ceeeece.ceeeecsc..cc   71
Table 2: Projected Export and Domestic Sales Volume and
Revenues ....... ...e cc........ c..s sc........o.....   72
7-3   SMTC Production and Revenue Tables
Table 1: Foundries and Forge - Prices, Production
and Sales Revenues ....c. ........ c..*.*.c..........    73
Table 2:  Accessory Works - Projected Production Volume .. ...  74
Table 3:  Accessory Works - Projected Selling Prices ........  75
Table 4:  Accessory Works - Projected Sales Revenues ........  76



- iii -
Page No.
Table 5:  #2 and #3 Metal Cutting Nachine Works - Prices,
Production and Sales Revenues       ...................  77
Table 6: #4 and #8 Netal Cutting Machine Works - Prices,
Production and Sales Revenues       ...................  78
Table 7: Metal Forming Machine Works - Prices, Production
and Sales Revenues ..... .........  ................  79
Table 8: #2 Metal Forming Machine Works - Prices,
Production Sales Revenues *    ......................   80
7-4  SMTW Projected Financial Performance
Table 1:  Historical and Projected Income Statements ........  81
Table 2:  Historical and Projected Fubnd  Flow Statements ....  82
rable 3:  Historical and Projected Balance Sheets ........s..    83
7-5  SMTC Projected Financial Performance
Table 1: Historical and Projected Income Statements   ........  84
Table 2:  Historical and Projected Funds Flow Statements ....  85
Table 3:  Historical and Projected Balance Sheets   ...........    86
7-6  SMTW - Cost-Benefit Streams for Financial Rate of Return ....  87
7-7  SMTC - Cost-Benefit Streams for Financial Rate of Return *...   88
7-8  Financial Rates of Return for SHTC Project Plants   ...........    89
8-1  Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis       .......................  90
8-2  SMTW - Cost Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return .....    92
8-3  SMTC - Cost Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return *....    93
8-4  Economic Rates of Return for SMTC Project Plants ............   94
8-5 Analysis of Foreign Exchange Effects *-----------------------   95
9    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..   96
MAP
IBRD 19458



- iv -
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:   Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SMTW)
Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation (SMTC)
Amount:          US$100.0 million equivalent
Terms:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate.
Onlending
Terms:         The Government will onlend, through Shanghai Municipal
Government, US$36.0 million equivalent to SMIW and
US$64.0 million equivalent to SMTC for a period of 15
years, including 5 years of grace, at a fixed annual
interest rate of 8.5% and a commitment charge of 0.75%.
SMTW and SMTC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project
Description:   The .ajor objectives of the Project are:  product
rationalization; product upgrading and manufacture of
precision machines; improvements in quality and quantity
of inputs; increase in manufacturing efficiency; expansion
of design and engineering capabilities; and improvements
in management systems. The Project consists of:
(a) rehabilitation and modernization of 18 plants and 2
research institutes, owned by the two beneficiaries;
(b) import of appropriate technology; (c) establishment of
a modern management structure and system; and
(d) development and implementation of a comprehensive
training program.
Benefits:        import of technology will enable the beneficiaries to
manufacture quality products and precision machine tools
efficiently. Rationalization measures during project
preparation have already led to a restructuring of SMTC's
organization and agreements to: reduce overlapping
operations among the beneficiaries' plants; and close down
two polluting foundries. Management support will add
considerable flexibility to the operations, improve
maintenance and inventory control, and facilitate the
introduction of cost-accounting techniques. Support to
the research institutes will streamline product
development and help to ensure the compatibility of
product design with market requirements. The training
program will result in expansion of the beneficiaries'
design and engineering capabilities and will improve the



- v -
managerial abilities of shop, plant and corporate
managers. The Project will have a demonstration effect on
other provincial machive tool manufacturers as well as
capital goods manufactJring industries.
Risks:           The Project's potential risks are:  whether the technology
can be transferred to the project entity; and whether the
products which result from the introduction of the new
technology can be marketed on the scale anticipated.
These risks have been carefully addressed in project
preparation and design to the extent that necessary
safeguards and other measures to minimize their potential
impact are in place.
Local  Foreign  Total
Estimated Cost:                                         -  (US$ millions) -
SMTw:
Plant Cost                           15.0    28.2    43.2
Engineering, Management, Training
& Technology Transfer               0.7      7.6     8.3
SMTC:
Plant Cost                           16.5    53.4    69.9
Engineering, Management, Training
e Technology Transfer               1.4    10.9    12.3
Base Cost a/                     33.6   100.1   133.7
Physical Contingencies                  3.4    10.0    13.4
Price Escalation                        F'0      9.8    15.8
Installed Cost                   43.0   119.9   162.9
Incremental Working Capital            38.1      3.4    41.5
Interest During Construction            8.8     9.9    18.7
Total Financing Required         89.9   133.2   Z23.1
-~~~~~~ -i
Local  Foreign  Total
Financing Plan:                                         -  (US$ millions) -
IBRD Loan                               -     100.0   100.0
Domestic Loans                         51.8    29.8    81.6
Self-generated Funds                   38.1     3.4    41.5
Total                             89.9   133.2   223.1
Estimated               Bank FY:   1987   1988   1989   1990    1991    1992
Disbursements:                    --      -   (US$ millions) -
Annual            0.9   22.9   33.2   25.0    15.4       2.6
Cumulative        0.9   23.8   57.0   82.0    97.4   100.0
Economic Rate    SMTW - 31Z
of Return:     SMTC - 31Z
a/ Estimated Project costs exclude taxes.



CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the People's Republic of China (the Government,
GOC) has requested a Bank loan of US$100 million equivalent to finance 75Z
of the foreign exchange cost of rehabilitation and modernization of two
major machine tool manufacturing corporations in Shanghai (the Project);
the balance of financing to be provided by domestic banks. For the machine
tool industry, the Project is expected to meet two of the Government's
major objectives in the industrial sector: (a) modernization of existing
enterprises, particularly through import of new technologies; and
(b) generation of foreign exchange indirectly through import substitution
and directly through increased exports. The Project also aims at
rationalization of organizational and physical structures, improvement in
management systems, improvements in quality and quantity of inputs,
increase in manufacturing efficiency and expansion of design and
engineering capabilities.
1.02      The Project consists of four components:  (a) rehabilitation and
modernization of 18 plants and 2 research institutes, all of which are
owned by one or other of the two Shanghai machine tool manufacturing
corporations; (b) import of appropriate technology; (c) establishment of a
modern management structure and system; and (d) development and
implementation of a comprehensive training program with emphasis on middle
management training. The Project will require total financing, including
physical and price contingencies and interest during construction of about
US$223.1 million equivalent, of which US$133.2 million will be in foreign
exchange.
1.03      The Project was proposed to the Bank's Industrial Reconnaissance
Mission in May 1983. The Bank's first preparation mission (September 1983)
prepared a comprehensive sector review of the machine tool industry in
Shanghai,,/ which identified the sectoral issues and the core of the
Project, and recommended three major feasibility studies to be carried out
by foreign consultants. The studies were prepared by: Foundry Management
and Design Co. Ltd. of the UK in association with Forging Development
(International) Ltd. of the UK; Roland Berger and Partner of the FRG in
association with Hayek International Ltd. of Switzerland; and Ingersol
Engineers Inc. of the USA. These studies, which were financed by the
Bank's Technical Cooperation Credit to China (CR-1412 CHA), together with
the sector review formed the major steps in project preparation. The
Project was appraised in October/November 1985 by Messrs. M.R. Amin,
A.J. Ewing, K.K. Zamani and S-W. Leong (Industry Department), and
Mr. H.G. Rohs (Consultant). Financial information and projections were
updated in October 1986.
1/   Industry Department:  China - Shanghai Machine Tool Project,
Preparation Mission's Full Report, December 1983.



-2-
II. THE MACHINE TOOL SECTOR
A. International Status of the Sector
2.01      Metal-working machine tools, which form the core of the
metal-working machinery industry, are divided into two distinct main
categories, namely the metal-cutting and the metal-forming machines with
the former accounting for the major share (65-71%) of the machine tool
output in the industrialized countries. Technologically, all the basic
types of machine tools in use today had been developed by the end of the
19th century. The next significant impetus to development of machine tools
was the emergence of the automobile industry and the moving assembly line
which created the demand for more productive and accurate machines. During
the past two decades, the major area of development has been automation by
incorporating the fruits of the electronic industry in machine tools as
exemplified by the development of sophisticated numerically controlled (NC)
and computerized numerically controlled (CNC) machines. While a relatively
small portion of machine tools in use today is numerically controlled, the
share of NC machines in the annual machine tools output of the world's
advanced producers has been rising since the early 1970s. it reached a
range of 26-39% in 1980 and is currently estimated at about 50Z for the USA
and Japan.
2.02      Although it serves as the backbone for au engineering industries
including several major industries such as capital goods, cransport
machinery and aerospace equipment manufacturing, the machine tool
industry's share of all manufactured goods in the industrialized countries
is small (0.2% to 0.8% in 1980). In 1981, about 99% of the world
production of machine tools (approximately US$26.8 billion) was accounted
for by 35 industrialized and newly industrialized countries, with the first
10 leading countries' share amounting to about 84Z. The bulk of
international trade (about US$10 billion in 1981) takes place among the
leading industrialized countries. In 1981, USA, FRG, Japan, USSR, GDR,
Canada, UK, France, Italy and Switzerland accounted for about 80% and 57%
of the world's exports and imports, respectively. The world machine tool
production and trade for 1981 and 1982 are given in Annex 2. Analysis of
gross investments in machine tools in developing and developed countries
indicates high correlation coefficients between per capita consumption of
machine tools, and per capita gross national product and industrial
investment. In 1981, among the 35 countries referred to above, Switzerland
and India with a per capita machine tools consumptions of US$46.5 and
US$0.35 ranked the highest and the lowest, respectively, while China with a
per capita consumption of about US$1.05 ranked 34th.
B. Status of the Sector in China
2.03      Structure and Production.  During the last three decades China's
machine tool production grew by almost 10 times from 13,700 sets in 1952 to
about 100,000 metal-cutting and 30,000 metal-forming machine tools in
1982. The sector, which includes manufacture of metal-working machine
tools, casting and wood-working machinery and machine tools accessories,
comprised over 400 small, medium and large plants, employing about 600,000



-3-
people (about 1X of industrial employment).2/ Among these plants, 121 are
considered the main enterprises which, operating under the direction of
Ministry of Machine Building Industry (MMBI), account for the bulk of
machine tools and accessories production, i.e., 79 and 42 plants,
respectively. Of the former group, 10 large plants (each with employment
of over 5,000 people) provide 10% of the total machine tools production.
In 1981, the value of the sector's output was about Y 3.2 billion,
corresponding to approximately 1% of China's industrial output. With the
share of machine tools (metal-cutting and metal-forming) in the total
sector output amounting to about Y 1.6 billion, China ranked sixth among
the world's machine tool manufacturing countries. In 1982, 1984 and 1985,
the value of China's machine tool output reached Y 1.8, Y 2.5 and
Y 2.7 billion (in 1981 prices), respectively.
2.04      Technology.  A major issue facing the machine tool industry in
China is its outmoded technology. In its early development (1950s), the
industry was based on the USSR technology of the time, while during tihe
1960s and 1970s development depended on the indigenous technology which was
based on the work of Chinese research/design institutes, internationally
published literature and occasional imports of sample machine tools. 'The
policy of development based exclusively on indigenous technology, which
prevailed until the late 1970s, resulted in a very slow and probably costly
technological development and in China's current technological
backwardness. During recent years as a result of China's adjustment policy
(para 2.13) and the increasing demand of the user industries for better
quality and more efficient machine tools, some 20 collaboration agreements
(mostly buy-back agreements) have been signed with advanced manufacturers
in the industrialized countries. With the exception of a limited number of
machine tools which are built through these recently acquired technologies,
the currently employed technology in the vast majority of machine tool
manufacturing plants is about 20 years old. Old designs combined with poor
quality purchased components (e.g., castings, bearings, electric parts and
hydraulic equipment), inadequate manufacturing facilities and insufficient
experience in production management result in products which in addition to
having a short life (5-7 years compared to 12-15 years in the
industrialized countries), are unreliable and not suitable for precision
work.
2.05      Trade.  Although China started exporting machine tools in 1957,
published literature (Chinese and international) presents very sketchy data
on Chinese exports and imports prior to 1978. During 1978-82, China's
exports and imports of machine tools averaged about US$40 million and
US$100 million per annum, respectively - a low trade activity for the
world's sixth-ranking producer and consumer of machine tools. The main
reasons for the low trade level were that while poor quality and outmoded
technology of domestically manufactured machine tools limited exports to
low-priced conventional machines, restrictions by the Government resulted
in imports of only badly needed sophisticated machines. The bulk of
Chinese machine tools exports is still to traditional markets in Southeast
2/   In China, the industry includes manufacturing, mining and electric
power generation.



- 4 -
Asia, though exports to the other parts of the world - including the
industrialized countries - has increased during recent years.
2.06      Supply/Demand.  With exports and imports amounting to about 3%
and 10% of the value of domestic production, the average annual apparent
consumption of machine tools during 1980-82 has been estimated at about
107% of the domestic output. In 1982, China's installed machine tools were
estimated at about 3 million units which, when compared with the machine
tools in use in the USA and FRG during 1980 (2.63 and 1.25 million units,
respectively), appears excessive. This is partly explained by the
adherence of the Chinese industry to the principle of self-sufficiency and
the fact that contrary to the practice in the industrialized countries
where old and obsolete machines are replaced with modern machines, in China
old machines are kept and new machines are simply added. To this end,
based on visits to a number of industrial plants by various Bank missions,
it is estimated that about one third of machine tools installed in China
are idle. Another reason for the relatively high number of installed
machine tools in China is the low productive level of Chinese machine tools
due to their old designs, short life and unreliable performance.
Considering these factors, a significant element of future demand will be
replacement of a large portion of existing machine tools with machines of
better quality and longer economic life.
2.07      National demand projections for machine tools are not available.
International studies, however, using the world's and the Chinese
historical consumption growth rates (3.3% and 6.4% per annum during
1965-80, respectively) project demand growth rates of 2.4% and 4.9% per
annum for the world and China during 1980-95, respectively.3/ The
projected growth rate for China is considered conservative when compared
with the Bank's least growth case scenario for the Chinese economic growth
during 1981-2000.4/ Under this scenario gross domestic product is
projected to grow at 5.4% per annum and the machine building industry - the
main market for machine tools - at 7.6%. Thus, with a consumption level of
about Y 1.7 billion in 1981 and a projected growth rate of 5-7% per annum
during the succeeding two decades, the main issue is not the demand but the
supply, and in this respect, whether China will be able to modernize its
machine tool industry fast enough to meet the domestic demand for reliable
and efficient machines.
2.08      Distribution System.  Until 1982, production and output of all
the main enterprises (para 2.03) were subject to the Government's quota and
allocation system. In this respect, annual production quotas were
established by the Government for each enterprise and then the products
were allocated to the domestic users under the centrally controlled unified
distribution system. One of the major deficiencies of this system, among
others, was that the manufacturer seldom knew the users of its products and
the latter had no freedom in choosing the manufacturer. In line with the
3/   Source:  Predicasts Incorporated, Cleveland, Ohio, USA; Industry Study
No. 270 entitled 'World Machine Tools to 1995, May 1982.
4/   -China:  Long-term Issues and Options,- Report No. 5206-CHA, May 22,
1985.



- 5 -
Government's recent reforms, there has been a continued reduction of the
Government's quotas since 1982. As an example, in 1985, about 50X of
metal-cutting machines and 47Z of metal-forming machines, manufactured by
the Shanghai machine tool industry, was under the Government's quota and
allocation system. With the expected increase in the non-allocated share
of output, the main enterprises' responsibilities for marketing their
products, providing after-sales services, and responding to the market
signals in production planning would also increase. Most of China's
exports of machine tools are handled by the China National Machinery and
Equipment Import and Export Corporation, a centrally controlled
organization. There are, however, a number of enterprises, among them the
project beneficiaries, which are allowed direct exports.
2.09      Input Prices.  The principal inputs for machine tool
manufacturing are iron and steel castings, steel products, bearings, and
electrical and hydraulic components. The industry is not energy intensive
and the share of energy cost in the total cost of production is relatively
small (3% in Shanghai). The foundry industry, whose principal inputs are
sand, scrap, pig iron and coke, is on the other hand, energy intensive -
the share of energy amounting to about 14% of the direct production cost.
The sector review (para 1.03), which included a detailed financial and
economic analysis of the Shanghai machine tool industry in 1983, concluded
that: all material input prices were reasonable when compared with
international prices; electrical energy prices were compatible with
economic prices; and coke prices were about 30% of economic/international
prices.  Discussions held in the context of the Bank's first coal project
in China (the Changeun Coal Mining Project, Loan 2501-CHA) indicate that
within a few years coal/coke prices will be progressively raised to be in
line with long-run marginal costs, i.e., be set at economic levels.  The
appraisal mission confirmed that the sector review's findings regarding all
input prices were valid in 1985 and found that coke prices had already been
increased to about 64Z of international prices.
2.10      Output Prices.  For the purpose of pricing, machine tools are
divided into two broad categories: special purpose machines, i.e.,
machines which are built to the customers' orders; and general purpose
machines, i.e., machines which are manufactured for sale in the market on a
regular basis. There are no price restrictions on the first category and
these machines are sold at negotiated prices. The second category is,
however, subject to price control by the Government, but the system
includes the following important adjustment rules: (a) price review and
adjustment every 2-3 years on the basis of market conditions and changes in
input prices; (b) 8-20% price increases allowed if a product is upgraded;
(c) higher price increase allowed if a product is priced abnormally low;
(d) negotiated prices permitted up to 20% higher than fixed prices if input
materials are not provided under the unified distribution system; and
(e) no price control for exports. The above price incentives, which were
introduced in 1982, have been implemented as exemplified by the experience
of the Shanghai machine tool industry during 1983-85.
2.11      The sector review of 1983 (para 1.03) provides detailed analysis
of the then prevailing prices of domestically manufactured machine tools in



- 6 -
Shanghai. The conclusion reached was that these prices, after adjustment
for quality, life and reliability, were generally competitive when compared
with the international prices. This conclusion was supported by the export
prices which were either the same or slightly higher than the domestic
prices. Thus, with the implementation of the price adjvscments
(para 2.10), the current level of prices is considered reasonable. In the
future, as a result of reduction in the share of 'overnment-allocated
products (para 2.08), the manufacturers, in proposing adjustment in
existing product prices or prices for new products, would have to consider
not only their costs but also the prices of comparable machines.
C. The Goverrment's Sector Objective and Strategy
2.12      Objective.  China plans to quadruple its 1980 agricultural and
industrial output by the end of the century, with per capita GNP increasing
from US$300 to US$800 (in 1980 dollars). The focus of GOC is not only a
major quantitative increase in the industrial output, but also a
substantial improvement in product quality. To achieve the latter, better
quality and more reliable machinery will be required - a requirement which
cannot be met without upgrading the quality of the domestically
manufactured machine tools. Given the above objective and requirement,
modernization of the machine tool industry has been assigned high priority,
with the Project being the first major effort in that respect.
2.13      Strategy.  In industry, the Government's current policy of
adjustment and reform is to correct several fundamental weaknesses, which
became prominent by the end of the 1970s: inefficiency in the use of
capital, labor, raw materials and energy; poor product quality; and an
imbalance in capacity. The adopted adjustment policy includes: generation
of foreign exchange indirectly through import substitution and directly
through increased exports; stress on modernization of existing enterprises;
and improvement of energy efficiency. In line with phe overall industrial
adjustment policy, the Government's specific strategies for the machine
tool industry are: to keep the current level of output in nuLibers but
increase output value by changes in product-mix and improvemen: of product
quality; to improve machine design and manufacturing techniques through
import of appropriate technologies; to discontinue production of obsolete
ui3chines and to manufacture precision machine tools; to satisfy, primarily,
thle needs of the light user industries; and to improve management systems
in machine tool manufacturing enterprises.
D. Project Justification and the Rationale for Bank Support
2.14      In line with the above objective and strategy, GOC has selected
the Project as its first major operation in the sector.  The choice is
appropriate because the Shanghai machine tool industry covers a wide
spectrum of metal-cutting and metal-forming machines as well as accessory
equipment and foundry products, and accounts for about 10% of the country's
machine tools output and about 20% of its exports. The Project also meets
most of the Bank's industrial objectives in China, namely: improving
policies and institutions; technology upgrading; energy conservation; and
export promotion.



2.15      One of the major shortcomings which contributed to the weaknesses
of the Chinese industry (para 2.13) has been identified by the Government
as lack of proper preparation and evaluation of investment projects. The
Bank, through its sector review and the subsequent Bank-assisted
feasibility studies, has already played an important role in the
preparation of the Project. The sector review identified a number of major
issues and made the following recommendations for their resolution:
(a) organizational restructuring cf the beneficiaries; (b) physical
restructuring of plants involving gradual phasing out of three cast iron
foundries and mergers of some of the machine tool and accessory
manufacturing plants; (c) rationalization of production and reduction of
overlapping operations among the Shanghai plants; (d) measures to assure
adequate supply of sanc, scrap, pig iron and coke for the foundries; and
(e) conclusion of collaboration agreements between experienced foreign
manufacturers and the relevant Shanghai enterprises, not included in the
Project, for the manufacture of quality bearings, electric parts and
hydraulic components. These recommendationE either have been implemented
or agreement has been reached to implement them during the course of
project execution. The feasibility studies, which started with
comprehensive market studies, have identified the required products for the
fiture and thus have suggested changes in layout and addition/deletion of
manufacturing equipment for each plant involved in the Project to meet
these requirements. Participation of the beneficiaries' personnel and a
domestic consulting firm in the sector review and the feasibility studies,
both of which involved financial and economic analysis, has resulted in the
transfer of project preparation and evaluation techniques to the sector in
Shanghai. The Bank's role in the future, inter alia, would include
assisting the Chinese in import of technology, establishiment of management
systpms at plant and corporate levels, ard training of personnel.
III. THE PROJECT BENEFICIARIES
A. Organizational Structure
3.01      The project beneficiaries are the Shanghai Machine Tool Works
(SMTW) and the Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation (SMTC) whose combined
output of mar*-ine tools amounted to over US$100 million equivalent in 1982,
corresponding tc about 50% of India's production in that year. SMTW was
registered as an independent industrial enterprise in 1981 and SMTC, which
was an administrative agency of the Shanghai Municipal Government ZSMG)
until August 1984, changed its status to an independent enterprise. Both
corporations are owned by the Government and, for administrative purposes,
report to the Shanghai Bureau of MechaniLal and Electrical Industries
Administration (SBMEIA), an organ of the SMG. SBMEIA, which also reports
to the MMBI, appoints the corporations' general managers, issues the
central and municipal governments' guidelines and directives to the
corporations, reviews price proposals by the corporations, and makes sure
that the Government's allocated produ'cts are manufactured and delivered.



-8-
3.02      Articles of association (charters) for SHTW and SHTC, describing
the scope of activities, responsibilities and authorities of their
organizations, were prepared by the beneficiaries and reviewed by the
Bank in 1985. According to these Charters, which were approved by SBMEIA
and became effective as of January 1986, the beneficiaries have full
responsibility for managing their affairs and are authorized to: change
their organizational structures; determine their employment policies;
'uarket their non-allocated products; enter into contracts with domestic and
foreign organizations; borrow from domestic and foreign sources; and
allocate and use their retained earnings.
3.03      While SMTW operates an integrated plant, SMTC behaves more like a
holding company with 44 plants and 1 research institute under its purview.
Locations of SMTW and SMTC's plants and research institute are given in the
attached Map (IBRD 19458). For SNTC's research institute and each of its
16 plants included in the Project, detailed descriptions covering
organization chart, existing physical facilities, product types, output
level, employment and financiel performance are given in the Project File.
This file also includes brief descriptions of SNTC's 28 non-Project
plants. The financial projections contained in Chapter VII detail the
recent financial performance of SMTW and SMTC which is satisfactory. The
management and staff at SMTW and SMTC are competent and, with the
assistance of foreign advisors and consultants, will be able to implement
the Project efficiently. However, for plant and corporate operation, the
mangement systems at both corporations are inadequate and management skills
from shop to corporate level need improvement. These shortcomings have
been addressed under the Project (paras 4.13 and 4.14). The important
features of the beneficiaries' structure and operations are described
briefly in the succeeding paragraphs.
B. SMTW
3.04      SMTW's integrated plant comprises three distinct sections:  the
captive foundry; the hydraulic compGaent manufacturing section; and the
grinding machine manufacturing section which also includes manufacturing of
roundness testers and coordinate measuring machines. The plant's principal
products are cylindrical, surface, double disc, crankshaft, roll, thread
and gear grinding machines. SHTW's existing organization chart is
presented as Annex 3-1. Salient features of the operations are summarized
below:



- 9 -
SMTW - Salient Features
Unit              1985
Employees                     person                  6,366
Gross fixed assets            million yuan             73.4
Machine tool output           set                     2,221
Domestic sales                million yuan             71.1
Of which, machine tLols    million yuan              60.2
Exports                       million US$               1.1
Profit before tax             million yuan             22.4
Source: SMTW.
C. SMTC
3.05      As stated earlier SMTC currently has 44 plants and one research
institute, spread throughout Shanghai, under its purview. Based on the
Bank mission's recommendations, SMTC's corporate organization was changed
drastically to reduce the number of people reporting directly to the
corporate manager from 47 to 8 and decentralize the decision-making
process. SMTC's new organization chart is given in Annex 3-2. The plants
are grouped in four divisions comprising foundry and forging, accessories
and tools, metal-forming machines and metal-cutting machines. SMTC issues
guidelines to the plants, reviews and approves/disapproves plant
investments, appoints plant managers, allocates the Government's product
quotas to the plants and handles the exports. Other than the Government
quotas, the plants are free to plan production and are responsible for the
domestic sale of non-quota products. The plants are free to manage their
affairs within SMTC's guidelines. Each plant produces its own independent
annual financial statements and pays SMTC a fee for the provision of
services. SMTC has not prepared consolidated financial statements in the
past, but has agreed to do so on a regular basis beginning in FY87.
Confirmation of this agreement was obtained during negotiations.
3.06      SMTC manufactures a broad range of products.  The plants in the
foundry and forging division manufacture steel castings, iron castings and
forged products. While steel castings are sold to SMTC's machine tool
plants as well as other manufacturers, iron castings and forged products
are exclusively for sale to the SMTC plants. The accessory division's
plants manufacture a wide variety of measuring equipment and machine tool
accessories which are sold to STHC's plants and other machine tool
manufacturers throughout the country. SMTC's principal metal-cutting
machines output includes: lathes, milling machines, drilling machines,
shaping machines, gear cutting and gear grinding machines, guideway
grinding machines, electro-discharge machine and wire-cutting machines,
special purpose machines and transfer lines. The metal-forming machines,
manufactured by SMTC, are: mechanical presses, folding machines,
guillotine shears, extrusion presses, die-casting machines and pipe-bending
machines. The salient features of SMTC operations are summarized below:



- 10 -
SMTC - Salient Features
Unit                 1985
Employees                    person                  30,042
Gross fixed assets           million yuan             316.8
M{achine tool output         set                     17,186
Domestic sales               million yuan             364.9
Of which, machine tools   million yuan              217.0
Exports                      million US$                8.5
Profit before cax            million yuan             102.8
Source: SMTC.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project nbjectives
4.01      The principal goals of the Project are:  (a) rationalization of
products through physical restructuring of plants; (b) upgrading of
products and manufacture of precision machines through technology transfer;
(c) improvements in quality and quantity of inputs through alleviation of
existing constraints; (d) increase in manufacturing efficiency through
renovation of buildings, removal of obsolete machinery, installation of
suitable new equipment, training of middle management and establishment of
appropriate production planning and control systems; (e) expansion of
design and engineering capabilities through strengthening of the research
institutes; and (f) improvements in the plant/corporate management systems
through employment of modern management techniques. Successful
implementation of the Project is expected to have a demonstration effect on
other provincial machine tool industries as well as capital goods
manufacturing industries.
B. Project Description
4.02      The Project includes four components: (a) plant rehabilitation
and modernization component covering four cast iron foundries, one forging
plant, six accessory equipment manufacturing plants, five metal-cutting
machine manufacturing plants, two metal-forming machine manufacturing
plants and two research institutes; (b) technology transfer component; (c)
management system component; and (d) training component. Of the plants
under component (a) one cast iron foundry, one metal-cutting machine
manufacturing plant and one research institute belong to SMTW while the
rest of the plants/institutes are under the purview of SMTC. Annex 4-1
lists the titles of all SMTC's plants and institute, and designates those
included in the Projact.  Components (b), (c) and (d) cover SNTW and SMTC's
central organizational units as well as all plants and institutes involved
in the Project. Because of the heterogeneity of products and in order to
avoid repetition, instead of presenting detailed project description for
each corporation, homogeneous operations are grouped and the relevant
details are described.



- 11 -
1. Plant Rehabilitation and Modernization Component
4.03      The principal criteria used for the rehabilitation and
modernization program of each plant were rationalization of production and
identification of marketable products. Under the first criterion, the
extent of diversification will be reduced in favor of specialization to
improve quality and efficiency. In other words, the principle of plant
self-sufficiency, a common practice in China, will be replaced with the
interdependency principle. The second criterion was used to choose the
appropriate product-mix for each plant. In this respect, domestic market
studies were carried out first and then existing products were divided into
three categories: products to be phased out, products to be retained 'as
is- and products to be upgraded. New products to be manufactured by each
plant were also identified by the market studies and form the fourth
product category. Alternative manufacturing technologies were studied and
an appropriate technology was chosen for each plant (para 4.11). The
chosen product categories and manufacturing technologies will necessitate
changes in plants' layouts and removal/addition of machinery and equipment
in each plant. The overall results of these changes will be that: the
number of installed machinery will be reduced considerably; with the
exception of two new buildings, the civil works will be limited to
renovation and, in some cases, extension of existing buildings; and the
additional land requirement of the Project will be about 12,000 m2. To
this end, because of closure of two existing foundries (para 4.04), there
will be a net gain of about 11,000 m2 in available land which will
contribute to the alleviation of the land constraint in the Shanghai area.
4.04      (i)  Foundry Subcomponent.  Due to the poor quality of castings,
the foundries will be modernized and their product mixes will be
rationalized. The resulting adjusted capacities are expected to satisfy
over 97% of the future needs of SMTW and SMTC for quality castings. At
SMTW, the existing foundry will be expanded to meet all SMTW's future
needs, except castings weighing more than 10 tons which will be procured
from external domestic suppliers. At present, SMTC operates six cast iron
foundries of which five are independent and the sixth is a part of one of
SMTC's machine tool plants. The current practice is that each foundry
serves a selected number of machine tool manufacturing plants, producing
the whole range of their requirements, i.e., from the very small to the
very large castings. As this practice is highly inefficient and as two of
the independent foundries are very old and located in congested residential
areas, the future foundry operations of SMTC will be limited to three
plants which will be specialized in manufacture of small, medium and large
castings, respectively. Consequently, the two foundries in the residential
areas and the foundry in the machine tool manufacturing plant will be
closed down, and the remaining foundries, after rehabilitation, will serve
all SMTC plants according to the size requirements. The following table
compares the current and projected output of the foundries.



- 12 -
Shanghai Machine Tool Project - Annual Foundry Output
(in tons)
After Project Completion
Foundry                    1985 a/          Output           Range
A. SMTW                   10,700            16,000       Up to 10 t castings
B. SMTC:
Foundry No. 1          7,600             22,000       Large Castings
Foundry No. 2          3,900                  -       None
Foundry No. 3          6,600             10,900       Small Castings
Foundry No. 4         12,200                  -       None
Foundry No. 5          9,500              7,500       Medium Castings
Foundry in Machine
Tool Plant.           2,700                  -       None
Subtotal (B)        42,500             40,400
Total               53,200             56,400
a/   Preliminary.
As the above table indicates, the capacity of the SMTW foundry will
increase as a result of design changes and a slight increase in the number
of machine tools produced. For SMTC, however, there wlll be a reduction in
the combined foundry outpuxt as a result of rationalization and decrease in
the number of machine tools produced (para 4.09).
4.05      (ii)  Forging Subcomponents.  The present forging operation at
SMTC's forging plant is unsatisfactory due to poor material handling
practices, inefficient furnace operation and use of outmoded equipment.
The rehabilitation/expansion program will result in increasing the plant's
output from 2,500 tons in 1985 to 10,000 tons in 1991. The annual output
of 10,000 tons will satisfy SMTC's projected demand of 4,500 tpy and about
73Z of the demand of other consumers for shaft forgings, including SMTW, in
the Shanghai area. The plant's future capacity was determined on the basis
of the demand analysis and the smallest available economic-size forging
machine. With completion of the rehabilitation program, major forging
operations in all SMTC's other plants and SMTW will be discontinued.
4.06      (iii)  Accessories Subcomponent.  At present, SMTC has 14
independent accessory equipment manufacturing plants which provide SMTW and
other consumers (domestic and international) with parts used in the
manufacture of machine tools as well as abrasive materials/tools for
grinding. Under the rationalization program: one of these plants, located
in the Anhui Province, will be transferred to that province; another plant,
engaged in manufacture of various types of gears, rotary tables and
universal milling attachments, will discontinue manufacture of these
products and the plant facilities will be used for assembly of numerical
control devices (para 4.16); a third plant, currently engaged in the
manufacture of lathes and name plates, will stop production of the former



- 13 -
and concentrate on the manufacture of the latter. Six of the remaining
plants, which should be rehabilitated on a priority basis, have been
included in the Project. These comprise five parts-manufacturing plants
and the plant which nanufactures grinding wheels and abrasive paper/cloth.
4.07      The purpose of plant modernization for the five
parts-manufacturing plants is to upgrade their existing products, introduce
new products required for manufacture of the more sophisticated machine
tools of the future and adjustlexpand capacities. As all but synthetic
diamond (SD) products manufactured by the Grinding Wheel plant, are
acceptable in quality, modernization of this plant will be limited to the
import of equipment and technology for manufacture of synthetic diamond
tools. A significant feature of the rehabilitation program concerns the
Gear Works, one of the five parts manufacturing plants. With modernization
of this plant, gear manufacturing will be discontinued in all but three of
SMTC's metal-cutting machine and accessory msnufacturing plants.
Concentration of metal-cutting machines' gears manufacturing in one plant
will result in proision of uniforu, standard and precise gears to
manufacturers and consumers (as spare parts). The following table
summarizes the rehabilitation program for and its effects on the selected
six accessory manufacturing plants.



- 14 -
SMIC - Rehabilitation of Accessory Parts Manufacturing Plants
Annual Value of
(i mwillion yuam
at 1986 Prices)
After
Plant     Existing                                                    Project
Title     Products           Change   New Products           1985 a/ Co2pl.
NO. I     Tooling systems    Upgrade
Drill Chucks       None                              5.6     9.7
No. 3     Sheet covers       None      Telescopic covers
Channels           Upgrade  Guards
Cabinets           Upgrade
Wipers             Upgrade                           2.2     4.4
No. 6     Lead Screw         Upgrade  Aluminium, Plastic
Steel Op. Units    None     and Coated Operating
Units                   3.3     4.8
Gear      Grade 7-8 Gears    Upgrade  Grade 5 Gears
Works    Grade 6 Gears      Upgrade                           3.3    12.0
Level     Inductosyn         Upgrade  Linear Glass Scale
Works    Levels, Encoders   None      Digital Tool Presetters
Optical Tool Pre-
setters           None
Opt. Reading head  None                             2.4    20.6
Grinding  Conventional       None      Synthetic Diamond (SD)
Wheel     Wheels                       Tools
Works    Abrasive Cloth/    None
Paper
SD Grains          None                            65.3    89.5
a/  Preliminary.
4.C8      (iv)  Machine Tool Manufacturing Subcomponent.  This
subcomponent, which accounts for about 55% of the value of the Project's
imported machinery, includes the entire parts and machine manufacturing of
SMTW's integrated planws and six of SMTC's machine tool manufacturing
plants (four metal-cutting and two metal-forming) which would have a
significant impact on SMTC's operation. At present, SMTC has 14 plants in
its metal-cutting division and 7 plants in its metal-forming division. As
a part of rationalization program at SMTC: one metal-cutting machine
manufacturing plant, located in Anhui Province, will be transferred to that
province; because of oversupply of conventional lathes, output of lathes
will be decreased and the lathe manufacturing plants wifl be reduced from
six to five; manufacture of conventional grinding machines will be
discontinued at SMTC plants and will be concentrated at SMTW; and



- 15 -
metal-forming machine manufacturing plants will be reduced from four to
three with the welding operations for all metal-forming machines to be
concentrated in one of these plants.
4.09      Using the criteria discussed in para 4.03 and taking the
Government's sector strategy (para 2.13) into consideration, the future
product-mix of each of the seven plants in this subcomponent was
determined. Based on the projected product-mix and the chosen
manufacturing technology (para 4.11) existing machinery and equipment in
each plant were assessed and the required new manufacturing machines were
identified. The result of these analyses is that in the 7 selected plants,
about 1,000 old, obsolete and uaproductive machines would have to be
removed, and about 120 new maceaines, with high precision and productivity,
would have to be added. The slgnificant reduction ln the number of
installed machines will provide additional space which in turn would remove
the current congestion constraint and allow better material flows. The
changes in the product-mix as well as current and future volume and value
of production for each plant are presented in the following table.



- 16 -
Sm dbm     Mahie  Too! Project
Machine Tool Manufacturing Plante' product iz nxd Annual Volum  and Value of Production
Umber of Ptoduct Tyne
Phase Maim-  Up-                         Volume Cets
Product                                      1985    out   tad   grade   Now  Future a/  N985      Future *l
SHiV
Grinding Machines                           22      7      11      4      10     25      2,212      2,320
Keasuring Equipment                          4      -       4      -      3       7          9        130
Total                                    26      7      15      4      3              2.221     2,450
Value of Production (in milIlon ) c/                                                     (64.4)   (206.5)
SMTC No.2 Metal-Cutting Works
Conventional Lathes                          9      S       -      4      -       4      1,235        400
CNC Lathes                                                                4 -     4          -        182
Total                                     9      5      -       4                     T 8  1,235   582
Value of Production (in million Y) c/                                                    (15.7)    (54.9)
SHTC No. 3 Metal-Cutt% Works
Conventional Grinders/Lapping
Machines                                     6      6       -      -      -       -        685          -
Optical Profile Grinders                     I       I      -      -      2       2         40         15
Jig Boring Machines                          1       1      -              L      1         27         15
Jig Grinders                                 I      -       L      -       3      4           1        53
Machining Centers (small)                    -      -       -      -      3       3          -         85
Total                                     9      8                     9      10        753        168
Value of Production (l  million Y) cf                                                   (13.7)    (48.4)
SMTC No. 4 Metal-Cuttlang Works
Convectional Milling Mochines                5      5      -       -      3       3        125         25
NC Milling Machines                          2      -       2      -      -       2         24         50
Precilsion Milling Machine                   -      -      -       -      I       1          -         25
Machining Centers (.edlue)                   -      -      -       -      3       3          -         29
Total                                     7      S       2      -      7       9        149        129
Value of Production (in million Y) cI                                                     (7.5)    (30.5)
SnTC No. 8 Metal-Cutting Works
Conventional Electro-Discharge Machines    4        -      -       4      -      4         290        145
NC Electro-Discharge Machines                           -                 3       3          -        100
CNC Electro-Diacharge Machines              Z       -      -       -      I       i          -        30
Total                                     4      -      -       4      4       8        290       275
Value of Production (in million Y) c/                                                    (12.5)    (29.3)
SMTC Metal-FormIng Works
Single Polnt Presses                         6      1      -       5      -       5        127        145
Double Action Presses                        2      -      -       2      -       2         55         IS
Open Back Presses                            -      -      -       -      2       2          -         40
Mech. Cold Extrusion Presses                 1      -      -       1      2       3          2         32
Toggle-Type Extrusion Presses                2      2       -      -      I       1         19         10
Hydraullc Presses                            3       1     -       2      -       2         22         20
Transfer Presses                             -      -       -      -      4       4          -         29
Total                                    14      4      -      10      9      19        225       291
Value of Production (in million Y) cJ                                                    (22.8)    (53.0)
SMTC No. 2 Metal-Forming Vorks
Open Back, Inclinable Presses               12     11       1      -      -       1      1,995       218
Open Back, Fixed Bed                         -      -      -       -      6      6           -        198
High Speed Presses                           -      -      -       -      6      6           -        150
Transfer Presses                       -            -      -       -      3      3           -         57
CNC Turret Presses                           -      -                     4      4           -         15
Subtotal                                 12     11      I      -      19     20       1.995       638
Press Accessories and Dies                      -          -       -      -      -           -       852
Total                                    12     11       I      -     19      W       1,995     1.490
Value of Production (In million Y) cl                                                    (15.2)    (48.7)
al Year in which the plant reaches full production.
b/ Preliminary.
cl In constant 1986 prices.



- 17 -
4.10      (v)  Research Institute Subcomponent.  SMTW's research institute
is a part of its integrated operation, while SNTC's research institute
operates as an independent organization under the management of SMTC.
These institutes will be modernized to enhance their capabilities in
achieving their goals which include: improvement of design and engineering
skills; improvement of existing products; development of new products and
processes; testing of improved/new products; and technology transfer. At
SMTW, two recently constructed buildings will house the research equipment
and a new machine shop/office structure (7,000 m2) will be built at the
SMTC's institute. In both institutes old and obsolete equipment will be
removed and the institutes will be equipped with modern machine tools,
precision measuring and testing equipment, duplicating and microfiche
systems, and computers. The computers will be used primarily in research
and development work and in the application of computer aided designs. The
principal areas of research and development will be: grinding machines and
measuring equipment at the SMTW's institute; and metal-cutting and
metal-forming machines at the SMTC's institute.
2. Technology Transfer Component
4.11      The required technologies for the Project comprise two principal
categories; namely, manufacturing technology and design/process
technology. The former includes the types and arrangements of machines to
manufacture the desired product-mix and the latter covers specific
design/process criteria required for manufacture o. a particular product.
The feasibility studies (para 1.03) assessed alternative manufacturing
technologies for each plant involved in the Project and recommended the
appropriate technology.  In what follows, the significant choices made are
described briefly. For the foundries, modern chemically bonded moulding
for large- and medium-sized castings and advanced mechanized green sand
moulding for small-sized casting will be used, and electric holding
furnaces will be installed to control the composition and temperature of
cupola-iurnaces' output. For the forging plant, a multiple hammer
precision forging machine will be installed. In selection of the
manufacturing technologies for the foundry and forging plants special
consideration was given to the electric power constraint in the Shanghai
area. For each of the machine tool and accessory manufacturing plants,
four alternative technologies were studied. These were: job shop (random
grouping of machines); process flow shop (grouping of machines according to
their functions); product cell or group technology (grouping of machines
according to the steps required to produce a product); and transfer lines
(highly automated system designed for mass production). For machine tool
manufacturing the choice was group technology and for accessory
manufacturing, depending on the type and quantity of output, either process
flow or group technology was chosen.
4.12      The feasibility studies also identified the design/prorcess
technologies which should be imported. These relate to the following
products: bigh strength cascings (foundries); linear glass scales and
synthetic diamond tools (SMTCts accessory manufacturing plants); advanced
grinding machines and 3-dimensional precision measuring machines (SMTW);
CNC lathes, jig grinders and machining centers (SMTC's metal-cutting



- 18 -
machine manufacturing plants); and variable speed press drives, high-speed
precision presses, turret presses and press accessories (SMTC's
metal-forming machine manufacturing plants). A number of sources for such
technology have been identified in the feasibility studies and this list
will be further developed during project implementation (para 5.05).
3. Management System Component
4.13      Realizing that one of their major deficiencies is lack of
adequate management systems, the beneficiaries plan to develop
comprehensive management systems for their plants, institutes and
headquarters. With the assistance of foreign consultants, the analyses
carried out during the feasibility studies will be reviewed, detailed
assessment of existing systems will be made and new systems will be
developed. These systems will be implemented first on a manual basis and
then, after trial, will be automated. For the plants, the proposed
management system shall include: production scheduling; quality control
measures; maintenance program; cost accounting and financial control;
personnel management; customers service; internal information flow system;
and management control system. For the beneficiaries' headquarters, the
management system will include development of: comprehensive information
flow system; procurement and sales systems; market research mechanism and
information feed-back system; accounting system which would include
compilation of financial information and prompt reporting of such
information to the management; and management performance evaluation
system. Following the management system development, the organizational
structure of each plant/institute involved in the Project and SMTW/SMTC's
headquarters will be reviewed and, if needed, will be adjusted to match the
developed management system.
4. Training Component
4.14      The existing facilities and programs for training skilled workers
are adequate. Management and design capabilities, hoa.vever, need
improvement. Therefore, the beneficiaries would concentrate on training
their shop, plant and corporate managers as well their design engineers.
Furthermore, for the imported sophisticated machinery, operators will be
trained by equipment suppliers. Since knowledge of foreign languages is a
prerequisite for training abroad, the language training facilities will be
improved/expanded by addition of audio-visual systems. The planned
training program would involve: 4-6 months training for mansgers and
design engineers at foreign plants and institutes; 4-6 weeks training for
engineers/operators at foreign plants; and training of staff in China by
foreign experts through 6-8 weeks seminars. Under this program
approximately 250 SMTC staff and 100 SMTW staff will be trained abroad, and
400 SMTC staff and 150 SMTW staff will be trained in China.
C. Materials, Components and Energy Inputs
4.15      The principal material inputs for the foundries are sand, coke,
scrap and pig iron. Shortages of these materials in the Shanghai area have
created supply constraints. The following measures would alleviate these



- 19 -
constraints. Arrangements have been made to use the collecting and loading
facilities of Donshan County in Fujian Province (built for supply of
good-quality silica sand to Shanghai's new Float Process Glass Plant) for
delivery of sufficient quantity of sand to the foundries. As Shanghai's
Wunjin coke plant has sufficient capacity to supply the foundries with
adequate coke, in case of shortages in the supply of domestic coking coal,
supplementary needs will be imported. The SMG, responsible for the supply
and distribution of scrap and pig Iron in the Shanghai area, has assured
the beneficiaries regarding the supply of sufficient quantity of these
materials. Confirmation of this assurance was provided during
negotiations.
4.16      In the past, the poor quality and unreliability of the bought-out
items (electric parts, hydraulic components and bearings) have contributed
to the quality deficiencies of manufactured machine tools. To remedy this
shortcoming, a number of technical collaboration agreements for the
manufacture of the above mentioned items have been concluded between
Shanghai manufacturers (not involved in the Project) and experienced
foreign firms from Switzerland, France, FRG, Japan and USA. Control
devices for numerically controlled machine tools form another significant
category of bought-out items for future machines. Most of the
beneficiaries' requirements will be supplied by the Beijing Research
Institute which manufactures such devices under the license of and in
collaboration with Fanuc of Japan. In order to increase the supply of
electronic control equipment and to create domestic competition, the
Government has authorized SMTC to enter into negotiations with a US
manufacturer for assembly/manufacture of electronic control devices.
Negotiations are under way and operation is expected to start within the
next two years, using the facilities of one of the accessory manufacturing
plants which will be closed down (para 4.06). Despite the above measures,
the beneficiaries plan to import a number of critical components, such as
precision bearings and advanced electronic controls, until such time that
these components become domestically available. To this end, SMG has
assured the beneficiaries of availability of sufficient foreign exchange
from its own resources for this purpose. Confirmation of this assurance
was provided during negotiations.
4.17      At SMTW, due to an increase of about 50Z in the foundry output
(para 4.04) and the rise in the total number of machine tool output, the
fuel and electric energy consumptions will increase by 36% and 133Z,
respectively, as compared to the 1985 consumption levels. For SMTC plants,
including the foundries to be closed down (para 4.04), there will be
virtually no increase in fuel energy consumption and the increase in
electric energy consumption will be about 28%. As a result, the Project's
demand for electric energy will increase by 46% over the 1985 consumption
level mainly due to installation of electric holding furnaces in the
foundries (para 4.11) and substantial expansion of the forging plant
(para 4.05). Although the current electric power shortages in the Shanghai
area are expected to diminish by 1990 as a result of the ongoing
investments, SMG has assured the beneficiaries that sufficient electric
power will be available to the Project. Confirmation of this assurance
was provided during negotiations.



- 20 -
D. Demand and Market Aspects
4.18      In 1982, China's consumption of nachine tools was about Y 1,950
million (1982 prices). During that year the combined machine tools output
of SMTC and SMTW amounted to approximately 10% of China's total
consumption. Assuming a 6% per annum growth in China's machine tool demand
(para 2.07), by 1995, when the Project output reaches its stabilized level,
China's demand would amount to about Y 4,160 million (1982 prices). The
machine tools output of SNTW and SMTC in 1995 is expected to be about Y 435
million (1982 prices). Thus, the Project would enable the beneficiaries to
maintain their 1982 share of the domestic market.
4.19      The Project's feasibility studies included two comprehensive
market studies on SMTW's grinding machines and the products of SKTC's
accessory equipment and machine tool manufacturing plants iuLvolved in the
Project. These studies covered: the world's historical machine tools
output and the international projections through 1995; China's past and
future demand for machine tools; product and tecbnology trends; and,
through interviews with user industries (61 for SKM  products and 100 for
SMTC products), the future demand for the beneficiaries' products. The
domestic market surveys included major machine tool user industries;
namely, machine tool manufacturers, light and heavy industrial machinery
manufacturers, component manufacturers and transport equipment
manufacturers. The user industries' general requirements for machine tools
were better reliability, higher accuracy, more automated functions and
improved tooling systems. Their specific future demands comprised advanced
numerically controlled grinding machines, CNC electro-discharge machines,
CNC precision-type jig grinders and multi-axis CNC machining centers. The
international and domestic market analyses resulted in identification of
the beneficiaries future products, as described in paras 4.07 and 4.09.
4.20      Historically both beneficiaries have been involved in exports and
during the recent vears have accounted for about 20Z of China's export of
machine tools. Since 1980, SHTW has been permitted to export its products
directly while all SMTC's exports were handled by national export agencies
until 1985. SMTC received authorization for direct export of its machine
tools in 1985 and expects extension of this authorization to cover all its
products by 1987. Machine tools exports of both beneficiaries have been
limited to conventional machines. SMTC's traditional export markets have
been the Southeast Asian countries, but SMTW has been marketing its
products in the USA and the PRG as well as those countries. The 1985
exports of SMTW is estimated at about US$1.1 million and SMTC's export of
machine tools and other products are estimated at US$4.5 and
US$4.0 million, respectively, during that year. In view of SMIV and SHTC's
competitive position, the international market surveys indicate very good
prospects for increase in export of the beneficiaries' machine tools which
fal' within the lower range of the technological spectrum of the machine
tool industry. Accordingly, increase in the annual cc.nbined exports of
both beneficiaries, as a result of the Project, has been estimated
conservatively at US$6.2 million (1986 prices), corresponding to about 65%
of the beneficiaries' exports in 1985.



- 21 -
4.21      With the responsibility of domestic and international sales
shifting from the national agencies to the beneficiarles, SMTV and SMTC
plan to strengthen their marketing efforts by developing market information
gathering systems, and capabilities to respond quickly to the customers'
queries and to provide the users with after-sales services. These aspects
of the beneficiaries' plans will be addressed under the Project's
management system component (para 4.13).
E. EnvironsenteZ. Aspects
4.22      Because of virtually clean operations in the accessory equipment
and machine tool manufacturing plants, the environmental aspects of these
plants are minor. The major health, safety and environment issues arise
primarily in connection with foundry operations. In this respect, the two
foundries which are located in the congested urban areas will be closed
down (para 4.04) and for the remaining foundries, which will be modernized
under the Project, strict attention will be given to establishing and
maintaining high standards of environmental control. The relevant
feasibility studies present guidelines for the control of the working
environment in and around the foundries, based on the recent requirements
specified for major European plants. These guidelines, presented as
Annex 4-2, are acceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, assurance was
obtained from SMrW and SMTC that these guidelines will be observed by them
in the implementation and operation of the Project.
V. PROJECT INPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
5.01      Each of the beneficiaries has established a project
implementation unit (PIU) within its organization. The PIUs wil1 have the
overall responsibility for implementation of the Project. Their
responsibilities include: preparation of bid packages and equipment
specifications; approval of the engineering designs and drawings; bid
evaluation and selection of suppli"rs/contractors; preparation of deteiled
Terms of Reference for consulting services and selection of consultants;
identification of priority areas for technology transfer and selection of
appropriate technologies; preparation of detailed scope of work for
establishment of modern management systems and selection of foreign
consultants for this purpose; development of comprehensive training
programs; monitoring implementation of the Project components; and
preparation of quazterly progress reports for their managements and the
Bank.
5.02      Qualified sta'r with expertise in engineering, finance,
administration and training will be assignad to the PIUs. In carrying out
their duties, the PIUs will be supported by the concerned departments of
SMTC and StTW. The assigned staff shall be full time members of the PIUs
and would total at least 20 persons at SMTW. At SMTC, 10 persons from the
headquarters and one or two persons from each plant involved in the Project
and the research institute will be assigned to the PIU. During project



- 22 -
implementation, the PIUs will be supported by forei6n advisors. The
beneficiaries have already assigned the key people to the PIUs and
negotiations are under way with a highly qualified foreign machine tool
expert to serve as advisor to SMTW and SMTC. During negotiations,
assurance was obtained from the beneficiaries regarding the PIUs'
responsibilities, staffing and technical expert support.
B. Engineering
5.03      The available domestic capabilities and the work already carried
out under the feasibility studies suggest different approaches for the
engineering of the foundries and the accessory/machine tool manufacturing
plants. For the former group, a foreign engineering consulting firm will
be employed to carry out the detailed engineering in association with the
domestic engineering consultants. The scope of work for the consulting
firm's services, including assistance during project implementation, as per
agreement reached during negotiations, is presented in Annex 5-1. The
selection of the consulting firm will be made in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the end of June 1987.
5.04      Considerab'.e ex.perience in design and engineering of machine tool
plants already exists at SMTW and SNTC. Furthermore, the feasibility
studies have specified the machinery requirements and needed changes in
flow patterns and layouts for the accessory/machine tool manufacturing
plants. Therefore, detailed engineering for this part of the Project shall
be carried out by the Sixth Institute of Project Planning and Research of
the Ministry of Machine Building, a qualified and experienced domestic
enterprise which has been involved in the Project. The detailed design and
engineering prepared by this company shall be reviewed and approved by the
PIUs and their technical advisors.
C. Technology Transfer, Management System and Training
5.05      The PIUs will develop a priority list for import of the
identified technologies (para 4.12). Sources, in addition to those listed
in the feasibility studies, will be also identified. Then, evaluation of
alternative sources fcr each technology will be carried out and the most
suitable suppliers wilk b, selected on a competitive basis.  Contract
awards will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
5.06      For the establishment of the management systems, the PIUs will be
assisted by foreign consultants. The work would involve two separate
studies covering SMTC and SMTW's operations. Consultants' selection will
be carried out as per the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
The terms of reference for the consultancy services, as agreed during
negotiations are presented in Annex 5-2A and Annex 5-2B. The beneficiaries
are expected to issue letters of invitation for such services by the end of
March 1987 and to award the contracts by the end of June 1987.



- 23 -
5.07      The PIUs, in collaboration with the corporations' training
departments, vill prepare plans for the Project's training component
(para 4.14). This work would involve: designation of the qualifications
and number of persons to be trained abroad; identification of potential
foreign plants/institutes for training; and preparation of the training
schedule. Furthermore, for training in China, the PlUs will propose the
number, contents and schedules of seminars to be held, and the
qualifications of foreign experts to conduct the seminars. The detailed
training program is expected to be completed and submitted to the Bank for
review by the end of June 1987. Assurance regarding this commitment was
obtained from the beneficiaries during negotiations.
D. Implementation Schedule
5.08      The complexity of the Project, and the requirement that during
its implementation interruption in production should be minimized, have
resulted in a phasing system for implementation of the various components.
Accordingly, the Project is expected to be implemented over a period of
five years. The project implementation schedule is given below and
separate schedules for SNTC and SMTW are given in Annex 5-3 and Annex 5-4.



- 24 -
Shanghai Macbine Tool Project - Implementation Schedule
Activity                        186   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991  '92
Preliminary Eriineering_ _
Detadiled Engineering
Procurement
Technical Specifications
Tendering & Contracts Award
Equipment Received
Civil Works & Installation
SMTC Foundries & Forge
SITC Accessry Plants                                              _    X   I
SMTC Machine Tool Plants              -      -       -I-
SMIC Research Institute                       -     -       -       -       I
Technology Transfer
Preparatory Work
Implementation
Mafnamnt system
Consultants Contracts Concluded
Implementation
Training
Preparatory Work
Implementation
Note: X indicates completion of comuissioning.
E. Status of Preparation
5.09      The general project design and detailed lists of machinery and
equipment have been prepared. The packages for procurement under
international competitive bidding (ICB) and international shopping have
been prepared and tentatively agreed upon between the beneficiaries and the
Bank. For assistance in preparation of technical specifications, the
beneficiaries have appointed, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants, the Foundry Management and Design Co. Ltd. of the
UK for the foundry equipment and a prominent expert from FRG for the
machine tools. The general procurement notice will be issued on
January 31, 1987 and documents calling for bids under ICB will be ready in
May 1987. The foreign exchange cost for preparatory work - between
October 1, 1986, and the loan signature date - estimated at about
US$250,000, is proposed to be retroactively financed by the Bank
(para 6.10).



- 25 -
VI. CAPITAL COSTS, FINANCING PLAN, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Capital Costs
6.01       The total project cost is estimated to be US$223.1 million
equivalent, of which US$133.2 million is foreign exchange, and
US$89.9 million equivalent (Y 333 million) is domestic currency cost. A
summary of project costs, including the breakdown of costs between SMTC and
SMTW, is presented in the following table.
Shanghai Machine Tool Project - Summary of Project Cost
For-                  Fbr-           Z of
Local  eign  Total   Local  eign  Total   BCE
-  (Y millions) -       (US$ millions) -    (Z)
SHrW
Plant Cost                      55.6  104.3  159.9    15.0   28.2   43.2    84
Engineering/Management           2.6    7.5   10.1      0.7    2.0    2.7     5
Training                         -       4.1    4.1     -      1.1    1.1     2
Technology Transfer              -      16.6   16.6     -      4.5    4.5    9
Base Cost Estimate           58.2  132.5  190.7    15.7   35.8   51.5   100
Physical Contingencies           5.8   13.2   19.0      1.6    3.6    5.2    10
Price Escalation                 12.5   11.0   23.5     3.4    2.9    6.3    12
Installed Cost               76.5  156.7  233.2    20.7   42.3   63.0
Incremental Worklng Capital     44.4    4.0   48.4    12.0    1.1   13.1
Interest During Construction    10.0   10.7   20.7      2.7    2.9    5.6
Total for SH1TW             130.9  171.4  302.3    35.4   46.3   81.7
S!fEC
Plant Cost                      61.3  197.4  258.7    16.5   53.4   69.9    85
Engineering/Management           5.0   13.0   18.0      1.4    3.5    4.9     6
Training                         -      10.3   10.3     -      2.8    2.8     3
Technology Transfer              -      17.0   17.0     -      4.6    4.6     6
Base Cost Estimate           66.3  237.7  304.0    17.9   64.3   82.2   100
Physical Contingencies           6.6   23.8   30.4      1.8    6.4    8.2    10
Price Escalation                 9.7   25.4   35.1      2.6    6.9    9.5    12
Installed Cost               82.6  286.9  369.5    22.3   77.6   99.9
Incremental Working Capital     96.5    8.4  104.9    26.1    2.3   28.4
Interest During Construction    22.5   25.9   48.4      6.1    7.0   13.1
Total for SMTC              201.6  321.2  522.8    54.5   86.9  141.4
Total Financing Required    332.5  6-92.6 825.1    89.9  133.2 223.1
x_         mm                          -



- 26 -
6.02      The base cost estimates are in October 1986 prices.  Civil works
costs have been estimated by SMTW and SHTC engineering staff and their
domestic consultants on the basis of current actual construction costs.
The machinery and equipment estimate is based on detailed equipment lists
prepared by the five foreign consulting companies who carried out the
feasibility studies, together with SMTW and SMTC, and subsequently reviewed
and updated in detail by the Bank. For foreign equipment, the estimate
includes all delivery costs to the various plant sites. Taxes and duties
would not be applied. For local equipment, ex-factory prices have been
provided by SHTC and SMTW and provision has been made for delivery to the
plant sites. The estimates for machinery and equipment presented in the
summary table include all necessary tooling, fixtures, and spare parts
together with local and foreign installation costs. Further details of the
base cost estimate are contained in Annex 6-1.
6.03      The estimate for technical assistance includes:  (a) engineering
costs associated with the design of civil works and the specification of
new machines to be provided under the Project, together with management
assistance aimed at improving the scheduling, maintenance, inventory and
quality control, financial control systems, market information gathering
system and other operations of the two corporations; (b) training for the
operators of the new equipment and design and management personnel; and
(c) licensing and other fees associated with the transfer of new
technology. For engineering, management and training (in China), a total
of 330 man-months of foreign technical assistance is envisaged. In
addition, provision has been made for overseas training for 350 management
and technical personnel.
6.04      Physical contingencies have been allowed for at 10  of the base
cost estimate. Price escalation has been calculated from the base cost
estimate assuming a five-year implementation period and inflation rates for
foreign costs of 12% in 1986, 3% in 1987, 1% in 1988 through 1990, and 3.5%
annually thereafter; and for domestic costs of 5Z in 1986, 7% in 1987, and
6.5% annually thereafter. The allowances for price contingencies represent
12% of the base cost estimate for both SMTW and SMTC. The estimate of
incremental working capital requirements has been based on the current
experience in each of the plants, with allowance for some modest reduction
due to improved inventory control in some cases. Interest during
construction, which has been capitalized for a three-year period through
1989, has been calculated on the basis of the financing plan and
disbursement schedules given below.
B. Financing Plan
6.05      A financing plan has been developed on the basis of a proposed
World Bank loan of US$100 milion, which would cover some 83% of foreign
installed cost. Working capital would be financed by the two corporations'
own resources, and domestic loans would finance all other local costs
togetter with the balance of the foreign installed cost and foreign
interest during construction. The financing plan prepared on this basis is
summarized in the following table.



- 27 -
Shanghai Machine Tool Project - Financing Plan
For-                   For-
Local  eign   Total   Local  eign   Totel
-- (Y millions) -      - (US$ millions) -      Z
SNwr
World Bank Loan              -    133.2  133.2      -     36.0   36.0   44
Domestic Loans              86.6   34.2  120.8    23.4    9.2   32.6   40
Self-generated Funds        44.3    4.0   48.3    12.0    1.1   13.1   16
Total for SMTW          130.9  171.4  302.3    35.4   46.3   81.7  100
SMTC
World Bank Loan              -    236.8  236.8      -     64.0   64.0   45
Domestic Loans             105.2   76.0  181.2    28.4   20.6   49.0   35
Self-generated Funds        96.4    8.4  104.8    26.1    2.3   28.4   20
Total for SMTC          201.6  321.2  522.8    54.5   86.9  141.4  100
Total Project Financing
World Bank Loan              -    370.0  370.0      -    100.0  100.0   45
Domestic Loans             191.8  110.2  302.0    51.8   29.8   81.6   37
Self-generated Funds       140.7   12.4  153.1    38.1    3.4   41.5   18
Total                   332.5  492.6  825.1    89.9  133.2  223.1  100
- -                        -
6.06      The proposed Bank loan would cover 45% of the total financing
required, and wo-uld represent 75% of the total foreign exchange
requirements. The Chinese contribution to the Project would be in the form
of loans from domestic banks (37% of total financing required) including
US$29.8 million in foreign exchange,5/ and self-generated funds from SMTC
and SMTW to finance additional working capital requirements (18%). This
financing plan implies that about 82% of the total project financing would
be in the form of long-term loans. A careful analysis of the projected
financial performance for each corporation shows that both during and after
project implementation, acceptable levels of debt-service coverage and
current ratio are maintained and this financing plan is therefore
satisfactory. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the
necessary authorizations for domestic loans, to cover foreign and local
Project costs as detailed in the financing plan, will be made available as
required. The Governmcent also confirmed that in the event of any cost
over-run, it will ensure that such additional funds as may be required will
be made available under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
C. Channelling of the Proposed Loan
6.07      The proposed loan of US$100 million would be made to the
Government at the standard variable interest rate for Bank loans (currently
5/   The Government has indicated that the portion of this foreign exchange
to be used to finance interest during construction on the proposed
World Bank loan (US$9.9 million) could be borrowed by the
corporations, and paid to the Government, in local currency.



- 28 -
7.92Z) for a period of 20 years including 5 years' grace. Under Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, the Government will onlend the proceeds of the Loan to
SNG, for a period of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at a fixed
annual interest rate of 8.5Z and a commitment charge of 0.75Z, which in
turn will relend US$64 million equivalent to SNTC and US$36 million
equivalent to SMTW on the same terms and conditions. The foreign exchange
risk will be borne by the corporations. The onlending interest rate of
8.5X is in line with an agreement recently reached for onlending proceeds
of Bank loans from the China Investment Bank, and with rates normally
charged by the Bank of China for foreign exchange loans. The signing of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank, will be a condition of loan effectiveness. These arrangements
were confirmed during negotiations. Domestic bank loans will be made
directly to SMTC and SMTW, at standard terms and conditions for loans of
this type, namely: interest rates of 8.5X for the foreign exchange portion
and 10.08Z for local currency; an eight-year term with no grace period; and
no commitment fee.
D. Procurement
6.08      The preparation of technical specifications and bid packages for
foreign procurement is being carried out by the PIUs of SMTC and SMTW
together with their consultants. In accordance with Chinese procedures,
bid documents will be issued, and tenders received, by the China National
Technical Import Corporation who will follow ICB procedures. For bid
comparisons under ICB, domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin
of preference of 15X or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower.
For local procurement of civil works, which the Bank is not financing,
local competitive bidding procedures will be followed. This entails
receiving bids from between three and seven civil works contractors. Bids
are evaluated on the basis of price and estimated completion date. Bonuses
and penalties are applied for early or late completion. Local equipment
and material will be procured for SMTC and SNTW by an agency of the HMBI.
6.09      As shown in the following table, approximately US$75 million, or
75X of the proposed Bank loan, would be used for about 45 packages of goods
procured under ICB. The first 15 packages and all packages in excess of
US$1.0 million will be subject to the Bank's prior review. This is
expected to cover about 75X of all the ICB packages.



-29 -
Shanghai Machine Tool Pro aect - PrEopsed Procurement Plan
(US$ millionis)
Procurement Method          Total
ICB     LCB    Other          Cost
Civil Works                               -      21.0      -            21.0
Equipment & Machinery                    97.5     -       19.5         117.0
(74.5)           (7.0)        (81.5)
Engineering & Management                  -       -        9.2           9.2
(5.5)         (5.5)
Training                                                   4.7           4.7
(3.9)         (3.9)
Technology Transfer                       -       -       11.1          11.1
(9.1)         (9.1)
Other a/                                  -       -       60.1          60.1
Total Financing                     97.5    21.0   104.6          223.1
(74.5)          (25.5)       (100.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses represent the respective amount to be
financed by the Bank.
a/ Including working capital and interest during construction.
6.10      Procurement with Bank funds using non-ICE procedures includes:
(a) royalty and licensing payments together with associated equipment,
including the transfer of technology of a proprietary nature, subject to
the Bank's prior review, estimated to amount to a total of US$11.1 million;
(b) small and miscellaneous itess costing less than US$200,000 each, wbich
may be procured through international shopping; the aggregate amount of
purchases of this type will not exceed US$7,000,000 (US$3,000,000 for SMIW
and US$4,000,000 for SNTC); and (c) technical assistance and associated
expense for engineering, management system development and training for
which Bank-financed expenditures are estimated to cost US$9.4 million and
which will be procured according to BDank guidelines. As previously noted
(para 5.09), up to US$250,000 in this category is being proposed for
retroactive financing. Selected nonr-ICB purchases will be subject to
post-award review.
E. Allocation and Disbursement of Bank Loan
6.11      The proposed allocation of the Dank loan is summarized in the
following table.



- 30 -
Shanghai Machine Tool Project - Bank Loan Allocation
(US$ million equivalent)
SMTW  SMTC  Total     Disbursement
1. Equipment, materials, tooling &    26.6  48.2   74.8  100% of foreign
spares, incl. installation                              expenditures
(cif); 100Z of
local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
2. Engineering & management system      1.8   3.1    4.9  100Z of foreign
development                                             expenditures
3. Technology transfer, incl.           4.0   4.1    8.1  100% of foreign
license & royalty payments                              expenditures
4. Overseas training and visits,        1.3   3.2    4.5  100%
and consultants services for
training
5. Unallocated                          2.3   5.4    7.7  -
Totals                            36.0  64.0  100.0
-  7.-   -
6.12      The proposed Bank loan will cover:  (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures (cif) for directly imported goods or 100% of ex-factory costs
of domestic manufactures procured through ICB; (b) 100X of foreign
expenditures for engineering and technical services for development of
management systems; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technology
transfer, including the cost of licenses and other payments for specialized
technology and associated equipment of a proprietary nature; and (d) 100%
of the cost of overseas training and consultant services in China, and of
the costs of overseas visits by local staff for engineering, procurement
and technology transfer. To facilitate disbursements, a revolving-fund
account will be established in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank,
with an authorized allocation of US$1 million for SMTW, and US$2 million
for SMTC. Disbursements will be against full documentation except for
training, overseas visits by local staff for procurement and engineering,
and contracts valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent each, which would
be against statements of expenditure. Documents in support of statements
of expenditure will be retained by the PIUs of SMW and SMTC and made
available for the Bank for review during project supervision.
6.13      An estimated disbursement schedule for the Project along with
disbursement profiles of other Bank-financed industrial projects in the
East Asia and Pacific Region, and elsewhere, are contained in Annex 6-2.
The expected disbursement of the proposed Bank loan for the project has
been based on a careful analysis of actual project schedules and budgets.
The resulting disbursement schedule lies between the historical
disbursement profiles for a recent selection of Bank-wide industrial
projects, and for a selected number of projects in the East Asia and
Pacific region, where disbursements have been faster.



- 31 -
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Basis of Projections
7.01      The assumptions used in the financial analysis of the proposed
project are discussed in the following paragraphs and detailed in
Annex 7-1. The basic projections have been prepared in yuan at October
1986 prices. Foreign exchange costs have been converted to yuan using an
exchange rate of Y 3.70 per US$1.00.  For the projection of financial
statements, the 1986 prices have been escalated to current prices through
1992, the first year after completion of the project, using annual
escalation rates of 5% in 1986, 7Z in 1987, and 6.5Z annually thereafter.
7.02      Rate of return analysis has been prepared by comparing "with
Project- and 'without Project' cost and revenue streams for SMTW and for
each of the 16 plants of SHTC. The 'without Project' case is essentially a
projection of the current (1986) operations, although known changes as a
result of ongoing activities have been taken into account where
appropriate. The costs of project components which are not profit centers
(the research institutes of both SMTW and SMTC, and the corporations'
headquarters, including computer facilities), have been incorporated in the
rate of return analysis for each corporation.
B. Sales Volume and Revenues
7.03      Projected production volumes, price and sales revenues for SMTW,
and for each plant of SMTC included in the Project, are contained in
Annex 7-2 (SMTW) and Annex 7-3 (SMTC).  The projections were developed by
the corporations and their consultants essentially on the basis of the
following assumptions:
(a) Projections of production volume are based on the detailed market
assessments carried out by the consultants as discussed in
Chapter IV. In general, for SMKW and the metal-cutting and
metal-forming plants of SNTC, there is a significant decrease in
the production of the relatively simple machines which make up
the bulk of the corporations' output, and a moderate increase in
the number of precision machines and NC machines which are now
being produced. In addition, new NC and CNC machines are
introduced over the next five years on the basis of the
consultants' assessment of market requirements and the
corporations" technical capabilities (paras 4.08-4.09). For tha
foundries, forge and accessory plants of SMTC, production volume
projections have been based on the requirements of the machine
tool plants, together with outside sales, as appropriate
(paras 4.04-4.07).
(b) Price projections have been prepared on the basis that existing
machines which would not be changed as a result of the Project
would continue to be sold at current prices, improved machines



- 32 -
would show a 20Z price increase at the time of improvement
(para 2.10), and new machiues would be priced at about 70Z of the
current cost of importing a similar machine.
(c)  Export sales would generally continue at present levels (about
6% of total sales) although there would be modest increases based
on markets which have been identified for a number of specified
products.
C. Production Costs
7.04      Unit material costs for each machine have been estimated by the
corporations and their consultants, based on actual costs, modified as
appropriate for the changes in product type which are envisaged. Energy
consumption for the relatively energy-intensive operations (foundries and
forge) has been estimated for each plant on the basis of the new equipment
to be installed. For other plants, it has been assumed that there would be
no change in energy consumption although In some plants there could be some
modest reduction due to the smaller number of machines to be produced, and
the installation of more energy-efficient equipment. Energy prices have
been taken at existing levels. Labor rates have recently been increased by
as much as 35-402 and these figures have been used In projecting future
labor costs. Although the Project could lead to some reduction in the
number of workers in some plants, this has not been reflected in the
projections of annual labor costs as under present economic policies,
reductions in manning are wore likely to lead to higher salaries to the
workers who remain. Annual labor costs have therefore been projected to
continue at the 1986 levels. Overhead costs have been estimated from
current experience, modified in the projections to reflect increases in
sales revenues and capital investments.
D. Financial Projections
7.05      Projected income, funds flow, and balance sheets for SMTW,
including the effects of the proposed Project, are presented in Annex 7-4
(Tables 1-3) and summarized in the following table.



- 33 -
SMIW - Suaarvy of Praoected Financial Data
(Y million at current prices)
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Net Sales Revenue                  85    98   117   143   187   219   256
Operating Income                   34    37    44    58    67    88   118
Net Ino-me (After Tax)             16    19    26    24    30    50    82
Cash from Operations               23    27    36    50    78    98   127
Total Debt Service                  -      2     5    25    31    45    43
Net Cash Flow                       9     9      8    -5       7    13    37
Accumulated Cash                   19    28    36    31    38    52    89
Operating Profit on Net
Net Revenue ()                   36    34    34    36    33    36    42
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       -      -     6.5   2.0   2.5   2.1   3.0
Current Ratio                     3.7   3.6   3.4   3.1   2.6   2.9   3.6
Long-term Debt:Equity           28:72 49:51 59:41 63:37 60:40 51:49 39:61
7.06      The summary shows the steady increase in sales revenue, profits
and cash flow as a result of the Project. A somewhat-tight cash situation
develops in 1990 as a result of the necessity to make full interest
payments (Y 14 million), repayments of the domestic bank loans without
benefit of a grace period (Y 10 million), and to finance significant
increases in working capital (Y 11 million). The projections indicate that
the cash deficit projected for 1990 could easily be covered from
accumulated cash from previous years. There is a significant margin of
safety in this situation because SMTW has the option of continuing, as at
present, to finance as much as 50Z of its working capital through
short-term borrowings, which would provide some Y 20 million of additional
financing during the period 1988-91. According to the base-case
projections this would not be necessary, but the possibility does provide a
cushion against a possible cash shortfall during these critical years.
7.07      Operating profits as a percentage of net sales for SM!W remain
relatively constant at a satisfactory level of around 35% turing the period
of project implementation, but subsequently rise to over 40% by the
mid-1990s (Annex 7-4, Table 1). Debt service coverage remains above 2.0
through the critical start-up years, and rises quickly after 1992. The
current ratio never falls below 2.5 and although long-term debt:equity
reaches a peak of 63:37 in 1990 (reflecting the fact that .ost of the
proposed investment is to be financed through loans), it declines quickly
after 1991 and the projections indicate that the corporati. a can
comfortably support this level of debt financing.
7.08      Detailed financial projections for SMTC are contained in
Annex 7-5 (Tables 1-3) and summarized below.



- 34 -
SMTC - Summary of Projected Financial Data
(Y million at current prices)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Net Sales Revenue              377    414    488    564    656    787   814
Operating Income               119    134    173    215    242    327   339
Net Income (After Tax)          28     41      75     86    106    186   200
Cash from Operations            51     68    105    144    198    277   289
Total Debt Service               -      5      14     47      49     71    68
Net Cash Flow                   13    21       19     16      54     76   119
Operating Profit on Net
Revenue (%)                   30     31      33     36     35      39    39
Debt Service Coverage
Ratio                          -   12.7    7.6    3.1    4.0    3.9    4.3
Current Ratio                  2.5    2.5    2.7    2.9    2.9    3.7    4.5
Long-term Debt:Equity        19:81  38:62  43:57  42:58  36:64  28:72  21:79
7.09      Sales from the consolidated operations of SMTC are significantly
higher than those of SMTW and the improved financial stability which this
provides is clearly reflected in the summarized financial projections.
Cash flow remains healthy even in the start-up, while debt-service coverage
never drops below 2.5. The current ratio is satisfactory and, reflecting
the larger existing fixed asset base, debt:equity reaches a peak of only
43:57 despite the fact that the SMTC investments, like those of SMTW, are
largely financed through loans.
E. Financial Rates of Retu-n and Sensitivity Analysis
7.10      The incremental pre-tax financial rates of return for SMUW and
SMTC have been calculated and cost and benefit streams for each plant are
rresented in Arnex 7-6 and Annex 7-7. Results are summarized in the
following table:
Shanghai Machine Tool Project
Financial Rates of Retuzn
(Z)
Company                     IRR
51TW                      23.1
SKTC                       24.5
In &ddition, individual rates of return for each SNTC plant included in the
Project have been computed and are presented in Annex 7-8.
7.11      As discussed above, the base case financial projections and' rates
of return presented above have been developed from a number of
assumptions. A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken to show the



- 35 -
effects of modifications to these assumptions. Results for SMTW are
summarized below:
MM - Sensitivity Tests on Fimcial. Rates of Retum
Proj     Switdt-  HinLn      Debt   Aditiotl
Pre-Tar    lig    Coverage  Service  Fininig
DhR    V'alue a/ Ratio bi   te    1u     c/
Z       Z         -         -     y i11n
A. Buse Case                           23       70        2.1       2.0
B. Prlcing
1. A PricesUp lO%                   26       64        2.8       2.6       -
2. AUPrices D7m 10%                  2D      77        1.4       1.5       7
3. Prices for Inwrvei Madne
Inrese  by aly 75% of
Anticipated hmt                   22       73       2.0       2.        -
4. Prices for Nw Maddin  Reach
Only 75Z of Aticipateleirels      17       84        1.3      1.6        -
C. Capital Costs
1. A  Costs Up 1O%                  22       73        1.9       1.8      -
2. local  sts Up 20Z                 22      72        1.9       1.8      -
D. Production Costs
1. Raw 1terals Up 20Z               21       76        1.7       1.7      -
2. EnergyUp 25%                     23       71        2.1       2.0      -
3. labor Costs Doule In Real Terms,
1987-91                           19      79        1.7       1.7       -
E. Project euplmentat
1. Me-year Dela durig    f           '       81        1.8       2.0      -
F. Production Volum
1. Produactim of New Madnes Reaes
only 75Z of Projected Levels      21       70        2.0      1.6       -
a/ Perceat of bse-cas prices at vftch IRR falls to 12X
b/ Net presxt vale  of fue after-taz cai flow over project life divided by loi balm
cJ Iu eI e   of sErt tm borzwiig for up to 50% of Incremeal 'orldg capital
reqpirxezts, ubich iuld first be itized if rqirdL
7.12       The sensitivity analysis for SMTW shows that while the rate of
return remains satisfactory over a wide range of variation in base-case
assumptions, the projected financial performance, and in particular the
coverage ratio and debt-service coverage, are rather sensitive to price and
cost variations, and to a significant delay in project implementation. The
most serious case is one where all prices, including those of existing
machines, are reduced by 10%. Under these circumstances, although the



- 36 -
pre-tax IRR would fall to only 20X, debt service coverage would fall to as
low as 1.5 (in 1990), and a coverage ratio of only 1.4 would be encountered
in the same year. Furthermore, under these circumstances, even were SMW
to borrow 50% of its capitalized working capital (a short-term loan of
about Y 20 million), it would require additional financing of about Y 7
million to cover operating losses during the period 1990-1993.
7.13      It is not surprising that in a project financed 84% through
loans, the debt-related measures of financial viability are rather
sensitive to changes in assumptions which will significantly reduce the
cash generated from o,-rations. However as the relationship between prices
and costs is closely monit%,r,ad in China (para 2.10), a 1OZ drop in price
(particularly for existing machines), without any drop in production costs,
is highly unlikely. Similarly, uncontrollable increases in raw material
ccsts (which the sensitivity analysis shcws would also have a rather severe
impact on coverage and debt service ratios), would almost certainly be
matched by increases in prices, at least so long as domestic machine prices
remain below international prices. In other respects, and given the rather
low level of technical risk in the Project, the results of the sensitivity
analysis do not reveal any unusual areas of concern.
7.14      Tne following table shows a similar sensitivity analysis for
SMTC:



- 37 -
MM - Samiluity Tits aon Plukaca.es of BAum a
Projec  9tdt- Miu        Debt   Aditionl
Pre-Zu   IM    Owege Secvice  FiHncig
IR   Vale   Ratio        e       d
I      I       -             US$ mllion
A. leCme                                 25      69      2.5     3.1      -
B. Ed1N
1. AU Priem Up l&C                    28      63      3.8     4.3      -
2. ALEPdm D11                          20     77      1.2     1.9      26
3. Pdrem for Iqpavwd  Wdine Inre_e
b only 751 of lipated -            24      70     1.8      2.6      -
4. Pdr   for Mmw N dii  Ridb
Only 75Z of biIdpatd Levls          20      79      1.4     2.7      -
1.   costs up l(X                     23      71      2.3     2.8       -
2.Iocalcosts p2m                      24      70      2.4     2.9       -
D. Prodcm Cbs
L    1e N  lusUp 2OZ                  23      74      1.5     2.1      23
2.3 BrgUp Z5Z                          24     B9      2.4     3.0       -
3. 1   CODts lle In Rml m,
1987-91                             19      83     2.0      2.6      -
- Pnject Twintato
L D-mr Dlay & g ald   I  eatknn       17      80      1.9     1.8       2
F. PLuhctin Vabse
1. ProdIctian of Now Man 1hae
only 75Z of Pmojected leels         22      73     1.6      1.5      -
a  For deflultimi of finauidA meamrs, see table In psrs 7.11.
7*15      As could be expected, given the relative size of the company
compared to the size of the Project, the projected results for SHTC are
rather less sensitive than those of SNTW to changes in proj ect-related
variables exadmned, and the Project appears to be well able to withstand
the effects of rather significant changes from the base-case assumptions.
An with SKZr, however, price or cost changes affecting all of the
operations of SMTC, would have a significant effect on cash flow and lead
to a requirment for additional financing for the Project to cover start-up
losses. As noted above (para 7.13), this situation is not likely to occur.
F. Financial Covenants
7.16      Current and projected financial performance of the two
corporations is satisfactory, and the purpose of seeking covenants in this
regard is to ensure that unforeseen future actions will not prejudice the



-38 -
financial stability of the corporations, and possibly the success of the
Project itself. During negotiations, therefore, agreements were obtained
from SMrW and SMTC, that except as the Bank may otherwise agree, during the
term of the proposed loan:
(a)  the corporations will maintain a current ratio of 1.5; and
(b)  the corporations will not incur any additional debt if the
projected cash generation during the term of the debt to be
incurred will be less than 1.5 times the projected debt service
requirement in such years.
G. Auditing and Reporting Requirements
7.17      The two corporations financial accounting and internal control
systems are adequate to record and report project related financial
transactions. In conformity with the New Accounting Law which became
effective on June 1, 1985, each corporation is in the process of
establishing an internal auditing unit. At the same time, a Bureau of
Auditing is being established by the SMG,6/ under guidelines established
by the State Audit Administration, and this authority will assume full
responsibility for conducting external audits for all enterprises in
Shanghai, including SMTW and SMTC.
7.18      During negotiations, the corporations agreed to provide quarterly
p;:-oject progress and cost reports, and other such documentation as the Bank
maly reasonably request, and to furnish to the Bank the records, financial
statements and audited reports that are normally requested from Bank
borrowers and beneficiaries. Audited financial statements, in the English
language will be furnished not later than six months after the close of
each financial year. The corporations also undertook to prepare and submit
to the Bank within six months of project completion, a comprehensive
Project Completion Report, covering all related activities during project
implementation and initial operation, and describing the Project's costs
and benefits.
VIII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Adjusted Costs and Benefits for Economic Analysis
8.01      The detailed assumptions concerning adjustments made to financial
costs and benefits to obtain economic values are contained in Annex 8-1.
Domestic product prices have been adjusted to international prices except
that for new machines, lOZ has been deducted for possible quality
differentials. Local-clrrency capital and production costs have been
adjusted using conversion factors derived from a variety of economic
6/   Even prior to the establishment of this new Bureau, audits are being
carried out, on a regular basis, by the Shanghai Municipal B- au of
Finance.



- 39 -
studies,7/ updated as appropriate based on current relationship between
financial and econo-ic prices. Labor has been shadow-priced using factors
ranging from 0.56 for unskllled labor to 4.0 for technical and engineering
staff.
B. Economic Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
8.02      Incremental economic cost and benefit streams for SMTW and SHTC
are presented in Annex 8-2 and Annex 8-3, while ERR results for the SMTC
plants included in the Project are contained in Annex 8-4.  For both SMTW
and SHTC, the ERR is 31Z. These figures are somewhat higher than the
financial IRR (23Z and 25Z, respectively), and the importance of the
various adjustments in obtaining this result are presented in the following
table.
Shanghai Machine Tool Project
Comparison of IRR and ERR
(X)
SMTW         SMTC
Financial IRR                     23.1         24.5
Effect of adjustments to:
- Product prices                +9.0         +7.5
- Capital costs                 -0.9         -0.8
- Raw material costs           -0.4          -0.5
- Energy costs                  -0.1         -0.1
- Labor costs                  +0.1          +0.1
- Overheads                     -0.2         -0.2
Total Adjustments                 +7.5         +6.0
Economic ERR                      30.6         30.5
From the foregoing, it can be seen that by far the most significant
adjustment is to product prices.
8.03      The sensitivity of the base-case economic rates of return to
changes in base-case assumptions has been tested, and the results
summarized below:
7/   Including, in particular, S. Ichishima and A. Wcod, Econom5c Analysis
of Aluminum Milling in Shanghai (May 1982); and M. R. Amin et al.,
China: Shanghai Machine Tool Project, Preparation Mission's Full
Report (December 1983).



-40 -
Sbanshai Machine Tool Prosect
Sensitivity Tests on EcOnO iC Rates of Return
Pr.oect ERR (z)
sK         sNr
A. Base Case                                                31         31
B. Pricing
1. All Prices Up  OZ                                   34          36
2. All Prices Down 10X                                  27          25
3. Prices for Improved Machines Increase
by only 75Z of Anticipated Amount                    29          30
4. Prices for New Machines Reach
Only 75Z of Anticipated Levels                       23          24
C. Capital Costs
1. All Costs Up 1OZ                                     28          29
2. Local Costs Up 20G                                   29          30
D. Production Costs
1. Raw Materials Up 20X                                 28          28
2. Energy Up 25Z                                        30          30
3. Labor Costs Double in Real Terms, 1987-91            26          25
4. Combined Case (C2 with Di and D3)                    23          22
E. Project Implementation
1. Two-year 'elay during Implementation                 23          23
F. Production Volume
1. Production of New Machines Reaches
only 751 of Projected Levels                         27          27
As with the IRR, economic rates of return are relatively insensitive to
change& in assumptions within the ranges shown.
C. Net Foreign Exchange Savings
8.04      Net foreign exchange savings have been calculated on the basis
of: a modest increase in export earnings; import savings, based on the
production of the high-technology CNC machines which could not be produced
without the Project (these represent about 25Z of all aachines in
production), offset by importea materials (direct and indirect); and debt
service on foreign exchange loans. Details are contained in Annex 8-5.
When fully operational, the Project will generate net foreign exchange
flows of about US$40 million annually, sufficient to repay the foreign
exchange cost of the Project in about three years. The net present value
of future foreign exchange savings over the life of the Project is some
US$300 million.



- 41 -
D. Other Benefits
8.05      In addition to the quantified benefits resulting from the
introduction of new and improved product lines to SMTW and SMTC, the
Project is expected to provide significant additional benefits, as follows:
(a) Rationalization support during the course of project preparation
which has already led to a restructuring of SMTC's organization
and agreements to reduce overlapping operations between SMTW and
SMTC, and among SMTC plants;
(b) Management support in the Project, including the introduction of
computerized costing and information systems for both SMTW and
SMTC, which should add considerable flexibility to the operations
of both corporations, improve maintenance practices and .nventory
control, and facilitate the introduction of essential
cost-accounting techniques;
5c) Support to the Research Institutes of both corporations which
will streamline product development and help to ensure the
compatibility of product design with market requirements;
(d) Support to training of professional staff of both corporations
which will increase the beneficiaries' design and engineering
capabilities and improve the manager'al abilities of shop, plant
and corporate managers; and
Ce)  Introduction of new  .dsting techniques which will reduce the
level of pollutan-. emission from the SMTW Foundry and SMTC
Foundries #1,; #3, and #5, and most importantly in this respect,
will allow the shutdown of the SMTC Machine Tools Foundry and
Foundry #2 which are in built-up areas and have serious pollution
problems.
E. Risks
8.06      In any project which aims at introducing new technology, the
major risks must clearly be first, whether the technology can be
satisfactorily transferred to the project entity, and second, whether the
products which result from the introduction of the new technology can be
marketed on the scale anticipated. These risks are clearly present in the
Shanghai Mae-hine Tools Project but have been carefully addressed in project
preparation and design to the extent that necessary safeguards and other
measures to minimize their potential impact are in place.
8.07      As detailed in Chapter IV, (paras 4.11-4.12), extensive attention
has been paid to the need for, and means of obtaining and introducing the
new technologies demanded by the Project. Sources of such technologies
have been identified, and preliminary investigations have led to an
understanding of the licenses, specialized equipment and training which are
required for their introduction. Project cost estimates incorporate
adequate allowances for financing these items. The consultants who helped



- 42 -
prepare the Project, and the Bank's own consultant, have carefully reviewed
all options for technology transfer and it may be concluded that the type
and level proposed are appropriate and attainable for the two project
corporations.
8.08      Similar care has been paid to assessing the market and market
growth for machines incorporating new technology. As detailed in Chapter
IV (paras 4.08-4.09), no sudden change in consumption patterns is
anticipated, but rather a gradual move away from the relatively simple
machines which make up the bulk of present production to a higher
proportion of precision NC and CNC units. Market forecasts developed in
this way form the basis for the production and sales forecasts developed
for SMTV and SMTC. As this type of growth reflects the experience in other
developing economies, the assumptions which have been made are reasonable,
and the risk that market development assumptions are over-optimistic are
minimal.
IX. AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      During negotiations, SMTW and SMTC provided a letter of assurance
from SMG confirming the undertaking to provide the corporations with
adequate supplies of scrap and pig iron (para 4.15), foreign exchange for
the import of critical components (para 4.16), and electric power
(para 4.17).
9.02      During negotiations, the Government confirmed:
(a) that the necessary authorization for domestic loans included in
the financing plan will be provided (para 6.06);
(b)  that arrangements for any necessary cost over-run financing will
be made, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(para 6.06); and
tc) the proposed arrangements and conditions for onlending the
proceeds of the Bank loan to SMTW and SMTC (para 6.07).
9.03      During negotiations, SMTC confirmed that it will prepare
consolidated financial statements on a regular basis beginning in FY87
(para 3.05);
9.04      During negotiations, SMTW and SMTC each confirmed that:
(a) they will observe the environmental guidelines during the
implementation and operation of the Project (para 4.22);
(b) the PIUs of each company will be staffed with full time members,
the PIUs scope of responsibilities will remain as defined in
para-5.01 and foreign experts will be employed as advisors to the
PIUs (para 5.02);



- 43 -
(c) they will prepare and subLuit to the Bank for review the detailed
training program by June 30, 1987 (para 5.07);
(d) they will conform to the financial covenants as detailed in
para 7.16; and
(e) they will ensure that periodic reporting, such as the Bank may
reasonably request, will be maintained, and that a comprehensive
Project Completion Report will be prepared (para 7.18).
9.05      The signing of satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
GOC and SMG, and SMG and SMTW and SMTC (para 6.07), and the approval of the
Loan Agreement by theL State Council will be conditions of effectiveness of
the Bank loan to China.
9.06      Given the preceding agreements and commitments, the Project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$100 million to the Government of China,
including up to US$250,000 - for expenditures between October 1, 1986, and
the date of loan signing - which would be retroactively financed, for a
term of 20 years, including 5 years' grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
Industry Department
January 1987



-44-                             -ANEX 2
CHINA - SHANGHAI M&CRINB TOOL PROJECT
World Machine Tool Production and Trade
(in current US$ uillion)
1981                         1982
Pro-                         Pro-
duction   Export   Import   duction   Export   Import
1. USA                5,111.3    949.6  1,431.5   3,744.3    574.6  1,217.7
2. Japan              4,797.1  1,685.5    215.5   3,794.8  1,263.4    220.3
3. FRG                3,953.4  2,448.8    597.8   3,504.9  2,129.0    509.6
4. USSR               2,932.3    242.4    951.9   2,934.0    245.0    960.0
5. Italy              1,539.4    795.2    300.3   1,138.6    639.9    208.6
6. China                947.3     32.0      95.0     972.3      40.0    100.0
7. Switzerland          846.2    740.3    188.8      768.4    714.0    157.7
8. GDR                  827.7    673.6    214.6      808.0    642.0    197.0
9. France               809.5    390.5    566.6       622.1    295.0    479.3
10. UK                   720.7    570.3    425.7      735.5    436.0    404.4
11. Romania              624.9    133.1    311.5      615.5    144.5    197.5
12. Czechoslovakia       357.8    310.4    168.2      438.8    329.1    112.7
13. Spain                320.0    206.8    141.9      260.2    175.5    176.7
14. Poland               310.0    170.0    200.0      280.0    120.0    140.0
15. Brazil               305.0     73.9    123.6      210.5      20.8    111.3
16. Yugoslavia           276.7     55.1    131.0      303.8      95.6    101.&
17. Canada               269.2     99.8    674.5      221.5    154.5    328.7
18. Taiwan               249.4    182.6      99.2     199.9    149.2      80.9
19. Sweden               210.9    164.3    191.6      179.8    138.5    151.2
20. Bulgaria             201.5    200.9    267.8      221.0    219.7    273.0
21. India                184.6     17.1      86.6     211.3      26.4    105.7
22. Korea                178.1     32.0    324.5      200.0      65.0    250.0
23. Hungary              127.7     95.7    127.3      130.6      97.8    126.8
24. Austria              108.4    108.4    292.1      105.3      97.1    271.9
25. Belgium              103.3    119.2    139.5       88.8    116.0    123.6
26. Israel                70.0     33.8      71.5      70.0      25.0    100.0
27. Australia             68.9      7.3    195.6       61.7       4.9    183.8
28. Netherlands           55.5     74.8    113.5       42.8      69.7    107.5
29. Singapore             43.5     27.0    114.4       40.2      22.0    107.4
30. Denmark               41.6     47.9      45.1      38.9      37.5     24.5
31. South Africa          36.8      5.0    250.0       21.2       4.0    212.0
32. Argentina             35.3     19.5      70.0      35.3      15.6     47.0
33. Mexico                24.0      4.0    450.0       18.0       2.0    200.0
34. Portugal              16.3      4.1      53.9      16.0       3.1     50.2
35. Hong Kong             12.5      4.1       4.0       7.6       4.3      4.5
Sources:  For China, data gathered by the Bank missions and converted to
US$ at the rates of US$1.0 - Y 1.71 for 1981 and US$1.0 - Y 1.89
for 1982; for others, National Machine Tool Builders' Association
of the USA, Economic Handbook of the Machine Tool Industry
(1983184).
Industry DeppArtment
January 1987



aUIA - SUAJ6MI NAUIUtN TIL PIflJW
gmlV's Orgisatiom  Chart
Offloe                                                                                      iYqctOfe
Deputy Dimctor          Deputy DIrector          t | Deuttr I            ofuty D      tr ctet   | DeputQ                                          Dloto |hf
8k 1eUlD                                   Quality Control           Prodcton                 Accoauntratnonnol                             Coral ffcir
|   fIcnamig I       Griq Ka-  ,              Qual1ty Control            Pro tioInee                                         n l &               u| nael Seamios
---     Dto                                                       VW  Ow.                    D ptpt*Dept  v     DOpt  Dept.
T Scdmcel       |          Ccoputer      l          erLS                Nnfacturing                                            Idcton    |     | S@oitatlo 
savWas Dept.dlDept                                                      .           D opt.
D.pt.      |
Sott Dept.  |
Jzndy               FAelatonG             "  T r6                       I
Patten~~~ ~~ shoq Dope.                                                        sho
t v bepsrteot_
J      y1987



CHINA - SHANHAI KAOHI TtOOL PROJECT
SKTC Ee-dquarter' Org anization Chart
|GCcnral Manap r|
Vice Gnera              Chief            Vice General          Vice General        Vtce Genral          Vice General        Vice General         Vime Genernal
Manager            Accountant             mbag r               Man ger             HaurXnager                               Manager              Knaget
p rsonnel *          Finance &         Sales & Procure-      Technical Div.       Metal Cutting        Metal Farmlng        Accesory  &Pondry &
Educatton Div.     Accounting Div.           eent Div.        (Chief Engineer)     Hachines Div.        Hachines Div.         Tools Div.          Forging DIv.
L  AdMin. Dept.         Finance D_  _.  Sales Dept.               Developumnt           Technical           Technical            Technical          lechnical
Secretary            Finance               (Domestic)              Dept.                                    Dect                De t              Prods VW.
Administration      Coet                 Planning &            Research                  (4)      I1                                                   6T 
Housing              Price                Statistics           New Products
Coordination &      Accounting           Sales Marketing        Development
Refcrs                   (9)            Production            TechnologY
Computer Rom                              Control &             Development
(12)                                 Coordination        Technology
Purhases &            Transfer
StorZa                     12
Service Project
q  Personnel &  g                        Contract
(72)            Planni   Dept.         Production          Production           ProductLon        Adminietratlon       a,
Ad dnis.      IIStr ttegtc                                                            Dept.      I         DeDt.__  |    |   Dott. r ategic                           I
{Per onnel    |                                               | Planning                           (4)1                          (4)                  (3)
Iexptoy_nt    1                        lInternational          Renovation &
(11)     |De pt.                                          Pollution
Export                Control
Import               Equipmnt
(27)             Construction
-  Zducatton   I                                          I     I     (14)      1
Education
Trainitng
Se|oroary                                                         quality          Administration         mnistration     AhErnistration
School                                                       Control Dept.            Dept.                Doet.               DeotI
Technical                                                      Supervision                                   (3)                  (3)
school                                                        Control
Apprentice                                                          (6)
School
(15) 
|colleg) |I
Industry Department                                                      Total Staffi 220                                                                                 w
January 19N7                                                                                                                                                              N



-.47 -                          ANNEX 4-1
CHINA - SEHNGRAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
List of SMTC Plants and Institute
No.                                          Title
1                  Shanghai Heavy Duty Machine Tool Works
2                  Shanghai Instrument Machine Tool Works
3                  Shanghai No. 1 Machine Tool Works
4                 *Shanghai No. 2 Machine Tool Works
5                 *Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Works
6                 *Shanghai No. 4 Machine Tool Works
7                  Shanghai No. 5 Machine Tool Works
8                  Shanghai No. 7 Machine Tool Works
9                 *Shanghai No. 8 Machine Tool Works
10                  Shanghai No. 10 Machine Tool Works
11                  Shangliai No. 11 Machine Tool Works
12                  Shanghai No. 12 Machine Tool Works
13                  Shanghai Hu Dong Machine Tool Works
14                  Shanghai Jiang Ning Machine Tool Works
15                  Shanghai Hong Qi Machinery Works
16                  Shanghai Punching and Shearing Machine Works
17                 *Shanghai Metal-forming Works
18                 *Shanghai No. 2 Metal-forming Works
19                  Shanghai Die-casting Machine Works
20                  Shanghai Woodworking Machine Works
21                  Shanghai Testing Machine Works
22                  Shanghai Flaw-Detector Manufacturing Works
23                  Shanghai Measuring Instrument and Cutting Tool Works
24                  Shanghai Cutting Tool Manufacturing Plant
25                 *Shanghai Level Works
26                 *Shanghai Grinding Wheel Manufacturer
27                 *Shanghai No. 1 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
28                  Shanghai No. 2 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
29                 *Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
30                  Shanghai No. 4 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
31                 *Shanghai No. 6 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
32                 *Shanghai Machine Tool Gear Manufacturing Plant
33                  Shanghai Assembly Fixture Manufacturing Plant
34                  Shanghai Machine Tool Foundry
35                 *Shanghai No. 1 Machine Tool Foundry
36                  Shanghai No. 2 Machine Tool Foundry
37                 *Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Foundry
38                 *Shanghai No. 5 Machine Tool Foundry
39                  Shanghai Steel Foundry
40                 *Shanghai Machine Tool Forging Plant
41                  Shanghai Machine Tool Mould Manufacturing Plant
42                  Shanghai Yue Jin Machine Tool Mould Manufacturing Plant
43                  Shanghai Heat-treating Plant
44                  Shanghai Machine Tool Plating Plant
45                 *Shanghai Machine Tool Research Institute
*  Plants/Institute included in the Project.
Industry Department
January 1987



ARNEM 4-2
- 48 -                         PUage 1
CHINA - SHNGHA MCINE TOOL PROJECT
Guidelines for the Control of the Foundry Environment
Introduction
1.        The Foundry  anagement and Design Co. Ltd. of the UK, who
prepared the feasibility studies for the STWI/SMTC foundries, has
recommended a number of guidelines for the control of working environment
in the foundries. These guidelinos are described in the succeeding
paragraphs. Detailed requirements for the control of pollution in the form
of dust, fumes and noise will be included in the technical specifications
for machinary and equipment.
Cupola Emission
2.        The majority of the cupolas observed in the SMTW/SMTC
organizations have no more than a simple dry collector on top of the cupola
stack, which would generally be expected to discharge at least 7 kg of dust
particles for each ton of iron melted. Two SMTC cupolas have been fitted
with pollution control equipment in which the cupola gases are drawn off
above the charge door, through water-cooled ducts, to two stages of cyclone
separation equipment, before discharge through a stack. Reports from SMTC
persounel indicate that this equipment works well in relation to local
(Shanghai) requirements for pollutlon control, and equipment working on a
similar principle (with milti-cyclone second-stage cleaning) in the UK
would be expected to discharge no more than 2 4g of solid particles per ton
of metal melted. Only the emission from hot blast cupolas (with full
independent or recuperative blast heating) is subject to legislation in the
UK, tbough local authority health inspectors are entitled to demand
reasonable standards of pollution control from cold blast cupola
operators. The recommended limits for solid particle emission are
generally as follows:
Emission
Cupolas I to 3 ton/hour    3.0 kg per ton melted
5 ton/hour    1.6 kg per ton melted
10 ton/hour    1.0 kg per ton oelted
It is recormeuded that all the cupolas Un the foundries subject to
development should be fitted with dust coutrol equipment comprising ducting
of the stack gases through a two-stage dry cyclone plant with exhaust fan
and discharge stack.
Metal Treatment and Pouring
3.        Direct launder transfer of molten metal from a continuous tapping
cupola into the totally enclosed bath of a channel induction holding
furnace is not a source of significant fumes and does not require any fuse
extration equipment. Neither is the tapping of the Induction furnace into



ANNEX 4-2
49 -                         Page 2
a pouring ladle associated with significant fuse production. The
desulphurization and nodularization processes used in the production of
ductile iron are likely to give rise to fumes, and it will be appropriate
to provide fuse extraction, in the form of a collection hood and a
fan-exhausted duct to atmosphere, at the site(s) where these operations are
performed. Where molds are poured in predetermined positions, i.e., on
mechanical handling conveyors, these conveyors should be fitted with
suitable side-extraction hoods with fan-exhausted ducting to atmosphere.
Where larger molds are poured throughout the mold assembly/pouring bay of
the foundry, localized fuse extraction is impractical and the best way for
dealing with hot air and fumes is to allow them to rise by convection to
the roof of the foundry where roof extraction fans can be mounted to
exhaust the foul air to the atmosphere. The capacity of those fans is
calculated to provide of the order of three to five changes of air in that
bay of the foundry per hour.
Sand Preparation and Molding
4.        The health hazard associated with the presence of finely divided
quartz in the air is well known, and the allowable levels of dust in the
air breathed by foundry work people is defined according to the percentage
of quartz it contains. In the UK, the threshold limit value for respirable
dust (defiued as the dust that remains airborne long enough to reach the
terminal air sacs of the lung) is expressed as follows:
10
mg per m3
Z respirable quartz + 2
The principle adopted in modern sand plant design, to avoid the generation
of dust clouds exceeding this density, is to totally enclose as much of the
sand handling as possible. The loading of sand and additions into a sand
mill (for greensand preparation) is a significant cause of dust generation,
but this operation can be contained within an enclosure around the mill,
which is only opened at the end of the milling cycle, by which time the
addition of moisture to the sand suppresses dust generation. The types of
sand-handling operations which require dust extraction hoods or,
preferably, enclosures, are as follows:
(a) sand mills and associated additions dispensers;
(b) chute/hopper discharge and belt to belt transfers;
(c) screening operations;
(d) storage hoppers; and
(e) underground sand transportation of hot, damp sand.
5.        The transfer of dry silica sand within the foundry is now almost
universally undertaken by pneumatic transport, which has the advantage that
it is a totally enclosed system, which, under normal cirrumstances, cannot



ANNEX 4-2
- 50 -
release dust into the alr.  The jneumatic transport system is now being
adopted to a greater extent to handle moist greensand, to avoid the problem
of dust generation caused by the release of adhering sand from the
underside of belt conveyors. Molding operations are generally free from
hazards arising from airborne dust, as the combination of moisture or
binders with the sand in the molding medium suppresses any tendency towards
dust formation. In the jobbing foundry using furan resins, however, some
precautions must be taken at the point where the mixed sand is first
released into the air, in order to capture the fume from formaldehyde and
related c-..pounds, which might otherwise represent a major irritant to the
molding personnel. Simple extraction from the discharge head of the
mixer-filler to atmosphere provides adequate safeguards against emission of
levels of fume which exceed the limits set by health authorities, which
are, for example:
Allowable Concentr.ion (ppm)
Furfuryl Alcohol   Phenol    Formaldehyde
USA (OSHA)               50             5             3
UK                        5             5             2
West Germany             50             5             1
Switzerland               5             5             1
China             2.5 (10 ug/u3)        -      2.25 (3 mg/m3)
Dry bag filter units can be used for the cleaning of polluted air extracted
from equipment handling moisture-free sand, but, in view of the dangers
associated with dry silica, or quartz dust, there is a general preference
for wet collector units for sand plant extraction equipment. Greensand
plants ust, of course, employ wet collector units.
Shake Out
6.        A major emission of dust and fumes takes place as molds are
shaken out to release the solidified casting, particularly if shake out
takes place while the casting is still hot. Shake out units for large
molds (which have to be individually handled by crane onto the shake out)
cannot conveniently be totally enclosed or totally covered by dust and fume
extraction hoods. The more enclosed the shake out the lower will be the
air volume needed to capture all the dust and fumes released from the
shaken mold. For large molds, however, it is inevitable that a
considerable air volume will be necessary for dust and fume extraction,
which will generally be accomplished by side extraction hoods, possibly
extended with some partial overhead hooding. The latter must, however,
give clearance for the crane slings used in the transfer of the mold onto
the shake out deck. The air volume specified must give "positive dust and
fume capture, with none escaping into the foundry.  As with sand-handling
plant the preferred method for collecting dust from the shake out
extraction equipment is to employ wet collector units, though a dry bag
system could be used for chemical bond (moisture-free) molding.



ANNEX 4-2
- 51 -                         Page 4
Casting Cleaning
7.        It is unacceptable in modern foundry practice for personnel to
carry out manual finishing operations on castings coated with sand, because
of the hazard arising from the generation of quartz dust in such
circumstances. As soon as possible after shake out, therefore, castings
should be subject to efficient shotblast cleaning. Preferably this should
be accomplished as far as possible in a totally enclosed, unmanned
shotblast cabinet, though it is accepted that some manual "spot-blasting'
with a hand-held shot blasting hose may be necessary for the final
clearance of core cavities in some large castings. Modern shotblast
equipment incorporates efficient equipment for the extraction of dust from
inside the cabinet and for the separation of sand and dust from the shot
before reuse of the latter.
Fettling Operations
8.        Modern pedestal and swing frame grinders are now designed with
efficient extraction to avoid the release of grinding dust into the
breathing zone of the operator. For medium-sized castings the use of
ventilated fettling benches can avoid the escape of dust into the
atmosphere, despite the use of portable tools for which the design of
individual excraction ducts may not be entirely feasible. With larger
castings, however, that do not suit bench fettling techniques, the
elimination of airborne dust pollution can be more complicated and
certainly uay involve much larger volumes of extraction air than that
required for a ventilated bench. A large ventilated booth can be employed,
but the capital cost of such a booth for castings exceeding 10 tons in
weight would be excessive. The air volumes for dust extraction may also be
so large that they cause discomfort to the operators working on the
casting. The optimum solution for very large castings is to employ some
general extraction in the form of portable booth sections (with integral
dust extraction), that can be moved to the area of the casting on which the
operator is working, together with portable extraction (counterbalanced for
easy positioning) associated with the hand tools that the operator
utilizes. For all fettling operations dry bag filter units are preferable,
as fettling dust tends to form a dense "concrete- when wet. The most
convenient system, for operational and maintenance purposes, is the use of
small individual bag filters for each work station or pair of work
stations.
Industry Department
January 1987



-52 -                          ANNEX 5-1
CHINA - SHANGHAI M&CHINU TOOL PROJECT
Engineering and Implementatlon of the Foundry Subcomponent
Scope of Work for Consultancy Servlces
Introduction
1.        For assistance in design, engineering aad implementation of the
projectj' foundries, SHTC and SMTW will employ a foreign engineering
consulting firm in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants. The selected consultants will collaborate with the Sixth
Institute of Project Planning and Research of the Ministry of Machine
Building Industry whose main responsibility would be preparation of
detailed designs and drawings for the execution of the foundry
subcomponent.
Scope of Work
2.        The consultants' scope of services will include assistance in the
various stages of project implementation. A summary of these services
follows:
(a) Based on the modernization plans recom ended in the feasibility
studies, detailed technical specifications for the plant and
equipment including measures for environmental protection will be
prepared. These specifications will be supported by all
necessary drawings.
(b) Outline specifications for the buildings, cranes, mechanical and
electrical services, water, gas, compressed air and other
utilities will be provided. These specifications will be
accompanied by drawings indicating dimensions and elevations.
(c) The bids will be evaluated on the basis of quality, performance
and price.
(d)  Following the selection of suppliers, co-posite general
arrangement drawings of each foundry will be prepared. These
drawings will be in sufficient detail to ensure satisfactory
integration of equipment, buildings and structures.
(e) Working drawings relating to the installation of plant and
equipment will be checked.
3.        The consultants will be required to assign a qualified engineer
to supervise the installation, commissioning and start-up of the plant and
equipment. Participation in evaluation of acceptance tests would be
another important task required from the consultants.
Industry Department
January 1987



ANNEX 5-2A
- 53 -                      Page I
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Shanghal Machine Tool Corporation
Development and Establishment of Management Systems
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
A. Introduction
1.        To improve the efficiency of the Shanghai Machine Tool
Corporation (SNTC) in technical, financial and economic terms, a
rehabilitat.on and modernization project will be carried out by the
Corporation with the financial support of the Government of China and the
World Bank. There are 44 diversified manufacturing plants and a research
institute under the purview of SMTC. Of these, 16 plants and the research
institute have been selected for inclusion in the project. The 16 plants
comprise 3 cast iron foundries, 1 forging plant, 6 accessory equipment
manufacturing plants, 4 metal-cutting machine manufacturing plants and 2
metal-forming machine manufacturing plants. As one of the main objectives
of the project is -q - %li .ihment of modern management systems at plant and
corporate level, SMTC plans to employ a foreign consulting fiLm in
accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants to
assist it in achieving this objective.
B. Objectives of the Work
2.        The objectives of the proposed consultancy services are:  design
and development of appropriate management systems for each plant included
in the project, the research institute and SNMTC headquarters; assistance in
implementing these new systems, first on a manual and then, after trial, on
an automated basis; and assistance in developing and implementing training
programs for the staff of the plants, the institute and SMTC headquarters.
The management system so designed and implemented should result in
considerable improvement in operational efficiency which, inter alia,
ineludes: accelerated new product development; reduction of production
lead time; Improved capacity utilization rate; reduction of inventories;
and cost-effective production.
C. Background Information
3.        The consulting firms which respond affirmatively to the letter of
invitation for consultancy services shall be provided with the following
background information:
(a) the Charter of SMTC;
(b) the organization chart of SNTC's headquarters;



ANNEX 5-2A
54 -                        Page 2
(c) particulars of the selected plants and the research institute
including their employment, products, sales volume and
organization charts; and
(d) suggested improvements in management systems by the foreign
consultants who prepared the project feasibility studies.
The above material should be treated as confidential and should be used
only for preparing the consulting firm's proposal and reports.
D. Scope of Services
4.        The consultants are expected to carry out their assignment in two
separate phases. Phase I shall include: (i) review and assessment of the
existing systems and structures; (ii) preparation and presentation of
outline of management systems to SNTC for its review and approval; and
(iii) submission of the consultants' proposal for undertaking services
required in Phase II. Upon approval of the consultants' proposed outline
by SMTC and agreement between the consultants and SMTC on terms and
conditions for implementation of Phase II,1/ the consultants shall start
work on this phase which will include: (i) detailed design of the systems
and training program; (ii) implementation of the systems on manual bases to
test the systems and start of training program; and (iii) systems
automation and implementation.
5.        During part (i) of Phase I, the consultants will:  review the
relevant feasibility studies wherein the existing management systems have
been analyzed and certain recommendations have been made; gain a full
understanding of MTC's objectives and constraints as reflected in its
Charter; review the organizational structures of the plants, the research
institute and SMTC headquarters; and by visiting each plant, the institute
and SNTC headquarters, carry out a detailed assessment of their existing
management systems and capabilities.
6.        During part (ii) of Phase I, the consultants will, by taking into
consideration the prevailing conditions in China, develop an appropriate
management philosophy and prepare the criteria and parameters which will
form the basis for management system design. Then, they should present
these together with proposed changes in the organizational structure of the
plants, the institute and SMTC headquarters to SMTC for its review and
approval.
7.        During part (iii) of Phase I, the consultants will prepare a
detailed estimate of the manpower and the cost required to implement
Phase II. The manpower requirement should be broken down into the number
and the man-months required for each of the consultants' professional staff
1f   In case of disagreement between the selected consultants and SMTC on
terms and conditions for this phase, SM.TC reserves the right to select
another consulting firm for this purpose as per the World Bank's
Guidelines for the use of Consultants.



ANNEX 5-2A
55 -                        Page 3
in the field and at the consultants' head office. A similar estimate
should be prepared for the manpower required from the domestic consultants
(para 17). The consultants' costs will be based on the man-month rates
agreed upon in the contract for Phase I.
8.        During part (i) of Phase II, detailed management sysL.n designs
for each plant, the institute and SMTC headquarters as well as the training
program will be prepared. Each system design will include step-by-step
implementation procedures, justification of the design and the expected
benefits when implemented. The training program which should be prepared
for training of managers at all levels, from shop floor to corporate
headquarters, will specify: the number and qualification of the persons to
be trained at home and abroad; the type, content and method of training at
home and the suitable potential training institutes/plants abroad; and the
timing and duration of each type of training. Furthermore, the consultants
should specify the role they expect to have in management system
implementation and the training program.
9.        During part (ii) of Phase II, the consultants will assist SMTC to
implement the uanagement system on a trial basis and to start the training
program. It is proposed that at this stage the management systems be
implemented on a manual basis for the SNTC headquarters, the institute and
at least one plant in each of SMTC's four divisions, i.e., the
metal-forming, the metal-cutting, the accessory-manufacturing and the
foundry and forging divisions.
10.       During part (iii) Phase II, the experience gained and the lessons
learned during implementation should be incorporated in the management
system designs, and revised systems, suitable for automation, will be
developed. For the purpose of automation, the consultants will identify
suitable computer hardware and software, estimate the relevant costs,
prepare detailed technical specifications and assist SMTC in implementing
the automated management system.
11.       A broad outline of the scope of management systems is presented
in the succeeding paragraphs. It should be noted, however, that the
consultancy services will cover, but not be limited to, the given outline.
The consultants, in their proposals, should suggest other areas which in
their judgement should be included in the management system to be
developed.
12.       Project Plants.  The systems described below will be included in
the management system of each plant included in the project.
(a) Market and sales system covering: market research and market
information feedback mechanism to assess users' reactions to the
plant's products and services, and to estimate future demands;
sales planning and management including plant's response to
customers' inquiries; and after-sales service.



- 56 -
ANNEX 5-2A
Page 4
(b) Planning system covering: quarterly, semi-annual and annual
production planning; long-term development plan for products and
renovation of facilities; and control mechanisms for the plans.
(c) Production scheduling system covering: master schedule; bill of
materials; routings from customers/management order entry to
shipment of products; capacity utilization plan; and shop floor
control.
(d) Material management system covering: estimation of the plant's
needs; identification of potential sources of supply and timely
purchase of goods; and warehouse and inventory management.
(e) Quality control system covering:  comprehensive quality control
during the whole manufacturing process from materials and
components' arrival to the shipment of products; operator and
equipment certification; and statistical analysis to evaluate the
system.
(f) Maintenance system covering: regular maintenance of the
buildings and equipment; preventive maintenance; and overhauling
schedule.
(g) Research and development system covering: procedures for new
products and manufacturing processes development; and the
relationship with the research institute.
(h) Personnel administration system covering: labor and staff
management procedures; labor and staff requirements; wages and
salaries; incentive system; training; and career development.
(i) Financial management system covering: management of the plant's
funds; control of working capital and inventory; cost accounting
system which should generate information for measuring
productivity against standards and determining the profitability
at product and plant level; compilation and prompt reporting of
financial and related information; establishment of appropriate
systems of financial ratios and targets for internal control; and
auditing system.
(j) Management performance evaluation and incentive system.
(k) Internal information flow system.
13.       Non-Project Plants.  Detailed management systems for these plants
are not required. However, as these plants should provide inputs to tha
Corporation's management systems, the consultants, in conjunction with
their work on development of the management system for SHTC headquarterv
(para 15), will identify and describe the type and extent of information
required from each of these plants.



AEX 5-2A
- 57 -                        Page 5
14.       The Research Institute.  The management system for the research
institute will include: its relationship with the plants and SMTC
headquarters; decision-making system for research project selection and
implementation; review and control of the projects; assessment of the
institute's performance; and the appropriate management and financial
control systems.
15.       SHTC Headquarters   The management system to be developed should
be such that SNTC manageent will be able to control the corporate
operations efficiently and to respond to the Government's targets as well
as domestic and international markets promptly. The system should
include: comprehensive information flow between the headquarters and the
plants; coordination of work among the plants; market research and
information feedback through the plants and/or directly; procurement system
for goods and services to be purchased at the corporate level; marketing
system including exports for those products which are sold through the
headquarters; financial/accounting system to reflect the total corporate
operation clearly and provide the management with means of timely control;
internal auditing system; umagement performance evaluation system; and
incentive systems for all employees. In line Wita tbe SNTC's charter, the
management system should facilitate local control of the day-to-day
operations of the plants, without the necessity of interference from
Headquarters.
E. Suervision
16.       SHTC will supervise and coordinate the work of the consultants.
In Shanghai, the following services will be provided to the consultants at
S-f1C cost:
(a) interpreters and counterparts;
(b) office space; and
(c) transportation.
F. Collaboration
17.       SMTC will designate a group of its own staff for collaboration
with the foreign consultants. Furthermore, a competent domestic consulting
firm will be appointed by SNTC either directly or as per the foreign
consultants' suggestion, to cooperate with the foreign consultants in
carrying out the work. This involvement, however, should not affect the
foreign consultants' full responsibility for the consultancy services. In
their proposals, the foreign consultants should present their suggestion
regarding the extent of the domestic consulting firm's participation in the
work and specify the services which che domestic consulting firm is
expected to provide.



ANNEX 5-2A
- 58 -                        Page 6
G. Manpower Requirement
18.       It is provisionally estimated that the work during Phase I would
require about 16 man-months of the foreign consultants' professional staff
spread over a period of approximately 6 months. Of this, about
10 man-months would be required in the field and the balance at the
consultants' head office.
Industry Department
January 1987



ANNEX 5-2B
59 -                        Page 1
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Shanghai Machine Tool Works
Development and Establishment of Management Systems
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
A. Introduction
1.        To improve the efficiency of the Shanghai Machine Tool
Works (SMTW) in technical, financial and economic terms, a rehabilitation
and modernization project will be carried out by the SMTf with the
financial support of the Government of China and the World Bank. SITW
operates an integrated works comprising: the foundry, the hydraulic
components manufacturing section, and the grinding and measuring machines
manufacturing section (hereinafter referred to as the plant); the grinding
machine research institute; and SMTW Leadquarters. As one of the main
objectives of the project is establishment of modern management systems at
the works, SMTW plans to employ a foreign consulting firm in accordance
with the World Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants to assist it in
achieving this objective.
B. Objectives of the Work
2.        The objectives of the proposed consultancy services are:  design
and development of appropriate management systems for the plant, the
research institute and SMW headquarters; assistance in implementing these
new systems, first on a manual and then, after trial, on an automated
basis; and assistance in developing and implementing training programs for
the staff of the plant, the institute and SHTW headquarters. The
management systems so designed and implemented should result in
considerable improvement in operational efficiency which, inter alia,
includes: accelerated new product development; reduction of production
lead time; improved capacity utilization rate; reduction of inventories;
and cost-effective production.
C. Background Information
3.        The consulting firms which respond affirmatively to the letter of
invitation for consultancy services shall be provided with the fc lowing
background information:
(a) the Charter of SMTW;
(b) the organization chart of SHTW;
(c) particulars of the plant and the research institute; and
(d)  suggested improvements in management system by the foreign
consultants who prepared the project feasibility studies.



A1111 5-23
Page 2
-60-
The above material should be treated an confidential and should be used
only for preparing the consulting firm's proposal and reports.
D. Scope of Services
4.        The consultants are expected to carry out their assigument in two
separate phases. Phase I shall include: (i) review and assessment of the
existing systems and structures; (ii) preparation and presentation of
outline of management systems to SMTW for its review and approval; and
(iii) submission of the consultants' proposal for undertaking services
required in Phase II. Upon approval of the consultants' proposed outline
by SMTW and agreement between the consultants and SNTW on terms and
conditions for implementation of Phase 11,1/ the consultants shall start
work on this phase which will include: (i) detailed design of the system
and training program; (ii) implementation of the system on mnual bases to
test the system and start of training program; and (iii) system automation
and implementation.
5.        During part (i) of Phase I, the consultants will:  review the
relevant feasibility studies wherein the existing management systems have
been analyzed and certain recommendations have been made; gain a full
understanding of SHTW's objectives and constraints as reflected in its
Charter; review the organizational structure of SBMW; and by visiting the
plant, the institute and SMTW headquarters, carry out a detailed assessment
of their existing management systems and capabilities.
6.        During part (ii) of Phase I, the consultants will, by taking into
consideration the prevailing conditions in China, develop an appropriate
management philosophy and prepare the criteria and parameters which vill
form the basis for management system design. Then, they should present
these together with proposed changes in the organizational structure of the
plant, the institute and SMTW headquarters to SBMW for its review and
approval.
7.        During part (iii) of Phase I, the consultants will prepare a
detailed estimate of the manpower and the cost required to implement
Phase II. The manpower requirement should be broken down into the number
and the man-months required for each of the consultants' professional staff
in the field and at the consultants' head office. The consultants' costs
will be based on the man-month rates agreed upon in the contract for
Phase I.
8.        During part (i) of Phase II, detailed management system designs
for the plant, the institute and S W headquarters as well as the training
program will be prepared. Each system design will include step-by-step
implementation procedures, justification of the design and the expected
1/   In case of disagreement between the selected consultants and SMTW on
terms and conditions for this phase, SMTW reserves the right to select
another consulting firm for this purpose as per the World Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.



ANN8X 5-2B
- 61 -                        Page 3
benefits vhen implemented.  The training program vhich should be prepared
for training of managers at all level. * from shop floor to corporate
headquarters, will specify: the number and qualification of the persons to
be trained at home and abroad; the type, content and method of training at
home and the suitable potential training institutes/plants abroad; and the
timing and luration of each type of training. Furthermore, the consultants
should specify the role they expect to have in management system
implementation and the training program.
9.        During part (ii) of Phase II, the consultants will asslt SMTW to
implement the management system on a trial basis and to start the training
program. It is proposed that at this stage the management systems be
implemented on a manual basis for the SMTW headquarters, the institute and
the plant.
10.       During part (iii) Phase 113 the experience gained and the lessons
learned during implementation should be Incorporated in the management
system designs, and revised systems, suitable for automation, will be
developed. For the purpose of automation, the consultants will identify
suitable computer hardware and software, estimate the relevant costs,
prepare detailed technical specifications and assist SNTU in implementing
the automated management system.
U1.       A broad outline of the scope of management system is presented in
the succeeding paragraphs. It should be noted, however, that the
consultancy services will cover, but not be limited to, the given outline.
The consultants, in their proposals, should suggest other areas which in
their judgement should be included in the management system to be
developed.
12.       The Plant.  The systems described below will be included in the
management system of the plant.
(a) Planning system covering: quarterly, semi-annual and annual
production planning; long-term development plan for products and
renovation of facilities; and control mechanism for the plans.
(b) Production scheduling system covering: master schedule; bill of
materials; routings from customers/management order entry to
shipment of products; capacity utilization plan; and shop floor
control.
(c) Material management system covering: estimation of the plant's
needs; identification of potential sources of supply and timely
purchase of goods; and warehouse and inventory management.
(d) Quality control system covering: comprehensive quality control
during the whole sanufacturing process from materials and
components' arrival to the shipment of products; operator and
equipmevz certification; and statistical analysis to evaluate the
system.



* 1.    - .
ANNEX 5-2B
-62-                     Page 4
-62-
(a); Maintenance system covering: regular uaintenance of the
buildings and equipment; preventive maintenance; and overhauling
schedule.
13.       The Research Institute.  The management system for the research
institute will include: procedures for new products and manufacturing
processes development; decision-making system for research project
selection and implementation; review and control of the projects;
assessment of the institute's performance; and the appropriate management
and financial control systems.
14.       SWhV Headquarters.  The management system to be developed should
be such that SMTW management will be able to control the corporate
operations efficiently and to respond to the Government's targets as well
as '-mestic and international markets promptly. The systems described
below will be included in the management system for the integrated works.
(a) Market and sales system covering: market research and market
information feedback mechanism to assess users' reaction to
SMTWI's products and services, and to estimate future demands;
sales planning and management including exports; and after-sales
services.
(,b)  Procurement system covering measures to assure timely delivery of
gooCs and services.
(c) Personnel administration system covering: labor and staff
uanagement procedures; labor and staff requirements; wages and
salaries; incentive system; training, and carreer development;
(d)  Financial management system covering:  management of the funds;
controi of working capital and inventory; cost accounting system
which should generate information for measuring productivity
against standards and determining the rrofitability at product
and plant level; compilation and prompt reporting of financial
end related information to the management with the means for
timely control; establishment of appropriate systems of financial
ratios and targets for financial control; and auditing system.
(e,)  Performance evaluation and incentive system for the plant, the
Institute and1 SMTW headquarters.
(f) Iaterrual information flow system among all sections of the works.
B.. Suiervis'-on
15.       SMTW will supervise and coordinate the work of the consultants.
In Shanghai, the following services will be provided to the consultant, at
SMTW cost:
(a) interpreters and counterparts;



ANNEX 5-2B
-63-                        Page 5
(b) office space; and
(c) transportation.
F. Collaboration
16.       SNTW will designate a group of its own staff for collaboration
with the foreign consultants. This involvement, however, should not affect
the foreign consultants' full responsibility for the consultancy services.
In their proposals, the foreign consultants should present their suggestion
regarding SMTW's staff participation in the work and specify the services
which the domestic consulting firm is expected to provide.
G. Manpower Requirement
17.       It is provisionally estimated that the work during Phase I would
require about eight man-months of the foreign consultants' professional
staff spread over a period of approximately 6 months. Of this, about
five man-months would be required in the field and the balance at the
consultants' head office.
Industry Department
January 1987



CHINA-SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
SMTW PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Implementatlon SWag-
Prep of Tech Spec
PtelilmInary Engr.                                   '
Detailed Engr                                                , _,, _
Equip Procurement
Civil Works:                                                                       .
-Foundry
-Existing Buildings           *  * ,
-New Buildings                           2                                                                               Sz  . 6 6 2
Equip Installatlon:                                  S          ,
-Foundry                                                                      .
-Machine Tool Works    ,2Z
Commissioning       _                 S                       S      ,. .
Tech. Transfer         *                           /                .      .
Management System .      -. .   -
Training1                                                  . 
1987           1988          1989            1990           1991                             I
* REPRESENT PREPARATORY WORK
Industry Department
January 1987



AN= 5-4
- 65 -
I-u        -                           --1 
, t .. ..........    .....   ...   .......... .   ..   ........  .... ..   ...................     .
tY~~~~.......       I    ...    ......  ...   .......  ..   .. .......    ..    ..........
CL C   LLE                                         L  
_ Z        . . . .   - - -. - -. - --.-.-.  - . .   . .   . .   . .   . . . . . . . .  . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .   . . . . .  . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I,   0  -  -|......     .. ... ......    ..    .... ....    .....    ....   ...  . ..     ........
-c,,                                  ,,        o -  H:::                                     l
E -_ a
ZO.
Q()           I                                                                          -z
Liif 
-i  ...... _... _... _... _........   _... _...  _... _.... _....   ...._._....-
CL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
EL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
z  ~    1..... .  ....   ....    ....    ....    ........   .......   ..............    ........  ...
*   ~~~~~~~~....              ..... ...*...          ~                                
co                                                                                       Ai



-66 -                                                   ANNEX 6-1
MM  - S11i     i mIor  TJOM PROJECT
'IJT CIEPIl  COSTSTTMIES
(thunds of crrmncyu satcoutat 1     19S  prics)
Civil    lichin         adv                       Engiuneri4 I                  Thnolqw
Uriks   a EO1pnent   Inutace   Intalatio           I bmt           Training      Trnder   lhe Cost Estibate
Locd  Loal foreipn Lcal foreip  Locl rweip Local rorip n                Lcalreal rig  Local rFalmi  Total
O)    V(Y)  (Ua)   (Y)   (USS)   C)   (USS)   C)   CUSS)   N)   (aSS)   (Y)  CUSs)  (Y)   (USSr   C)
rmkv                     220 1 654579101    366                  27 252    315    224   -         221      -     560    915    6206 32116
hdbne Tool Plnt         2672  16133 1M35   1603    737   1579    737   2310   1690          -      7W      -       D929  47996  21293 11528
eewch Institute            -     903    91    6         39      5     39      -     112     -     112             -174   12N   5U3
Cuquter iter                     - -    2016     -         -       -          -      -      -          -      -               2016   7459
Totdl SITU              29992  2M212  2601    2097   1143   291l   1029   2625 20 16        -    1120     -    149D  59225  3579919K80
SITC
1 IbddnteJTool Fou* 3952   1763   3937    376    315    739    217    61    347             -      90           2      219432   51292 9
13 lhcidne Tm old F   y  5093   4138   315    326    772    610    187    514    336        -      98     -      112  10691   4102 2697
15 ddi1eJTodFmudrp  2M15    71    2295    217    14 1  29    126    358    Z13    -               56     -    224   6126   397 17596
hdIne Tod Fre            2312   1661   3619    272    20    576    199   41         169     -      56      -      -    5292   4331  21318
Sub-totld Frunits
IForge             13791  13262  132S   1192   1060   2393    729   1913   136t    -         291     -    560  32541  16959  991
11 RcesaryUurks            -     312   194t   125       76    125     76   200       90     -     146     -    224   791   2S16  1098
13 lcc ary IJks            -     158    741     *9      30    t9      30     95      i5     -      i5     -       -    350    89D   364S
16 kcessory girks          9?    591     69     20       3     20      3      2      22     -      67     -      -     759    165   1360
eri lorks                 578    439   1920 128         77   12    77  218           9P     -      78     -      -   193   2229 7m
6riding Wicel gork        525     -    2213    134    89    134       89   284    112       -     112     -    336   1077   2950  11992
Levd UUDs                 107     76   1120    70       S   70   15        160      Se     -        7    -     560 491       1893 749
Sbetal    c
Plants              16 595  7969526    319   526   319    998    414                   -     515     -    1129  "5S   106554374
I2leta l tti   Uurks    379   1502   3789    279    152    279    152    294    235         -     336     -     336  2731   5800  21238
13 Ikbl Ctti  Uorks   2905    542   33BP    229    136    29    136    294    23S           -     289     -     336   4299   t111209
OIketdt uttiwtcs   210D    757   2792    196    112    196    112    242    23'    -   179.2              -      336   349    3766  17424
se llNWl CttIU rk    1974    959   2619   152    106    192    106    231   2V5             -     168     -     336   3548   3600  1868
Ikbl e ngUorlw           33Z2   1922       997 366    20  366    200  429  41    -                336- 096             6397   704   35
1211ct Frdnlg U.s 19             427  5439    35    218    35    219  399   t1              -     29167         672  3523   725 4 3
JToWl Jul Urks 125?3   6109  238SS  1615    922   1615    922   30     1770              -    1590     -    2912  23790  31171 139123
Rerch ltitute            3675    263  3157    19       126    19t   126    168       31     -     168     -      -4 93            3611  179SS
SWC lN     wters          52S     -    1109      -      -      -      -      -      224     -     224     -      -     525   1949   7363
lotalSIlTE              31970  21271 435   3526   2294 719   2096  495    3506              -    2799     -    4S92630  6421530096
Total Be Cut              60862   34   7%     5623   3571   7201   3125   7583   5522         -    390      -    972 1215   10043    6
umi    m          m mm~=   us..  mm= u.=a  ~mu    uW. B m          um  saME    smu  gmi  S=mu m L           mm.
Note: N1U  ctingdes ae excluded frm  tis Ease Cost Estiite
Iq19J7



- 67 -                          ANNEX 6-2
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
PROJECTED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE FOR PROPOSED BANK LOAN
Comparator Profiles
Projected Disbursement           for Industrial Projects
Calendar      Financial  -------------------------         ------------------------
Year end      Year and                 Curulative                  AEP      Bank-
Quarter        Quarter   Ariount   Amount   Percent               Region(a) Wide(b)
(US$ rillions)       (M) (X)                      (X}
1987   I      FY87 III        -         -        -
II           IV       0.9       0.9       0.9X
III     FY88   I       1.7       2.6       2.6%               2.0%      2.0%
IV           II       6.9       9.5       9.5%
1988   I           III      7.8      17.2      17.2%               11.0%     9.0%
II           IV       6.6      23.8     23.8%
III     FY89   I       8.2      32.1     32.1%               26.0%    18.0%
IV           II       8.2      40.3     40.3%
1989   I           III      9.9      50.2      50.2%              45.0%    29.08
II           IV       6.8      57.0     57.0%
III     FY98   I       6.8      63.8     63.8%               62.0%    41.0%
IV           II       6.8      70.7     70.7%
1990   I           iI       6.8      77.5      77.5%              86.0%    54.0%
II           IV       4.6      82.0     82.0%
III     FY91   I       4.6      86.6     86.6%               93.0%    66.0%
IV           II       4.6      91.1     91.1%
1991   I           III      4.6      95.7      95.7%              98.0%    75.0%
II           IV       1.7      97.4     97.4%
III     FY92   1       1.3      98.7      98.7%             100.0%    84.0%
IV           II       0.9      99.6     99.6%
1992   I           III      0.4    100.0    100.8%                          90.0%
II           IV
III     FY93   I                                                       95.0%
IV           II
1993   I           III                                                      98.U%
II           IV
III     FY94   T                                                      140.4%
(a)   Based on 15 industrial projects in the East Asia and Pacific Region.
IBRD financed, all fully disbursed.
(b)   Based on 104 industrial projects, IBRO financed, all fully disbursed.
Industry Department
January 1987



ANNEX 7-1
-68 -                         Page 1
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Analysis
1.        The base projections have been prepared in yuan at October 1986
prices, using an exchange rate of Y 3.7 per US$.
2.        It has been assumed that physical work on the Project would begin
at the beginning of 1987, and that all components of the Project would be
completed by the end of 1991. A 15-year life after 1991 has been assumed
for rate of return analysis.
3.        For financial projections, the following escalation rates have
been used:
Escalation Z
Year       Domestic    Foreign
1986          5.0        12.0
1987          7.0         3.0
1988          6.5         1.0
1989          6.5         1.0
1990          6.5         1.0
1991          6.5         3.5
1992          6.5         3.5
The projections are in terms of current prices through 1992, the first year
of operation of all project facilities, and at constant 1992 prlces
thereafter.
4.        Projections of the production of aU of the major pieces of
equipment, including existing, improved and new units, have been made by
SMTW and SMTC, together with their consultants, on the basis of production
capacity, realistic estimates of the rate of development of new machines,
and market constraints.  These projections are contained in Annex 7-2 (for
SMTW) !nd Annex 7-3 (for SMTC).
5.        Prices for existing products have been projected to continue at
prevailing levels (in 1986 terms) through the life of the Project. For
products which are produced at present, but which will be significantly
improved in design and quality as a result of the Project, prices have been
set at levels 20Z above the present price level. In no case does this
increase the price to a level exceeding about 701 of the world price for
equivalent machines. For new products, prices have been set at
approximately 701 of the world price for equivalent machines. Details of
the basic price assumptions are also contained in Annexes 7-2 and 7.3.
6.        The principal elements of production cost are raw materials,
energy, labor and salary costs, and overheads. Raw material requirements
have been assessed for each plant, year by year, on the basis of the number



ANNEX 7-1
- 69 -                         Page 2
and type of machines to be produced. Material costs have been taken at
1986 price levels, except where the price of components such as castings
and accessories will Increase as a result of quality improvements. Labor
and salary costs have been projected on the basis of current manning levels
and wage rates, with minor adjustments In some plants where a requirement
for addLeional managerial and technical personnel is foreseen.  Overhead
costs have similarly been based on actual current experience, suitably
adjusted to reflect future changes in output and product mix. Details of
production cost by plant and principal product are available in the Project
File.
7.        Financing for the Project has been assumed as follows:
smT       S!rC
(US$ million)
World Bank Loan                                36.0      64.0
Self-generated Funds for Working Capital       13.1      28.4
Domestic Loans                                 32.6      49.0
The financial analysis is based on the assumption that the proceeds of the
World Bank loan would be onlent to the companies, through SWG, for a period
of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 8.5Z.
Normal commitment charges would apply. For the domestic loans, an 8-year
term has been assumed with no grace period. The current interest rates for
such loans, 8.5Z for the foreign exchange portion and 10.08Z for domestic
currency, have been incorporated. No comcitment charge has been levied on
domestic loans.
8.        Annex 7-4 (Tables 1-3) shows projected income statements, cash
flows ani balance sheets for S!TN, while Annex 7-5 (Tables 1-3) shows the
corresponding information for the consolidated operations of SlTC. For
comparison purposes, the projections show actual figures for 1983 and 1984,
and preliminary figures for 1985. For the purpose of these projections,
based on information supplied by the companies and confirmed by SMG, during
the duration of the loan, income taxes in project plants have been held at
estimated 1985 levels (a total of about 70Z of 1985 income) because
additional profits are assumed to be a result of the Project and therefore
available to repay project loans.
9.        Financial rates of return for SMTW, for each subproject of SMTC,
and for the entire SNTC Project, have been determined by developing
differential "with" and "wiLthout' cost-benefit streams  For this purpose,
all costs and benefits have been presented in yuan at 1986 prices. The
'with Project' cases have generally been predicated on the basis that
without the Project, revenues and costs would continue at the levels
projected for 1986, although in the case of the SMTC foundries, the impact
of the Project on non-project foundries (which would be disposed of) has
been incorporated. The costs of project components which are not profit
centers (the research institutes of both SXTI and SMTC, and the companies'
headquarters, including computer facilities), have been incorporated in the



ANNEX 7-1
- 70 -                         Page 3
rate of return analysis for each company. A 15-year project life has been
assumed, with a residual value in year 15 equal to 10 of the initial plant
cost, together with the working capital. Cost and benefit streams for STKW
are presented in Annex 7-6, and for the consolidated operations of STMC in
Annex 7-7. Annex 7-8 presents a summary of ,he financial rates of return
for each of the SNTC subprojects: detailed cost and benefit streame for
these components are available in the Project File.
Industry Department
January 1987



ANNEX 7-2
-7  -                                                 Table 1
DIM  - SmIuI ItlN    TOIL PR rJECr
S9I  - PROJECTED RONmCTIE WU
pries (Y'000)           ......     proimeted nubr of mta..
PrAucta                  1t96  future  1985   1986  1907   199  1o           991  1951   1952   1993   199   1995  19!6   1957   199
320 suies COlindrial 6rinding rchints
-ml329,m                  20.2    la.2    05     0     770    720    62   t3      3W      un      -      -      -      -      -      -
-MIiZ B (qroed)             NR  35.0      -      -      -      20    100  20        30   tDK       5Soo500   D    i0   465    5D
-I  1332 0                33.6  33.6    95       95   lO    1K    1OD        N      U 0           -      -      -      -      -      -
-H8 133 I   riew d)         NR   39.0   -        -      -      10   20   10          50    60  1K         80   89    60    60         60
-        1332( CIC) (n)     HR   59.5     -      -      -      -      10      20    1D      80    1N     120   120   110    110    160
-H51132 1,B               46.1  16.1    108    121    1 0    170    180   t13    150   1D         -      -      -      -      -      -
-I16 ltR I    (iU r d)      NIR  60.0     -      -      -       -     -       10     50    100    200    2 0D 200    1        235    240
SD nies Cylindrical 6rinding lhhnes
-miss R3113i0 R            9.3  10.3    207    215    220    2ZO    190   193    160    10         -      -      -      -      -      -
-11150 a (apruved)          NO   9S.0     -      -      -      -      10      10     50    100    190   190   190   170    160    160
-11 1350 (CIC) (n)          1N  133.5     -      -      -      -      10      20     20     10    60      60    7U   10    110    120
Crankhaft Grinding Wlcines
-119860                   24.0  24.0    165   165    170    170    190    190    10    180    100    185   195   15    195   l85
-11260R                   tD.0 10.0 L  O         30     50     50     55      50     U      3      30    30      30  D20    2a        2
-3C=20 (CL) (niu)           HR 198.2      -      -      -      -      -      10     20      N      30    30    30       40     40      0
-R165 (secial) (nw)         IR  396.4     -       5      5      5      5       5     20     20     25    25    25    25        25     25
Srface 6rinding Iredines
-117120 0                 13.5 13.5       N4010    36D    350  290   200   230    190    150   l40    1140                    110    130
- 17120 (nu)                 R 146.3      -      -      10    25    40    50    50          610           8  80      8 0       80 3   0
- 1117120 (nw)              11859.5   -   -   -    -   10   203 1 N                               401     10  1010   t0
-775  ,.C                 26.2  26.2   142    1S5   150    150    150    130    11    150   1t0    110    150   150    160    110
-11760 0n()                NR  79.3      -      -       -      -      10     30     10   50    60    60  5            50       10     60
- ii7?50                  66.0  66.0    SS       65     70    UD      60     50     -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -
- 117150 C (n)              HRl  15i      -      -      -      -      10     20    8K       80     90    90      90     90     90     90
oumblet-DiA   rinding lachines
-1m7750                     IIR  69.8     -      10     30     20     10     -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -
- m7660 (na)                HR 145.4      -      -      -      10     20     30      U0     40        40  40   40       10  10    40
Rall Grinding lachines
=M11150 R                 60.860.0   5  10  10  10  10 15  15  20   2525   20 20 20
Specia  Grinding Whines
-320                      33.0  33.0      N      0            0       80    8D   E0         60    5       5 060U 70                   U
- 500                     57.0  57.0    15       19     21    25      25     30      20     10     10    50      60    70      60    70
6er Grinding  iadines
-Y1232 I                 216.0  Z16.0      6     10     14      14    16      15     15     15     10     -      -      -      -      -
- Y732 0 (nu)               1R  396.4   -        -      -      -      -       5      10    15   20        35     35    35      35  10
- M63 A                  132.0132.         5      7      8     10    10       10     10     10    IS      15    20    20    20    20
-Y7063 a50.0 595.6                        -      -       2      2      5      5      5       5      5      5      5      5      5    10
Thred 6riranic betines
-  57332                        191.2     -       8     -      14     -       10     10    1i5     1      25    40      30     10     30
-97250                      IR  158.6     -      -      -      -      -      -       10     -      -      10     -      20     -      30
hwsrin  Instrmnts
-     30R    60 (ne)        IIR  158.6    -      -       t      8     10      10     10     15     15    15      15     15     15     15
-30.Z 100                    O 261.3      -       2      5      5     10     10      5       5      8    10      10    10      10    10
-30 (rm   model n)          KR  396.4     -      -      -      -      -       2      10     10     15    15      15    15      15     15
Rumudess flsuring Insitrv
- IYROlI                   NR   63.1      -      -       6      8    10       10     10     10     10      5      5     10     10     10
- YO31                    12.0  42.0       9     12     16     16     20     20      20     20     10    15      15    20      20     20
- OO        lot"r TaTle     NO  39.6      -      -      -      -      10      10     20     20     20    2 0            30    31      30
-NI lebtry Table I   46.3 -   -   16 16 20 20 25 30 1   40   0                                                               30 30
Tetal bitsroduced                        221    222   2260   22    2305   2305  Z335  2320   2312   M5   2380  2M00  2910   2150
e- - - - -   =m                             r a           a   -   a   -
M Oqry -
JmAry 197



-2n     7-2
-72 -                                                    Tab]1e 2
No111 - so"III       f I 1 r IIIL fIOJR
snu - ECON  m    a SI u 55 0 M
1913   1911   1!111   1      1!107  l911t  1919   M!1    I"1   1992   1993   19"    1995   19%    1997   IM
Omestc Sales Value (Units)
20 Serites Clind. 1        737      46   1030   107       69    971    976    911     196    354    1219   02!    0         ID      32     129
5W  Serie  I tini 16       140    103    2Z0    211    M1       215    205    213    225    23i    242    242    22    232    262    m
Croksft  1                 180    216    I7    189    211    211    2X         22!   242    241    245    250    2D        2YI5 11 25 0 S
Swrfa eE                   763  713  617 56   539  540  51   S22 510  S09  Im 481 4                                      4        1   474
Double Dis i                34    25    -          10   3N        30     30       0     V      N       38      3      30     3       3  3
hill                        12      10      9     10      1i     10       5      15     15     20      21     21      16     16      16     16
SpoicIa o                   37      54      2     90      97    101   IlU    106        9      9       73       3 1 03      113    113    123
6  91                        5   14  11   17   24   26  A    33 4                           43    46   51   56 56    5    66
TNe    13                    8      IS             0      -      14       0      11    23      13       8     29    34               34   54
Ieawring Instrmts    -   -                          2   9  13   20  21  25  28  39 3 0 10 11                                                40
Roness fi                   1211             5  IZ 9  1243                60   6   75  *0  U0 50                                            WI A   90
lTtal DOestic  ealRe    1W9O   2137   2134   2118   2141   2171   2165   2159   2171   2160   2114   2147   2102   22?   2212  2Z2
Sdtes Ualunits)
Ire Sweries   lind. GM      37      48    3A      32      41     49      54      59     64     66      71     71      71     71      71     71
SOD Series Cyind. 6         19       8      5      4       6       5      5       7      5      6       6      3       I      9       9  8
Craud ft                    21      14     11     11      14     14      1S      16     18     19      20     20    2a    2a         20     20
Suface el                   31      21     30     48      51     55      56      58     60     61      66     66      66     66      66     66
Ohiule Dlzk                 -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -      -        2      2       2      2       2      2
il6                         -       -      -      -       -      -        I      -      -      -        4      4       4      1       4      4
SpU   alD                    2       1      3      9       7       4      5       4     10      2      17     17      17     17     17      17
w  Gn                       -        1     -      -       -      -       -        1     -       2       4      I       4      4       4      4
lire d                       1       1    -      -       -                             -       2       6      6       6      6      6       6
I tn   Instnwnts            -          - -        -              -       -        I     -       2      -      -       -      -       -      -
ota Elwprt iune            110      54     17    104    119    127    136    146    157    160    198    198   1N          198    19    198
Sales Ruee Uith the Project (thousnds of sn   oith prnjectins at costant 1986 pnees)
Drastc Sale.
-kndnlg lhxes            49473  56781  60204  64519  70672  77312  87114i1f10151265    1395C1 1565IM165699169348 175C    175668187153
Other Produts             -       -    810   348       MIl   8700   9158  1010   11659  120  15680  16658  1095   2           11 M1   23400
- HyIaulic System         2234   2429   25tD    2500   250     Z 2500   25    2511   304 IW     StO    5D00   SN               S0W 5 9D00
- Sdtoetd                50707  55219  71104  75418  9M    88532  98764 114415 1412   15611 17719  1973493248 02 55 20106 215$53
xprt SWes                 1005   3217   4196   6562   9013   8432    635  10559  11134  12258  19372  19372  19372  19372  15372  15372
6ross Sales              5712  62427  75255  870   895856564 10403 125009 153374 160619 196563 206722 21260 219831 220"1 234525
Sales Taes                3283   3920   7153   726  89511   9212  1029   11876  14542  16019  18673   1535  29155  20994              2 22318
Net Sales leme           51429  59537  68146  74       910     87752  98115 113113 13532 152691 1771  19739 1921421 15155 I95 52126617
Hetes:  (1)  Imstic sales rems h                be  nadjnted to allcm  for estited sdes of 2         of units
at prices 20! dove official 6wermmnt prices.
(2)  Exprt sales reuems as  ba ed ot  n   rraw  t evort pnie   lich rane fro  5U  t  1909
aboue deastic price levels.
(S.  Rmelele without the project are asmed to r n   at the levels projected for 195.
ln -nt
horny 1987



ANNEX 7-3
_ 73 -                                            Table I
mmn - mau uuc tO Mmu
MC ICES 1N raw - rnc. umznu    s S KM
~~....prumd.s
1!113       5   1911 lf      19 0? 1911  19  99           "I1  1  0   192     1993    1b     199     199     199     199
Prodictn (tin)
In ut.  Toi r..n                 7567Mn  76  I   Inns IDOIDnn inn  1i urn 2a Zn                                    M ma    N UN i      Zn  nZn
331.h5. hul Fat;                 6613  6lK  66  66W0 6646  6610  6640  m   IM06  IMl IMU  19M  IUN  lUM  1M 10 i0
Knadurulred r=                   9%9      n      in      o 95 100     1901D M5I    7                5031  75l1   75110   51    15110   ?5061  710
Toldl Fou&1 Ptdti,    23669 2M  2m  as1a 2641 26140 26110                                  an 3WMI   iun  ai  41 0111 S                 M OD
rer Preductin                    2170    260    2511    250   25W    25N0   2S500  II           7510  INNIOI   ID IIS   I MD IIID   1   MS IDIDIIO
PR 'ag  Priem    (m  pw  ton vith " ectin  at conant 1916 wics)
31. tdu  Tool ratV                633    Mz    12n      rn110 3 141 ill    164  0    iK     11    1803   INU   IN       159   ilK    INK    I
I3f lh i      l redul F           6111   701  1i       1900   I'o    1356  16S   11W    1370   1701   170    173   1iK  1700   1109   1760
Whare t      lr Fdury            613    663   1WI    1      1000 0   TO    15     1510 Inn          ZOW        2IN   2011   201     2D    a
Forqins                           62         9   21S0  21502150  23Z5            925  U21     0 Z  25     S01    2500   25N    Z 00251  Z50
Sales Rnue by Plot (tU _si  of wa vith prnjectims at conset 1916 prices)
31 ud.s    r.i  rae t,
Saleofnstiqi                   IN  s56z m9 1               u1W ii   1   16100 261,O 3I2WM   31600 an  3m WM   3n  u00 39610
Salms las                      2Z      225    365  S50    560    Si         656   10"   136B   ISiIoISe im 151H              ISII ISI     isu
-  -  -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  W6 W
Net Sales                     4       5337    355      13"40   131 13      S"0 15  55  32                                                   3016  316  6  316  39663 6
13 raehne Tol ro_dry
Sale if Cstings                4156  9263   665   6640   6610   9961  10359  1363  III!)  11530  11b31 191    19                    11130i   150
Sales Tax                       IE     13263          26M      266    359   411    S      741     741 i l          I7'1 MI    'MI 71    1   741
et  Sales                      31926   9163   636   634   637    M         999   1356  177    1        1770 9  17    M       17799  1779  17799
IS ricrne Tool rF dr
Salt of Catinp                 S-     663    9500   95D0  9500   1500 9XO   11250  135    151   IS150 150 10   1                    110 3  151M
Sales Tax                       261    261   310  310    380    3           3   150       S0    600    611  C6         60      600    600    600
Net Sales                      5531   636!   9129   9120   9120   9120   9120  Inn   1296D0  il          10ll I149   1440  144(   141    19"00
forge
Sale of  orgipns               1590   231    5375      553735     51813   6075  12506    7 I    25000 25011 D    NU   250D  02      25900  MM
Salu Talx                              13D        215    215    215 2 33    2t3        SW  750   lw Oi       1lo   1in   1in   I 1000   I
Net Sles                       1506   Z17    SIU   5160   5160   5590   5932 SW   7     1 M    7000  2403      M0    29630   2 90  20  200
6roup SaLes (tonads o              with projections at consstt 190i prices)
Totl Sales                    16327  137     36595  35515  35515  3277  42333  63450 14930  91139  1130  90130   139  930  98130  91130
Sdes Ta"es                      747   7m9   1224   1121   1421   1;31   1693   2539   3399   392 5 392    3925   32    3525 325S   3925
Plet 6roq  Sales              1550171 I     2931 3M 3443          3674540649 60912 IIS1  94205115929             5  9d5 OS   25 9QOS9QOS
Note: _tlt th  etith ass tt     md     ren  c=      at the levels o_       a f      . r 1196.
Ihte: Uitheut the arolect, it hs bka ssred thet sales mlold nn eenstan at the lavls projecte for 1911.
Jawe 197



-74..-                                              AMNEx 7-3
Table 2
-III - SNEaK    O E IIIIL fIhCT
91TC RCCESS1   VES - RIIJECTED R        Irm   IUIE
ber at hnits
...actul.. prelim ..proeted.
Units   1103   191 1905   1596   198?   1999   1 91955             1991   1992   1993   1994  1995   1556   199
11 KCCESSDV USES
TIling Sstems
-Detic                       OW pcs    30       36     36     43      52     57    6E       70     60      50   SD       50    50       50     50
- Exprt                      05,  pcs    -       -      -      -       -      5      10    20      3N  I      B    e     40 140                40
Orill OChks
- Owstic                     000 pcs   325      36 360    315  34S   315    34    3t5    345    345    35    345    345    345    345
-Export                      OOD pCs   100      61     65      U 0        8      0 0        0   0          U      80     80     E0      E0     00
13 RCCESSOI  USES
Sheet Stee    wers             sets   9780   900    000      - 0  D         E 801 D   800    9000   70 00 7000         700    7100   70D   7300
Cable DM  Chinmels             sets   100   lSO    250    25         250    313    391 198    763    763    763           76363    763    763
Precidon l/T Cbinets           sets      10     25     50      50     50     78      90   137    269    269    269    269    269    269    269
Electrical Cinets              sets     20      30     40      40     40     54      73     98    179    1?9    179    179    175    179    179
Telescoping wers               sets      3   50       125    125  125 11           165    190    251    251  251 25 1 251 251Z
6hidsa aiprs                     It    300    400    500    500    SOO    600    720    961   12ff  124    12"   12"   121i   12ff  124
wrds/Prec. Cover5              sets       0    200    500    SOO    SOO    6Z5 70 1    977   1526   1526   1526   1526   1526   1526   1526
16 naCssor  UDRs
Cold Rolled Lad Scrms        EN  pcs      7      7      8       9      9      5      5       5      5       5      5      5      5       5      5
Oerating Units - Steel       *O  pcs   261    365    335   3i7    304    292    Z90    269    269    269    269    269    269    269    269
OprtinglUnits - Rlu.          O  pcs      -      -      -       -            17   2         2      29     35      35     35  3 35 35
Operating Units - Plastic   000p          -      -      -       -      -     26     53      69     90    116    151    151    151    151    1S5
Operating Units - Coatd       OD pcs      -      -      -       -      -      9      19     23     30     40      SD     50     50      50     50
eieler 6aus                  000 set  1150   1031   1025   1025   1075   1040   1040   1310O   1010   1040   100   1040   1040   10I0   1840
6ERII WEZ
6rade 7-0 Sas                DM  pcs   130    160    170    17       170    167    156    115    125    125    125    125    175    125    125
6rade 6 6ears                000 pcs      -      2      3       3      3     10     25      15     60      75     75     75     75      75     75
rek 5 6ears                  DM pCs      -       -      2       2      2      4      7      14    3N       50     S O 50        SD      SO     50
RINDIS UEL UORKS
Conetiami 6rindirn  Uhtels  tons   2500   2600   2600   26          2700  2800   2900   300D   3100   3200   32        320032W       3200   320 0
-rasiue Cloth               OU  s    9500   9150   9660   960  19000 101!  10770  11130  11470  11950  11850  11950  ;lS50  11950  11950
Rbrauiue Paper               E    up   2093   1610   1932   1932   1596   2170   2228   2325   2154   2602   2602   2602   2602   2682   2602
Rbrasive Paper  eter grain)O9O sq   3000   300 0   3010   3000   3000   300    300 0  3000 3000   3E    3000  3100  3000   3M00   3000
50  6rain                    DOO ct 120    192    115  125    135 15             20B Z10 Z 50    260 260                   260 26 260    t
SO Tools                     000 ct    500    950   1500   1600   1900   220o   2600   3090   3000              3000   300 0   3800   3000   300
Others                        rODO   2100   2400    2100   2400   2          0    24 10 2400   Z100   2100    2 400    2 400         2400 2100
LEEtL USRES
Linwar nduItoso                sets   3000   9000  19O0   23000  2300  31000  35000             t 470    50000  590000  50000  SO O   MOO1O  50000
Levds                           pcs  4000 00    000  1000  4000  300              D30   200D      OO200 2    00    D  0M200    ZO     2000   2000
OptiD  caBader (Pulse en.)  pXs    250    150    600    600    600    720    964   1037   1100   1400   14 140110   1400   1400   1400
Optical Tol Presetters          pcs       1      5     10      10     1D     15    2a       25     25      25     25     25     25      25     25
Optical bading H ad             pcs   381   300    321    321 211 12                  9 1 0Z  2    52      52   52   52    52           52     52
Lmnear 61ass Scales             pCs       -    100      -       -      -    650  1690   43   1W00 150002000  25000               D 30 0000  300
Oigital tool Presetters         pcs       -      -      1       4      4      5       6      7     10      10     10     10     10      10     10
Note:  For the 6rinding Uxheu Uerks, only the Increnae in synthetic di.muI tool production
is attributable to the puroc  ht increases in the sales of all other products in all other
plants is as a result of te projecw Frtheseproducts,ithout the project it hs been
assued that production ud  continue  at the levls projected for IS.
IndustrDq



- 75 _                                              AMX 7-3
Table 3
-m - so" MKc  s Pwusc
SIC ccun aS - wuEaccm murn umccs
(yiu  pr alt with projec-ttis at n1set 1986 prim)
...actl. preia.projected . ....                                                           .....
Unit    193   13014   INS 1 9516   13         i15     9-     190   1991   1992   1993   195         f 15   19%     1557
11 RMESSOY   W1
Tooling Sytem
- Diic                       O*lpcs 420n 121u00 5000 - s5  45000 iSM IBM  15W0 MOn 530W010 SW -     - SAM S5m
-CErt                        NO*pc.  I    M              I   R    KR S                6 59  71036 703 *036 70136 7Wmisi0836 7ss                7MuE
glrill Ceksm
-owstic                       DMpa R30  8230  960  9W   96 9460 4608                           1 960 9460 96  9M60  9460 960 946
- E rt                       000 PCs  8230       30   9460  12501  12501  12501  12501  12501  1301  12501  12501  12561  12591  12501  12591
33 CMESSE USSZ
Shet Stl Coe                    sets    125    12      150    150    150    150    150    IS1    150    150    150    150    150    ISO    150
EHile ragO'jes                  stt1  167  167  20   20  200  200 2   20  240  2   0    20  M    240  240
ridsm IIT libinets    se   50500  601600  6W  601  601  720  720  73  720 720 720  l0
Electid Cabiruets               sets    833    w3      m IBM0  Iwo lmog  IOz 10Wz 1200                         1201   12110  12z 1o00   12       o 1200
Teledcoping Coe                 set    290  3i0    300   36AD    3600   3610    3609   360    3600   3600 36              3600   3600  3AN    3600
uidsw  UipQ-s                   I* 141l   17  17  17  17  17   20  20  20  29  29  20  20  20
wds/Prec. Emrs                  ats    833    91   lo    lWo         1000  1000    10 0 1           1 290   1290 13       u       1200   IDO   1230
USi IEESSUY UWES
Cold Rilled Lad Scram         000 pcs 129    25940  S500  30 0  73010 l? OO  lEO      E  1_9 0 I o 00 I B01 0D19 I901        o00 0 00 IW OOO 1 10009
Ikeratinglbits- Ste-          000 Up.  2670   2650   2903   310    34.0   34008 30    340M   3400   3400   3400   3400   3990   3409   3400
pertinhits-lMm.  uBp.  m   *    o   so  a   a   350936  3500 3 W 3oo 350o 3a10 SW  3
pe Urdtig1ts - Plastic  000 pcs  IIE                                    *1 0 I  0 1OWO 1000               000 400 *  04 I100 IOIOD 10 000
Ibntinghits-CtW 0dpes  IIR   N    I   U    *  6400 64N0 60  64C000 6436  6490     6410  61U
eerlbmes                     DDD W et  2370   1980   1991 mu   221    mo   mu   221D   2210   221m                  221D mu     mu 22    2210   2210
sm awIIs
kde-?I Sears                  Eoes  50s00  15000  19903  1300  196           00 l  IBM    2163  2161)  21601  21690  21600  21630  2169   2163
6rade 6Gars                   UO  pcs    M   25000  45900  4SO0   45090  4509   1         6000    0  600 6 09C   6    0D00  69016       00     6030
rade  5 6 s                  00C Po              111 80H10   ON Or    960Do  %ODD  9CIOD   -M   96100 600 96D 00                    o 96 000  56O3
nentioun l  rinding Uheeds  tm          75    2759   323   3200   320            3200    3Z1 3     3290   3200   33    320D   3210   320    3200
Rbrasive Cloth                 ODDs 5p 3570   3 570 3579   30    3570   3570   379    3            3570   35      3 570   35 7 30    3570   3570
tsi e Paer                    U0 up  26tO   2619   Z619   2649    2 610         2   Z619 26 0  26t0    2610   26 10 2610    26   O 2610    Z619   2610
tbradve Pwr iteraiu)OUID sp3D                   83     93 0  80  30    83B     9      B       0     9       831    90 830    830    830    830
SO 6ran a                    w        ae mo t500 GM gOO Is                   t   t50 is             11D t5o 0 m    i       m           m s muo  i t5m
SD Tw ls                     ODD et  1100   11W0   9031l00   8 10D   000B       0                m         mo0o 00   0D          no             80a0
LEEL UOPKS
Linermductop                    sets  64   64     61    64    1   64  77   77  77 7                                         77  77  17 7
Levels                           pcs    100    IO      10      100    IN    1:00    1N       100    100    100    10       19  100    100    190
DptiolEneodr(Pulse 6en.)pes on          Bo      a      0O     W 000           8000    ON      N       0   900 OM           U0D    80 0 8W        8
0ptical Tool Presetters          pCs  lOD0  19110000         10090  l O       WOI 1 00m0  l0O   lO 1O D 0                1000 10000     1900 10000D
Opticalleadl lead                pcs  75D   75D    750    750    75D    75D    750    750    75D    750    750    750    750              750 750
LinearG       ea l Sdes          pcs            MI  5W500             5D0    50D    500    509  500    500  500            509    500    50D   50
Digital Tool Preetters           pCs     h       MN  1500W 150 150   15001 15W   150    15000  1!CG  1500   1500  1S10   150    15M
Note:  litlot the project, it ha  bee  assWd tht. prnces wold cs nmm at the levels projected fvw  1996.
_1Fy 1987



-76 -                                                   ANNE 7-3
Table 4
-e - SON DE EMIL MM N
onc  Essw 1WVW - FES   31 OM
(tlniu i  df pin  vith proJeUta      d  eit u tu   1S   vimi)
.im..   Ctin  ............. psldL *-........... S.@......s......... ...... ,. ......
1913 !l 19      5   91 19     1197IW I       11  19l 19!11 1      1 9112    199     191"    1995    19%     197    19ll
n iizsw   n
htch                           4E5 61AN SW    " SW 5              5 961," (Al 4 P5 5914 S5 51  1145 3    S4  M
Eil Ses                         879   593    615  IN         1W    127   1555  2139          1   30D1   3Z11   3 11   1       31   30    30
lotwi.es                         663 i6 563966 V 71n3 n3  355  71557l5  9715                                                  971597159715
Sdesax                           tII i563  52  46  52Z  5719 1   610   74 m   m   m   m   m   m   m7M
Let Sl                         463   6111  5193   5793   675   65          711    7915   17M1 ON         9         11  OM     IN       M    I
himic Wh                       1325   1431   2M      2279   2275   252   27   3497   142   "42   "12                    42 "  42   12   442
liuwt Si.e                       -      -
lotil Sles                     1325   1430    Z2Z2      9 273    275   2512   275    3497   402  0442   4M2    4       4M 2       4 42 4 492
Sidh ina                         65     77   110    114    114    126    149    178            2   2     2D9 22 2       2211   221    220         Z
Nketi1                         126  1353 I        3S 165165 M17 265732 7 37?102 1O2R I1Z 9202 82419241R2 1OR
owh.  stlch                    3122   39    324    -=     3594   4112   419   CO2  4367   455    476    476    476    476    176    475
Tota   Sde                     3tZZ    37   32"     0         391H  4112   It    Z1 f lli           S      ?  f Mi56  XIM  fl6  ft SWI
Emprt Smles                      -      -      -       -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -
Toal5 T1x                      312Z   3611   323    4W1    39    4012   4149   4229   4367  4556   4769   476    176U   4763   4769  4769
letSies                        z16   3373   3037   3760    75   3772   31         3967   4195   4292   447          47 4    47 4       7    4474
Immutc Sd                     2559   3117   3355   3355   3355  3449   465   7176   910  t21    1290  1290  129    12W   120lI    12=
Exip0t                           -  -          -       -      -       -
Toui hies                      2459   319    3355    35335355   3           C05   7176   9190 120    fU   12399  1ZW   12390  120   12M
S.e1  7x                        155  Z26    BS 235    235              269  322    52   6           0        00         III    H0    Hl  
Ikt 51.e                       2393   2081   312D   3120   3120   3571   428   6674   1537   111 68 11161116D  11168  1116D  1116D  11160
filEt  DEEL IDES
mestc S.s1                    473   47295    933 59771  53736  51514  63117  67396  69190  797    7197         V     7       77M7  7       79109
Ewt Side                      154  15SM   1         15M 1  1635  16575  179417636  119173 174 1977  137741117741774  19774  1977I
Total 5.                      62713  6273  65314  66159  65793  75855   9 8291  I5442  97361  33474  9M74 
S    .es1To                    273   2754   2613   261    2732     3        Z1113   3419   344   3575   3570    3519   3579   3579   3579   3
Net Si.e                      5573  59559  62792  63513  57901  7         7653  92924  967  5355  51955  155   M535  1535  11953  51l9
_m _ -_-- - _n - - _m mm - m  
betiSbes                       2952   2544   24      27M3   253   3596   47     6869 I39 1395  151 1939 2959 52955 2855    21599
rOrtsl                           -      -      -              -      -       -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -      -      -
ToW  Sles h2092   25f4  243    2753   2753   3506   45W    6869  1935  13099  155931199Z299  2G59320559  21599
Sules T                         14   193    195   22           l         Z8D    361    ff549   1  2       12t      111  14I   1649   164B
lNt Mm1                        1958   251   2238   23    2533   3226  O41         6319   991211   14351  1651  1951  111951  19551M
_   _                 _   _  _   m  _  _   m_ _ _  _ __



77 -                                            AMEX 7-3
Table 5
mel - u     WE EE- mm, rIIEET
RI 2K a  I 1( Elf MM                       - mm. 1UI a an um
(rim .1 ruumuwo fro 195 in at .. 1 S pi.)
Ihhiff ofits
hit   cin  MOIOD)  w  d.-
Pricet .. atal|@.-.  " n.............   - i   ...........
19 16 Ig          Q_ om            19    19l5   19;  1911   19    I!   1!ll  1!8l  I9           !s3
92l1L" tt_ UIS -)
Sales (imufi  if wilt)
- Eqire Uth                  11.4 12. IL 1U19  M1    I13231 I11N4S 6614 359  3 30 33
- Preiulin ilu                     3.5.0  *6.                    -   5   5  10 3                 5         9  I   10   I   1
-KCeturLof                         72     *77      U      - -           -      2      I    20    29    10         -     -      -      -
- TIwu       Cet              111         257.7            - -          -      1    12    26   54              l6    146     1Q2   12
- Toal hd6I    d his                                    14 9    R 13    1235  12M   1,    93      7      546   56    516   592    W
Reum  (thomn ds wuI)
-rli Sales hum                                         14599        15Z1915673  1 6 !62  2177  26327 319   37199        5W 9%  5495
o uhid,uprh                                                 711   "9    m9   f9    999  1189   1199   tin   1199  1189   1199
- Sales T5s                                              779  m 11 4106    11    135   1703  2064  2151   2952  3552  352
htle                                                    14139  1441"697 1460  12 157   19                                   5131  5131
13 NEl CITIII uE
Praihtio  (nur of Nts)
-Ill5                            16.1  ILI.3            -    10    29        -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
-me niUD                         100 11913.0    40 3 E35D 9                       31 3D            19    -   -150
-m1n119                          14.01.9    111 102    120   19I    19    151  l10 3     60                    -      -      -      -
- minI9 19.019.  1   53 9 199  li91919 9 103511 D                                                                     -   -   -
- 191120                         60.0611   11   -   15  29  A  31                        0          58 60 60    -   -   -
-   BallUpFifqIhcbl                1.9.   19.5           10    A       45      5      5    A       33    A      30      -      -      -
-  tcul Prfile kfl,s
-079                             36.1  3 .0       1    39    37           9        *0    25    28  20    2D           -      -      -
-N                          11         75.2      1      -      -      -      -      -      -      I     -      5     10    10    10
-K90  (NC)                       a   M.8 2 .           -     -      -      -      -      -      -      1     2      5      5      5
- krticd J   0rig hBhdus
T-41$6 6U.56130                                       20 2E   24  24 24 20  29  10   -    -   -   -
- T1415                     M      1   6l.0      I      -      -      -      -      -      2      5    10    15    20    15    15
-16t115                         132.1 12.1       U      -      -      1      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -
- TK11       D(I)               393.9 39L9       I      -      -      I      1      1      -      -     -      -      -      -      -
-TJt610 (ND                     30.4 331.4      I       -      -      1      1      1      -      -     -      -      -      -      -
-li inders
- 1W8                         311.11. 31111.6 3:       -     -             1      1             5     5
- 2933                      J      I  ZS7.9    1            -      -      -            -          I 1      2         is    I 5    is
-11mm45(3)                         1  49.3       M      -      -      -      1             2      2     5      5    10    1 2    12
-1192 (ND)                  U      3 3730               - -    -      -                    -      -     1      2      6      6      6
-  'tea  flbliniq Centr
- TNK414CiI                 M      1356t.9       U      -      -      -                    2    1D    29   3A    f0    19    49
- TH14153(ND                U      1422.9        Up     -      -      -      -      -      -      -     2      5      5      5      5
- TN3413Z (C)                  11 331.4  1        1 1         -      -      -             -      2    10    2D    40    1
Tutal    er d Iuits                                  79    m       753   7       746    31551          1      26   166  168   168
kiwi  (timum   ds   FM ia)
rops Sdalt  Ib                                       11254 111C9 13761  14659 15t39 1512 19Z25  26712 3111  tS697  97   4937
-Selb Tm                                                       652   59   1364  109   1149  1398  1939  252?  3393  351Z  3512
kt Iuel                                                       13394  12762 1359140 1i 69  17861 24773 32Z93   3I 44559 "95
It: (1) [           tw   121W     Culting flwb we tksl Wiled  Eo 69[                a             se, ttin Ith.  PImesti Sell    pricn.
CZ) h,I   svithithtke           t F uw we lo utoii tU        e at   l luru jtei            196.
j01
jowl 1Sl



-78-                                               ANNME 7-3
Tab3Le 6
aMM - sImi mor Ti EWEE
SITC H 0N RNETI 11MII TI11 MDR VW - RIMIE, PROIIM  l SWIE MM
(price  ad reu u fr  1916 a    t cuubt IS  price)
Ibr of Udit
Unit Price (Y'O ) Ver uf
-~ PrleFri ce   ...actul..  predin  .                .  ..rejected                     .
19 916   n.          am p    199 3  191199     19B    6    1907   19i..9R9519 0i 1             19-2192   3 1..
31 PEL CuTIE Uuo
Praductin (mbIer of uits)
- C: njentiod 1illi    WC   15.1    10.0       I      IR    Z5!    190     125 1259 9              0      -       -      -      -      -       -
Updatedta Con atIo2  "c       HR     No    55.0     HR       -      -      -      -      -       -     35     35      25     25     25      25
- Precisimn Kllin qw/c          U       II   10.0     U        -      -      -     13     13      30    45       45     35     30     25      25
-K  rlling IeflacM           220.0 22Q0    22D.0      U        8     15     21     2      26      33     35     N0      1      50    50      50
- Nidne Centr                   U             555.0   U        -      -      -      -      1       3      3       3      6     19     29      29
- Total  Hbe  of Units                                       266    205    119    162   130    106    118    123    111    124    129    129
Renues (thausids oa  un)
=ress Sales Reum                                           6615   6819   7530   0510   9535  1205  190 15990 175  25320  3070  30470
- Sales Taxes                                               342    380    527    600   625    943   1012   1119   1218   17    2133   2133
Net Revenues                                                 6303   6439   7003   7970      O  11202  13910  14871  16107  23519  29337  29337
--n. inn               .       nS    nn =_s MME C                       =0=
18 tETR  CUfTT116 UOI1
Prentm         (umber of units)
- Comnuntied
Uire Cutting [ON          35.0   43.0   S2.0   1989    291    293    290    260   260    239    238   19          167    115    145    145
-NC El"                         RR     N         99.1  HR      -      -      -      -      -       -     30     60      00100    100    100
-D E [in                        KR     3R  370.0               -      -      -      -      -       -      3      8      10     20     20      20
-bE ort CIIC E011               H       o 444.0       HR      -       -             -      -      -       -      2      2       5     10     10
-lotalt Nuber of Units                                      291   293    290   260   260    239   271   21             267    270  75  275
Revus (thousands of wan)
-kiss Sales eenue                                          S956    9409  12470 11190 11190  10277  16159  17451  21993  27071  29291  25291
of which exports                                                         0      0      0       0      0   1173   1173   2934   5907   SK67
-   lesu Txes                                               607    608    998    8954    S1       22   1317   1399   1759   2166   2313   2343
Net   vnues                                                  9357   9901  11472 10296  10296   9555  15142  16091  2034  245   26997  2694?
2223   cau   33233  3333   23323  3322um      ES 2 322 = Cc=   =XXMX    332C Co   n
bte: Revenue vithout the preject re assed to contine at the su   levd as projected fer 1936.
Ir
3_" w 1



_ 79 -                                            ANNEX 7-3
Table 7
CUE  - SRIUI IIIKEH   TIOL PWt
U1C IETRl r6 ECEKS U- - PECES, PMKTIM U SALES KUEE
(prim  and rewm    prDJectim5 in th_ands of yun at cmnutt 1916 rice.)
kiukb of Units
Unit Price (V'UO) Year e      -
-          Pri.    u    p     ........... Prcte ctu                                         d .... prq ...ect.
191        1986 futwe Change   198    198    1985  195K   1987   1918   1989  199    1551   1992   1995   195
Product
J211-WOU  toiw,Fixedled   NU             NR  79.3   n-          -      -      -      -      -      2       S     15     10      -      -      -
J21-168     en bck, fldied         O      U   IIL9    -w       -      -      -      -      -      -       2      -      5     40    40    10
J23-H     Two Point, Open8.ck    M       MI  221.6   n-         -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      2      -      -      -
J31-10    Singa PeuntSS           N     3.0  55.0   1989        -      -      7      7      7   20       50     50      SO       50 50
J31-160   Singe Paint  5S       39.6  18.5  70.0  1596    127    121    100   1           l0 100  80     60      60     60     60     60    60
J31-250   SingePeint SS           M    76.8  115.0 I199         2      -     15     15     15    25      25     20      20     20     20    20
J31-q10   Si,le Paint, SS       M.0  110.0  190.0  i9B9        ia     le      s      5      5     10     10     io      a      10     le    10
J31-800   Si PlePint SS           M      No 150.0   19R9        -                                  2       -      1      -      5      5      5
J5550    derdrie,oa             57.0          7.O  7 10 l0 1          6      40 4         10   40    35         25 2            -      -      -
341-U    Unb driler   M        130.0  150.0  190.0  1t99        5     20     1S     15    t5    10       10      1s      -     1S    1S    15
JB7-250 DWl  Culd Erusion         M    97.8  120.0  198        -       -      2      2      2      5     10     20      a      zz     22    22
JB7-IEO nlh Ec ld Extrusim        M1  178.0  376.6   n-         -      -      -      -      -      2      5      5      10    10      10    10
J87-630   fech Cold Extrusion     M      11  59.6   nem        -       -      -      -      -      -      2      -       I      -      -      -
J1-150   Togle-Type Extr          M          152.0 -IM          -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2       5     10    10    10
J83-200   Tuure-Type Cxtr       55.0   55.0  63.5  1909        11     25     15    15      15    10           -      -          -      -      -
J"        luI  L-Tpe Extr      155.0  175.0  175.0  19R9        -      3      '      2      2      -      -      -       -      -      -      -
J1163-00  H Cold-tm1          OC  140.0  360.0  360.0  19B9    5       2      2      2      2      5      -      -       -      -      -      -
Y9350   E lli        c         21o.  456.0  550.0   19B9       B       9     10    10    10    10        16     10      15    10    10    10
-28-50   * Hydr.lic            175.0  250.0  130.0   1959       9      6     10     10    10    10       10     10      10    10      10    10
VfMS0  Eo       raulic            * 1OO.0 lODU.0  1939        -       -      2      2      2      -      3      -      2       -      -      -
100'      TransferPress           K      KR 330.1mw            -       -      -      -      -      1      2      5      2     10     10      10
200T      Transfer Press          M      1  162.5   n-         -       -      -      -      -      0      2      5      -      5      5       5
2W        Extrusim, Traufer       NR     M  52.6    nw         -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      -       -      -
lOOT      Eruion. Transfer               *   660.7 n           -       -      -      -      -      2      2      5      5      10  10   10
SOOT     TIvPuiut Struight        Hl I00.0  52Z.6   ni         -       -      -      -      -      2      -      5      -      1      1      1
uz-100   bt rar  Ibehine       360.3  360.0    NR  RoeB        - t
Others                  U      KR     HR             -      -
Totl mbEr of Units                                           296    2t3  225        2     252    236   23    Z66  292    291   291 1 91
Eross Sles Ivtnue                                          15415  16272  22754  22751  2275   25290 36069  43137  47501  52970  52575  52970
of tdch exports                                                    28      52     52    52    52       52     52     52     52     52    52
Sales Taxes                                                  651    817   1456   1456   1156   1618  2360   2761   3819   3390   3390   3390
Net Reuena.                                                11761  15425  21297  12?7  21297  23662  31509  10376  4461  4"90  15580  49580
*        =    n   s. AM    _as M.                                         s _uZ
Hote:  aitw    the project. reem  are asmed to r in at the leuds projected fr 196.
Jzg 1r



-ANNU 7-3
Table 8
sme                  - *   I _     - -   II SIaE                  a
(price - rem  prouUm I  u                     of vu aW t unat 136 pIm)
Udr of bits
hit Price  lrD  Yar of
191  lfutul hsue  is  1in  15  isa  is igs 19111"in                            19   is is19  i
JZ3-16   fphtnIuubhl   4.7    S?   5.7                M            516   96    II       96    40    295       -      -      -      -      -
J23-25  *n   Ib  nclimle    L 9       7.0   7.1    MZ   3111   35    31    3"    31D   3111   31    31D   30           -      -      -
J23-10    ribh clir              l 1.5  10.U 10.3    UR            I"     N       1       I UIN                      -      -      -      -
3234    3p  l       imck.  ce 13.5  13.S  13.5    U    215   2W    219    219   213   213   211   219   219    211   218   219
J23-16ri' wuhct,JndUSe   5.2    6S    6.5             U     23    IN   1"    199   159   155   1N         1"    195       -      -      -
J23-2S   bnhck Incliule   7.0    LI.          .      U      N      11     0      8U     0     U      U      U0     U       -      -      -
J23-IW IUuli.Ince                    IIR 1s.E   10.1i   U     I      -      1      1     1      1      1      1      -      -      -      -
323-61  Open luck. Incliuile  13.0   156   15.6    U         3D    43      17     17    17    17    17    1?    17 t7
6R}ElC   1mhtIndllue   6I l.6   6.6                   U       2      7      1      1     1      1      1      1      -
JH23-25         InhI k    bl,e           7.6    9.2   9.2  s     m    is iD             i         4s 9 is           *9 is
11123-N    InIbi IndiSble  l2.   12 S  12.8    IR    50             59    SO      D1     0     50    SO    50    5D          
J313-63  tchctlcllsdde  17.9  17.3  17.3              U      20    11    15       19    19    19    19    19    19          -
IN          rh xedhd   113   1.3  10.3    IN                  -    19      -      -      2     53    53    56    559        3    6       63
251       rmnhd,lzedh            U      U   26.1   rs         -    -               -     -      2    Ao       3    56      5       5    59
ill       rIhIb          UW             U 1   39.6    -       -      -                   -      2    2n    22    24         6     26    26
6fT          shck. ilued         U      U   52.9   Mm         -      -     -      -      -      2    23    22    Zq        26    26    26
*         en  ck. flixud  d      U      U   72.7   mu         -      -     -       -     -      -      -            11    12    12    12
1131    Ip     ck Fixedhd        U      U   91.2    -            -      -      -      -      -         -    10    11  12    12    12
UT      Sfraiukt       B         U 1  1   1EILI      s       -      -      -      -     -      -      -      2    10    3        51 3   5
1ST     Stral n Se. 5            M       111  1.              -     -      -      -      -      -      -      Z      5     2l    20   2a
SET     Sfraht Side.             U      U  2N3.5 uS           -      -     -                                  -      2      5      5      5
31      C-f , H Spuud am                U   78 0.        0     n                                -      -      2     10    5o   5D SO
95T     CFran., ^ ISp.S          U      U   StE    nu        -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      5    2D    2D    20
*iT     trmm,Hljilpn             U      U  131.3   is         -      -     -      -      -      -      -      -      2      5      5      5
331     C-fra rw,                M U    U  150.6    -        -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2    1O    S3    53    so
11      C-Free  Tr fer           I11    U  135.5   ns        -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      5      5      5
6       Ci ;rm.      Mfr         U      U  290.5   JU        -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2     2
201 OCTrt                        U      *370.0               -      -      -      -      -      -      2      3      I      5      5     5
331      MKIi ret                U      M 16.S    nu         -      -      -      -      -      -      2      3      4      5      5     5
451      CI Trret                M      *  555.3is           -      -      -                    -      -      -      2      3      3     3
-DT     OClTurrt                 le     M92.5  ns            -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2     2
Si- iirFeer                      U   EIRM  1.9                -                -         2 5D 53 565 9 63 63 63
2-2       ir reeder              M      U    2.0        u           -             -      2     59    53    56    55    63    63    63
ZS4-3     r fid r FeII                  *    2.3   mu                                    -      2    SI    53    56        9      59    59
ZS 159   hlI ruek} r             UI     U    3.0    r-                     -             2     53    53    56    59    63    63    63
ZS 220 ID ler Fedr               M      U    3.2    mu           -         -      -      2     D      53    56    59       63    63    63
ZS 2D2D   llrf reer              M      U    3M 6    ra      -      -      -      -      -      2    50    53    56        59    59    59
Jf-1  Ladler                     M   I  2.0                   -   -   -   -   -   -   2  2  223 23 23
JJI-2  Laeler                                 2.0            -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2   29       22       22
JJP-15   Ledler                         *    2.2              -      -     -      -      -      -      -f     2            22    22    22
JM-4      ldler                  M       E1    2     s        -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2     20    20    20
JL21    luil Crae                MI    U   15.6    au         -      -     -      -      -      -      2      5      6      7      7      7
ALl     Col                      /1aie  1 U   16.0    i      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      5      5     3
Jf-15D   Cil Cradle              M      U   16.1    mu        -     -      -      -      -      -      -      -      -      2      2     2
3121    Cuil Cade                U           1.2 mL                 -      -             -      -      -      -      --     2      2     2
mWUP                    *1 M  to     9nu   M                   -              a  a  m  w  v  39 337 379
0tirs                   U1    U1    UIR    U         -      -                -      -      -      -     -      -          -     -
TrtalIhm* efl dUdb23    2393  1555   15   2215  2142  2171                                                        293   145   1453  1450
Dress Wm. less..                                         tis 119  52  152MR 15207 172      17099  2101  2376   35  477 4 3707  11?11
of dd* Hprts                                                   1616 3N5 353953953S536  395 395 36HS 36
di. la"                                                     511   511   173   973   U         975  1211   139   1746   mc   2796  2756
MlEs..                                                    11455  13H191  1433     1 CZZ11 2210   1               2 3Z665   512   5112  1g12
Ibt: U     th      e  re m.         n emm et6              at th   ls pojct  fwr 16lf
r



-81 -                                          AM-  7-4
Table I
amm -           miff  In  MCC
sn11 - nsrwc.    FEIO [NC   SlimBTS
(Ilni m    d    t f wrest t pric. tiU     192 ad mant 1992 prics tihrfter)
WWI... p1i, ......p.              .                   mqe td. 
1913  1119 191    191    17   15 159       1591551            19!3 195   19S  1996  1997  1990
0UR1116 REIMK
Sala                       54.7  Q4  75.3  12.1  93.1 1I9.4 129.0  S.LS 201.7 242.5 22.7 297.3 357316.1i  317.0 337.9
lea: Sales Taxes           3.3   3.5   7.2   7.9   1.9  10.3  12.3  15.1  19.6  23.0  265  21.2  25.0  31.D  31.1  32.1
lst   rating Rems          51.   5L5  68.1  14.6  14.9  9.1  116.1 143.4 197.0 219.1 25S.9 269.0 276.7 216.1  296.  3S5.7
RmIIG CDSTS
RNltriuls                  19.2  23.2  22.5  21.5  26.6  32.1  3.9  1V.  55.1  67.9  73.3  77.1  79.9  9L3   83.0  O.5
Eua                         1.2   Z0   2.1   2.1   2.2   3.2   3.9   4.6   .9      5.2 S2   53   5.3   5.4   5.4   5.5
Ues I Slries                1.1   5.7   7.2   8.1   1.6   9.   19.Z  11.9  11.9  12.7  12.7  12.7  12.7  12.7  12.7  12.7
iiutratim  a bwhead        6.7   5.3   6.6   6.9   7.3   L.O  9.1  11.5  13.4  15.2  15.6  15.6  15.6  15.6  15.6  15.6
Overaul g lm   e            1.1   0.9   1.6   1.6   2      36   5.3   6.6   7.2   7.2   7.7. 3.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3
a Ihrtlton                L2    2.2   3.9   4.0   4.2   4.3   4.5   4.7  23.2  23.4  23.6  23.7  23.9  ILI   19.6  11.0
otalOperating Cots         34.1  39.3  43.9  47.2  51.2  60.7  72.5   5.9 119.9 131.7 137.6 141.7 143.6 14. 14.6 10.3
Operating Incan,       17.3  19.2  24.3  27.1  33.7  37.4  44.3  57.7  67.2  97.9 111.2 127.4 133.1  113.6 144.3 157.4
lll cOISTS
Selino Eues                 0.2   O.1   0.3   0.9   0.9   1.1   1.3   1.6   2.1   2.4   2.9   3.0  3.1   3.2   3.2   3.4
Other Emp(#)fInc(-)         1.1   0.7   0.9   1.0   1.1   1.3   1.5   1.9   2.5   2.9   3.4   3.6   3.7   3.8   3.8   4.0
Interest Oware
operating Lo                0.5   0.6       O.7 0.7    7   L     0.7   ?7  L97   O.,   .7   0.7   9.7   0.7   L7   0.7
- Unrld M lo-- -                                                       8.7  IO.7  I.0   9.6   3.5  7.4   6.2   5.1   4.0
- astic Lons                 -     -     -      -     -                5.15.   6 6   62   5.1   4.0   2.9   1.0O.9 0 .4
Total  oneatuag Cost        1.7   1.5   1.9   2.5   2.7   3.1   3.5  19.6  22.6  23.0  21.6  19.7  17.6  15.7  13.1  12.4
Eross Profit                15.6  17.9  22.1  24.9  319  34.3  40.0  39.0  44.6  fl.8  56.6 107.7 15.S 121.0 130.6  14S.0
Incresed Profit              o.n    o 1 4.7   7.1  13.1  16.6  23.0  35.7  44.2  6E.l  93.6 102.4 107.9 110.  113.9 131.6
TIDES IN  KIICE1 S
Incn  Tax                   3.6  19.0  12.6  12.6  126  12.6  12.6  12.6  IZ.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6  12.6
1djustnent Tax              2.6   1.9   2.2   2.2   2.      L2  2.    2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   2.2   Z.2
Other Ruitts                 -    I.S    -      -     -     -     -     -      -     -     -           -     -      -     -
Energyx -T                               -   -a            - -    -     -     -
Total Reittances           11.2  13.2  14.8  14.0  14.8  14.8  14.9  14.8  14.8  14.0  14.9  14.1  14.0  14.9  14.9  14.8
Net Inew                    4.4   4.6   7.6  10.0  16.1  19.5  26.1  24.2  29.9  49.9  01.9  52.9  19.6 113.1  1151. 130.1
OTDt INER  ITIONS Or DIlC
Uelfare I bras rS           2.4 l31    4.2   4.8   6.3   7.1   8.6  11.6  13.7  19.4  25.5  27.6  28.9  31.3  31.5  31.5
Spcia Frtd lesm             2.9   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4   1.4
etained Earmngs               -     -    1.9   3.0   8.4  11.0  15.5  11.1  14.7  39.1  54.9  630 79.3  EO.3   9. 954.2
1110(.sales)
Opeating Invm              31.61  30.91 32.31 33.21 35.51 34.55 34.31 36.41     S 2 36.21  41.9? 429 ? 43.51 45.4  45.51 46.6S
6rs Profit                 215S  21.5? 25.81 302S 33.09  31.71 31.61 24.6? 21.6? Z6.7? 34.21 36.2  37.91 451 41.2S1 I2.q
Inhv O0ertmt
J_wv 1987



-82 -                                            AhNIZ7-4
Table 2
NIaM - Sam1 KNIII            IIr mica
Shil - HISIOICIC   l   PRIIJCCTEU  -U  an  sianoIs
(Mllions of yen at current prie  throuh 1992 ad constat 199t prices thereefter)
..actual... prelim .                               projected......
1913   191   195  1986  1537  1998  1i9   1990  1991  1992  193   199   195   1996 i           997  19t
Operations
After-Tax Ince                1.4   4.6   7.6  10.0  16.1   19.5  26.0  21.2  29.9  19.9  81.9  92.8  100.6  113.1  115.3  130.1
Ad: Depreciation             2.9   2.2   3.9   t.O    1.2    4.3   t.5   4.7  23.2  23.4  23.6  23.7  23.9  18.4  19.6  19.8
LI Interest             -      -     -      -      -      -      -   11.S  17.3  17.0  11.3  I.5  10.2   9.0   6.0   4.3
Overbul Aluaence       1.1   0.9   1.1   1.6   2.3    3.6   5.3   6.6   7.2   7.2   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3
Cash 6enerated by Uperatiuns
befwre Debt Service          8.1   7.6  13.0  IS.6  22.5   7.5  35.8  SO.5   77.6  97.6  127.3 136.3 12.1  116.9  117.7  160.6
Lonrler Durraving
Uorld Bad Loan                 -      -     -      -   17.4  29.4  38.1  31.3  11.0         -      -      -      -     -      -      -
Donestic Loans                 -      -     -      -   12.0  31.9  37.8  21.0  15.0    -           -     -      -
Other Loans
Total Lonrlern Brrouing        -      -     -      -   29.4   61.3  75.9  S.2  2.1         -      -     -      -      -      -     -
Short Ter1 Loans                0.2   1.3    -       -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -
ther Sources
External Special funds       -2.1   1.6     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -
Enterprise Circulating fund    -      .0              -      -      -      -      -         -      -     -          -         -     -
rotal Sources                  6.5  13.6  13.0  15.6  52.0  88.3  IE1.?  108.2  106.6  97.6  127.3  136.3  112.1  146.9 17.7  160.6
.PPLICRTIOHS
rixed Capital Investents
Nan-Project Inestnents        0.4   2.5   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.3   0.4   0.S   0.1              0.4   0.4   0.4   0.4
Project                        -     -      -      -   29.4  61.3  75.9  S.2  29.1         -     -             -      -      -     -
Total fixed Captal           8.    2.5   0.3   9.3  259.   61.6  76.2  58.6  29.1   0.1   O.4   ILI   0.1    I.t   0.1   0.1
Bon Purchas                     -    0.1    -       -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -      -
Increase in Lorkang Capital    -0.9   1.0   6.5   2.6   4.5   5.7   8.1  11.1  18.8  12.8  19.0   5.9   3.1   4.2   0.1   8.4
Increase in Specal Rssets       3.5   3.3    -       -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -
Long-Tern Debt Service
Interest                       -     -      -      -      -     -    0.0  14.5  17.3  17.0  11.9  12.5  10.2   8.0   6.0   t.3
Repayents                         -      -         -      -    1.5   5.5  10.2  13.2  28.1  29.4   2.1  28.1  26.9  2Z.9  18.2
Total LT Debt Senrice         -      -      -      -     -      1.5   5.5  24.?  3u.5  IS.I  43.2  40.9  38.7  31.9  29.0  22.5
Specal Fund Expenditures
Uefare I Bonus                3.3   3.1   1.2   S.8   6.3   ?.1   8.6  11.6  13.7  19.4  25.5  27.6  28.9  31.3   3.5  34.5
vjerhaul Expenditures         0.4    1.9   1.6   1.6   2.3    3.6   5.3   6.6   7.2   7.2   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3   7.3
Other                          -     -      -      -      -
Total SF Expenditures         3.7   4.0   5.8   6.4   8.5  10.7  13.9  11.2  20.9  25.6  32.7  31.9  36.2  38.6  38.8  S1.8
Total Applications              6.6  10.9  12.i   9.3  1237   9.5 103.5   112.9  95.6  81.2  90.2  81.9   7.6  78.1  68.1  73.1
-==  =_ 5=s==  Q-~~~~            .. := c c s       C _= =%= Cc . = -a=   =5=cc ===== ===   e--
IPt Cash Flom                  -0.1  IZ      0.1   6.3   9.3   9.3   8.0  -47    7.0  13.3  37.1  5S.4  63.5  68.8  79.2  87.5
ccwuulated Cash                  -    2.7   3.1   9.5  18.7  28.0  36.0  31.3  39.3  51.6  89.9  113.1  206.6  M75.4  351.6 112.1
RATIOS
D'bt Service Coverage Ratio      U     M      HA    NO    RH    M    6.5   2.0   2.5   2.1   3.0   3.3   3.7   9.2   5.1   7.1
Industry Dewartment
Jlyv I987



-83-                                  ~~~ANNE 7-4
83                                  Y~~~~~a-bl e  3
CHIMI - OMNII PENIlE TIR. NIRiCT
2991 - HISTIERCU U PROuEEIEB tKE SETS
(nilhimns of pmn at arrent prices through 1592 ad constant 1992 prices therefter)
~~ S Depos     ~its        1594   195   1966  15917  19K   1585  155   1551  1552  15    1554  1555   1956   155   159
OpeatngCah   Dpoit    15    0.6   1.5   1.6   1.5   2.2   2.5   3.2   4.1   4I.9   5.?   5.9  fi.1   6.3   6.3   6.9
kccuns Receivable             1.1   1.3   1.3   1.1   1.6   1.9   2.2   2.1   3.5   1.1   4I.9   6.1   5.2   5.4   5.4   5.?
Prepaid Expense               1L9    0.5   1.1   1.2   1.1   1.6   1.9   2.4    Li1   3.6   4.2   1.5   4.6   4.    4.9   5.1
Fr'nlus Cash                   -    2.7   3.1   9.5  18.7  29.9  36.0  31.5  39.3  51.6  9L.9  143.1  296.6  275.4  354.6  44.1I
Inventories
FinmfN enos.
- In transit                3.3   2.5   3.0    U3.3 5.          .3   5.2   6.3   9.3    9.?  11.3  11.5  12.2  12.6  12.?  13.5
- In iwehouse               3.0   2.3   2.9    L3    4.3   1.5   6.3    LI   11.2  13.5  17.9  17.9  18.3  15.90  15.0  20.3
Smi-hinish,ed Goods          16.1  16.7  20.1   2L9.  22.5  24.6  27.6  31.7  39.6  42.0  45.2  417.6  40.5  55.6  50.7?  54.1
Ilaterials I tosmambles       15   19.4  12.6  13.5  16.0   11.6  22.4  277.98  36.5  413.3  50.5  53. 5   55. 0   56.5  57. 1   60.8
Total Inventories            30.5  31.9  38.5  41.4  46.3  52.5S  61.4  74. 0   54.6  109.9  124.4  130.9    K 134.5   139.1S5.  149.6
Total Current Assets           33.3  37.4  45.5  55.1  65.9  96.2  104.1  113.5  143.7  173.1  227.9  299.4 3NU.430.9 519.6  689.3
Gros Fixed Assets              70.7  73.2  73.41  13.7  103.4  165.0 241.2  295.9  325.1  32.  329.59 33012  330.6  330.5  331.3  331.?
less:  depreciation          51.4 5I3.6  51.   61.4  65. 5   65.5  74.4I  7Q.1 I1022.3  125S.7  145.2  173.0  1%96.  215.3  233.9  252.7
Net Fixed Assets               15.3  15.6  16.1  12.   37.5  55.1  166.8  220.7 226.9  203.9  130.6  157.2  133.7  115.6  51.   79.9
Gomemut Bonds                   9.2   0.3   1.3    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3  013    0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.3
Special Assets                  9.b  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.5  11.9
faoalAssets                    61.4 I 65.2  73.7  75.6  115.5  193.4 2983.1  346.3 392.7  315.0  420.6 459.9  502.9  559.7  6290.1  6559.4I
LIKBIUTIES AN EQUITY
Curret Liabilities
Advances from Custoners       4.9   4.5   5.5   6.5   1.    9.6  10.2  12.5S  16.3  15.2. 22.3  23.5  24.2  25. 0   25.0  26.7
Accounts Payable              0.7   0.9   091.    1.0   1.1   1.3   1.5   1.9   2.5    2.5   3.4   3.6   3.7   3.9   3.8   4.1
Shot Tern Loans               1.    9.6   1.6   8.6   8.6  816    8.6   8.6   1.6   9.6   8.6   8.6   8.6   9.6   8.6   9.6
Payebles to State 9 Others   -o.z   0.1   0.1   0.1       1.1 0.1   0.?   8 .1   0.1 L      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    LI1   0.1
Long Tern DebthDe-  -                    -   -    -    1.5   5.5  10.2  13.2  29. 8. 4 -          28.4I  28.4  26.9   2.59  11.2      -
Tota!] Current Liabilities     12.7  14.4  15.6  16.2   1.89  24.1  30.7  36. 4   SS. 9   59.2   2.98  64. 2   63.4  60.4  55.8  35.5
Lw,.;Tpmn Debt
Ovld bib' Loan                 -      -      -      -   17.4  46.8  8i.5 9119.2  119.5  106.6  53.2  75.5  66.6  53.3  40. 0   40.0
Donetac Loan,                                       -   10.5  36.5  64.   75. 3  75.2  60.1  45. 0   30.0  16.4I   6.9   1.9   1.0
Other Loans  -       ...r       -            -      ~~ ~~~~~~- ----   -- -   ----    -      -             
Total Lon-eri. Debt              -      -      -      -   27.9  83.8  1`49.4  194.5  115.1  166.7  13M.  109.9  83.0  60.0  411.8   4.9
Enmty
State Fixed Funds            19.3  19.6  iLl   12.3   9.5  11.   17.4i   6. 2   31.7  37.1  42.3  47.4  50.7  S5. 6   55.5  37.1
State Circulating Funds      17.6  17.6  17.   176   17.6  11. 6   17.6  17.   17.6  17.6  17.6  17.6  17.6  17.6  17.6  11.6
Enterprise Circulating funds  LI0   .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .0    .8    .0    .0    .0    .0
Special Reseve Funds          5.1   14.9  15.9  24.5  28.98  28.8B  24.2  16.9  12.7   8.9   5.0   1.5  -0.4'  -3.9  -2.4'  17.5
Retained Earmning             2.8   2.8   4.1   1.5  16.9  21.5   3.8  54. 9   6ig.5  99.6  154.  218.3  288.6  3689.  451.9 5S6.
4987   54.8  59.2  63.4  73.2  85. 6  103.0  1 IS5S  11.6  163.1  219.4  284.7  356.4  438.2  522.5  blIl
Total Liabilities It Fquitt    61.4  65.2 Z?3.7  79.6  119.9  153.4' 293.1  3416.3 3392.7  3954.0  420.6 459.8  502.9  559.7  620. 1  695.4
RATIOS
Current Rtioa                 2.6   2.6   2.5    Li4   3.7   3.6   3.    3.1   26    2.5   3.6   4.5   5.6   7.1   9.2  15.1
LI Iieht.T Debt-Equaty '1)      OZ0?   or     or     ox 29       49?   59?   63?   60?    51?   39?   282   19?n   12?    7?    6?
Industry Departnent
Jamry 1997



-84-                                              AMNK 7-5
Tablea I
mmr - m~ -m s ruuc
SUK - CKOLIITO ESTECL U MCOM UK 513001
(nillIm  .1 gm  at curret rices thru    1932 ad untut 1392 plie  tliriter)
Sals                         14    311.6  351t9  371.6  399.4 139.2  $17.5 599.9  699.6       I 9 11 69.4 97259756  75.6975.63875.6
lets: Sales Taoe             1t.9  16.3  23.2   21.6  22.3  24.3   309  35.9  13.2  52.9  55.1  514   5L7   55.7  55.7  55.7
Net Operating Enses          265.? 296.3  317351.0 371114.3  497.5  561.0  656.  797.2  8111.3 917. 1 91.3 313.3  81913. 19.3
UPERRTIHE CosTs
RNe Iltmnals                       135.8  155.5  161.3  177.6  192.5  217.1 237.9  ALI. 299.2  W9.5 3919  ;42  3112  3112  310.2
Energ                                11.2   12.9  13.1  13.9  1ts   IS.9  ILI   21.9  23t4   BA.   zu   i             aL I   aM i   23.1
Jages I Salaries                    29.5  23.4  24.6  26.1  26.3  29.6  39.5  3ai  34   3 4.5  34.5  31 5 4.5 ASAS             5.  34.S
HAdnirsratiom  I IOvehed             15.9  15.6  16.1  19.5  19.i  23.8  3168  3.9  42.3  4I.9  42.5  42.3  42.9  11.7  11.4
Ovurtal hiseune                6.4   6.6   7.9    7.2   9.4  13.3  15.3  17.2  17.5  17.9  19.1  ILI   )t.7  19.0  193   19.6
I Ihortizatimn               11.1  11.3  11.9  12.6  13.1  13.5  13.9  11.3  17.3  49.4  49.0  19.6  51.3  ILI  49.   11.I
Total Giating Cuts           173.3 200.5  230.5 234.6  259.5 279.9  314.9 34LI  411.7  469.6  475.3 477.3  475.  492 469.3179.5
Operating Icue                 92.   97.9  MA4.  116.1  111.6  131.5  172.6 215.2  241. 7326.6  339.0 339.6  3415  3591.7  3510  313.4
NI)N-WERHNi COSTS
Selling Expenss                0.3   1.2   1.1   1.5   1.7   1.9   2.1   2.5   3.0   3.5   3.1 37    3.    3.    3.    3.7L
Dtiaer Exp(#s'Jnc(-)           4.5   4.7   5.0   5.1   5.5   6.6   7.3   9.7  12.0  1S.4  16.2  16.2  16.   16.3  16.3  16.3
Intferes Cir3e
- Ikrating Leon                2.4   3.1    4.9   4.3   1.9   1.3   4.3   4.9   1.9   4.9   4.9   1.9   1.3   4.9   4.9   1.9
-Unrid hi  Lom                           -      -      -     -               13.6  20. 0   19.1  17.1  15.1  13.1  11.1   9.1   7.0
- Domestic Lens                 -     -      -                           -    7.1   6.?   5.6   4.4   3.2   1.9   9.   9.    0.1
- Othr                                                 -      --. - -    -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -      - 
Tota Nhn-Orating Costs         7.7   9.1  11.3  11.6  12.0  ILI  14.9  I3L1   46.7  46.4  16.2  13.   iLI   369   34.3  32.0
firos Profit                   94.7  96.9  102.3  104.6  106.6  121.1  157.7 172.2  19S.1  278.1  292.3  296.7  30.5  313.  315.9  317.4
Incrase  Profit (ever 1964)     HR    U    14.0  15.3  17.3  32.3  69.9 109.3  133.9  214.0  225.5 226.1  226.6  237.9  236.3  235.7
TRIES FM RD1ITTKES
IncomeTax                     15.3   M.   49.6  4186   50. 1   51.3  53.1  55.9  57.1 I59.3  59.3  59.3  59.3  59.3  59.3  59.3
Adjustment Tax                23.4  23Z.3  27.2  27.2  28.0  28.6i  29.6  30.7  31.8  33.9  33.9  33.0  33.9  33.0  33.9  33.0
Energy Tax                     190   U.      -      -      -      -                   -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -
Special Loa Payhci             1.3   1.1     -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -             -     -      -      -      -
Dtters                         0.1   LI      -             -      -      -     -      -      -             -     -      -      -      -
Total Remittances             75.6  78.2  75.9  75.9  79.1  79.9  92.7  05.7  91.9  92.   92.4  92.L I   9Z .4   92.4  52.4
Income Retained                9.1  10.6  27.0  29.3  28.4  41.3  75.0  96.4  11.1  195.6  u.s  23.3  799.2 221.4  223.  225.0
OTIE  AiKLLE sRTE    If lCR
Ueliare  hmns run             6.2   7.3  11.5  11.2  12.0  16.0  25.1  35.1  41.1  6ILS   63.7  63.9  64.0  66.4  66.2  66.1
Speci   ral   d Reseve         2.9   3.4   3.1   3.    3.5   3.    3.9   4.0   4.1    4.3   1.3   1.3   4.3   1.    1.3   1.3
Retained Earngin                 -12 .    11.2  12.9  21.?  46.1  47.4  619I 120.5  132.5  136.2  139.9 159.7  152.3  151.6
RATIOS (1 on sales)
Operating Income              32.9! 31.1I231.31231.31  29.7! 30.6! 33.42 35.91 34.S! 39.9! 39.9! 31.91  39.91 49.1! 40.9?  39.9:
Gros  "rfit                   31.21  29.2?  28.2?  28.11  2i12  27.62  39.5! 29.71 27MI  33.1?  33.7? 34.91  34.31 35.91  36.1?  36.21



-85 -                                             ANX 7-5
Table 2
m - u rn 1im aim
sOC - CuLu  su   u rMEco rm rEw SuliS
tern. of VW  i aT ga       prt  im  thr.* 1992 ad emtat 1992 price  tiurufta)
au.s. or.             ........ .......... ,fce  .........................
198   19n    195  1986  IW    19M 1^     M 1 991M01991  1992  1993  199   199   19%   197  199
hiMd I                       S.l  116  27.0  29.0  2L    11.3  75.9  86.4  151  1I.9  2915  29H.3  213.2  221.4  223.4 225.0
me    hprma                11.1  11.3  11.9  12.6  13.1  13.5  13.1  11.3  47.9  49.1  419   19.6  513   9.1    L.7  11.1
LT ltest              -            -      -  -   -      -     -   26.0  25I   24.7  21.5  10.2  15.0  IL           9.4   7.1
u MiiniMe             5.4   6.6   7.    7.2   9.4  13.9  15.9  17.2  17.5  17.3  1L9    18.4  18.7  19.0  19.3  19.6
hul       td tp baiUm .
heie hat Smiem             26.6  2.6  15.9  48.6  59.9  67.9  194.6  143.9 199.1  276.6 299.9  291L6 292.2 29L5 29L2   293.1
Lug-In hrrflqn
bald h   1a.                  -      -     -      -   16.4  92.5  62.9  33.1   1.9    -          -     -      -     -      -      -
te  lc                        -      -     -      -    2.6  67.3  54.9  15.1   1.9        -         -         -     -      -     -
utar                          -   -   -   -                  -    -        --           --             --     - - - -
Fata  L.q-Tew  barr q         -     -      -      -   89.0 159.0 117.7   9.5    3.9       -     -      -     -      -      -     -
sin  r.. Inn                   1.9  13.      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -
mar Swc
Citav   Specal fob           1.9  10.9    -       -      -   -1.2     -      -     -      -      -     -      -     -      -     -
Stab tirmlatlqFrd            0.L  -0.5    -       -      -   -0.9    -       -     -      -      -
lTot  Sv                      21L6  52.4  15.9  1.6  139.9 222.5 2223  192.3 201.1  276.6 299.0 299.6 292.2 292.5  29L0  293.1
wi-s
Fld cits 1_a
P--. rect lpitaut           7.9  11.6  15.2   9.2   9.3   6.2  11.1  11.3  12.6  ILl  13.4  13.4  13.1  13.4  13.   13.4
project                       -      -     -      -   W9.5 160.7 110.3  46.6   2.9    -                -      -     -      -     -
Totl ind Ilmtt               7.9  11.6  15.2           99.3 166.9 129.1   5.4  1.5   1.   13.4  13.1  134  13.   13.1  13.4
kw PaNdusm                      -     -      -      -     -   -O.I    -       -      -
nrs in Uartwq Cptal            1.5  14.0  12.0   1.6   6.6   1.0  11.9  19.1  24.0  37.4   7.0   0.7   0.7
Icr. in Sjed bats    3.  13.3   -   -   -  -3.4   -   -  -    - - -                                             -        -
LurTem Det Sevce
Inteest                       -     -      -      - -          -      -   26.0  26.3  24.7  21.5  13.2  15.0  ItD   9.1   7.1
5.3  13.7  2A.6  2LS  4.3 46.3 46.3    46.3  41.0  32.6  25.7
TJtelI T 0t Serce             -     -      -      -     -    5.3  13.7  46.6  49.3  71.0  67.9  64.6  61.4  53.0  41.9  32.8
Secial rU. Efg t&r
Dlfare  ha.                 5.2   S.5  11.0  11.2  12.0  16.0  25.1  35.1  11.1  60.9  63.7  63.9  64.0  6.4  66.2  66.1
Orul Eatres                  6.4   6.6   7.0   7.2   9.t  13.0  15.9  17.2  77.5  17.8  18.1  ILI   18.7  19.0  19.3  19.6
Ot                                 -          -       -                      -        -   -   -h_ 
TOtl sr EC      t           12.6  122   19.0   I.   21.3  29.0  4.9  52.3  59.6  79.1  91.8  32.2  32.7  5.4  95.5  05.7
Tot  Applicato                29.6  51.0  45.2  29.2 127.2 201.7 293.0  176.3 147.4 290.5 169.9  160.9  159.2 151.0 140.9 131.9
_aa ma_   man  ma_   _m  csaasmmamn    s                        umsasas                . mat. mai
let Cmh nol                     -    1.1   9.7   11   12.7  20.8  19.3  16.0  53.6  7.1 119.1  129.7 131.019.7  151.! 151.1
IImlaw    alt                   -    1.4   LI  21.5  34.2  54.9  74.3  90.3 143.9 220.0 339.1  460.7 60L9  743.4  995.3 1056.4
t    Service owi ke            U     U      U      U     U   12.7   7.6   Li I      .0    3.9   4.3    .5    .8    S.5   7.0   8.9
listr lt



-86 -                                             ANNEX 7-5
Table 3
MOm - SWMou net TIL INJECT
infc - caIstarc   uzSrOuCiL m   PuEiccr  KMac  seaS
(millions of Vun at current prices t*r.* 1552 ad cmnstad 1552 prices ther'ufter)
..actual...  prelim  ................. projced...e                               c t ed............. ......
1593   159   IN95  1596   137   159199  150   1551   1552  1953  1555  1555  1556  1557  1596
Cwrrent Assets
kerating Cas I Deposits       5.4   5.5  11.1  10.2  10.6  10.5  11.6  12.9  14.3  16.6  17.0  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1  17.1
Alccmuts Receltile            3.7   4.8   5.2   5.2   5.4   5.0   5.6   6.2   6.9   6.1   6.3            8. 8.4    .4 Li      9Li 6.4
Preped Exqpense               3.3   5.4   5.7   4.9   5. 0   5.0   5.6   6.1   6.9   7.5   9.1   9.1   9.1   9.1   9.1   9.1
Surplus Cash                   -    1.5   2.1  21.5  35.2  54.5  75.   50.3  113.5  220.0  339.1 461.7  602.8  713.5  955.3 1056.4
luwentones
Fairshed Gods
- In transit                5.0   U.    5.6   5.7   4.5   5.0   5.6   6.1   6.9   7.5   9.1   9.1   3.1   9.  19.1   9.1
- In waehouse              14.2  16.0  17.3  17.5  18.2  18.7  21.7  22.7  25.2  29.2  29.5  30.0  30.1  30.1  30.1  31.1
Swa-finished Gwod            IL?7  55.1  61.3  69.9  63.3  65.3  72.3  75.5   0.2 102.01IM.6 101.915.1  15S.1  15.1  105.1
flotenads I Cmnsuaubles      72.5  76.3  92.4  93.2  96.5S  9B.7  99.2  107.5  120.0  130.9  142.3 152.7  113.1  143.1  143.1  153.1
Total In tentries           1315  152.5  164.5  166.1  172.8 177.7  156.9  216.0 240.2  277.5  201.5  35S.6  296.  296.  256.4  25.5
Total Errent Assets           154.8  172.5  196.6  297.9  229.0 253.2  253.9  331.4  412.2  50.5 6S7.5  798.0  922.8 1063.5 1215.1 1376.5
Gross raxed Assts             250.0  301.6  316.3  326.1  125.3  552.2  771.6 780.0  755.5  898.0  922.5  935.9  815.3  962.7  97.1  U.S3
less: depecation            137.2  135.6  151.5  161.1  177.1  150.6  205.5  219.7  266.  315.9  363.9  413.4  563.7  503.8  555.6  505.59
Net Fazed b"ets               161.9  162.0  165.4i  162.0  241.2  501.6  517.2 561.3 525.1  454.2  55B.6 122.4  385.5  358.5  331.6  303.6
Govement Bunds                  1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1   1.1    1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   2.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.9
Specia Assets                  50.5  53.?  5S3.7  53. 7 -53. 7   50.3  51O.3  51    50.3    50.3   50.I  S.3  50.3  5S0.3   5 0.3  50.3  50.3
Total Assets                  39. 13895.2 406.9  42.6  531.0 706.1  962.  994.1  552.6 1076.0 1167.4 1261.7 1355.6 1573.7 1556.2 1731.5
LIFInUTIES UD EQUITY
Currant Liabilities
RIhane frm  Customers       15.5  19.5  21.1  21.6  22.5  23.1  25.5  20.0  31.2  36.1  37.0  37.1  37.2  37.2  37.2  37.2
Other Accoauts Payable        3.9  -0.1I  -0.1I  -0.1I  -0.1I  -0.2  -0.2  -0.2  -0.2  -0. 2-  -0.2  -0. 2   -0.2  -0.2  -02   -0.2Z
Short Tern Lemi              49.6  62.0  62.0  62.0  62.0  62.9  62.0  62.0  62.0  E2. 0  62. 0  62.0  62.0  62. 0  LI 1  62.0
Pattes to State              -1.5  -0.3J  -8.3  -1.3  -0.3  -0.5  -0.5I  -0.5I  -0.54  -O.1  -i.LI  -0.1I  -0.1I-O  -0.4 -L    -0.14
LI Rebt Dhue                      -      -         -    5.3  13.7  20.6  22.5  46i.3  46.3  %.3  16.3  11.0  32. 6   25.7  23.9
Total turrent Liabilities      65.9  81.5  93.1  83.3  99.5  58.3  107.6  112.1  138.5  IlLS  144.7  141.9  135.6  131.2  121.3  P.2.4
Long-Tern Debt
Uorld Dank Leans                                        .46.  138.5  201.8 234.5  213.1  135.4i 165.8  142.1  119.4  55.7  71.0  574
Dnestic Loans                                           37.3  90.5  125.1  I117.9  56.3  73.7  51.6  21.4  11.1   2.2   1.1    a0
Other-                                -     -      -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -     -      -      -
Total Lug-Tern Det                                        8       3.7  229.9  326.5  352.1  309.4  263.1  216.3  170.5  1219.5  56.5  71.2  57.
(guty
State Faxed funds           161.9  162.0  165.4  162.0  165.5  171.9  150.1  299.5  215.7  231.1  241.8 251.5  256.0  262.0 260.4  256.2
State Circulating funds      78. 077.4  77. 4   77.4i  77.5  76.5  76.5  76.5  76.5  76.5  76.5  76.5  76.   76.5  76.5  76.5
Enterprise Circulating Furds  0.0   0.1   1.1   0.1   1.1   0.1   0.1   1.1   0.1   0.1   0.1    L I   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1
Special ResereFunds          5Z.5   61.2  69.3  75.1I  76.1  68.2  53.5S  35.3  32.3  25. 3  189.  13.1  13.3  11.7  17.6  26.1
Retained Earnings              -   ~      12.6  26.8  35.7  61.4i 107.5  154.  215.6  336.1  469.6  605.9  754.6  855.3 105.' 1202.7
Total Equity                  252.2  307.7  323 9 311.3  357.98 3?8.O  429.0 175. 3  544.2  665.1  &is.59 546.41050.6 1255.6 1502. 1561.7
Total Liabilities I Equity    359.1  385.2  106.9  4254.6  53.0  7061- 962.1 _951.1  592.6 1-076.0-1167-.4 1-261.71359. 6    147.  15592 1731.1I
Current Rato                  2.4   2.1   2.2   2.5   2.5   2.6   2.7   3.0   3.0   3.7   4.5   5.1   6.6   1.1   5.8  11.2
LTBebtfLT0bt-Equzty ()          DI    or   0a       Dl   15?   39?   413   421   31   292   21?15    11?II              71    5I    3?
lkisby wbn



- 87 -
ANNE 7-6
Oa    - USIU 1110 TOIL P1t3
91M - CtST-IIWIT SlTEICI R M        UfI   L WET  Uf IETIb
(tumdu d  gm  at cnst     1996 pries)
oect Capital          Prolction  Cwts                Suems Iku
Plant   Uerklnn                     Incrox                       Inu
CWital  Capitl Uitheut   Uith          frm      Uithwt   Uith       fran       Ikt
Cast   Inrase  Pro ect  Project  Project  Project  Project  Project  Iiefit
195                -        -      3968     39601        -      69146    69196        -         -
1916               -         -     9Z213    2213         -      715      7            -         -
19i7            26016     9258    92213    99750       2537    79559    91079       6521   -26290
Igo             5930      5064    92213    49301       7089     7559    87752    13199   -9979
199             57720     6769    12213    55010    12757    74554    9110S    23551   -53735
199D            51868     9927    92213    61903    19271    74559   113133    38590   -4377
1991            24113    13905    12213    69579    27366    71559   131532    63976    -1907
1992               -      1925    97213    73962    31749    79554   152601    73897    37372
1993               -      9709    si213    78537    36325    74559   177099   103336    57302
199                -      91071     2213    81996    39279    79554   19793   112530    6912
1995               -       2365    2213       25    10622    7959   192121   117067    7490
1596               -      2892    2213    96019    13796    74559   198997   124359    7779
1997               -       24      92213    86D05    13792    79        199999   124995    98909
1999               -      5O0N   92213    90155        7942    79554   212607   138069    993
199                -        -      42213    90155    97992    7454   212607   139054    98111
2000               -         -     92213    90155      7942    794   212607   138059    90111
ZoN                -         -     12213    9155      7992    74559   212607   139805       91111
02                 -         -     9213    90155    47942    71         212607   138054    9011
2003               -        -      92213    90155    47992    7155    212607   138059    90111
203                -         -     92213    90155    475Z    7554   212607   138059    90111
2o05               -        -      92213    90155    47942    7S554   212607   138054    9011
2896           -20575   -73841    12213    90155    47512    79554   212607   139054   184127
rinancial IN  z    23.1Z
id"..pvt



-88 -                                                    AM= 7-7
Dlii-1 UWNElI JL NUEa
OTC - COSEIT MM r  IIS                      WIE V KM
(thmh   Po w  itut 133 ail)
Promect C4ital        Prdctian lots                s5a  h.u
Pliat Uw1k                           Inwa                       1w
COWle cwtal UAthWt Uth Irs t                    ittat  Ul    frm    let
Cest  lI me   Project  Project  Proect   rect    ect Project  bufit
195               -         -22 71 2M07                 -    34662   36              -
1916              -         -   3196  Z318              -    317    34               -        -
197            784325     46   231356   23321         6391   3975    W3            7314   -1945
19411         131213    15673   Z31896   242S9    1093   39753    366164    13176  -135733
1939           31696    140   21           23        263116  317533              S        -632
199            10515    1759    231896   2715    A320?   31            GM        IM611 17   -41
1991            29 2556      26  Z31896   279         1556   397513    4 3    13229?    5i572
1992              -         -    23169    296140    69295   319753    59366   19277    12M35
1993               -        -    231956   3 5        74560    9M3   SI          211915   I315
199               -         -    Z31896   30719       56U   39791      51323   2133R   137737
1995              -         -    23191    3 1    76615   3179             2     21565   1362
1996              -         -    231899    333591    76695   397       5632S3   215265   136W
197               -         -    23139   3AN51    76615   34733   533           21S265   130623
1998              -         -    231696   3091    7W665   39M793    5635    21535   13620
1999              -         -    231396   3M591    76U5   395          56353   215Z25   13123
20                -         -    73191X   3591    76615   3           533       215Z6   136W
21                -         -    i3106   30591    7S615   39M79        532    215265   1323
2002              -         -    23139    30591    76615   31733   563          21!;26   1316Z
2                 -         -    2319    301    76695   31 79362                21526i5   136I23
200               -         -    231696   30591    76695   371         563253   21535   13101
2005      -          -      -    21096   33591    76695   3793    532           215Z65   13123
2007          -3391l  -73701   Z3139    30051    7665   317            56353   Z1521E   2572
riuncsia  if D      29.52
-I k1



- 89 -                         ANNEX 7-8
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Financial Rates of Return for SMTC Project Plants
(X)
Price Changes
-------------      Switching
Base        Up      Down       Value (a)
Case        :O2       10X         (Z)
No. 1 Machine Tool Foundry                  18.3      21.9     14.3           84
No. 3 Machine Tool Foundry                  15.3      17.9     12.5           88
No. S Machine Tool Foundry                 11.1       13.6      8.4          104
Machine Tool Forging Plant                 25.1       28.0     21.8           58
No. 1 Machine Tool Accessory Factory        13.7      16.3     10.9           94
No. 3 Machine Tool Accessory Factory       27.6       30.3     24.8           44
No. 6 Machine-Tool Accessory Factory        13.2      15.5     11.0           95
Machine Tool Gear Manufacturing Plant      32.0       35.4     28.5           42
Grinding Wheel Manufacturing Plant         32.6       50.0     19.6           85
Level Works                                34.4       39.0     29.4           54
No. 2 Machine Tool Works                   46.9       55.6     37.8           61
No. 3 Machine Tool Works                   27.8       34.0     20.8           77
No. 4 Machine Tool Works                    19.3      25.4     12.2           90
No. 8 Machine Tool Works                   30.2       33.6     26.4           SO
Metal Forming Works                        35.6       39.8     31.0           47
No. 2 Metal Foriqing Works                 33.7       37.6     29.8           44
SMTC Project Consolidated                  24.5       27.8     20.4           69
----------------------------------------
(0i) Percent of base-case prices at which rate of return falls to 12%
Industry Department
January 1987



ANNEX 8-1
-90-                         Page 1
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Economic Analysis
1.        Economic rates of return (ERR) have been calculated for SMTW, for
each sub-project of SMTC, and for the entire SMTC component, by developing
'with' and "without" cost-benefit streams using economic prices for all
products and inputs. Calculations are in constant 1986 yuan terms. At the
end of the economic life of the Project in 2006, 15 years after project
implementation is completed, it has been assumed that the salvage value of
the investments would be 10% of the initial economic plant cost, together
with the incremental working capital calculated using economic prices.
Duties and taxes are excluded from all cost and benefit streams. The basic
assumptions concerning incremental production as a result of the Project
parallel those which were made for the financial analysis, as detailed in
Annex 7-1.
2.        For local currency capital and production costs, the following
conversion factors have been applied to 1986 domestic financial prices in
order to approximate economic prices.
Item                                                Conversion Factor
Capital Costs
Coratruction Wark                                       1.08
Local Machinery - for Foundries                          1.15
Local Machinery - for Other Plants                       1.34
Production Materials
Foundry Raw Materials                                   1.12
Foundry Binders                                         0.76
Steel Castings, Plate, Shapes & Forgings                 1.17
Iron Castings                                            1.14
Electric Equipment & Motors                              1.10
Electronics                                              1.00
Pumps and Bearings                                       1.27
Other Components                                         1.00
Consumables                                              1 .00
Energy
Electricity                                              1.00
Fuel Oil                                                0.80
Gas                                                      1.00
Coke                                                     1.56
Wages and Salaries
Unskilled Labor                                         0.56
Skilled Labor                                            1.11
Technical and Engineering Staff                          4.00
Managerial and Administrative Staff                      1.11
Overheads
Maintenance                                              1.20
Other Overheads                                          1.00



ANNEX 8-1
-91-                          Page 2
3.        For local capital costs, these factors have been applied directly
to the appropriate cost components in the estimate. For local production
costs, conversion factors have been developed for each plant for each major
cost component (materials, energy, labor and overheads) based on the cost
of the various sub-categories within the component.
4.        Selling prices of all products have been adjusted to
international prices for comparable equipment. For machines which are
currently exported, the current export price (FOB) has been applied for
domestic as well as export sales. For new machines which will be
developed, and which for the financial analysis were priced at
approximately 70% of international prices, prices have been adjusted to
international prices except that 10% has been deducted for possible quality
differentials.
5.        Conversion factors developed in this way vary from plant to plant
and from year to year, depending on the production and sales mix. The
following table shows cL -version factors for a typical year (1994) for each
plant included in the Project.
Raw                                      Sales
Material   Energy    Labor    Overhead  Revenue
S--TW                           1.04       1.18       1.20       1.08      1.30
SMTC
#1 Foundry                    0.95       1.13      1.06       1.06       1.44
#3 Foundry                    1.03       1.10      1.08       1.12       1.53
#5 Foundry                    0.95       1.11      1.09       1.12       1.30
Forge Works                   1.00       1.00      1.01       1.04       1.20
11 Accessory Works            1.00       1.00      1.05       1.10       1.00
#3 Accessory Works            1.00       1.00      1.13       1.10       1.00
#6 Accessory Works            1.00       1.00      1.16       1.10       1.00
Gear Works                    1.19       1.00      1.11       1.10       1.19
Grinding Wheel Works          1.00       1.00      1.09       1.10       1.00
Level Works                   1.00       1.00      1.20       1.10       1.19
#2 Metal Cutting Works        1.09       1.00      1.03       1.16       1.29
#3 Metal Cutting Works        1.10       1.00      1.00       1.16       1.31
#4 Metal Cutting Works        1.09       1.00      0.97       1.16       1.38
#8 Metal Cutting Works        1.10       1.00      1.02       1.16       1.28
Metal Forming Works           1.33       1.11      1.21       1.10       1.28
#2 Metal Forming Works        1.15       1.00      1.19       1.10       1.28
6.        Economic cost and benefit streams for SMTW are presented in Annex
8-2, and for the consolidated operations of SMTC in Annex 8-3. Annex 8-4
presents a summary of the economic rates of return for each SMTC
sub-project: detailed economic cost and benefit streams for these
components are available in the Project File.
Industry Department
January 1987



- 92 -                                              ANNEX 8-2
01f1K  - SHhlNGNRI  iRCHIHE 11TOR  PROJECT
SITU - COST-BEFIT STOWS FOR ECOHERC RRTE S  RETURN
(thousnds of uan at constant 1986 prices)
Project Capital      Prodiction Costs              Sales Revenue
Plant   Uorkinq                    Increase                   Increase
Capital  Capita   Uihout  Uith    fron    Uithout  Uith          frm        Net
Cost  Inrase  Project Project Project Project  Project Project Benefit
1985              -        -      02971    2q71       -    113586   113596        -        -
1986              -        -     45963    45963        -   122627  122627          -        -
1907           26621     5529    59563    48589      2726   122627   137305      9678  -25198
1988           5255      6575   15063    53629       7766   122621   1 42178    1951   -1701
9q89           59372     8798   15963    S5995    14136   122627   156695    31068  -8228
1990           S2SZ9    11720    5963    67168    21395   1226Z1   177051    51124   -31129
1991           25092    18054    15863    76075    302712  1M257   210385    87759   1t0t
192               -     1159E    5863    90931    34968  12Z627   25135   ID25D8    55561
1993              -     12605    15963    95766    39903   122527   250509   1278829  7157
1955              -      5289     5963    89021    13159   122621   262578   140351    9154
1995              -      3071   45863    90539    1676   12Z5  271mS    119524   100777
195%              -      3154    45863    94027    19164   122621    79519   156921   105002
1997              -       317    45063    49t36    40173   122527   28692   150055   109565
1998              -      7511    1S863    98684    52741   122627   297190   175163   114t88
1995              -        -      45963    98601    52741   122521   297750   175163   121422
2000              -        -      59563    98604    52741   122621   2977 90   175163  122422
2001              -        -      4563    99604   52741  1L2262    291750   175163   121422
Z0                -        -     45963    9861    52711   122627  297590   175163   122122
2993              -        -      5863    98604    52741   1226Z7   Z97750   175163   122122
2904              -        -      45863   59504    52711   122621   297750   175163   122122
2005              -        -      45863    986      52741   122577  297790   175163   122422
2006          -21621   -94932    15963    98650     52741   172627   297790   175163   238875
Econtic I!RR =      30.61
Indutn kpatntt
laDry 1987



- 93 -
ANNEX 8-3
CNINR - SHOWIIRNI NKEINE TOOL PROJECT
SMTC - COSI-BEFIT STIENIS FE CORMNC RR1E OF RUEI
(thousands of yuan at constant 1996 prices)
Project Capital      Production Costs              Sales Renue
Plant  Uorking                     Increase                    Increase
Capital  Capital Uithout  Uith        frm     Uithout  Uith       frm       Net
Cost  Increase  Project Project Project  Project Project Project Benefit
1985              -         -    168999    168948      -    200t15   260115        -        -
1996              -        -    180506   198506        -    291121   291121        -        -
1987           90291      371   161667   197013      5346   303912   299935    1079   -92596
198B          130101      545   162157   197007    11250   303912   319qZ9    15017  -131999
1969           90985    19901   183731   217767    34036   303912   357301    53386   -O9938
1990          tS516    17139   185116   258356    65213   303912   125177   121265   -6901
1991            2775    22159   196390   27933      91936   303912   501411   197501    90632
1992              -         -    197766   308756   120990   303912   592625   289713   167723
1993              -         -    187766   315650   127081   303912   616966   313053   185169
1991              -         -   187766   319016   130290   303912   619539   315625   1953t6
1995              -         -    197766   319494   131728   303912   619297   315394   183656
1996              -        -    187777   319517   131740   303912   619297   315394   183614
1997              -         -   18M7   319517   131740   303912   619297   31534   193644
1998              -        -    187777   319517   131740   303912   619297   315394   183641
1999              -         -    18777    319517   131740   303912   61929    315394   1936B
2080              -             1877      319517   131740   303912   619297   315394   183644
ZO                -         -    1977     31951?   131740   30391Z   619297   3153M    1836
2002              -        -    187M    319517   13174    303912   619297   315394   1361M
003               -        -   187777   319517   131740   303912   619 97   315314   193641
2091              -        -    187777   319517   131740   303912   619297   315384   183641
2005              -        -    187777   319517   131740   303912   619297   315394   19364
2007          -35018   -65316   187777   319517   131740   303912   619297   315394   203978
Ecomic IRR         30.SZ
Industry Departent
Janwy 1987



- 94 -
MNNEX &-4
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
-------------------------------------
Economic Rates of Return for SMTC Project Plants
------------------------------------------------
(X?
Price Changes
-------------      Switching
Base        Up      Down      Value (a)
Case        10%     10%          (X)
No. 1 Machine Tool Foundry                35.0      38.7     31.0          41
No. 3 Machine Tool Foundry                29.9      33.4    26.4           48
No. 5 Machine Tool Foundry                10.7      12.7      8.6         106
Machine Tool Forging Plant                29.4      32.3     26.2          43
No. 1 Machine Tool Accessory Factory      15.4      18.2     12.5          88
No. 3 Machine Tool Accessory Factory      28.4      31.2     25.5          43
No. 6 Machine Tool Accessory Factory      13.6      15.7     11.3          93
Machine Tool Gear Manufacturing Plant     36.3      39.7     32.6          31
6rinding Wheel Manufacturing Plant        37.6      57.8    23.1           84
Level Works                               37.7      42.3     32.8          46
No. 2 Machine Tool Works                  52.0      59.5     44.0          49
No. 3 Machine Tool Works                  _.5.0     40.9     28.3          64
No. 4 Machine Tool Works                  32.7      38.5     26.5          66
No. E Machine Tool Works                  28.5      31.6     25.0          50
Metal Forming Works                       31.1      35.0     26.9          53
No. 2 Metal Forming Works                 36.1      39.5     32.6          30
SMTC Project Consolidated                 30.5      35.6     25.3          64
----------------------------------------
(a) Percent of base-case prices at which rate of return falls to 12%
Industry Department
January 1987



- 95 -
ANNEX 8-5
CHIN -      MSII  nIOIE I   PROJEfT
mRLYsIs or FoREisN DEW    ErrCIS
(nillions of SUS at constant 1906 prices)
1987  1986  1909  1990  I199   199R   1993  199   1995   199   1997   1991  1999  2000  2091   2002
FOREIGN E[CHREE INFLOUS
Project Financing
- Proceedb of Uorld
Bank Loan             17.2  32.9  27.3  19.2   1.3        -      -      -      -
- Goverment-financed
foreign Exchange       6.5  10.0   7.7   3.5   1.5        -      -      -      -            -      -      -      -      -     -
- Sub-total              23.7  t2.9  35.0  21.7   5.8        -      -      -      -      -     -      -      -      -      -     -
Production Benefits
- increase in Exports      -    0.3   0.9   1.8   2.6   3.5   6.2   6.2   6            6.2   6.Z   6.2   6.2   6.2 *6           6.2
- Inport Savings (1)       -    1.9  13.9  33.4   2. 6   63.2  71.   71.6  75.2  71.5  78.1  78.8  78.9  70.8  71.8  78.8
- Sub-total                -    5.2   1A.8  35.27   5.2  66.7  77.9  77.9  81.1.  80.7  85.0  85.8  85.9  85. 0    85.9  85.0
lotal Inflous             23.7  10.2  49.8  56.9  S1.0  66.7  77.9  77.8  81.1  80.7  85.0  95.0  05.0  85.0  85.0  85.0
FOP.EINP EXCHARNE OUTFLOUS
Production Costs
- Directly Inported        -    0.7   I.i   2.8   4.1    6.S   7.9   8.1   8. 2         .5   8.5   8.9   8.9   0.9   8.9   8.9
Materials
- Indirect Irports (2)     -    0.3   1.1   2.0   3.1   i.7   5.S   S.S   S.5   5.b   5.6   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7   5.7
- 5ub-total                -    1.Q   2.8   1.8   7.2  11.2  13.1  13.7  13.7  1R   1H. I1.    14.6 1..6   14.6  14.6
Det Service
- Ucrld Dank Loan
- Interest             -      -      -           8.3   8.1   7.2   6.4   S.S   4.7   3.8   3.0   2.1   1.3    0.1            -
- fepaynent            -      -      -     -      -    18.0   10.9  19.0  10. 0 19.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  19.0  19.0
- Locally-financed
foreign Eschange
- Interest             -     -      -      -    2.0   1.8   1.1   1.0   E.7   0.4   0.7   0.!  -0.1            -      -
- Repa,,nent           -    0.8   2.0   2.    3.3   3.4   3.4   3.1   3.1   2.6   I.S   0.6   0.6              -      -      -
- Sut-tota!                -    0.0   2.D0   2.   13.b  23.;  22.1  20.9  19.7  17.?  15.4  13.6  12.7  11.3  10.4   8.0
lota! 0utflous              -     1.8   4.7   ?.b  2O.8   3t.t  35.'  31.5  33.1  31.8  29.5  28.2  27.2  25.0  25.0  11.6
Net Foreign
Exchange f ou           23.?  16.1  5.0  49.3  30.2  35. 2   12.1  13.7  18.0  48.9  55.4  56.8  57.7  59.2  60.0   70.1
===   === ===   == = -= ---    ----  ----  ---       ==--==  ===   ===Z  ====  ==Z=  =c   =_=   ====
Net foreigni exchange benefit during project life:    5US 1050.6 millons
ITs above, brought to constant 198b terns uath
a lii discount rate 'NP!'):                        SDC  3D3.0 nillions
gisswmrtwns: O!! Inport saulgs calculated at 991 of the snport price for CH and other high-technology nachines
uhic could not be roduced uithout the project.
(21' Indirect imports calculated as O  of the cost of donestically-assembled NCI units.
;3b The project life i5 assred t- eitend until 2006, 15 years after the conpletion of implenentation.
lndustry hepartnent
January 19?



- 96 -                          ANNEX 9
CHINA - SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Sector
Industry Department: China - Shanghai Machine Tool Project,
Preparation Mission's Full Report, December 1983.
B. Project
1. Development of the Machine Tool Foundries, eight volumes; prepared by
Foundry Management and Design Co. Ltd., UK, October 1985.
2. Feasibility study of the Forge Works, three volumes; prepared by
Forging Developments (International) Ltd., UK, October 1985.
3. Feasibility Study of the Shanghai Machine Tool Works, two volumes;
prepared by Roland Berger and Partner of the FRG in association with
Hayek International Ltd. of Switzerland, August 1985.
4. Feasibility Studies for Rehabilitation and Modernization of Shanghai
Machine Tool Corporation's Selected Plants and Research Institute,
six volumes; prepared by Ingersoll Engineers Inc., USA, October 1985.
5. Detailed cost and benefit data by plant; prepared by the Appraisal
Mission, January 1986, and updated in October 1986.
Industry Department
January 1987



'AP SECTION



C H I N A
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Location of SMTW and SMTC Plants
Shanghai Municipal Area                     ToNap- 
ISEI PROPOSED PROJECT PLANTS                           BAOSHAN
300  EXISTING SMTC PLANTS7                    /
340  PLANTS TO BE PHASED OUT AFTER PROJECT
-  ROADS
I RAILROADS                                                                        N    H     CITY
RIVERS
- - -- DtSTRICT BOUNDARIES
- - -  MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                      t, Nonpng
-  -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                     X      017
'SMTCp*w,mweizidin An .;4-1
NOTE: Plant numDcrs 8 and 15 are joint
menbems of SMTC located o.fswde of
Shanghai  n.,ncipolity-                    L
/34\ -
C H A  NIN G 
C O    U N T Y_ \ _ ___                                            DI TP\
MONGOIA   32r\ X.. 
__   at                                                  f  s3,~~.0
_ B_qe C>4 mmn  Z
zo ''''.'' \ YV \ /r
o-x;A'xIzr-9r'                                                          I:_



IBRD 19458
j   BAOSHA   fi L  COUNTK                                                       
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                       .   -n     .4    -   -
zh                                                     N   U~~~* 
JIANGgD II
ITH   Cl Y                                                 C    J
26               0            I     I        , _  ,  
]Lt'e A
S 3               KILOMETERS            jHJIANGSU
To Ha.~ ~ ~~HA  HA
A,                                                                                      .hA .-               SHI
-seAN SHA 1-^                                                                                   "
,.  COUNTY                                                            h. 
26-  |  0              s~~~~~ILOMETERS                        ZHEJIANG 
= | To Ho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iyo -POVINCE IlONDARlES



