Dclument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4454-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO W1MO.O MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
February 6, 1987
This document has a restricted distribuLion and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency name - Renminbi
Currency unit - Yuan tY)
Calendar 1986        January 1987
$1    = Y 3.45       $1    = Y 3.72
Y 1.0 = $0.28        Y 1.0 = $0.27
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =  3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)    =  10.76 square feet
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF     -  Cost, insurance and freight
ICB     -  International Competitive Bidding
MMBI    -  Ministry of Machine Building Industry
PIU     -  Project Implementation Unit
SBMEIA  -  Shanghai Bureau of Mechanical and Electrical
Industries Administration
SMG     -  Shanghai Municipal Government
SMTC    -  Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation
SMTW    -  Shanghai Machine Tool Works



FOR OmcIuL USE ONLY
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:   Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SHTW)
Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation (SMTC)
Amount:           $100.0 million equivalent
Term.:           20 years, including 5 years of grace, at standard variable
interest rate
Onlending        The Government will onlend, through the Shanghai Municipal
Terms:         Government, $36.0 million equivalent to SHTW and
$64.0 million equivalent to SNTC for a period of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at a fixed annual interest rate
of 8.5% and a commitment charge of 0.75%.  SMTW and SMTC will
bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project          The major objectives of the Project are:  product
Description:   rationalization; product upgrading and manufacture of
precision machines; improvements in quality and quantity of
inputs; increase in manufacturing efficiency; expansion of
design and engineering capabilities; and improvements in
management systems. The Project consists of: (a) rehabili-
tation and modernization of 18 plants and 2 research insti-
tutes owned by the two beneficiaries; (b) import of appro-
priate technology; (c) establishment of a modern management
structure and system; and (d) development and implementation
of a comprehensive training program.
Benefits:        Import of technology will enable the beneficiaries to
manufacture quality products and precision machine tools
efficiently. Rationalization measures during project
preparation have already led to a restructuring of SMTC's
organization and agreements to: reduce overlapping
operations among the beneficiaries' plants; and close down
two polluting foundries. Management support will add con-
siderable flexibility to the operations, improve maintenance
and inventory control, and facilitate the introduction of
cost-accounting techniques. Support to the research
institutes will streamline product development and help to
ensure the compatibility of product design with market
requirements. The training program wiLl result in expansion
of the beneficiaries' design and engineering capabilities and
will improve the managerial abilities of shop, plant and
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11. -
corporate managers. The Project will have a demonstration
effect on other provincial machine toot manufacturers as well
as capital goods manufacturing industries.
Risks:           The Project's potential risks are whether the technology can
be transferred to the project entity and whether the products
which result from the introduction of the new technology can
be marketed on the scale anticipated. These risks have been
carefully addressed in project preparation and design to the
extent that necessary safeguards and other measures to
minimize their potential impact are in place.
Local Foreign Total
Estimated Cost:                                             -- (US$ millionj)---
SMTW:
Plant cost                             15.0      28.2    43.2
Engineering, management,
training and technology
transf .r                             0.7       7.6     8.3
SKTC:
Plant cost                             16.5      53.4    69.9
Engineering, management,
training and technology
transfer                              1.4      10.9    12.3
Base Cost /a                        33.6    100.1   133.7
Physical contingencies                    3.4      10.0    13.4
Price escalation                          6.0       9.8    15.8
Installed Cost                      43.0    119.9   162.9
Incremental working capital              38.1       3.4    41.5
Interest during construction              8.8       9.9    18.7
Total Financing Required            89.9    133.2   223.1
Local  Foreign  Total
Financing Plan:                                            --- (US$ million) ---
IBRD loan                                  -      100.0   100.0
Domestic loans                           51.8      29.8    81.6
Self-generated funds                     38.1       3.4    41.5
Total                               89.9    133.2   223.1
/a Estimated project costs exclude taxes.



- iii -
Estimated              Bank FY:         1987   1988   1989   1990    1991    1992
Disbursements:                                   … (USe million)…--
Annual           0.9   22.9   33.2   25.0    15.4        2.6
Cumulative       0.9   23.8   57.0   82.0    97.4   100.0
Economic Rate          SKTW - 31Z
of Return:           SMTC - 31%
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 5994-CiA, dated January 28, 1987.
"ap:                   IBRD 19458



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IN'ZERNATIONAL BANK FOR aECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOS
TO TEE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the People's Republic of China to help finance a Shanghai Machine Tool
Project. The loan for $100.0 million equivalent would have a term of 20
years, including 5 years of grace, with standard variable interest rate. The
Government would onlend, through the Shanghai Municipal Covernment, $36.0
million equivalent to the Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SMTW) and $64.0 million
equivalent to the Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation (SMTC) for a period of 15
years, including 5 years of grace, at a fixed annual interest rate of 8.5% and
a commitment charge of 0.75%. SKTW and SMTC would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic report, entitled "China: Long-Term Issues and
Options" (No. 5206-CHA), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 22, 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Since 1978, China has initiated economic reforms in both rural and
urban areas and in the external sector. Reforms have thus far progressed the
farthest in the rural economy. Following some experiments with the abolition
of collective farming in impoverished areas, the Government implemented a com-
prehensive restructuring of rural institutions based on various forms of the
"production responsibility system".  By 1983 the farm household had become the
fundamental unit of management and production in agriculture, within a frame-
work of collective or state ownership of land and major fixed assets. Reforms
are now proceeding in the urban economy, and there have been significant
changes in enterprise management and finance. The scope for collective and
individual economic activities has been enlarged, and state enterprises have
been allowed greater freedom in production, pricing and marketing above their
mandatory plan targets. State enterprises have also been allowed to retain
some profits, and investment projects are increasingly being financed on a
loan rather than a grant basis.
4.        In international trade and investment, China has been progressively
opening up to the rest of the world. Between 1978 and 1985, the share of
exports to GDP nearly doubled to about 10%, a ratio similar to other large
economies such as the U.S. and Brazil. Foreign investment has been encour-
aged, first through the establishment of four Special Economic Zones and the
signing of joint venture contracts for off-shore oil exploration, and more
recently through the opening of 14 coastal cities to foreign investment.



-2-
Growth and Stabilization
5.        Reforms have helped to stimulate more rapid development of the
economy. Real GDP growth averaged 5% p.a. between 1978 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
between 1981 and 1985. More recently, in 1985, growth accelerated to 12.3% as
a result of further reforms emphasizing decentralized decisionmaking, and the
expansionary macroeconomic policies of 1984. During 1978-1985, per capita
incomes in real terms more than doubled in rural areas and increased by more
than 501 in urban areas. Agriculture has continued its remarkably strong
performance, with gross agricultural output value (excluding rural industry
and commerce) rising at nearly IlZ p.a. between 1981 and 1985 and grain output
at 8% p.a. (reaching as high as 407 million tons in 1984). Cash crops and
animal husbandry, stimulated by rising demand and attractive prices, have also
grown rapidly. Gross industrial output value grew at over 10% p.a. over the
same period, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than liglht industry
(12% p.a. vs. 9% p.a.). If rural industrial output is included, gross indus-
trial output value grew at close to 12Z p.a. in real terms between 1981 and
1984. The energy constraint on industrial growth was eased by rising coal
output (8% p.a. between 1981 and 1985), renewed increases in crude oil produc-
tion (4Z p.a. between 1981 and 1985) and improvements in the efficiency of
energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption grew only 60% as
East as GDP between 1981 and 1985). Manufactured exports growth, at 8Z p.a.
in real terms between 1981 and 1985, was slower than during the 1978-81 period
in the face of worsening world market conditions.
6.        The Government continues to face difficulties in combining system
reform and rapid overall growth with maintenance of economic stability.
During 1979 and 1980, China experienced large budget and current account
deficits, combined with excessive investment and inflationary pressures. In
response, a strict stabilization program was introduced in 1981 relying mainly
on administrative controls on investment spending. The program slowed growth
but also helped lower the budget deficit fror about 5X of CDP in 1979 to less
than 1% in 1981, reduce inflation to around 2% p.a., and change China's exter-
nal position to one of current account surpluses averaging nearly $4 billion
during 1982-84. As a result, foreign debt and debt service ratios were still
at low levels ($13.1 billion and 6.8%, respectively, in 1984), and China's
foreign currency reserves rose to $17.8 billion (over 9 months' imports) by
mid-1984.
7.        This comfortabLe balance of payments position disappeared rapidly
during the course of 1984 and early 1985. Partly as a result of decentraliza-
tion of decisionnaking and the lack of effective indirect policy instruments,
there was a rapid acceleration of investment and consumption during late 1984
and the first half of 1985, causing the economy to overheat. Real CDP grew by
12Z during 1985, while average wages in state-owned enterprises rose by 20%,
and domestic credit grew by 22%. The retail price index rose by 8.8Z in 1985.
Tnere was also a rapid expansion in consumer goods imports. As a result,
foreign exchange reserves had fallen to $13.2 billion by the end of 1985
(equivalent to 4.2 months of imperts), and the current account deficit for the
year was $12 billion, much of which was financed by an increase in foreign
borrowing. China's external debt by end 1985 reached $20 billion, up from
$13.1 billion in 1984 and the debt service ratio (including short-term debt)



- 3 -
rose to B%. The Government responded by launching a strict stabilization
program that aims to control imports and borrowing and includes further
increases in interest rates as well as a series of administrative directives
governing bank credit and project approval. Most recently, in July 1986, the
Renminbi was devalued from Y 3.2 to the US dollar to Y 3.7, and a program to
improve controls over external borrowing was introduced. As a result, aggre-
gate credit and investment as well as new import orders have begun to slow.
The balance of payments in 1986 is likely to show an improvement, albeit small
from 1985.
Recent Reforms
8.        The Central Committee of the Chinese Comaunist Party issued a major
document on "reform of the economic structure" in October 1984, whose
provisions have been embodied in the Seventh Five-Year Plan. These include:
(a) state enterprises should be made fully independent units which pursue
profits and are responsible for losses; (b) the scope of mandatory planning
should be reduced and replaced by indicative planning, while the focus of
planning should shift from annual to medium- and long-term guidance planning;
(c) a more rational price system should be introduced, reducing the role of
state-controlled prices and increasing the role of "floating" and free market
prices; and (d) the tax system should be improved, finance and banking should
be reformed, and a larger role should be given to indirect macroeconomic regu-
lation through indirect instruments such as tax, credit and pricing policy.
9.        Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. There has been a remarkable spread of nonagricul-
tural activities like processing, transport, and comerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate on cash crops, animal husbandry, or nonagri-
cultural activities) and pooling of capital by small groups of households in
various types of ventures are becoming increasingly common forms of economic
organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale markets for sone agricultural
products have emerged. To encourage investment in land improvement and devel-
opment, farming contracts between colLective and peasant households for the
use of land (which typically had been fired for no more than 3-5 years) can
now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, the system of
agricultural procurement was changed. Previously the Government purchased
quota output of grain and other crops at relatively low prices and stood ready
to purchase all above-quota output at a higher price. Under the new system,
procurement up to a certain amount (below former quota procurement) is based
on contracts concluded voluntarily between peasants and procurement agen-
cies. Prices for these purchases are based on the relatively high average
price of past years. Output above the contracted amount must be sold by
peasants directly on the free market, but the Government will intervene to
purchase grain if the price falls to the original quota procurement price.
Thus, a considerably larger portion of basic crop production will be produced
for and traded on markets with flexible prices.
10.       The momentum of urban reforms has continued with significant
progress on several fronts. In enterprise management, the focus has been on
broadening and delineating the decisionmaking authority of urban enterprises.
Profit retention now extends to virtually all state-owned industrial



- 4 -
enterprises and to nonindustrial sectors like transport, comuerce, construc-
tion, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enterprises, as
well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enterprises, have
grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises rose from
150,000 in 1978 to 3.4 million in 1984).
11.       In financial reforms, the most important new development has been
the implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances by
state enterprises to the government budget. Though most enterprises have
switched to this system, the benefits have been limited because financial
discipline at the enterprise level remains weak. Efforts have been made to
strengthen accounting and auditing systems and more strictly enforce existing
financial regulations, but the expectation remains strong that the Government
will subsidize losses.
12.       Progress has also been made with price reform.  The majority of
agriculture commodity prices were decontrolled even before the recent change
in pricing and procurement of grain. Prices of many consumer goods are also
set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating prices"
(up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many industrial
producer goods (either for all output or for output above the mandatory plan
target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw materials (which
in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized basic consumer
goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to implement,
hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living standards
and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some price
rises have occurred (e.g., for coal and petroleum), and, moreover, the share
of free-market transactions, at largely uncontrolled prices, has increased in
recent years. Gradually over time, a two-tier system is emerging; a large but
shrinking share of the total supply of most important goods is subject to
mandatory plan allocation and administratively set prices, while at the margin
a substantial and growing share is allocated by the market mechanism, largely
at flexible prices. This pattern may permit China to "grow out of the plan"
in a relatively smooth transition, though there are obvious threats to this
strategy arising from the strong incentive for arbitrage between planned and
unplanned realms.
13.       The Government recognizes the need to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management and has taken some steps to do so. The People's Bank
of China was established as a separate central bank at the beginning of 1984,
with its commercial banking functions taken on by the newly created Industrial
and Commercial Bank of China. In 1985, new methods of credit planning and
control were introduced and redeposit requirements were introduced for the
specialized banks. Interest rates (including deposit rates) were also raised
in 1985, with some move toward unification of rates and development of a term
structure resembling that in other countries. Technical transformation loans
with a maturity less than one year and loans for working capital now carry the
same 7.9% interest rate while loans of longer maturity carry higher rates, up
to 10.8% for 10-year loans. However, interest rates on budgetary capital
construction loans (formerly grants) remain low, and there is a variety of
directed credit schemes. On the external side, greater use is now being made
of the exchange rate. The old internal settlement rate was abolished at the



-5-
beginning of 1985, and between January 1985 and the present, the Renminbi has
been devalued three times, most recently in July, by 161 against the US
dollar. Despite these changes, progress in perfecting new indirect levers of
control has been slow. Recent difficulties in securing macroeconomic balance
highlight the need to strengthen institutions and macroeconomic management
tools (including monetary, fiscal, and exchange rate instruments) for a
decentralized and more market-oriented economy.
Long-Term Issues and Prospects
14.       In April 1986, a national Party conference adopted the new Seventh
Five-Year Plan covering the period 1986-90. The Plan reaffirms the commitment
to economic reform and provides guidelines for future reform and development.
Target growth rates O7X p.a. for industry, 6% for agriculture, 7.52 for GNP)
are below rates of growth achieved with the Cixth Five-Year Plan, investment
is to be restrained in the next few years, and emphasis is to be placed upon
quality rather than quantity of output. It is thought that slower growth will
facilitate reform and help maintain macroeconomic balance.
15.       The Plan identifies three main areas of reform.  First, enterprise
management and incentives are to be improved by: giving enterprises greater
autonomy in production, pricing, and employment decisions; lowering and
equalizing taxes; increasing competition; increasing accountability for
performance; and reforming personnel procedures. In addition, more small
state enterprises will be turned over to collective or individual management
through contracts or leases. Second, the role of the market is to be further
extended, and market networks strengthened. The scope of mandatory planning
will be further reduced, and markets for capital, technology, and labor will
gradually be developed. Third, the emphasis of planning will shift from
detailed administrative control to indirect macroeconomic control through
economic policy. To this end a series of mutually reinforcing reforms in the
planning, pricing, fiscal, banking, and labor and wage systems will be intro-
duced during the plan period.
16.       Specific policy measures will take time to design and implement,
however. Many of the reforms required will be difficult. Since reforms in
different areas are closely interrelated, appropriate sequencing and coordina-
tion are essential. For example, price reform in the absence of improvements
in enterprise financiol liscipline will have limited benefits, yet tighter
financial discipline a, more profit-oriented behavior would exacerbate the
adverse impact of disto. ed prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation
system to promote greater labor mobility wilL be incomplete without eliminat-
ing many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises (which now provide
housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and in many cases educa-
tion and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them with Government-
supported social service programs.
17.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means GDP growth of well over
62 p.a.) will require significant improvements in efficiency as well as
continued high saving and investment rates. The Plan recognizes there must be
major structural changes in the economy over the next two decades, including a



- 6 -
reduction in the share of agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and
services (which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization.
There will also be a shift within agriculture, away from grain and basic crops
and into cash crops and animal husbandry. The new plan will emphasize
development of the service sector, mainly through removing restrictions on
collective and individual activity. Urban development will focus on small and
mediumrsized cities and towns, while restrictions on growth of large urban
areas will continue.
18.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial improve-
ments in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a constraint
on overall growth, since land in China is severely limited. In energy, short-
ages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to constrain growth
of transport and commercial infrastructure. Without large new investments and
improved efficiency, economic growth will lag. In mobilizing resources in all
these areas, China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally,
the rising share of the elderly in China's population (related to the slowdown
in population growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to
maintaining their consumption levels, especially in the decades after 2000.
19.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are major problems which can be solved only by coordi-
nated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management, and
social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education and
training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial. Back-
ward technology and inefficient use of existing technology must be addressed
by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and transfer
of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories, suboptimal
scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in general are
related problems.
20.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a bene-
ficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to the
fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary, and
other instruments is a major issue (see para. 15 above). In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (since the Government no longer accounts
for the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep
cyclical downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum
standard of living for the population and an appropriate level of social
services will become a major challenge, as enterprise and rural communal
responsibilities in these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward
rural areas in various parts of the country will continue to require atten-
tion. Redistributing financial resources to these areas through the fiscal
system, easing restrictions on migration out of the poorest areas, and lower-
ing nonagricultural wages to make investment in them more attractive are some
options for alleviating poverty.
21.       In order to mobilize the external resources needed for rapid,
sustained growth the Plan calls for export growth of 40-50% over the next five
years to reach $38 billion; greater efforts to attract foreign investment; and



increased but cautious commercial borrowing. Imports are expected to reach
$45 billion by 1990, implying a fairly slow growth rate of 4X per annum but on
a very high base volume of imports in 1984-86. By implication, the Plan calls
for continued borrowing on the world capital mnrkets through the end of the
decade. Under this scenario China's current account deficit would average
around $7-8 billion p.a. during the remainder of this decade, equivalent to
about 1-2% of GNP. This implies 'fat the present debt service ratio would
increase by 1990, although it would remain below the 15Z ceiling given in the
Plan. If China's exports grew more slowly, imports would probably have to be
cut back, because a higher borrowing target although feasible, might not be
comfortable in terms of debt service indicators. This highlights the need for
continued export growth in order to meet other Plan objectives and to service
present and future commercial borrowing. The Plan recognizes that flexible
use of exchange rate and pricing policies will be needed to encourage export
growth.
22.       Even with continued good export performance, China will have
substantial external capita' requirements during the remainder of the decade,
and access to concessionary capital will continue to play an important role in
sustaining China's growth. China is still one of the poorer countries of the
world, but its access to concessionary capital for financing development and
modernization is limited. Apart from Bank Group funds, a significant amount
of concessionary capital ic likely to come only from Japan and a few other
bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-600 million p.a.
during the rest of the 19809.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
23.       To achieve the target growth rates envisioned in the Seventh Five-
Year Plan, to ircrease efficiency, and to maintain equity in distribution,
China will need continuing economic reforms. China will need to import more
technology, increase trade, and expand investment. In the next few years,
therefore, the Bunk can best assist China by increasing its access to foreign
technology and capital and supporting the implementation of reforms that will
help to increase the efficiency of resource use and reduce poverty.
24.       To address China's objective of updating technology, the Bank will
play the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry, agri-
culture and social sectors, the Bank will contribute to technology transfer by
bringing thLe Bank's experience to bear on project design and implementation
sand by helping China to seek appropriate technical solutions through interna-
tional competitive bidding, training, and foreign technical assistance.
25.       Bank assistance will be closely linked with the Government's reform
efforts. There are five major elements common to both rural and urban reform
in China that will be the focus of the Bank's involvement. First, institu-
tional change, involving both the separation of economic and administrative
functions and further decentralization of decisionmaking, will extend to every
sector in which the Bank is involved. Second, financial sector reform,
primarily development of financial institutions, has become a focus of Bank



- 8 -
assistance. Third, improving planning and project analysis will be critical
to reform in sectors such as agriculture and industry, where decisions are now
being made by households and independent enterprises, as well as in infra-
structure where direct government involvement will be required. The Bank will
therefore continue its emphasis on introducing appraisal methods and financiaL
planning as well as analysis of intersectoral issues. Fourth, the Bank will
be involved in the Government's major program of price reform and development
of indirect levers such as control via money, credit and fiscal policies. And
finally, the Bank will support reforms in health, education and other social
services and measures, in particular, to address the problems of poor regions.
Economic and Sector Work
26.       The Bank's economic and sector work in China aims at expanding the
understanding of the structure and direction of the Chinese economy and of the
tools of economic management. This work provides a foundation for Bank Group
lending and for the dialogue with the Government on development options and
policies. The Bank's program of economic and sector work in China is in four
main areas. The first consists of studies aimed at providing timely advice on
the macrosystemic elements of economic reform. Past work has included two
major economic reports, and a third will be produced this year based on the
findings of an FY86 mission which studied the evolving processes of mobiliza-
tion, intermediation and allocation of investment resources in China. A study
on policy options to reform China's external trade and borrowing requires is
now underway and will be completed in FY87.
27.       A seco;d area of the program is concerned with macroeconomic manage-
ment. Working in close cooperation with the IMF, the Bank will assist China
in examining medium-term macroeconomic prospects, with particular attention to
fiscal, balance of payments and external debt trends and related policy
issues. The Bank will also continue to organize seminars on macroeconomic
issues.
28.       The third area is sector analysis to provide support to the reform
process at the sectoral and micro levels, to strengthen sector planning and to
underpin the development of the Bank's lending program. Emphasis will be
given to sector work in industry, energy and transport, reflecting priorities
identified for the Seventh Five-Year Plan.
29.       The fourth area of economic and sector work is continued collabora-
ti-e economic study with the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and other
Chinese research institutions. This type of collaboration has proven to be an
effective means of introducing Chinese academics and technicians to modern
research concepts and techniques. A study of state enterprise management has
been completed, and work is now underway on a similar study of township and
village collective enterprises, which are expected to become increasingly
important industrial organizations in the reformed system.
Lending Operations
30.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 43 ;projects in-volving lending of $4,266.1 million to China have been



-9-
approved. Of the projects, thirteen have been in the agriculture sector,
eleven in energy, six in transport, four in industry, four in education, two
each in health and technical cooperation and one in water supply. In FY85,
IFC made its first investment in China of $17.02 million for automobile
manufacturing.
31.       In addition to the already approved Red Soils Area Development and
Shuikou Hydroelectric Projects and the proposed project, we expect to present
to the Board this year projects in industrial credit, agriculture, port
development, urban sanitation and highway developmert. For FY87 and beyond,
we expect the lending program for China to continue to grow from current
levels. Infrastructure projects in energy and transport will remain
priorities. Technical renovation of enterprises, particularly in industry,
will be given greater attention and support as will the regional approach to
project development, which is the basis of a proposed project to meet the
needs of Gansu province.
32.       In the energy sector, future Bank lending will be aimed at improving
efficiency of energy consumption and expanding energy production. For
example, in the coal subsector, we will assist in upgrading the facilities and
operations of existing mines and in transferring improved technology for mines
under construction or in operation. In power, we will assist China in tech-
nology transfer, system planning, staff training and institution building. In
the petroleum subsector, the rationale for project involvement will lie in the
identification, packaging and transfer of specialized technologies as well as
in the strengthening of investment planning and management capabilities-
33.       Future transport projects will be aimed at contributing to China's
efforts to efficiently meet the transport requirements of its growing
economy. In roads, major changes in organization and financing will be
required as a result of administrative decentralization and introduction of
the production responsibility system in rural areas. In railways, we will
focus on technologies to improve domestic production of railway equipment and
materials in addition to our work on line construction and electrification.
We also intend to broaden our involvement in ports to include coastal shipping
and inland water transport. For all transport subsectors, we will support
efforts to improve financial analysis and investment planning.
34.       Bank lending in industry will continue to support financial interme-
diaries which provide credit to state and collective enterprises. In addi-
tion, we will expand lending through direct and subsector operations to
upgrade technology, conserve energy, and improve overall organization and
management, particularly in fertilizer, cement, machine tools and other
capital goods industries.
35.       AgricuLture lending will focus on developing institutions to provide
services to individual farmers and to monitor and stimulate change in the pace
and pattern of agricultural development. The shift from grant to loan finance
and the increased autonomy of the rural banking system will continue to be
supported through rural credit projects. We will also assist with the train-
ing, research, extension, and other service activities of the ministries
concerned with agriculture. In addition, we expect to finance programs for



- 10 -
specialized agricultural development such as livestock and for irrigation and
area development.
36.       Bank lending in education will suppport China's efforts to expand
and improve the quality of higher education, develop technical and vocational
education and strengthen basic education by improving training of teachers and
administrators, increasing domestic capacity to produce teaching materials and
educational equipment, and raising the quality of schools administration at
the provincial level.
37.       Project preparation in the urban sector is currently concentrated in
Shanghai on efforts to improve services, especially in environmental upgrad-
ing, and development of municipal institutions. Future lending is expected to
include support for development of medium-size and small urban areas in
specific provinces. In addition, we expect to continue lending for rural
water supply. Bank lending in health will provide access to new medical
technologies for more efficient health care in both the lingering problems of
communicable disease, particularly in poor rural areas, and the emerging
problems of chronic disease. This will involve further support for medical
training and planning and management of service delivery systems. Projects
will also support the reform of systems for supplying and financing health
services.
38.       Cofinancing with multilateral and bilateral agencies has been
arranged for projects in coal, power, transport, agriculture and rural water
supply and will remain a feature of our assistance program. We will explore
further options for cofinancing with export credit agencies. Connercial bank
cofinancing and the use of B-loans also appear viable, particularly as China
increases the overall. volume of its foreign borrowing. In technical assist-
ance, we wilt continue to incorporate into projects components for training,
overseas study, and access to foreign expertise. In addition, we will
continue our close collaboration with UNDP particularly through our role as
executing agency for a second UNDP umbrella project in China. EDI activities
remain an important element of the Bank's program and in coming years will
provide an extensive program of policy seminars for senior Chinese officials,
and economic and financial management courses and sector-specific training for
officials from core and line agencies.
Implementation
39.       Project implementation is generally proceeding well.  Most project
agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the State Planning
Comrission, have established and staffed offices to handle Bank projects.
Disbursement performance has also been satisfactory. Special accounts have
been established for a majority of the approved projects and have helped to
speed disbursements. In October 1985, the Bank opened a resident office in
Beijing to support further expansion of the lending program, accelerate
project preparation, improve project implementation and further economic and
sector work.



- 11 -
PART III - MACHINE TOOL INDUSTRY IN CHINA
Structure and Production
40.       During the last three decades China's machine tool production grew
by almost ten times from 13,700 sets in 1952 to about 100,000 metal-cutting
and 30,000 metal-forming machine tools in 1982. The sector, which includes
manufacture of metalworking machine tools, casting and woodworking machinery
and machine tools accessories, comprised over 400 small, medium and large
plants11employing about 600,000 people (about 1Z of industrial employ-
nent).-   Among these plants, 121 are considered the main enterprises which,
operating under the direction of Ministry of Machine Building Industry (HMBI),
account for the bulk of machine tools and accessories production, i.e., 79 and
42 plants, respectively. In 1981, the value of the sector's output was about
Y 3.2 billion, corresponding to approximately 1Z of China's industrial out-
put. With the share of metal-cutting and metal-forming machine tools in the
total sector output amounting to about Y 1.6 billion, China ranked sixth among
the world's machine tool manufacturing countries. In 1982, 1984 and 1985, the
value of China's machine tool output reached Y 1.8, Y 2.5 and Y 2.7 billion
(in 1981 prices), respectively.
Technology
41.       A major issue facing the machine tool industry in China is its out-
moded technology. In its early development during the 1950s, the industry was
based on the USSR technology of the time, while during the 1960s and '70s
development depended on the indigenous technology which was based on the work
of Chinese research/design institutes, internationally published literature
and occasional imports of sample machine tools. The policy of development
based exclusively on indigenous technology, which prevailed until the late
1970s, resulted in a very slow and probably costly technological development
and in China's current technological backwardness. With the exception of a
limited number of machine tools which are built through recently acquired
technologies, the technology currently employed in the majority of machine
tool manufacturing plants is about 20 years old. Old designs combined with
poor quality purchased components, inadequate manufacturing facilities and
insufficient experience in production management result in products which in
addition to having a short life, are unreliable and not suitable for precision
work.
Trade
42.       During 1978-82, China's exports and imports of machine tools aver-
aged about $40 million and $100 million per annum, respectively - a low trade
activity for the world's sixth-ranking producer and consumer of machine
tools. The main reasons for the low trade level were that while poor quality
and outmoded technology of domestically manufactured machine tools limited
1/   In China, industry includes manufacturing, mining and electric power
generation.



- 12 -
exports to low-priced conventional machines, restrictions by the Covernment
resulted in imports of only badly needed sophisticated machines. The bulk of
Chinese machine tools exports is still to traditional markets in Southeast
Asia, though exports to other parts of the world - including the industrial-
ized countries - has increased during recent years.
SupplyjDemand
43.       National demand projections for machine tools are not available.
International studies, however, using the world's and the Chinese historical
consumption growth rates (3.3% and 6.4% p.a. during 1965-80, respectively)
project demand growth rate2 of 2.4% and 4.9% p.a. for the world and China dur-
ing 1980-95, respectively.-   The projected growth rate for China is consid-
ered conservative when compared with the Bank's least-growth case scenario for
the Chinese economic growth during 1981-2000.32 Under this scenario, gross
domestic product is projected to grow at 5.4% p.a. and the machine building
industry - the main market for machine tools - at 7.6%. Thus, with a
consumption level of about Y 1.7 billion in 1981 and a projected growth rate
of 5-7% p.a. during the succeeding two decades, the main issue is not the
demand but the supply, and in this respect, whether China will be able to
modernize its machine tool industry fast enough to meet the domestic demand
for reliable and efficient machines.
Distribution System
44.       Until 1982, production and output of all the main enterprises were
subject to the Government's quota and allocation system. In this respect,
annual production quotas were established by the Government for each enter-
prise and then the products were allocated to the domestic users under the
centrally controlled unified distribution system. In line with the Govern-
ment' s recent reforms, there has been a continued reduction of the Govern-
ment's quotas since 1982. With the expected increase in the nonallocated
share of output, the main enterprises' responsibilities for marketing their
products, providing after-sales services, and responding to the market signals
in production planning wouLd also increase. Most of China's exports of
machine tools are handled by the China National Machinery and Equipment Import
and Export Corporation, a centrally controlled organization. There are, how-
ever, a number of enterprises, among them the project beneficiaries, which are
allowed direct exports.
Input Prices
45.       The principal inputs for machine tool manufacturing are iron and
steel castings, steel products, bearings, and electrical and hydraulic compo-
2/   Source:  Predicasts Incorporated, Cleveland, Ohio, US; Industry Study
No. 270 entitled "World Machine Tools to 1995," May 1982.
3/   "China:  Long-Term Issues and Options", Report No. 5206-CHA,
May 22, 1985.



- 13 -
nents. The industry is not energy-intensive and the share of energy cost in
the total cost of production is relatively small (3% in Shanghai). The foun-
dry industry is, on the other hand, energy-intensive - the share of energy
amounting to about 14% of the direct production cost. The Bank's sector
review of 1983, which included a detailed financial and economic analysis of
the Shanghai machine tool industry in 1983, concluded that: all material
input prices were reasonable when compared with international prices; electri-
cal energy prices were compatible with economic prices; and coke prices were
about 30% of economic/international prices. Discussions held in the context
of the Bank's first coal project in China (the Changcun [Luan] Coal Mining
Project, Ln 2501-CHA) indicate that within a few years coal/coke prices will
be progressively raised to be in line with long-run marginal costs, i.e., be
set at economic levels. The appraisal mission confirmed that the sector
review's findings regarding all input prices were valid in 1985 and found that
coke prices had been increased to about 64X of international prices.
Output Prices
46.       For the purpose of pricing, machine tools are divided into two broad
categories: special-purpose machines and general-purpose machines. There are
no price restrictions on the first category and these machines are sold at
negotiated prices. The second category is, however, subject to price control
by the Government, but the system includes the following important adjustment
rules: (a) price review and adjustment every 2-3 years on the basis of market
conditions and changes in input prices; (b) 8-20% price increases allowed if a
product is upgraded; (c) higher price increase allowed if a product is priced
abnormally low; (d) negotiated prices permitted up to 20Z higher than fixed
prices if input materials are not provided under the unified distribution sys-
tem; and (e) no price control for exports. The above price incentives, which
were introduced in 1982, have been implemented as shown by the experience of
the Shanghai machine tool industry during 1983-85.
47.       The sector review of 1983 provides detailed analysis of the then
prevailing prices of domestically manufactured machine tools in Shanghai. The
conclusion reached then and confirmed during the appraisal mission was that
these prices, after adjustment for quality, life and reliability, were gene-
rally competitive when compared with the international prices. This conclu-
sion was supported by the export prices which were either the same or slightly
higher than the domestic prices. In the future, as a result of reduction in
the share of Government-allocated products, the manufacturers, in proposing
adjustment in existing product prices or prices for new products, would have
to consider not only their costs but also the prices of comparable machines.
The Project Beneficiaries
48.       The project beneficiaries are the Shanghai Machine Tool Works (SNTW)
and the Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation (SMTC) whose combined output of
machine tools accounted for about 10% of China's machine tool production in
1982. Both corporations are owned by the Government and, for administrative
purposes, report to the Shanghai Bureau of Mechanical and Electrical Indus-
tries Administration (SBMEIA), an organ of the Shanghai Municipal Government
(SMC). SBMEIA, which also reports to MMBI, appoints the corporations' general



- 14 -
managers, issues the central and municipal governments' guidelines and direc-
tives to the corporations, reviews price proposals by the corporations, and
makes sure that the Government's allocated products are manufactured and
delivered. The beneficiaries have full responsibility for managing their
affairs and are authorized to: change their organizational structures; deter-
mine their employment policies; market their nonallocated products; enter into
contracts with domestic and foreign organizations; borrow from domestic and
foreign sources; and allocate and use their retained earnings.
49.       While SMTW operates an integrated plant, SMTC behaves more like a
holding company with 44 plants and 1 research institute under its purview.
The financial performance of both corporations has been satisfactory during
recent years. The management and staff at SMTW and SHTC are competent and,
with the assistance of foreign advisors and consultants, will be able to
implement the project efficiently. However, for plant and corporate opera-
tion, the management systems at both corporations are inadequate and manage-
ment skills from shop to corporate level need improvement. These shortcomings
will be addressed under the Project.
Bank Involvement in Industry
50.       The Bank's previous involvement in industry has also been aimed at
supporting the Government's efforts to improve policies and strengthen
institutions, upgrade technology, conserve energy and materials and promote
exports. Lending operations in industry have included three industrial credit
projects which assist the China Investment Bank to extend loans for small- and
medium-size industrial projects. A fourth industrial credit project is
proposed for this fiscal year. In FY85, the Executive Directors approved a
loan which will assist five fertilizer companies in China to rehabilitate,
modernize and save energy in their facilities and gill also provide for
improved research on fertilizer production. The Bank's program for industrial
lending is being supported through both sector studies and collaborative
research.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
51.       The Project was proposed to the Bank's industrial reconnaissance
mission in May 1983. The Bank's preparation mission (September 1983) prepared
a comprehensive sector review of the machine tool industry in Shanghai,
defined the Project and recommended three major feasibility studies to be
carried out by foreign consultants. These studies, which were financed by the
Bank's Technical Cooperation Credit to China (Credit 1412-CMA), together with
the sector review, formed the major steps in project preparation. The project
was appraised in October/November 1985, and financial information and
projections were updated in October 1986. Negotiations were held in
Washington in January 1987 with the Chinese delegation headed by Mr. Jin Liqun
of the Ministry of Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 5994-CHA) dated
January 28, 1987 is being circulated separately. A supplementary data sheet
is attached as Annex III. A map showing the project location is also
attached.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
52.       The principal goals of the Project, which are in line with the
Government's and the Bank's objectives in industry, comprise: rationalization
of products; product upgrading and manufacture of precision machines;
improvements in quality and quantity of inputs; increase in rmanufacturing
efficiency; expansion of design and engineering capabilities; and improvement
in management systems. One of the major shortcomings which contributed to the
weaknesses of the Chinese industry has been identified by the Government as
lack of proper preparation and evaluation of investment projects. The Bank,
through its sector review and the subsequent Bank-assisted feasibility
studies, has already played an important role in the preparation of the
Project. The sector review identified a number of major issues and made the
following recommendations for their resolution: (a) organizational
restructuring of the beneficiaries; (b) physical restructuring of plants
involving gradual phasing out of three cast iron foundries and mergers of some
of the machine tool and accessory manufacturing plants; (c) rationalization of
production and reduction of overlapping operations among the Shanghai plants;
(d) measures to assure adequate supply of inputs for the foundries; and (e)
conclusion of collaboration agreements between experienced foreign manufac-
turers and the relevant Shanghai enterprises for the manufacture of quality
components. These recommendations either have been implemented or agreement
has been reached to implement them during th. course of project execution.
Participation of the beneficiaries' personnel and a domestic consulting firm
in the sector review and the feasibility studies, both of which involved
financial and economic analysis, has resulted in the transfer of project pre-
paration and evaluation techniques to the sector in Shanghai. The Bank's role
in the future, inter alia, would include assisting the Chinese in import of
technology, establishment of management systems at plant and corporate levels,
and training of personnel.
Project Description
53.       The Project includes four components:  (a) plant rehabilitation and
modernization component covering four cast-iron foundries, one forging plant,
six accessory equipment manufacturing plants, five metal-cutting machine manu-
facturing plants, two metal-forming machine manufacturing plants and two
research institutes; (b) technology transfer component; (c) management system
component; and (d) training component. Of the plants under component (a), one
cast-iron foundry, one metal-cutting machine manufacturing plant and one
research institute belong to SMTW while the rest of the plants and the other
institute are under the purview of SMTC. Components (b), (c) and (d) cover
5 W and SITC's central organizational units as well as all plants and
institutes involved in the Project.
54.       Plant Rehabilitation and Modernization Component.  The principal
criteria used for the rehabilitation and modernization program of each plant
were rationalization of production and identification of marketable prod-
ucts. Under the first criterion, the extent of diversification will be
reduced in favor of specialization to improve quality and efficiency. In
other words, the principle of plant self-sufficiency, a common practice in
China, will be replaced with the interdependency principle. The second cri-



- 16 -
terion was used to choose the appropriate product-mix for each plant. In this
respect, domestic market studies were carried out first and then existing
products were divided into three categories: products to be phased out, prod-
ucts to be retained "as is" and products to be upgraded. New products to be
manufactured by each plant were also identified by the market studies and form
the fourth product category. Alternative manufacturing technologies were stu-
died and an appropriate technology was chosen for each plant. The chosen
product categories and manufacturing technologies will necessitate changes in
plants' layouts and removal/addition of machinery and equipment in each
plant. The overall results of these changes will be that: the number of
installed machinery will be reduced considerably; with the exception of two
new buildings, the civil works will be limited to renovation and, in some
cases, extension of existing buildjngs; and the additional land requirement of
the Project will be about 12,000 m . To this end, because of closure of two
existing foundries, there will be a net gain of about 11,000 m in available
land which wili,contribute to the alleviation of Lhe land constraint in the
Shanghai area.-
55.       Technology Transfer Component.  The required technologies for the
Project comprise two principal categories, namely, manufacturing technology
and design/process technology. The former includes the types and arrangements
of machines to manufacture the desired product-mix and the latter covers spe-
cific design/process criteria required for manufacture of a particular prod-
uct. The feasibility studies assessed alternative manufacturing technoLogies
for each plant involved in the Project and recommended the appropriate tech-
nology. They also identified the design/process technologies which should be
imported. These relate to the following products: high-strength castings;
linear glass scales and synthetic diamond tools; advanced grinding machines
and 3-dimensional precision measuring machines; numerically controlled lathes,
jig grinders and machining centers; and variable-speed press drives, high-
speed precision presses, turret presses and press accessories. A number of
sources for such technology have been identified in the feasibility studies
and this list will be further developed during project implementation.
56.       Management System Component.  Realizing that one of their major
deficiencies is lack of adequate management system;, the beneficiaries plan to
develop comprehensive management systems for their 'lants, institutes and
headquarters. WiLh the assistance of foreign consultants, the analyses
carried out during the feasibility studies will be reviewed, detailed assess-
ment of existing systems will be made and new systems will be developed.
These systems will be implemented first on a manual basis and then, after
trial, will be automated. Following the management system development, orga-
nizational structure of each plant/institute involved in the Project and SMTW/
SMTC's headquarters will be reviewed and, if needed, will be adjusted to match
the developed management system.
4/ A third foundry which is located in one of the machine tool plants will
also be phased out.



- 17 -
57.       Training Component.  The existing facilities and programs for train-
ing skilled workers are adequate. Management and design capabilities, how-
ever, need improvement. Therefore, the beneficiaries would concentrate on
training their shop, plant and corporate managers as well their design engi-
neers. Furthermore, for the imported sophisticated machinery, operators will
be trained by equipment suppliers. Since knowledge of foreign languages is a
prerequisite for training abroad, the language training facilities will be
improved/expanded by addition of audiovisual systems. The planned training
program would involve: 4-6 months' training at foreign plants and institutes
for managers and design engineers; 4-6 weeks' training at foreign plants for
engineers/operators; and training of staff in China by foreign experts through
6-8 week seminars. Under this program, approximately 250 SMTC staff and 100
SMTW staff will be trained abroad, and 400 SMTC staff and 150 SMTW staff will
be trained in China.
Inputs
58.       The principal material inputs for the foundries are sand, coke,
scrap and pig iron. Shortages of these materials in the Shanghai area have
created supply constraints. Measures already taken would improve the supply
of sand and coke. The SMG, responsible for the supply and distribution of
scrap and pig iron, has assured the beneficiaries a supply of sufficient quan-
tities of these materials. In the past, the poor quality and reliability of
the bought-out components have contributed to the quality deficiencies of
manufactured machine tools. To remedy this shortcoming, a number of technical
collaboration agreements for the manufacture of these items have been
concluded between Shanghai manufacturers and experienced foreign firms from
the industrialized countries. Despite these measures, the beneficiaries plan
to import a number of critical components, such as precision bearings and
advanced electronic controls, until such time that these components become
domestically available. In this respect, SMG has assured the beneficiaries of
availability of sufficient foreign exchange from its own resources for this
purpose. The Project's demand for electric energy will increase by 46% over
the 1985 consumption. Although the current electric power shortages in the
Shanghai area are expected to diminish by 1990 as a result of ongoing
investments, SMG has assured the beneficiaries that sufficient electric power
will be available to the Project. Confirmation of SMC's assurances mentioned
in this paragraph was provided during negotiations.
Demand and Market Aspects
59.       In 1982, China's consumption of machine tools was about Y 1,950 mil-
lion (1982 prices). During that year, the combined machine tools output of
SMTC and SMTW amounted to approximately lOZ of China's total consumption.
Assuming a 6Z p.a. growth in China's machine tool demand, by 1995, when the
Project output reaches its stabilized level, China's demand would amount to
about Y 4,160 million (1982 prices). The machine tools output of SMTW and
SMTC in 1995 is expected to be about Y 435 million (1982 prices). Thus; the
Project would enable the beneficiaries to maintain their 1982 share of the
domestic market. The feasibility studies, based on comprehensive market stu-
dies, have identified the types and quantities of marketable products to be
manufactured by SMTW and SMTC.



- 18 -
Environmental Aspects
60.       Because of virtually clean operations in the accessory equipment and
machine tool manufacturing plants, the environmental aspects of these plants
are minor. The major health, safety and environmental issues arise primarily
in connection with foundry operations. In this respect, the two foundries
which are located in the congested urban areas will be closed down, and for
the remaining foundries, which will be modernized under the Project, strict
attention will be given to establishing and maintaining high standards of
environmental control. The relevant feasibility studies present guidelines
for the control of the working environment in and around the foundries, based
on the recent requirements specified for major European plants. During
negotiations assurance was obtained from SKTW and SMTC that these guidelines
will be observed by them in the implementation and operation of the Pro5ect.
Project Implementation
61.       The complexity of the Project, and the requirement that during its
implementation interruption in production should be minimized, have resulted
in a phasing system for implementation of the various project components.
Accordingly, the Project is expected to be implemented over a period of five
years (1987-92) and to be completed by June 30, 1992. Each of the benefi-
ciaries has established a project implementation unit (PIU) with well-defined
responsibilities. The PIUs will be staffed with full-time members and will be
supported by foreign advisors throughout project implementation. For the
engineering of the foundries, a foreign engineering consulting firm will be
employed, in accordance with the Bank guidelines, to carry out the detailed
engineering in association with the domestic engineering consultants. The
SMTW, SHTC and their domestic engineering consultants already have consid-
erable experience in design and engineering of machine tool plants.
Therefore, the engineering consultants will prepare the detailed engineering
for the accessoryfmachine tool plants and these plans will be reviewed and
approved by the PIUs and their technical advisors. During negotiations,
assurance was obtained from the beneficiaries regarding the PIUs'
responsibilities, staffing and technical expert support and timetables.
62.       For implementation of the technology transfer component, the PIUs
will develop a priority list, identify additional sources (para. 55) and eval-
uate alternative sources for each technology on a competitive basis. For the
establishment of the management systems, the PIUs will be assisted by foreign
consultants who will be selected as per the Bank guidelines. 'For the training
component, the PIUs will prepare by June 30, 1987 detailed training programs
for review by the Bank. Confirmation of this commitment was obtained during
negotiations.
Project Costs and Financing
63.       The total project cost is estimated at $223 million equivalent, of
which $133 million (60%) is foreign exchange. The proposed loan would cover
some 83Z of foreign installed cost, working capital would be financed by the
beneficiaries' own resources, and domestic loans would finance all other local
costs together with the balance of the foreign installed cost and foreign



- 19 -
interest during construction. Physical contingencies have been estimated at
10% of the base cost estimate for all project components. Price escalation
has been calculated from the base cost estimate assuming a five-year implemen-
tation period and inflation rates for foreign costs of 12% in 1986, 3% in
1987, 1Z in 1988 through 1990, and 3.5% annually thereaftev; and for domestic
costs of 5% in 1986, 7% in 1987 and 6.5% annually thereafter. The allowance
for price contingencies represents 12% of the base cost estimate for both SMTH
and SMTC. The estimate of incremental working capital requirements has been
based on the current experience in each of the plants, with allowance for some
modest reduction due to improved inventory control in some cases. Interest
during construction has been calculated based on capitalization of interest
for a three-year period through 1989. The proposed Bank loan of $100 million
represents 45% of the total cost and 75% of the foreign exchange cost of the
project.
Onlending Arrangements
64.       The proposed loan of $100 million would be made to dhe Go';ernment at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate for a period of 20 yoecs including
5 years' grace. The Government would onlend, through the Shanghai Municipal
Government (SMG) $36.0 million to SMTW and $64.0 million to SMTC. Under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the loans to SMG and subsequently SMTW and SHTC
would be for a period of 15 years, including 5 years' grace, at a fixed annual
interest rate of 8.5%. This rate is similar to that charged by the China
Investment Bank for industrial subprojects financed from the proceeds of Bank
loans and is in line with rates normally charged by the Bank of China for
foreign exchange loans. The beneficiaries would pay a commitment charge of
0.75% per annum and would bear the foreign exchange risk. Domestic bank loans
would be made directly to SHTC and SHTW, at standard terms and conditions for
loans of this type, namely: interest rates of 8.5% for the foreign exchange
portion and 10.08% for local currency; an eight-year term with no grace
period; and no comnitment fee. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements
would be additional conditions of effectiveness.



- 2u -
Procurement
65.       The following table summarizes the procurement arrangements.
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
Procurement method               Total
ICB         LCB        Other          cost
'ivil works                            -         21.0           -            21.0
Equipment and machinery              97.5          -          19.5          117.0
(74.5)                    (7.0) /a      (81.5)
Engineering and management             -           -           9.2            9.2
(5.5)         (5.5)
Training                                           -           4.7            4.7
(3.9)         (3.9)
Technology transfer                    -           -          11.1           11.1
(9.1)         (9.1)
Other /b                               -            -         60.1           60.1
Total Financing                97.5         21.0        104.6         223.1
(74.5)                   (25.5)        (100.0)
/a   Small and miscellaneous items costing less than $200,000 each will be
procured through international shopping.
/b   Including working capital and interest during construction.
Note:     Figures in parentheses represent the respective amount to be
financed by the Bank.
66.       The proposed Bank loan would cover:  (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures (CIF) for directly imported goods, or 100% of ex-factory costs for
domestic manufactures procured through ICB; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures
for engineering and technical services for development of management systems;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for technology transfer, including the cost
of licenses and other payments for specialized technology and associated
equipment of a proprietary nature; and (d) 100% of the cost of overseas
training and consultant services for training in China and 100% of the costs
of overseas visits by local staff for engineering, procurement and technology
transfer. The specifications and bid documents for foreign procurement will
be prepared by the PIUs together with their consultants. Bid documents will
be issued and tenders received by the China National Technical Import



- 21 -
Corporation who will follow ICB procedures. For bid comparison under ICBE
domestic manufacturers will be eligible for a margin of preference at 15%, or
the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Approximately $75 million,
or 75% of the proposed loan, would be used for about 45 packages of goods
procured under ICB. The first 15 packages and all packages in excess of
$1,000,000 will be subject to the Bank's prior review. For local procurement
of civil works, which the Bank is not financing, local competitive bidding
procedures will be followed. Local equipment and material will be procured
for SNTC and SMTW by an agency of the MMBI. Procurement with Bank funds using
non-ICB procedures includes: (a) royalty and licensing payments together with
associated equipment for technology transfer of a proprietary nature, subject
to the Bank's prior review; (b) small and miscellaneous items costing less
than $200,000 each, which may be procured through international shopping; and
(c) technical assistance and associated expense for engineering, management
system development and training which will be procured according to Bank
guidelines. Up to $250,000 in this category is being proposed for retroactive
financing.
Disbursement
67.       To facilitate disbursements, a revolving-fund account will be
established in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank, with an authorized
allocation of $3 million. Disbursements will be againsc full documentation
except for training, overseas visits by local staff for procurement and engi-
neering, and contracts valued at less than $200,000 equivalent each, which
would be against statements of expenditure. Documents in support of state-
ments of expenditure will be retained by the PIUs of SHIW and SMTC and made
available to the Bank for review during project supervision.
Financial Performance
68.       Detailed financial projections prepared for each of the two corpora-
tions show satisfactory financial performance, in terms of debt-service cover-
age, current ratio and long-term debt:equity ratio, both during and after
project implementation.  The projected financial rate o' return is 23% for
SMTW and 25% for SHTC. To ensure that unforeseen future actions would not
prejudice the financial stability of the corporations, and possibly the suc-
cess of the Project itself, agreements were obtained during negotiations from
SMTW and SHTC that except as the Bank may otherwise agree, during the term of
the proposed loan:
(a)  the corporations will maintain a current ratio of 1.5:1, and
(b) the corporations will not incur any additional debt if the projected
cash generation during the term of the debt to be incurred will be
less than 1.5 times the pro,ected debt service requirement in such
years.



-22 -
Auditing and Reporting
69.       SHTW and SMTG will provide quarterly project progress and cost
reports, and other such documentation as the Bank may reasonably request, and
furnish to the Bank the records, financial statements and audited reports that
are anrmally requnstet-from Bank borrowers and beneficiaries. SHTC has not
nrepvtad consolidated financial statements for its operations in the past, but
has agreed to do so Ps of FY87.  Audited financial statements will be
furniqhed to the Bank not later than six months after the close of each
fina-ncial year.  The Iorporations have also agreed to prepare and submit to
the Lank a coubprehensive Project Completion Report, within six months of the
project closing date (December 31, 1992). The corporations' commitment to
carry out the oibove undertakings was confirmed during negotiations.
Project Benefits and Risks
70.       The project's main benefit would be the introduction of new technol-
ogy to allow the domestic production of high-quality precision machine tools,
with clear linkage benefits to the manufacturing sector. Costs and benefits
for economic analysis were developed by adjusting financial values using
conversion factors derived from a variety of sources. The economic rate of
return determined ix this way is 31% for both SHTW and SMTC. Primarily on the
basis of import saviags, the Project will lead to a net foreign exchange flow
of about $40 million annually, sufficient to repay the foreign exchange cost
of the project in about three years. The net present value of future foreign
exchange savings over the life of the Project is some $300 million.
71.       in addition to these quantified benefits, the project will lead
to: improved rationalization of the machine tool industry; the introduction
of improved management, maintenance and cost-accounting procedures, through a
cambination of consultant services and training; support to the research
institutes of both corporations; and a significant reduction in the overall
level of polluting discharges,
72.       The principal risks which the project faces are those related to the
impact of new technology: first, whether the technology can be satisfactorily
transferred to the project entities; and second, whether the products can be
marketed on the scale anticipated. These risks have been carefully addressed
during thxe two-year period of project design and preparation. The type and
level of tacanology transfers proposed are appropriate and attainable for the
two project corporations, und the market forecasts are prudently in line with
the experience of other developing economies.



- 23 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
February 6, 1987
Washington, D.C.



- 24 -
population         1,O0q million (mid-1981)                                                                                    ANN_EX I
GNP per capita:  6100 (1983)                                                                                                   Page I of 3
CINA - ECINOM4IC EiDTCATORS
Amount - 1985                                 Anntnl growth rnte (Z)
(million 11S$ at                       Actual                                          Projected
Indicator                     current priceH)/h 19N0   191Y   19H2   19H3   1984/a   19F5            19H6b    1987       1988      1989      194n
3ArIONAi. ACCOUNTS In
Gross domestic product            265.300        6.6    4.9    7.8    9.h)  14.t          12.1      h.8       6.N        6.H      6.8       6.R
Agriculture                      81,710       -1.7    6.4   II.?    9.t   13.9         14.2       4.9       4.9        4.9      4.9       4.9
IndusLry                        133,q85       12.3    2.3    7.3   11.4   16.b         1R.0       7.7       7.7        7.7     7.7       7.7
Services                         49.h10        81.2    n.9    3.3    6.5    7.7        10.0       7.9       7.9        7.9      7.9       7.9
Consuaption                       175,711O       9.1    5.2    5.9    9.0   12.5         12.5       8.9       7.4        7.4      7.4       7.1
Gross investment                  102I101         1.3   -1.8   10.9   15.2   20.7        40.0       2.3       4.8        4.8      5.1       5.7
Exportsi of GNFS la                27,5112      17.8   16.7    0.6    q.5   13.n          5.n       8.9       8.1        8.R      R .H H.11
Imports of rNFs T                  40,15ii      16.1   -h.7   -5.7   2B.1   25.9         60.1       0.0       5.11       5.9      6.0       6.2
Gross national savings             90.11(1      -0.2    1.h   17.tl   12.11   17.0       Z1.0       2.C       5.1        5.1      5.h       6.2
PRICES
CDP deflntor (1980 - 100)                      10n.0  101.8  101.7  102.9  107.6        113.1    118.7    124.7    131.0    137.5    144.4
Exchange rate (Yuan/USSW                        1.50   1.71)  1.H9   1.98   2.32         2.95      3.45      3.70      3.70      1.7n      3.7ti
Share of GDP at market prices (2)                      Average annual increase (Z)
(at current prtces)                             (at constant 19f1 prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990          1960-70  1970-75  1975-50  1980-84  1984-89  1989-94
Cross domestic product la         100.0  100.n  100.0  In0.0  100.0  inn0n             6.1       5.2       6.6       9.0       7.)       6.6
Agriculture                      23.0   35.0   32.B   32.0   30.1   31.3             6.7       3.4       3.3      10.1       5.0      4.B
Industry                        48.0   41.0   45.R   48.0   47.1   4S.9             7.R       7.5       9.9       9.4       8.6       7.4
Services                         29.0   24.0   21.4   20.0   21.1   18.8             3.4       4.5       5.4      6.6       8.2       7.5
CDnsumption                        62.4   70.B   69.1   71.3   66.1   69.3             6.1       4.1       6.4       i.1 i      1.4      6.R
Gross investment                   37.8   29.2   31.1   30.0   38.4   30.9             9.5       6.9       9.7      11.3       5.1       6.1
Exports of CNFS                     4.8    2.H    5.3    7.1   10.4   10.0            -I.S      10.8       5.7      12.1       8.0       7.7
Imports of GNFS                     5.0    2.7    5.5    8.4   15.1   10.2             1.2      13.9      13.0      12.2      8.4       7.4
Gross national savings             37.7   29.2   30.9   28.9   33.9   30.7             9.1       6.7       7.2      14.0       4.8       6.2
As 2 of GDP
1957            1970             19RO            1983             19115
PIUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenues                                        28.7            29.6             30.6             27.8            29.3
Current expenditures                                    15.1             15.7            23.1             21.6            21.5
Surplus (+3 or deficit (-)                             +13.6           +13.9             +7.5            +6.2             +7.8
Capitna  expenditure                                    13.7             13.3            11.0              7.8             8.2
Foreign fina,.cing                                       0.7             n.a.             0.5             0.2              0.4
1960-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-Fi4      1984-89      1939-94
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (2)                                     6.1          5.1           6.4           Q.2         7.2          6.6
GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                          3.5          2.9           5.2           7.9         6.1          5.5
Energy consumptlon growth rate (:)                     -0.3          9.2          5.1            4.1         5.3          4.ii
ICOR                                                    3.3          4.7          5.1            3.8         4.0          4.6
Marginal savings rate                                   0.4          0.4          0.3            0.3         0.2          0.1
Import elasticity                                       0.2          2.7          2.0            1.4         1.1          1.2
/a Data for 1981 and 1982 are from different sources; data for 1982 exclude re-exports.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
August 15. 1986



- 25 -
Population        1.019 million (mid-1983)                                                                           ANNEX I
CNP per capita:  $300 (1983)                                                                                         Page 2 of 3
CIIINA - CXTERNAL TRADE
Amount - 1985                  Annual growth rates (2) (at constant prices) /b
(million USS at                                 Actual                             Prol.
current price.)         1980      1981      1982     1983      1984     1985      1990
EXTERNAL TRADE /s
Herchandise exports                         25,108              14.8      17.3      5.5      10.1      10.4      0.4       8.7
Primary                                   13,762               1.5     -1.4       3.9      14.6      9.6      22.3       6.8
Manufactures                              11,346              32.2     36.2       6.6       7.0      11.1    -18.0      10.4
Merchandise imports                         38,23I               6.8       7.2      0.2      29.7     22.3      44.9       6.2
Food                                       1,374               9.1     68.3      42.9    -30.9    -24.9    -46.5         7.1
Petroleum                                    152              52.6    -65.5    130.0    -43.5       30.8      20.4      35.5
Machinery and equipment                   14.790              16.4      19.0    -41.7      34.7     82.3      73.4       5.1
Others                                    21,915               0.9    -13.5       7.1      71.7      16.8     36.4       6.3
PRICES
Export price index (1980-100)                                  100.0    102.7      98.7      88.8     90.5      83.6    126.0
Import price index (1980-100)                                  100.0    104.5      89.2      76.7     78.4      75.1    112.0
Terms of trade index (1980-100)                                100.0     98.3    110.7    115.R    115.4    111.3    112.5
Composition of merchandise trade (Z)                    Average annual increase (2)
(at current prices)                                (at constant prices)
1978        1981         1985        1990       1980-84            1984-89              1989-94
Exports                          100.0        1O0.O       100.0      10(.0        10.8                 7.9                 7.6
Primary                         53.4         46.6        54.8        42.1         6.7                6.4                  6.1
Manufactures                    46.6         53.4        S5.2        57.9        15.2                9.4                  8.2
Imports                          100.0        1OO.0        100.0      100.0        14.9                8.5                  7.5
Food                            12.8         17.4         3.6         9.7        13.9                8.9                  8.5
Petroleum                        0.5          0.4         0.4         0.9        13.0               17.2                 16.1
Machinery and equipnent         18.9         29.2         38.7       33.3        23.6               12.0                  6.8
Others                          67.9         53.0         57.3       56.1        20.5                6.7                  7.5
Share of trade with         Share of trade with          Share of trade with
industrial                  developing                  the USSR and
countries (X)               countries (Z)             Eastern Europe (Z)
1977     1980      1983     1977      1980      1983     1977      1980      1983
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                      36.4     44.7      42.1     46.8      48.7      53.2     16.8       6.6       4.7
Imports                                     63.1      73.6      69.0     20.7      19.7      24.5     16.2       6.7       6.5
/a  Based on customs statistics.  Exports, f.o.b., imports, f.o.b.
lb Growths in 1985 of itemized exports and imports are preliminary estimates.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
August 15. 1986



- 26 -
Population    :  1.019 million (mLd-1983)                                                                            ANNE1 1
CUP per capita:  $300 (1983)                                                                                          Page 3 of 3
CIIIN  - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, ETERNAI. CAPITAL AND DEBT
(MilLions of US$ at current prices)
Actual                                    Projected
Indicator                                      197R    19/9    19htl    1981        1902       1903       19H4        1985     1990
BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nonfactor services  In,370  14.SJ3  20,324  24,423    23,637    23,186    26,716            27,505   58,590
Of which:  Nerchandise f.o.b. /a           9,607  13,650  18,492  22.027    21.125    20,707    23,905          25.103   52,130
importa of goods and nonfactor services  11,6HR1  17,759  24,050  23.446    18.900    20,711    26.748            40.290   63,1R0
Of which:  Herchandiue f.o.b. /a          In,745  16,212  22,049  21,047    16,876    18,717    23.090          38.231   56,950
Net factor incooe from abroad                   -R      -77    -117    -200         452      1,253      1.620        413      -850
Net transfers                                  597      656     640      464        530        436       304          171      300
Current account balance                       -709  -2,197  -3.211   1,241        5.719      4,164      1.92    -11,989   -5,140
Private direct inveatment (net)                  -        -      57      265        630        636      1,100      1,058    1.950
Official grant aid (net)                         -        -      22      156        -44         75        137          72      140
MLT loan, (met)                                549   3,15   1,0h9       310        301        927      -145       3,269    4,450
Diuburueaents                                549   3,895   1,670   1.H59        2,481      1.0on        718      5,016    6,390
Amartization                                   -       s0     601   1,348       2,150        673       063         996    1,940
Other capital /b                              -628  -1.021   2,455       -47       -115    -1,672    -2,889        2,239         -
Change is reserves
(C-" indicating increase)                    788    -597    -391  -1.925    -6,791    -4,130           -95       4,600   -1.400
International reserves                       6.677   7,274   7,665   9.590    15,881    20,011    20.106          15,506   23.500
Of which:  Gold /c                         5,12n   5.120   5.120   5,120        5.120     5,120      5,120       5,120    5,120
Reserves as months of imports                  6.2     4.5      3.5      4.8       10.1       11.7       9.1         4.5       4.2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT /d
cross disbursement                              .         .       ..      ..         ..         ..
Officiel grants                                        ..                ..
ConcessionaL loans                                     ..                ..
DAC..                                                 .....
Other                                       .        .       ..        ..                   .          .
Nonconcecstonal loans                         ..       ..      ..       .
Offtcial export credits                     ..                     ..                      ..         ..
Other multilateral                          ..       ..      ..       ..         ..          .
Private                                      .       ..                .         .          ..
External debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed               549   4,364   5.433   5.261          6.5       6.9        7.5        11.6
Official                                    ..       ..      ..       ..         ..        ..         ..         4.7
Private                                     ..                         .         ....6.9
Undiebursed debt                               ..                    ..             ..        .
Debt service
Total service payments                                     ..        ..        ..       ..
Interest                                     ..
Paysents as I of exports                    n04      2.7      6.3      9.n       11.4       4.9        5.0         A.0
Average interest rate of new loans (2)
Average maturity of new loans (years) 
/a  Data for 1978-81 are not comparable with those of 19H2-85 hecause of a difference in their sources.  The latter exclude
re-exports.
/b  Includes net use of [HF credit akd net flow of short-term capital.
7 Valued at USS4/0t/roy ounce.
7( Excludes short-term loans (one year or less).
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
August 15, 1986



-27-                                                            aNEX zI
STATUS OF BaRA GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPDBLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMENT OF DANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30. 1986)
Loan or                                                                                     USS million
Credit                                                                             Asount (lena  cancellations)
Number    Year        Borrower                 Parpose                             Bank      lilA    indisburaedia
202111167    1981  People' RepubiLc of China  UniverBity Development                   100.0    100.0         0.K
1226    1982  Peoplea Republic of China  North China Plain Agriculture              -       60.0        14.1
2207    1982  Peoples Republic of Chine  Three Ports                              69.0        -        20.5
1297    1982  People's Republic of China  Agric. Education & Research               -       75.4        16.5
2226/1313    1982  Pnepie's Republic of China  Indutsrial Credit                       40.6      30.0        19.0
2231    1983  PeopleCs Republic of Chin   flqing Petroleum                       162.4        -         63.6
2252    1983  Paople's Republic of China  Zhongyusn-Wenliu Petroleum             100.8        -         63.1
!261f1347    1983  PeopIe's Republic of China  Heilongjiang land Recliamtion            25.3     45.0        17.5-
1411    1983  People's Republic of China  PolytechnicJfl  University                -       85.0        39.9
1412    1983  People's Republic of China  Technical Cooperation                     -       10.0         3.9
1417    1981  Peoplea Republic of China  Rubber Development                        -      100.0        47.9
2382    1984  People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                   145.4        -         94.1
2394    1984  People's Republic of China  Railway                                220.0        -         67.8
1462    1934  People's Republic of China  Rural Credit                              -       50.0       29.1
1472    1984  Pkople's Republic of China  Rural lealth 6 Medical Educ.              -       65.0        48.8
2426    1984  People'a Republic of China  Xarawny Petroleum                       99.5        -         67.3
243411491    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Industrial Credit                105.0    70.         71.5
2464/1500    1984  Peoples Republic of China  Second Agricultural Education             45.3     23.5        28.2
1516    1984  People's Republic of China  Second Agricultural Research              -       25.0        15.0
1551    3985  Peoples Republic of China  Second University Development              -      145.0       164.6
2493    1985  People's Republic of China  Second Power                           117.0        -         98.3
2501    1985  People's Republic of Chin. Changcun (Luan) Coal Mlining            126.0        -        122.R
1557    1985  People's Republic of China  Seeds                                     -       40.n        40.6
1578    1985  PeDple's Republic of China  Rural Water Supply                        -       80.0        73.3
253911594    1985  People's Repuhlic of China  Highway                                  42.6     30.0        67.3
2540    1985  People's Republic of Chins  Second Railway                         235.0        -        229.2
2541    1985  Peoplees Republic of China  Fertilizer Rehobilitation and           97.0        -         93.2
Energy Saving
1605    1985  People's Republic of China  Forestry Development                       -      47.3        52.5
257911606    19B5  People's Republic of China  Pishlhang-Chaohu Area Development  17.0           75.O       103.1
2580    1985  People's Republic of Chin, Weyunan Cas Field Technical              25.0        -         23.n
Assistance
1642    198b  PeopleCs Repuhlic of China  Second Rural Credit                       -       90.n        92. f
265911663    1386  People's Republic of China  Third Industrial Credit                  75,0     25.0        94.6
1664    3986  People's Republic of China  Second Technicnl Cooperation              -       20.0        20.1
1671    1986  People's Republic of China  provincial Universities                   -      120.0        13.1
2678/1680    1986  People's Republic of China  Third Railway         '                 160.0     70.0       236.5
2689Yb  1986  Pect?le's Republic of China  Tianjin Port                          130.0        -        13n.0
1689    1986  People's Republic of Chinn  Freshwater Fisheries                      -       60.0        63.1
2706    1986  People's Republic of China  Beilungang Thernal Power               225.0        -        225.0
2707    1986  PeDoples Republic of China  Yantan Hvdroelectric                    52.0        -         52.0
2708    1986  People-c Republic of China  Liaodong Bay Petroleum Anpralsal   30.0             -         30.D
2723(1713tb  1986  PeopleCs Republic of China  Rural Health b Prev. 4ed.                15.0     65. 1'       4.&
17377W  1987  People's Republic of China  Red Soils                                 -       40.0        41.3
Total                                                                                2,459.9  1,666.2
Total now held bv Bank and IDA                                                       2,*59.9  1,666.2
Total ';ndisbursed                                                                   1.7A3.0  1.214.0    2.997.n
B.  STATENEST OF IPC INVESThENTS
Car ot September 4U' cIr)
AMount in l!SS ailliton
Year    Obligor                                      Type of busipess                 Loan     Equity      Total
1985    Guangzhou and PeuReot Automobile Co.         Autoaobile                         15.0      2.0        17. 0
Total Cross Comicments                                                                  15.0       2.0       17.0
Leas cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales a
Total CommSements now held by IFC                                                       15.0       2.0       17.0
Total Undisbursed                                                                       15.0       2.n       17.10
la  As credits are denoninated in SDRs (since IDA Replenishment V1). macdisbursed SDR credit balances are con-
verted to dollars at the current exchanse rate between the dnllar and the SIIR.  In some cases, therefore.
the undiebursed balance my indicace a dollar amount greater than the original principal credit amount
expressed in dollars.
/b  Rot yet effective.
Notes:  1.  The sctats of the projects listed in Stacement A is described 'in a separate report on all Bank/lDA
financial projects In cxeeution, which Is updated twice vearlv and ctrculated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2.  Subsequent to the above date of Statenent A, n loan of 51-fl million was approved for the Shulkou
Hydroelectric Power Project.



- 28 -                             ANNEX III
Page 1
CHINA
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the Project : 24 months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the Project:  SKTW and SMTC
Cc)  Project first identified             : May 1983
(d)  Date of Bank appraisal mission       : October/November 1985
Ce)  Negotiations completed               : January 1987
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness        :  June 1987
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   During negotiations, agreement was obtained on the following:
(a) SMTW and SMTC to observe the guidelines for the environmental
control of the foundries in the implementation and operation of
the Project (para. 60);
(b) SMTW and SMTC to staff their PIUs with full-time members,
maintain the PIUs' scope of responsibilities and employ foreign
experts as advisors to the PIUs (para. 61);
(c) SMTW and SMTC to prepare and submit to the Bank for review the
detailed training program by June 30, 1987 (para. 62); and
(d) SMTW and SMTC to maintain current ratios of not less than
1.5:1, and not to incur any additional debt if this would Lead
to projected debt service coverage of less than 1.5 (para. 68).
B.   Additional conditions of effectiveness are:
signing of satisfactory Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the
Government and SMG, and SMG and SMTW and SMTC (para. 64).



C H I N A
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL PROJECT                                                     - .
Location of SMTW and SMTC Plants
Shanghai Municipal Area                     Ncniittg
16. PROPOSED PROJECT PtANTS                 vB         AOSHAN
300  ExISTINN SMTC PLANrS-                            COUNTY
340I PLANTS TO BE PHASED OUT AFTER PRCJECT
ROADS
I  L RAIOADS                                                                  NORTH    CiTY
EVERS
-- -- DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- - - MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES                    To Ncnjmg
-*- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'SrTCbmy trSlitd inn Annex 4-1
NOTE! Plant numuers 8 and IS ore join                                                                044
emben of SMTC lcated oulside of
Shanghoi n.unkipolity.                   rn./. I
HAtX IIN/ff    H/irLIW
23~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
ho. *. eiso.
HL.E   7 N A\
- ,---7'   xi ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~6



IBRD 19458
B    S HAN                 COUNT
II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GA
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
CHINE
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
No
N           It WN-.I\
029~~~9f
YJANS U
X",/-S'>42                  -                      ' 32
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
C-,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h
r5_ _ t .~~~~~~~~~~ ingbyu@|I~~~~~~~~~SH                    IHASHI
>-       -C HUANSHA -                                             oi
COU NTY P¢gxluc_
|   O   I      2         3            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rO Jio/ing   tg ;Si'
KILOMETERS                   ZHEJIANC;G
-o.'  l -'-PNCE BOUNDMES
JANUARY 19hm






