Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
LOAN NUMBER 2784 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Shanghai Machine Tool Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 8, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2784 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1987, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Machine Tool 
Corporation (hereinafter called SMTC) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to SMTC part of the proceeds of the 
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by Shanghai Machine Tool Works 
(hereinafter called SMTW) with the Borrower's assistance, and as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SMTW part of the proceeds of the Loan 
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to make 
the Loan available to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter 
and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Corporation (as hereinafter defined);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. "The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements of the Bank", dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Shanghai" means the Municipality of Shanghai, a political division of 
the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
(b)
"SMTC" means Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation, a state-owned enterprise 
of the Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(c)
"SMTC Charter" means the Charter of SMTC, dated January 1, 1986;
 
(d)
"SMTW" means Shanghai Machine Took Works, a state-owned enterprise of the 
Borrower established and operating pursuant to its Charter;
(e)
"SMTW Charter" means the Charter of SMTW, dated January 10, 1986;
 
(f)
"Corporations" means SMTC and SMTW; and Corporation means either SMTC or 
SMTW, as the context requires;
(g)
"Charters, means SMTC Charter and SMTW Charter;
 
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and the 
Corporations of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(i)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(j)
"SMTC Project plants" means the plants of SMTC included in the Project, 
and enumerated in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and
(k)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02. (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule 
may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open, through 
Shanghai, and thereafter maintain, in dollars, a special account in a bank acceptable 
to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or such later date as 
Page  3
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for 
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the Interest Period 
in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, without any limitation or 
restriction upon any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
cause, through Shanghai, each of the Corporations to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, all the 
obligations of the Corporations therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds (both local and foreign exchange), 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable each of 
the Corporations to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02 (a) The Borrower shall relend, through Shanghai, out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the equivalent of sixty-four million dollars ($64,000,000) to 
SMTC, and thirty-six million dollars ($36,000,000) to SMTW, under Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and Shanghai, and Shanghai and SMTC 
and SMTW, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank which 
shall include, inter alia, those specified in paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the onlending terms and 
conditions for each of the Corporations shall include: (i) interest rate of 8.5% per 
annum; (ii) commitment charge calculated in accordance with Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement; (iii) repayment period of 15 years, including a grace period of 5 years; 
and (iv) each of the Corporations shall bear the foreign exchange risk for its 
subsidiary loan.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such a manner as to protect the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish 
Page  4
the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to affect 
the provisions of paragraph (b) above.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and technology required for the Project and the employment of engineering firms and 
consultants to assist in carrying out the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project, 
shall be carried out by each of the Corporations pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Either of the Corporations shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that either of the Corporations will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
Either of the Charters shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of either of 
the Corporations to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of either of the Corporations or 
for the suspension of any of its operations.
(e)
Any of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall have failed to 
perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) and (e) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower and the respective 
Corporation; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower's State Council has approved the Loan Agreement; and
 
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower, Shanghai and the respective Corporation.
Page  5
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, executed 
and delivered on behalf of each of the Corporations, and is legally binding upon each 
of the Corporations in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified by 
the Borrower, Shanghai and the respective Corporation, and are legally binding upon 
the Borrower, Shanghai and such Corporation in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives 
there unto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorize Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated       % of
                      (Expressed in    Expenditures
   Category         Dollar Equivalent)to be Financed
Part A of the Project
(1)Equipment, mate-    48,200,000       100% of foreign
   rials and spare                      expenditures;
   parts (excluding                     100% of local
   proprietary                          expenditures
   items)                               (ex-factory cost)
(2)Consultants'         3,100,000       100% of foreign
   services for                         expenditures
   Parts A.1 and
   A.3 of the
   Project
(3)Licensing and        4,100,000       100% of foreign
   proprietary items                    expenditures
(4)Overseas training    3,200,000       100%
   and visits, and
   consultants'
   services for
   training
(5)Unallocated          5,400,000
Part B of the Project
(6)Equipment, mate-    26,600,000       100% of foreign
   rials and spare                      expenditures;
   parts (excluding                     100% of local
   proprietary items)                   expenditures
                                        (ex-factory cost)
(7)Consultants'         1,800,000       100% of foreign
   services for                         expenditures
   Parts B.1 and
   B.3 of the
   Project
(8)Licensing and        4,000,000       100% of foreign
   proprietary                          expenditures
   items
(9)Overseas training    1,300,000       100%
   and visits, and
Page  7
   consultants'
   services for
   training
(10)Unallocated         2,300,000
       TOTAL          100,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$250,000, may be made in respect of Categories (2), (4), (7) and (9) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1986.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) 
rationalization, upgrading and improving the quality of products and increasing the 
manufacturing efficiency of the Corporations through physical restructuring of SMTW's 
plant and SMTC's Project plants; (ii) manufacturing of precision machines; (iii) 
expansion of design and engineering capabilities of SMTC's and SMTW's research 
institutes; and (iv) improving the Corporations' (including their plants and 
institutes) management systems.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A - SMTC:
1.
Rehabilitation and modernization of SMTC's Project plants and research 
institute.
2.
Technology transfer for manufacturing new machine tools and other products.
 
3.
Establishment of modern management systems.
 
4.
Overseas and local training.
 
Part B - SMTW:
1.
Rehabilitation and modernization of SMTW's foundry, machine tool and measuring 
equipment
manufacturing shops and research institute. 
2.
Technology transfer for manufacturing of advanced grinding machines and 
measuring
equipment.
3.
Establishment of modern management systems.
 
4.
Overseas and local training.
 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
Page  8
ANNEX
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, SMTC Project plants 
shall consist of:
Shanghai No. 1 Machine Tool Foundry
Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Foundry
Shanghai No. 5 Machine Tool Foundry
Shanghai Machine Tool Forging Plant
Shanghai No. 1 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
Shanghai No. 6 Machine Tool Accessory Factory
Shanghai Machine Tool Gear Manufacturing Plant
Shanghai Level Works
Shanghai Grinding Wheel Manufacturer
Shanghai No. 2 Machine Tool Works
Shanghai No. 3 Machine Tool Works
Shanghai No. 4 Machine Tool Works
Shanghai No. 8 Machine Tool Works
Shanghai Metal-forming Works
Shanghai No. 2 Metal-forming Works
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date of Payment Due                
(Expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1992
through  September 15, 2006
3,335,000
 
On March 15, 2007                            
3,285,000
 
Page  9
________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal; see General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on repayment in 
advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to 
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding on the 
Loan on the day of prepayment
multiplied by:
Not more than three years                    
0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                    
0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                      
0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but                       
0.80
     not more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but                       
0.90
     not more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                    
1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Technology
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in China may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items estimated to cost the equivalent of not more than 
$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
Page  10
$7,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price 
quotations solicited from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the 
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Technology transfer comprising royalty, licensing and associated equipment, 
including those of a proprietary nature, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount 
of $11,100,000 equivalent shall be procured through limited competition or from a 
single source, as appropriate, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to: (i) the first 15 contracts to be awarded in accordance 
with Part A of this Schedule; and (ii) each contract estimated to cost the equivalent 
of more than $1,000,000 and to be awarded in accordance with Part A of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that, where payments for such contract are to be made out o\1a 
the proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract required 
to be furnished to the Bank, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however, that, where payments for such contract are to be made out of 
the proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the contract required 
to be furnished to the Bank, together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the 
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 (the Special Account 
Schedule) to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding paragraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
In order to assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ 
engineering firms and consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank 
in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), 
(7), (8) and (9) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to 
Page  11
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made
directly by the Borrower from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories,
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered 
into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
have been or will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further 
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made 
such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Page  12
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
