Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2784 CHA
Project Agreement
(Shanghai Machine Tool Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL CORPORATION
and
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL WORKS
Dated October 8, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2784 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 1987, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank) and SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL CORPORATION 
and SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL WORKS (hereinafter called the Corporations).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed 
to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one 
hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Corporations agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Shanghai, and Shanghai and each of the Corporations, part of the proceeds of the loan 
provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to each such Corporation 
on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS the Corporations, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set 
forth;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows;
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to 
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Each of the Corporations declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out its respective Part of the Project, described in said Schedule, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial and engineering practices, and with environmental standards agreed with the 
Bank.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and technology, and employment of engineering firms and consultants required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Corporations shall carry out the obligations set forth 
in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating 
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and each of the Corporations' respective Part of the Project.
Section 2.04. Each of the Corporations shall maintain the Project Implementation 
Unit, established within such Corporation, with staff, functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank. 
Section 2.05. Each of the Corporations shall duly perform all its obligations 
under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, none of the Corporations shall take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving  the respective Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement to affect the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 3.02 of the Loan 
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Each of the Corporations shall, at the request of the Bank, 
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of its respective Part of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of 
the Loan.
(b)
Each of the Corporations shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its respective Part of 
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. Each of the Corporations shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, 
not later than June 30, 1987, for the Bank's review and comments, the details of the 
training program under Parts A.4 and B.4 of the Project, and shall thereafter 
implement such program.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
Each of the Corporations
Section 3.01. Each of the Corporations shall carry on its operations and conduct 
Page  3
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and engineering 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Each of the Corporations shall at all times operate and maintain 
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and administrative practices, and environmental standards 
acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Each of the Corporations shall take out and maintain with 
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
Section 3.04. Each of the Corporations shall cause any enterprise, company or 
other entity majority owned by such Corporation to observe and perform the obligations 
of such Corporation under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Each of the Corporations shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and 
financial condition, including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts 
reflecting all expenditures for its respective Part of the Project.
(b)
Each of the Corporations shall:
 
(i)
have its accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of
income and sources and application of funds) and the Special 
Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
accounts and 
financial statements as well as the audit thereof and 
said records, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals are requested from 
the Loan Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, each of the Corporations 
shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
separate records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such separate accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred 
to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report thereof contains, in 
respect of such separate accounts, a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the proceeds of 
Page  4
the Loan withdrawn in respect of such expenditures 
have been 
used for the purpose for which they were provided.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each of the 
Corporations shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not 
less than 1.5.
(b)
Before April 1 in each of its fiscal years, each of the Corporations 
shall, on the basis of its forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that such Corporation would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for its fiscal years covered by such review, 
such Corporation shall promptly take all necessary measures in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and
payable or could under circumstances then existing be called for 
payment 
within twelve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, neither of the 
Corporations shall incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and 
expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its estimated debt service 
requirements in such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of such Corporation 
maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or
other instrument providing for such debt or for the modification 
of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date 
the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
Page  5
and net
non-operating income; and 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
 
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred
in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate of 
repayments
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and 
other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by such 
Corporation 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in 
question, which both the Bank and such Corporation 
accept as reasonable and as 
to which the Bank has notified such 
Corporation of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has, or may 
reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of such Corporation.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date on 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the 
Corporations thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms and the Bank shall promptly notify each of the 
Corporations thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
Page  6
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For SMTC:
Shanghai Machine Tool Corporation
89 Fu Zhou Road
Shanghai, China
Telex:
33159 SMTCT CN
For SMTW:
Shanghai Machine Tool Works
1146 Jungong Road
Shanghai, China
Telex:
33097 SMTW CN
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of either of the 
Corporations may be taken or executed by the General Manager of such Corporation or 
such other person or persons as such General Manager shall designate in writing, and 
such General Manager shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representative 
thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year 
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL CORPORATION
SHANGHAI MACHINE TOOL WORKS
Page  7
By /s/ Han Xu
Authorized Representative
