Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. 9900-PAK Type: (SAR)
VIENS, D. / X32857 / H5 021/ EMlPH                    Report No. 9900-pAKC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
MARCH 20, 1992
Country Department III
Population and Human Resources Division
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distibuton sod may be used by redpients only in the perfonnawe of
their offichi duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank auth;zaton.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Pakia an Rupee (Rs)
US$1.00 - Rs24.63 (February 1992)
Rs 1.00 - US$0.0406
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB         Asian Development Bank
ADP         Annual Development Program
ADPI(PE)    Additional Directorate for Public Instruction (Primary Education)
AEO         Assistant Education Officer
AY          Academic Year
CDRC        Curriculum Development and Research Center
CEC         (Punjab Education Department's) Civil Engineering Cell
DDEO        Deputy District Education Officer, based at sub-division (tehsil)
headquarters
DEO         District Education Officer
DOE         (Prc("-.rcial) Department of Education
DPI (EE)    Director of Public Instruction (Elementary Education)
DPI (SE)    Director of Public Instruction (Secondary Education)
DSD         Directorate of Staff Development
ECC         Education Coordination Committee
EEC         Education Extension Center
EEDP        Elementary Education Development Program
FY          Fiscal Year
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GCET        Government College for Elementary Teachers
GOP         Government of Pakistan
GOPunjab    Government of the Punjab
GPR         Gross Participation Rate
IDA         International Development Association
MC          Metropolitan / Municipal Corporation
MDT         (Teaching-Learning) Materials Development Team
NEMIS       National Educational Management Information System
P&D         Planning and Development Department
PEC         Provincial Education Council
PEF         Punjab Education Foundation
PEP3        (IDA-Financed) Third Primary Education Project
PTB         Punjab Textbook Board
TDC         Testing Development Center



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING  PROJVCT
STAFF APP?RAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Executive Summary    . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    i -  ii
I. THE ELEMENTARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. BACKGROUND  .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .  1
Development Objectives and Economic Performance    . . . . . . .  1
Overview of Elementary Education in the Punjab  . . . . . . . .  1
B. ISSUES IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Financing and Mobilization of Resources    . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Access to, and Participation in, Elementary Education    . .   .  4
Quality     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  5
Organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
C. IDA'S ROLE, LESSONS LEARNED AND SECTOR STRATEGY  . . . . . . . . .  9
IDA'S   Role  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  9
Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Sector Lending Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
D. OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCING OF ELEMENTARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN . . . 11
II.   THE   PROJECT  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  12
A.  INTRODUCTION       .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  12
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES    . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Improve Access to, and Participation in, Middle Schooling    . . 13
Improving Access and Facilities    . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
Enhancing School Maintenance         . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Providing Incentives to Improve Female Participation   . . 14
Encouraging Participation of Local Government    . . . . . 15
Encouraging Participation of the Private Sector    . . . . 16
Improve Quality of Education  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Enhancing Teacher Effectiveness    . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Improving Learning Assessment    . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Improving Quality, Production and Distribution of
Teaching-Learning Materials    . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Strengthen Policy-Making, Planning, Management, Monitoring
and Evaluation Capacity    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
Strengthening Policy-Making and Planning Capacity    . . . 20
Improving Management and Coordination    . . . . . . . . . 20
Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity   . . . . 21
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION.    . . . . . 22
A. PROJECT COSTS       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
B. PROJECT FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS    . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
D. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
A.   BENEFITS   .    .    .    .    .   I   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  31
B.   RISKS  .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   31
V. CONDITIONALITIES AND RECOMMENDATION           . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
B. CONDITIONS OF CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
Annex  1, Table  1:           Enrollment  by Level of Education  Between  1980-81 and  1988-89
Table  2:        Impact  of Population Crowth  on  Participation  in Elementary
Education by Area and Gerder to the Horizon 1997-98
Table  3:        Enrollment  by Area,  Type of  School,  Level  of Education and
Gender in Academic Year 1987-88
Annex  2,  Table  1:          Public  Expenditure  oa Education Between  1980-81  and  1991-92
Table  2:        Public  Recurrent  Expenditure  on Education by Level  of Education
and Type of Expenditure
Table  3:        Expenditure  on Education by Municipal  Corporations  and
Municipal Committees Between 1985-86 and 1989-90
Table  4:        Program of Expansion of Elementary Education  in the  Punjab
Table  5:        Projected Enrollment  in Elementary Education   Between  1992-93
and 1997-98
Annex  3:                     Third  Primary Education  Project  (Credit  1821-PAK)  -- Summary of
Objectives and Status of Implementation
Annex  4:                     World  Bank Grour Lending  in Education  and Training  in Pakistan
Annex  5:                     Criteria  for School Construction
Annex  6:                     Detailed  Cost  Tables
Annex  7:                     Schedule  of  Disbursements
Annex  8:                     Technical Assistance  Implementation Schedule
Annex  9:                     Documents  for Project  File
Annex  10:                    Procurement  Procedures
Chart  1:                     Punjab Education Department  - Organizational  Chart
Map                           Middle  Schooling  Project  (IBRD Reference  No.  23054)
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal mission from June 28 to July 18, 1991. Mission members were:
Daniel Viens (Education Specialist, Task Manager), Bashir Parvez (Education Advisor, Resident Mission in Pak'stan),
Anthony Mills (Disbursement Officer) and Parvaiz Vandal (Architect, consultant). In addition, Sverrir Sigurdsson
(Implementation Specialist), Akhter Hamid (Legal Counsel), Graeme Lee (Financial Analyst), George Zarour (General
Educator), and Angela Ransom (Research Analyst) from the World Bank group, and George Bethell (Examinations
Specialist), Jean Carriere (School Mapping Specialist), Emmua Hooper (Economist) and Anthony Read (Textbook
Specialist), consultants, contributed substantively during preparation of the project. Mae Chu Chang (General
Educator, SA3PH) was responsible for final stages of project proecessing. Peer reviewers were Marlaine Lockheed
(Education Sociologist), Barbara Searle (General Educator), Albert Aime (Education Planner) and William Experton
(Economist). The processing of the project was supervised by Roberto Cuca, Chief, Population and Human Resources
Operations Division (EMIPH & SA3PH), Michael Wiehen, Director of the Afghanistan, Pakistan and Turkey Department
(EMI), then Paul Isenman, Director of Afghanistan. Pakistan and Sri Lanka Department (SA3).



ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PRPJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Borrower:   Government of Pakistan
Amount:   SDR 80.5 million (US$115 million equivalent)
Description:  The obiectives of the project are to: (a) improve access and
participation in middle schooling in rural and urban slum areas,
especially for girls; (b) improve quality and increase student
learning and achievement; and, (c) strengthen related policy-making,
planning, management, monitoring and evaluation capacity.
Access and participation would be improved by: (a) providing
facilities and enhancing maintenance. Classrooms and basic amenities
would be constructed in rural and disadvantaged urban areas. Budgets
would be increased to improve school maintenance. Implementing
agencies would be strengthened; (b) providing incentives to increase
female participation. Scholarships would be offered to rural girls
and qualified F-~'male graduates to complete secondary education and
teacher trainir,. Outstanding teachers and headmasters would receive
recognition dLLd reward; (c) assisting GOPunjab in formulating
policies and implementing a pilot program aimed at enhancing the role
of local government in management and delivery of elementary
education; and, (d) promoting community and private sector
participation in e±ementary education through assistance to the
Punjab Education Foundation and promotion of private education.
Quality would be improved by: (a) enhancing teacher effectiveness
through improved delivery of teacher education, science/math and
English teaching, and school supervision; (b) improving learning
assessment capacity through development of expertise in testing and
examinations and establishment of provincial educational assessment
practices to monitor progress in meeting curriculum goals; and, (c)
developing more effective materials in middle schooling through
publication of new textbooks, teachers' guides and supplementary
reading materials.
Policy-making. planning, management. monitoring and evaluation
caRacitv would be strengthened through: (a) supporting development of
policy formulation and school planning capabilities at the provincial
and district levels; (b) reorganizing elementary education management
and administration at provincial, divisional and district levels
through organizational changes and staff training; and, (c)
developing monitoring and evaluation capacity to design, conduct and
disseminate research in student achievement and participation in
elementary education.
Benefits:  The project would increase middle level enrollment, improve the
quality of instruction and the availability and standards of
educational materials, and improve efficiency through better
management and administration. Aggregate enrollments at the middle



il
level are expected to grow by 585,000 between Academic Year (AY)
1991-92 and AY1997-98, an increase of 38%; tural female enrollment
would grow 103%, from 233,000 to '74,000. Combined with incentives
to improve participation of rural girls in further education, these
increases wnuld contribute to alleviate the shortage of female
teachers in rural areas. By supporting priority quality improvement
inputs, the project would maximize the benefits to be gained from
elementary education expenditure at a time of severe resource
constraints. A pilot program with local government would enhance
community participation and accountability ro users. The role of the
private sector would be enhanced.
Risks: The major risk is that cutbacks in government expenditure on
elementary education would jeopardize the achievement of project
targets. In a context of very rapid population growth, the project
supports the minimum investment and recurrent expenditure needed to
allow an increase in the rural participation rate, improve
efficiency, and improve the quality of instruction to ensure that
children acquire the knowledge and skills needed to become productive
workers or to further their studies. The government is firmly
committed to these objectives, and has given assurances at
negotiations that it would provide the necessary budgetary resources
to meet investment and recurrent cost objectives. A subsidiary risk
is that the government may have difficulties in carrying out the
physical and institutional objectives of such a large program.
However, the Punjab Government's physical implementation capacity has
improved during the implementation of the on-going IDA assisted
project (PEP3), and would be further strengthened in the proposed
project. To minimize institutional constraints, the organization and
management of elementary education would be strengthened through
technical assistance. The project would also consolidate and extend
programs that previously proved successful, using and strengthening
existing line agencies and involving the private sector in the
management and supervision of construction.



Estimated Cost 1/
Local   Foreign  Total
----- US$ Million -------
IMPROVED ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION              102.1     14.6   116.7
IMPROVED QUALITY                                 8.2      9.0    17.2
STRENGTHENED MANAGEMENT                          1.7      2.0      3.7
Total Base Costs                               112.0     25.6   137.6
Physical Contingencies                          11.2      2.6    13.8
Price Contingencies                             10.6      2.1    12.7
_sJa=   =====  ===5=-
Total Costs                                    133.8     30.3   164.1
1/ Including an estimated US$12.7 million in taxes and duties.
Note: Detailed -fgures may not add up to totals because of roundings.
Financing Plan
Local   Foreign  Total
----- US$ Million -------
Government of Pakistan                          49.1      0.0    49.1
International Development Association           84.7     30.3   115.0
______   _2====  e===e=
Total Financing Requirements                 133.8     30.3   164.1
Estimated Disbursements
(USS Million)
IDA FY                     FY93  FY94  FY95  FY96  FY97  FY98  FY99 FY2000
Annual                      6.0   3.0  13.0  25.0  27.0  16.0  14.0  11.0
Cumulative                   6.0   9.0  22.0  47.0  74.0  90.0  104.0  115.0



PITNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHAPTER I - THE ELEMENTARY EDUCATION SUB-SECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Schooling in Pakistan is delivered in four stages.  These are: primary
(grades 1 - 5); middle .6 - 8); secondary (9 - 10); and intermediate (11 -
12). These stages are incorporated into several different types of schools
and the designation given to a school represents the highest grade available
in that school. At the request of the Government of Pakistan (GOP), in 1990
the International Development Association (IDA) carried out a sub-sector study
on Lower Secondary Education in the Punjab 11 (Report No. 8913-PAK, December
18, 1990). This study led to the formulation of an Elementary Education
Development Program (EEDP) for the province of the Punjab. Elementary
education, defined as the first eight years of formal education, comprises the
primary and middle stages. The proposed project would assist the Government
of the Punjab (GOPunjab) in developing its middle schooling sub-program.
DeveloRment Obiectives and Economic Performance
2.      Despite Pakistan's robust economic performance, which has resulted in
a doubling of per capita income over the past 25 years, efforts to translate
economic progress into educational gains have achieved only limited success.
The adult literacy rate -- 26% in 1981, the last available census --is the
eighth lowest among low-income countries. About 55% of Pakistan's population
lives in the Punjab, which comprises more than 60 million people, 70% of them
in rural areas. In the Punjab during Academic Year (AY) 1987-88, gross
participation rates (GPR) 2/ at primary (61%), middle (31%) and secondary
(16%) levels of education were slightly higher than national levels, but much
below comparable levels achieved in South Asia 3/ (Annex 1, Tables 1 and 2).
Starting from a very low base, efforts to expand education have been made more
difficult by a high population growth rate, which at 3.1% per annum (p.a.), is
the highest in Asia. To develop its human capital needed for sustaining
economic and social development, government's efforts to improve educa-ion
will need continued support, in conjunction with reduced fertility.
Overview of Elementarv Education in the Puniab
3.    Elementary education in the Punjab takes place in several kinds of
institutional arrangements. There are three major providers of elementary and
secondary education: the provincial Department of Education (DOE), local
governments and the private sector which in AY87-88 served 83%, 7% and 10% of
enrollments, respectively. There are four types of schools: primary, middle,
1/ The middLe stage is sometimes referred to as the tower secondary stage.
2/ The GPR is the ratio of students attending a level of education to the number of children in the age
group appropriate for that level, expressed as a percentage. In Pakistan, the age groups are: for
elementary education 5-9 at primary and 10-12 at middle levels; for secorndary education 13-14 at secondary
and 15-16 at intermediate levels. The GPR is higher than the net participation rate, owing to the presence
of large numbers of under-age children in class on.e (an estimated 40X-502t and over-aged children.
3/ In these countries, GPRs at primary and secondary levels -- including middle, secondary and intermediate
stages of education in Pakistan -- reached 892 and 35X, respectively.



2
high and higher secondary. The middle, high and higher secondary schools
accommodate students at primary, middle and secondary levels of education in
various combinations of classes (1-8, 1-10, 6-10. 1-12, and 6-12). This is
the result of an "upgradation" process, whereby a school at a lower level is
raised to the next higher level and retains lover classes.
4.    In urban areas, the DOE accommodates about 40% of e'ementary education
enrollments, the remaining being shared about equally between local
governments and the private sector. Middle and secondary schools accommodate
a large proportion of students in the primary and middle levels. In AY1987-88
primary, middle and secondary schools enrolled 59%, 21% and 20% of all
primary-level students, respectively; middle and secondary schools enrolled
17% and 83% of all middle-level students, respectively (Annex 1, Table 3).
Urban schools have twice as many students as rural schools. The distribution
of enrcllment by gender differs markedly among providers. Girls constitute
45% of the enrollees in DOE schools, but 53% and 23% of local government and
private schools, respectively.
5.    In rural areas, the DOE is practically the sole provider of primary and
middle schooling -- private education accounts for less than 0.25% of
enrollees and local governments finance very few, if any schools due to
limited revenues. As in urban areas, rural middle and, to a lesser extent,
secondary schools have been established through "upgradation" of existing
primary and middle schools in relatively densely populated areas. Primary
schools accommodate nearly 75% of all primary level students; the remaining
25% are enrolled in middle (15%) and secondary (10%) schools. Middle schools
accommodate 39% of middle-level studants; the remaining 61% are enrolled in
secondary schools. To improve coverage and provide furtCv.r schooling at a
reasonable distance from home, particularly for girls, the DOE provides 2-room
primary schools in rural villages while upgrading primary into middle schools
to serve reasonably close feeder primary schools.
B. ISSUES IN ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
6.    This section de:'cribes the main issues in elementary education in the
Punjab which have been analyzed in recent Bank reports 4/. These issues
relate to financing and mobilization of resources, access and participation,
quality, and organization and management.
Financing and Mobilization of Resouroea
7.    To continue improving educational opportunities and quality, government
needs to increase financial support to education. This involves targeting
public expenditure and mobilizing other sources of finance. The respective
roles of the three providers of education are discussed below.
8.    Department of Education.  Starting from a iow base, spending by the DOE
in the past decade (FY81-90) has grown faster (at 11.6% p.a. in real terms)
than GDP (6.2%) and total public expenditure (8.7%) (Annex 2, Table 1). As a
A/ Lower Secondary Education in the Puniab, (as noted in para. 1); Pakistan Education Sector StrateAv
Review, Report No. 7110PAX, December 1988; and, Third Primary Education Proiect in the Pun.iab, Staff
Appraisal Report No. 6492-PAK, May 1987. Issues in delivery of primary education have also been analyzed in
the Sindh Prim6rv Education Development Program, Staff Appraisal Report No. 8178-PAK. February 6, 1990.



3
result, the share of public investment expenditure on education in total
provincia' investment expenditure doubled, from 10% to 2l1, while che share of
public recurrent expenditure on education in total recurrent expenditure
increased from 23% to 25%. Increases in total spending on educauion continued
in FY91 and FY92; however, salary increases of government employees affected
the pattern of expenditures on education through slgnificant reduction in
inv6stments, to compensate for increases in recurrent expenditure. As a
result, investment expenditure on education fell 24% in real terms between
FY90 and FY91, and are budgeted in FY92 6% below the FY90 level.
9.    Despite substantial increases in public recurrent spending, annual
expenditures per student in elementary education are still very low, averaging
about Rs500 (US$20) at the primary level and Rsl,180 (US$48) at the middle
level.  Only Rs2 (US$0.08) per student per year are spent or, books, materials
and consumable, representing 0.5% of total recurrent expenditure on elementary
education; the rest is absorbed by salaries and allowances (97.6%) and
operating expenditure (1.9%) (Annex 2, Table 2). Recent Bank studies suggest
that US$5 per child are needed to establish minimum acceptable levels of
quality. In the Punjab, the government is addressing these issues through
policies and programs aimed at increasing significantly public expenditures in
key quality improvement inputs: teacher training and supervision, learning
assessment and teaching-learning materials.
10.   Efforts to increase participation in elementary education have been
frustrated by rapid population growth (para. 2).  To keep pace with population
growth of age-group 5-12 between AY1987-88 and AY1997-98, 194,000 additional
school places would have to be provided annually (assuming no improvement in
GPR) at an estimated total cost of Rs 615 million (in FY91 terms) (Annex 1,
Table 2). The estimated development expenditure of Rs 470 million represents
67% of public aevelopment expenditure on elem3ntary education in FY91 and the
projected Rs 145 million of recurrent expenditure represents 3% of total
public recurrent expenditure on elementary ed-cation in FY91. The last
decade's trend can be maintained into the 1990's only if total public spending
increases substantially, or if major reallocations are made to the education
sector. Overall, in response to a growing deficit and the need to restructure
the financial sector, government policy is to control the growth of public
spending while mobilizing additional resources. In the education sector,
GOPunjab's policy is to increase public expenditure by at least 8% per year in
real terms, slightly faster than the projected growth of total government
expenditure (6-7% p.a. in real terms), and to encourage the private sector and
local governments to mobilize additional resources. Combined with the
sustained targeting of public expenditure on elementary education in rurai
areas initiated in the early 1980's, these policies are expected to reduce
inequities and significantly improve rural participation in elementary
education.
11.   Local Governments.  Under the Punjab Local Government Ordinance (LGO) of
1979, elementary education is a compulsory function of urban local councils,
and an optional function of rural (district) councils. In practice, few, if
any, rural councils operate primary and middle schools (para. 5). In small
urban areas, Municipal and Town Committee schools accommodate about one-fifth
of primary- and middle-level itudents, the DOE serves about two-thirds, and
the private sector the balance. In the largest urban areas, Metropolitan and



4
Municipal Corporations' (MCs) 11 schools enroll about one-third of students,
a proportion equal to those of DOE and the private sector. MCs spend between
14% and 15% of their revenues on primary and midd'e schooling (Annex 2, Table
3). To strengthen accountability and streamline management of publicly
provided elementary education, GOPunjab is considering transferring
responsibility for DOE schools to local governments. Given the MCs'
institutional base and revenue mobilization capacity, they appear to be able
to take on additional managerial and financial responsibilities, unlike
municipalities and rural councils which concentrate their development efforts
on basic infrastructure.
12.   The Private Sector.  The private sector which was nationalized in the
early 1970's, has been regaining its vitality since the early 1980's. Between
AY1983-84 and AY1987-88, private school enrollments as a share of the total
have more than doubled, from 4% to 10% 6'. Most private schools operate for
profit, but development of the for-profit educational private sector is
hampered by the absence of a clear government position. The previous
nationalization of private schools has left educators wary of capital
investment.
13.   In March 1991 GOPunjab established the Punjab Education Foundation Z7
(PEF) as an autonomous public body, to promote development of private
education through financial and technical assistance. At present, it is
understood that PEF's efforts will be directed primarily towards the non-
profit/community-based sub-sector, mainly Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGOs). In April 1991, the PEF launched a pilot financial assistance program
which finances, on an annual basis, a share (about two-thirds) of investment
and recurrent costs of non-profit educational institutions, the remaining
being provided by the institution. Under the chairmanship of the Chief
Minister of the Punjab, the Board of Directors comprises 20 members appointed
by government and representing GOPunjab, the public in general, and industry.
The Managing Director and his staff (recruited among civil servants) are
established in Lahore. A fund was established with an initial grant of Rs450
million from GOPunjab; the activities of the PEP are to be financed through
income from investments as well as grants, donations and other endowments from
public and private sources. However, as a newly-created institution, the
PEF's policy orientations, assistance programs and activities are still in the
process of definition. To maximize its potential impact, the major challenges
facing PEF are to establish institutional and working relationships with NGOs,
and to design and evaluate its programs and the sustainability of the
institutions supported through its interventions.
Access to. and Participation in. Elementary Education
14.   The low rural participation in elementary education, particularly for
girls, is a major issue. Despite significant increases in elementary
Al In the Punjab, there are eight Metropolitan / Municipal Corporations.
6/ The actual private enrollments are most likely higher since it is believed that private enrollments are
underestimated.
Z/ The "Punjab Education Foundation Act" was approved by the Punjab Provincial Assembly on March 16, 1991.



5
education enrollment during the last *.ecade (from 4 million in 1981 to 7.5
million in 1989), the rural/urban and male/female imbalances are stark. At
tihe primary level, in AY1987-88 the GPRs varied from 38% for rural girls to
72% for rural boys (compared with 68% for girls and 82% for boys in urban
areas). The gap was even larger at the middle level where only about 60% of
rural girls who complete class 5 entered middle schooling. As a result,
middle-level GPRs varied from 8% for rural girls to 31% for rural boys
(counpared with 44% and 66%, respectively in urban areas) (Annex 1, Table 2).
15.   One critical impediment to the development of rural elementary education
for girls is t1.9 shortage of female teachers in rural areas. Most women
teachers are reluctant to serve in rural areas because travel is arduous and
expensive. Addressing the problem of female teacher supply is a long-term
undertaking. It means increasing the number of rural girls receiving primary
education in the first place, then improving access to higher education, which
is a requirement for teaching. A second cause of the low female enrollment
rate is the high opportunity cost to rural parents to send their daughters to
school. To help families send children to middle and secondary schools,
GOPunjab has introduced a scholarship program which, however, has limited
resources and reaches fewer than 2% of the students.
16.   To expand coverage of, and improve access to rural primary schooling,
GOPunjab's policy is supported by the IDA-financed Third Primary Education
Project (PEP3) (FY87-94) a/ and the Asian Development Bank's Girls Primary
Education Project (FY91-96) which give priority to girls' education. By mid-
1990's, the rural female participation rate is expected to reach about 58%
with the addition of about 700,000 places in primary schools.
17.   In its effort to improve access to middle schooling for rural children,
GOPunjab has been reasonably successful. Also, anecdotal evidence suggests
that, where middle schools have been established, participation at the primaty
level has improved. The policy of upgradation (para. 3) has, however, created
a host of medium- and long-term problems that must now be addressed. Due to
constrained resources and poor planning, additional classrooms are not
provided in time. According to provincial data 21, in 1990, 4,400 boys' and
girls' middle schools (80% in rural areas) of the DOE had, on average, 3.9 and
2.9 classrooms, respectively, to accommodate eight classes. As a result,
primary classes are forced to sit outdoors w'lile middle-level stadents occupy
classrooms.  Also, about one-third of middle schools lack minim.um facilities,
and virtually nothing is spent on maintenance.
Ouality
18.   There is a wide consensus in Pakistan that educational quality has
declined dramatically over the last decades. The causes are multiple and
interdependen    They include: low teaching effectiveness, inadequate
assessment of learning achievement, and lack of teaching-learning resources.
8/ Annex 3 presents a detailed summary of objectives and status of implementation of the Third Primary
Education Project.
9/ In 1990 the DOE conducted a School and Staff Survey to assess investment needs and to determine
priorities in provision of physical facilities and staff.



6
Efforts to improve the quality of education have been only partly successful
because of a lack of coordination between responsible provincial agencies.
19.   Teacher Effectiveness.  Teacher training suffers from fragmented
organization, poor management and underuse of staff time and facilities. Pre-
service training is carried out in 34 Government Colleges for Elementary
Teachers (GCETs) by the provincial Directorate of Public Itnstruction (DPI),
which oversees schools. In-service training of teachers and administrative
st-aff is under the responsibility of the Education Extension Center (EEC), a
part of the Education Secretariat, and is carried out in the EEC and GCETs.
Lack of coordination among the GCETs and the EEC, as well as between training
institutions and divisional and district education office: is hampering
effective delivery of their programs. The GCETs have enough student places
(about 15,000), but laboratories, libraries and boarding capacitv .re
inadequate, and facilities are not used much during afternoons, e%erings or
summer vacations.
20.   Teacher certification is based on an end-of-cycle examination that is
not a reliable predictor of teacher proficiency. The examination reflects the
implemented curriculum which neither focuses on pedagogical skills and
classroom management, nor promotes inquiry and development of higher-level
cognitive skills.
21.   School supervision is carried out by Deputy District Education Officers
(DDEOs) at the tehsil 10J level and Assistant Education Officers (AEOs) at
the markaz level, with parallel systems for boys' and girls' schools. In
neither case are schools adequately supervised, since the DDEOs and AEOs have
workloads that preclude more than one or two visits a year, and even these are
usually brief and perfunctory. Middle school headmasters/headmistresses
generally have only limited responsibilities and training in pedagogical
supervision.
22.   The teaching of science/math and English, the latter being a compulsory
subject starting in class 6, is weak. GCETs fail to recruit enough secondary-
level graduates in science, and few middle schools are provided with minimum
teaching-learning materials for science. Also, teacher trainees lack
sufficient mastery of English and are poorly equipped to teach English as a
second language.
23.   Assessment of Learning Achievement: Examination and Tests.  The general
public, decision-makers, educators, parents and students clearly share a
growing concern about inadequacies of examination practices in Pakistan llJ 
Frequent disruptions and security breaches result from the power of
examinations, which are the sole, one-time determinant of educational and
-0/ Punjab comprises 8 divisions, 30 districts, 93 tehsils, 368 markazes and 2,392 union councils.
11/ "There is an unusual degree of unanimity as to the limitations of our examination system. Teachers,
students and the public at large are generally of the view that it neither provides an accurate test of the
scholastic attainment of the student nor is it d3signed to assess his intellectual development. Also,
inordinate emphasis placed on a fir,al examination gives rise to other undesirable tendencies. The use of
unfair means, too, has become so widespread that the trustworthiness of examinations has become
questionable." Izaz Ilahi Malik, The Examination System in Pakistan, Central Bureau of Education,
Islamabad.



7
career prospects. Hence the examination authorities' preoccupation with
assuring that their administrative methods are irreproachable.
24.   Weaknesses in assessment practices relate to the limited purpose and
use, the content and the administration of examinations. Assessment is
generally limited to end-of-year exa.:-inations set by senior teachers and
administrators at divisional level fo, class 8, at district level for class 5,
and by individual teachers for classes 1-4 and 6-7. End-of-year examinations
are used solely for selection to higher classes, neglecting measurement of
learning achievement. The examinations reflect textbook content, not the
analytical skills prescribed by the curriculum. The questions -- often
unaltered from year to year --  test recall of information and do not require
comprehension or problem solving. There is no uniformity in examinations and
no effort is made to coordinate standards or to compare results
retrospectively. The divisional and district offices do not have the trained
personnel to provide professional guidance to question writers, to analyze
examination data or interpret and disseminate feedback on student performance,
and to suggest ways to improve teaching.
25.   In elementary education, the Curriculum Research and Development Center
(CRDC) has organized workshops and conducted studies to improve the quality of
test papers and curriculum coverage in selected subjects. However, these
activities  -- anid their impact -- have been extremely limited.  To enhance
the quality of elementary education, GOPunjab is embarking on a reform program
to improve examinations used to measure individual learning achievement and
build an educational assessment capacity to measure the system's performance.
26.   Teaching-Learning Materials.  In the Punjab, as well as country-wide,
textbooks serve as the major educational tool in the absence of teachers'
guides and supplementary reading materials. The textbooks also provide the
raw material on which the entire examination system is based (para. 24). But
there is a significant gap between the curriculum's requirements and the
textbooks. Many observers believe that the pedagogical objectives in the
national curricula are comprehensive and sufficiently detailed to enable
creative interpretation. However, textbook content generally suffers from
poor language grading, lack of exercise material, inappropriate pedagogical
level, and an urban middle class and male bias. None of the books produced by
the Punjab Textbook Board (PTB) were pilot-tested. Evaluation is ad hoc and
informal, and PTB is not required to act on evaluation reports from the CRDC.
PTB's evaluation workshops are oriented more toward identifying errors than
evaluating the books' impact on studen. achievement.
27.   While the PTB has long experience in textbook production, distribution
and sales, few of its staff have professional qualifications in textbook work
and there is little knowledge of textbooks produced in other countries and
alternative production methods. The major reason for the low production
specifications has been the legitimate -- and achieved -- goal of the GOPunjab
to keep textbook prices very low, in response to perceived parental concern
about over pricing levels. Yet, data indicate that the textbooks are very low
among costs for parents sending their children to school. However, there is
no evidence available on what parents would be prepared to pay for attractive,
effective and durable textbooks.



8
28.   Few primary or middle schools supplement textbooks.  The acquisition of
study skills and the development of inquiry also require access to good-
quality supplementary reading materials. With the exception of the urban
elite, the market for quality children's books is small in Pakistan, as most
people cannot afford to purchase them. There is no established community
library system or network of book shops, especially in rural areas; and there
is no tradition of schools purchasing books. Previous attempts by ihe
National Book Foundation to sell collections published in the 1970's have
foundered. For the same reasons, the publication and sale of teachers' guides
has been terminated by PTB. Local commercial publishers produce v. limited
number of titles, which are expensive because of small print runs.
29.   Coordination of Inputs.  No formal or informal communication channel
exists among the educational agencies such as the CRDC, PTB and EEC. The
result, at times, is wasted effort aid actions.
Organization and Management
30.   The organization and management of education need to be strengthened in
the following areas: policy-making, planning and implementation; elementary
education; and, monitoring and evaluation capacity.
31.   Policy-Making. Planning and Implementation.  Poor management of data and
inefficient communication impede severely policy formulation, planning,
management and implementation capacity of the Secretariat and the District
Education Offices (DEOs). Baseline data are collected at the school and
district levels through numerous -- often parallel and incomplete -- surveys;
validity and reliability are not checked systematically; and, analysis is
limited. The flow of information between administrative branches and levels
is time consuming, because of a lack of basic equipment. The need to
streamline data collection and the communication flow to support policy
formulation and planning is particularly acute. The provincial-level focus on
planning also tends to obscure the intra-district variations in educational
needs and priorities. Furthermore, the DOE is unable to evaluate the impacts
of past and current policies or of intermittent, ad hoc initiatives.
32.   Several initiatives aimed at rationalizing policy formulation, planning
and implementation of educational programs and decentralization of decision-
making are being implemented. First, to support policy formulation at
provincial level, GOPUnjab has established a Provincial Education Council
(PEC), a consultative body under the chairmanship of the Education Minister,
with appointed representatives of provincial government, industry, and the
education sector. The PEC would be assisted by a permanent secretariat.
Second, under the UNDP/USAID supported National Educational Management
Information System (NEMIS) project, an educational database is being developed
at provincial and divisional/district headquarters. Third, to strengthen
implementation of programs and coordination of various bodies in the
Department of Education, an Education Coordination Committee is in the process
of being established under the chairmanship of the Education Secretary, with
coopted members from the Directorate of Public Instruction, CRDC, EEC, PTB,
and various examination boards. The Committee would be assisted in its work
by several subject-based committees and sub-committees. Fourth, District
Education and Development Boards have been established with public
representatives as well as concerned officials from the Education Department,



9
eminent educators, and representatives of urban and rural councils as members.
The Boards would assist in decentralizing the planning process down to
district level and institutionalizing political advice in planning decisions.
Fifth, District Planning Cells have been set up by the Planning and
Development Department. These cells would provide logistical support both to
the proposed District Boards and to the provincial Department. Sixth,
community involvement is being fostered through formation of school committees
and school investment enhanced among active and responsive communities (para.
13).
33.   Elementary Education.  Educational management in Pakistan has
historically remained generalized, with individual managers responsible for
all levels of schooling from primary to higher secondary. However, as the
number of schools has increased and management problems have become more
complex, the need to change the existing management structures has become
increasingly apparent. In particular, a more specialized management structure
is needed for primary and middle schools. Under PEP3, an Additional
Directorate of Public Instruction (ADPI-PE) was established in 1988, and
additional management positions -- the Deputy District Education Officers and
Assistant Education Officers -- were created in the existing structure for
administration of primary education. While this arrangement has clearly
focussed attention on primary education, the rural middle schools still have
to compete for managerial attention and resources from the district and
divisional officials, whose first concern remains secondary and higher
secondary schools.
34.   Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity.  Neither DOE nor the universities or
specialized research institutions in the Punjab (e.g. the Institute of
Education and Research in Lahore) have the expertise and experience to conduct
complex monitoring and evaluation in education. In addition, there is a lack
of communication and feedback among decision-makers and researchers. The
development of institutional expertise is crucial, especially when innovative
quality-improvement and cost-effective measures are being attempted in various
parts of the system.
C. IDA'S ROLE. LESSONS LEARNED AND SECTOR STRATEGY
IDA'S Role
35.   IDA has been the largest external source of finance to education in
Pakistan, with nine credits since 1964 121. These projects have focussed on
two broad objectives: meeting manpower needs and improving primary education.
Primary education has been supported with five credits. The Third Education
Project (Cr. 678-PAK of 1977 for US$15.0 million) supported primary-Level
teacher training, as well as university-level agriculture programs and
extension training. The First Primary Education Project (Credit 892-PAK of
1979 for US$10.0 million) helped the federal and provincial governments to
build schools, improve teacher training, expand school supervision and improve
instructional materials. The FY85 Second Primary Education Project (PEP2)
(Cr. 1602-PAK for SDR 53.0 million) continues to support the elements of the
12/ A brief description of each project and main conclusions of the Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance Audit Reports is attached in Annex 4.



10
first primary education project which were judged successful (LCs, assistant
teachers and provision of teaching-learning materials). While the previous
projects had a national coverage, the FY87 Third Primary Education Prolect
(PEP3) (Cr. 1821-PAK for SDR 113 million) is confined to the Punjab province,
with limited national interventions. The project seeks to improve
institutional capacity to plan, implement and manage a large primary education
investment program. This is done by strengthening key agencies involved in
the delivery of primary education, reforming policies affecting the
recruitment and training of female teachers, and supporting innovations. The
project supports a large rural school construction program. The institutional
framework is now fully in place, staff is being trained, and project
activities are underway. The major implementation issues which have caused
delays in provision of technical assistance services, implementation of the
construction program and disbursements of Credit proceeds are being addressed
by GOPunjab. The FY90 Sindh Primary Education Development Program (PEDP) (Cr.
2102-PAK for SDR85.2 million) supports the province's five-year (FY91-95)
development program in all districts. The Credit became effective in November
1990. The objectives of the program are to increase enrollment in primary
schooling in rural and urban slum areas, especially for girls, and improve
primary education. Innovations include a pilot school-nutrition program and
production of supplementary reading materials.
Lessons Learned
36.   A number of lessons learned from design and implementation of IDA's
previous projects have been taken into account in the preparation of the
proposed project. These include: (a) decentralization of project
administration and single-province operations in order to streamline project
implementation; (b) expanding the functions of existing bodies or institutions
rather than establishment of new ones; (c) development of the institutional
framework and staff capacity before introducing complex changes; (d)
introduction of change incrementally and setting of realistic targets; (e)
seeking early agreement on technical assistance programs and Terms of
Reference of consultants; (f) intensive supervision and strengthened
monitoring of the construction program at all stages; (g) establishment of
implementation mechanisms to accelerate disbursements; and, (h) flexible
programming to allow adaptation during implementation.
Sector Lending Strategy
37. In the next few years, the main thrust of IDA's lending strategy in this
sector in Pakistan will be to help the government address the policy,
institutional and financial constraints to education development. Future
operations would support the development of elementary education. Recent
sector work has also highlighted the need for systemic reforms in the
secondary and higher education sub-sectors, as well as their interface with
labor markets, and for scientific research to ensure the country's supply of
trained manpower. Future operations in these areas may be considered. Also,
the dialogue with GOP on public expenditure and social policy has deepened to
include provincial governments. This is being explicitly followed up through
assistance to the federal and provincial governments to prepare a Social
Action Program -- including prioritization of social sector investments and
policy actions -- for preparation of the next five-year plan. The proposed



11
project would be the first ecternally financed program addressing the middle
level in elementary education.
D. OTHER EXTERNAL FINANCING OF ELEMENTARY EDUCATION IN PAKISTAN
38.   Primary education has benefitted from substantial assistance.  UNICEF is
supporting a curriculum development project in selected districts throughout
the country. The Asian Development Bank (ADB) has recently approved a Girls
Primary Education Project in all four provinces (para. 16). The European
Economic Community is cofinancing PEP3. USAID which is financing a 10-year
(1990-99) Primary Education Development Program in Balochistan and the NWFP
has recently announced its plan to phase out its program in 1993. Other
bilateral donors are offering increased financial assistance in primary
education. Pakistan will continue to need major external assistance to
achieve real progress in this previously neglected area.



12
CHAPTER II
THE PROJECT
A. INTRODUCTION
39.    To address the issues discussed in Chapter I, GOPunjab has, with
assistance from IDA, prepared an Elementary Education Development Program
(FY93-98). This EEDP will cover all GOPunjab investment and recurrent
expenditure in primary and middle schooling during this period. As summarized
in Table 2.1, total budgetary requirements for elementary education are
estimated at US$2.3 billion in current terms 13/. The sub-program on
primary schooling (estimated total cost of US$1.4 billion) incorporates
GOPunjab-projected investments, including two major on-going, projects
financed by IDA and ADB (para. 16). The sub-program on middle schooling
(estimated total cost of US$0.9 billion) comprises investment and quality
improvement inputs, selected components of which would be supported by the
proposed project described in Section B below. Total enrollments at primary
and middle levels should reach 7.7 and 2.1 million, respectively, and the
gross participation rates should reach 82% and 42% of the relevant age-groups
at these levels. During negotiations, the GOPunjab confirmed its agreement to
carry out and provide the necessary financial resources for the middle
schooling sub-program and to review such program annually with IDA (para 78).
TABLE 2.1 - EEDP Targets and Budgetarv Reguirements
Elementary Education Development Program
90-91  91-92     92-93  93-94  94-95  95-96  96-97  97-98    Total
(Rev'd) (Est'd)                   (Projected)                 FY93-98
(Expressed in Current Million USS)
TOTAL PROGRAM COSTS             244    265       287    315    353    396    444    495    2,290
SUB-PROGRAM PRIMARY SCPOOLING
Total Costs                  156    169       179    197    220    247    275    303    1,422
Investment                  23     22        24      27     30     34     39      43      198
Recurrent                   133    147       155    170    190    212    236    260    1,224
SUB-PROGRAM MIDDLE SCHOOLING
Total Costs                   89     97       108    118    133    150    169    191        869
Constr., Equip., Vehicles    9       9        11    13    16    20        25      30      115
Recurrent 1/                80      88       97    105    116    130    144    161        754
(Million Students)
PROJECTED ENROLLMENT 2/
Primary Schooling            5.4    5.7       6.0    6.3    6.6    6.9    7.3    7.7
Middle Schooling             1.5    1.5       1.6    1.7    1.8    1.9    2.0    2.1
GROSS P;.RTICIPATION RATES (2)
Primary Schooling             67%    682       70%    72%    74%    77%    79%    82%
Middle Schooling              34%    34%       35%    36%    37%    38%    40%    42%
Source: Annex 2, Table 4
1/ Recurrent costs reflect quality improvement inputs
2/ Enrollment in public schools.
Note: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings
13/ A conservative estimate of the total cost of the EEDP was derived from: (a) enrollment projections,
including the private sector; (b) cost estimates of the various facilities and interventions described
below; and, (c) past and projected public investment programs reflected in the ADPs.



13
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
40.   The objectives of the project are to: (a) improve access and
participation in middle schooling in rural and urban slum areas, especially
for girls; (b) improve quality and increase student learning and achievement;
and, (c) strengthen policy-making, planning, management, monitoring and
evaluation capacity.
41.   Access and participation would be improved by: (a) providing facilities
and enhancing maintenance. Clas^rooms and basic amenities would be
constructed in rural and disadvantaged urban areas. Budgets would be
increased to improve school maintenance. Implementing agencies would be
strengthened and diversified through the induction of private sector; (b)
providing incentives to increase female participation. Scholarships would be
offered to rural girls and qualified female graduates to complete secondary
education and teacher training. Outstanding teachers and headmasters would
receive recognition and reward; (c) assisting GOPunjab in formulating policies
and implementing a pilot program aimed at enhancing the role of local
government in management and delivery of elementary education; and, (d)
promoting community and private sector participation in elementary education
through assistance to the Punjab Education Foundation in developing its
outreach to NGOs and local communities in education, and through promotion of
private education.
42.   Quality of education would be improved by: (a) enhancing teacher
effectiveness through improved delivery of: teacher education; science/math
and English teaching; and, school supervision services by supervisors and
headmasters/headmistress; (b) improving learning assessment capacity through
the development of expertise in testing and examinations and the establishment
of provincial educational assessment practices to monitor progress in meeting
curriculum goals; and, (c) developing more effective materials in middle
schooling through the publication of improved textbooks, teachers' guides and
supplementary reading materials.
43.   Policy-making, planning, management and monitoring/evaluation capacity
would be strengthened through: (a) supporting the development of policy
formulation and school planning capabilities at the provincial and district
levels; (b) reorganizing elementary education management and administration at
the provincial, divisional and district levels through organizational changes
and staff training; and, (c) developing monitoring and evaluation capacity to
design, conduct and disseminate research in student achievement and
participation in middle school education.
C. DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1. Improve Access to. and Participation in. Middle Schooling (Estimated
Base Cost, US$116.7 million)
Improving Access and Facilities (Estimated Base Cost, US$97.0 million)
44.   Facilities.  The major investment needs are for:
(a)   provision of required number of classrooms and basic amenities in
about 1,400 existing middle schools, of which 70% are girls'



14
middle schools. The project would finance construction, furniture
and basic equipment of: about 6,900 classrooms (three to six per
school, depending on existing facilities and enrollment),
verandas, small headmasters' office, storage for teaching-learning
materials, latrines, water pumps and boundary walls; and,
(b)   new middle schools to be established in rural and urban slum areas
through: (i) provision of classrooms and basic amenities in about
1,400 (60% of which are girls' schools) ex    'g primary schools
which would be upgraded into middle schools; and, (ii)
establishment of about 800 (85% of which are girls' schools) new
middle schools where no middle or secondary school is available
and where justified by enrollments in existing primary schools
within the catchment area. (Annex 5 provides detailed criteria
for provision of facilities as a function of enrollment and
distance to existing schools).
45.   Overall, enrollment in public schools would increase by about 585,000 at
middle level during the period AY92-98, of which 410,000 would be in rural
areas. In the more prosperous urban and peri-urban areas as well as in a few
rural communities, the private sector is expected to accommodate an estimated
140,000 additional students in middle schooling 141 (Annex 2, Table 5).
46.   The annual construction program would aim at a balanced coverage between
existing and new girls/boys schools, as well as between rural/urban areas.
During the first two years of project implementation (FY93-94), the focus
would be on existing middle schools op the basis of the 1990 DOE survey (para.
17). Thereafter, the selection of primary schools to be upgraded into middle
schools and new middle schools would be based on the school map to be prepared
during the project (para. 65). (Annex 5 provides detailed criteria for school
construction program). Local communities would be encouraged to participate
in the construction, mainly through provision of land and infrastructure
(access, sewerage, etc.). During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
a balanced construction program, including a mix of the various types of
schools, will be maintained throughout project execution and that adequate
budgetary resources will be provided annually.
Enhancing School Maintenance (Estimated Base Cost, US$7.3 million)
47.   To ensure sustainability of investments in physical plant, the project
would finance an increment to the maintenance budget, which would permit: (a)
routine annual maintenance; and (b) rr' bilitative maintenance of about 1,000
middle schools per year. The annual naintenance budget for middle schools
would represent at least 1.0% of public recurrent expenditures on middle
schooling.
Providing Incentives to Improve Female Participation. (Estimated Base Cost,
US$10.6 million)
48.   Scholarships for Rural Girls.  Given the crucial need to increase the
number of educated girls in rural areas, GOPunjab would expand its scholarship
14/ Enrollments in the private sector are projected to grow 101 p.a. during the period FY93-98.



15
program for rural girls who complete class 5, to help their families send them
to middle and secondary school. The project would finance every year 12,000
additional scholarships of Rsl,200 per year (US$49). The scholarship
represents on average a 12% income supplement to a rural family with an annual
income of RslO,000. The expanded scholarship scheme would be administered by
local education authorities in accordance with existing, well-established
selection procedures based on results of district-based examinations and on
local staff recommendations.
49.   Incentives to Female Teachers.  To attract and maintain qualified female
teachers in rural middle schools, GOPunjab would provide scholarships to
enable qualified female candidates to complete undergraduate studies and/or
teacher training. The project would finance 1,000 scholarships p.a. of
Rsl2,000 per year (US$490) to rural secondary level graduates who are
completing a teacher training program or undergraduate degree. A scholarship
equals the allowances (regular, house rent, transportation, and others) paid
to a full-time middle-school teacher. This new scholarship program would be
administered through individualized commercial bank/postal savings bank
accounts in favor of the recipients.
50.   Staff Recognition.  The project would include a provision of Rs5.0
million per year (US$0.2 million) as prizes and incentives to outstanding
middle-school headmasters/headmistress and teachers for their involvement in
enhanced student participation and retention and in developing innovative low-
cost teaching materials, testing alternative teaching strategies and/or
promoting community participation. This new scheme would be administered at
the district level, under the direct supervision of the Deputy District
Education Officers for Elementary Education and with the participation of
local representatives.
Encouraging Participation of Local Government. (Estimated Base Cost, US$1.7
million)
51.   The project would finance a pilot program to transfer responsibility for
public provision of elementary education (e.g. staff and facilities in
existing DOE primary and middle schools) to one of the Municipal Corporations
(MC). The pilot program would provide: specialist services to assist MC
authorities in developing and implementing the necessary legal, institutional,
administrative and financial arrangements; budgetary resources, on a declining
basis, to support implementation; and, monitoring of impact and dissemination
of results for extension to other MCs in the province. The objectives would
be to determine whether the transfer of administrative and financial
responsibility for elementary education to local government can be used: (a)
as a viable administrative set-up, especially in regard to transfer of staff
and setting of institutional and administrative capacity at the local level;
(b) to improve efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of education, as
well as to enhance accountability of local education authoritie6 to the
community; and, (c) to mobilize additional resources at local government
level.
52.   The pilot program would be initiated in the Rawalpindi Municipal
Corporation. Starting in FY93, local and foreign specialists (36 staff months
each) would assist GOPunjab and the local government in studying the
feasibility, recommending strategies and preparing detailed action plans for



16
the pilot program. By the beginning of FY94, DOE staff and schools (within
the MC's area) would be transferred, and institutional, organizational,
managerial and financial arrangements would be implemented. The program
design would be flexible to allow for mid-coursu corrections, based on
experience in implementation. The program would be evaluated after two years
of operation to determine replicability in the following areas: benefitL and
costs; local program management; impact on institutional capacity and
financing; and, impact on staff, parents and the community. Continued
financing including any extension would depend on the outcome of the
evaluation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that GOPunjab would
review with IDA the results of the evaluation and its recommendations by
December 31, 1995 and the desirability of its further expansion.
Encoura2inz Participation of the Private Sector. (Estimated Base Cost, US$0.2
million)
53.   The project would assist the Punjab Education Foundation in developing
its strategy and assistance programs to the private sector to address: (a) the
need for government to enunciate and disseminate a set of policies for the
private sector, in close collaboration with its representatives; (b) the need
for PEF to associate its activities and programs with existing non-
governmental organizations and, (c) the need for PEF to develop institutional
capacity in designing effective assistance programs, monitoring their
implementation and evaluating their impact. The project would finance
specialist services (6 staff-months of foreign and 24 staff-months of local
specialist services), fellowships (12 staff-months), and equipment/materials
(US$25,000) to formulate development strategies for private education, develop
assistance programs *.n the basis of successful national and international
experiences, and establish effective program monitoring and evaluation
capacity. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the GOPunjab
would conduct an evaluation of the PEF activities by December 31, 1994, and
that it would review with IDA the results of this evaluation; and thereafter
prepare, on the basis of such review, proposals on the role of private
enterprises and NGOs in the delivery of education services and the measures to
be taken for facilitating such role.
2. ImRrove Qualitv of Education (Estimated Base Cost, US$17.2 million)
Enhancing Teacher Effectiveness. (Estimated Base Cost, US$7.8 million)
54.   Teacher Training and Certification.  The teacher training curriculum for
middle-school teachers would be strengthened in science/math and
language/social studies. An administrative cadre of GCET instructors would be
established and staffing requirements would be modified accordingly. The
project would finance specialist services (18 stafU months of foreign and 12
staff-month of local specialists) and fellowships (100 staff-months) to
support GCET and EEC staff training in pedagogic topics such as: using
learning assessment to improve cognitive skills; alternative teaching models
of teaching; questioning techniques; use of audio-visual aids; science
demonstration techniques; and, micro-teaching. GCET staff, in collaboration
with the Testing Development Center (para. 58), would develop, pilot-test and
implement new assessment tools and examinations to certify teachers. GCETs
would be provided with complementary equipment, audio-visual aids, and
demonstration materials. Reference manuals would also be provided and



17
textbooks adapted or developed by EEC for selected education and methodology
courses.
55.   The EEC, which would be incoxporated as part of the DSD, would be
enhanced to better meet the needs of in-service teacher training. The project
would support the development, testing, adaptation and implementation of two
in-service teacher training programs targeted at 12,000 science/math teachers
(4-week program) and 6,000 English teachers (2-week program) to be carried out
by EEC, in collaboration with selected specialists including Subject
Specialists from GCETs. The project would finance the construction, furniture
and equipment for additional classrooms, small-team working rooms, extension
of the library, and boarding facilities for the EEC complex in Lahore. Also,
GCETs would be provided with required facilities (library, science rooms and
boarding facilities), specialized equipment and software to accommodate
expanded in-service training, in addition to their pre-service programs.
56.   Science Education.  To improve science education in middle schoolitig,
the project would support the introduction of low-cost science demonstration
materials. Science demonstration desks and complementary materials would be
provided to 3,600 middle schools which have not yet been equipped with a
science laboratory. The DSD, the CRDC and the National Equipment Center would
develop science experiments and/or activities in the form of teacher
demonstrations, prepare teachers' guides, and experiment with demonstrations
in middle schools. Science/math teachers would be trained in delivery of
science demonstrations and use of equipment. The project would finance
development of these materials, equipment, and training costs for trainers and
science teachers.
57.   School Supervision.  To strengthen supervision at district level, the
district education offices would be bifurcated into elementary and secondary
education, each with a separate complement of staff (para. 66). Also, to
strengthen supervision at the school level, the role of headmasters/
headmistresses in pedagogical supervision would be enhanced. The project
would finance the development of materials and training for about 3,000
middle-school headmasters/ headmistresses in areas such as: induction programs
for new teachers; in-service training (with special emphasis on identifying
and addressing common classroom or curriculum-related problems); and,
monitoring measures to improve the participation of rural girls in elementary
education.
Improving Learninig Assessment (Estimated Base Cost, US$1.6 million)
58.   Under the project, a Test Development Center (TDC) staffed by
professionals trained in educational assessment theory and techniques, would
be established in the CRDC. TDC would: (a) serve as a pool of professional
and technical expertise in educational assessment within DOE; (b) help local
authorities to develop, and maintain a bank of test questions covering a broad
range of curricular topics and skill areas, particularly in elementary
education; (c) produce and supervise the administration of criteria-referenced
achievement tests at the provincial level; and, (d) analyze performance on
tests, suggest corrective measures and disseminate these suggestions to
decision-makers, administrators and educators. Because the TDC will only
administer pilot examinations and conduct sample-base, achievement tests, its
staff will be small. An Additional Director, 7 research associates (subject



18
specialists and one staristical analyst), and clerical assistants recruited
from CRDC, research institutes and universities would form the core team. The
TDC would be housed in a suitable building, adjacent to the CRDC, which would
be refurbisheC and equipped under the project. In addition, the project would
finance equipment, materials, software, vehicles and technical assistance for
the TDC. During negotiations, the GOPunjab provided assurances that it would
establish and adequately staff the TDC in accordance with agreed job
descriptions and substantially as outlined above by July 1, 1993.
59.   Overseas fellowships (52 staff-months) and advanced on-the-job training
and coaching (18 staff-months of foreign specialist services) would be
provided to the research associates in the following areas: theory of
assessment; item writing, marking and grading; test administration;
statistical analysis, item banking, report writing for feedback; and, use of
computers. TDC would conduct local training for registrars and examination
staff at the divisional and district levels. With help from foreign
specialists, research associates would train staff in the Registrar's office
at divisional level in mathematics, science, Urdu and English. A second phase
of training focussing on DDEOs/AEOs and headmasters/headmistresses of middle
schools would be organized by divisional examination authorities. Short (2-
week) district-level workshops would develop skills in writing questions that
require problem-solving skills. In the third phase of training, one-day
awareness raising seminars would be held at the sub-district (tehsil) level
for teachers. The project would finance training materials and related
expenditures.
60.   The TDC would also develop standardized achievement tests in selected
compulsory subjects (math, science, Urdu and English) of classes 5 and 8. The
project would finanse specialist services (18 staff-months of foreign and 24
staff-months of local specialists) to pilot and administer these tests to a
sample of students in the province, as well as to analyze results and publish
findings on performance toward curricula goals. The project would also
finance test development, printing and publishing costs. In conjunction with
the administration of these tests, an information, education and communication
campaign would be launched to raise public awareness about results of these
tests and ways to improve quality of learning achievement.
Improving Ouality. Production and Distribution of Teachin&-Learning Materials
(Estimated Base Cost, US$7.7 million)
61.   Textbooks.  To improve textbook content, methodology, internal design
and attractiveness, and physical production specifications the project would
support, first, professional market research on currer,t textbook use. The
study would cover a representative sample of 400 middle schools and would be
conducted by CRDC in collaboration with PTB. Short-term foreign (2 staff-
months) and local (10 staff-months) specialist services would be provided at
the design and result-interpretation stages, and for follow-up throughout the
program implementation. Second, professional training in all aspects of
textbook development and production (including writing, editing, design,
illustration, production, publishing and financial management) would be
provided to Materials Development Teams (MDTs) and PTB staff. Third, the
project would support longitudinal studies to monitor all aspects of
introduction of improved textbooks in middle schooling, in conjunction with
changes to the assessment and examination system, upgrading of pre- and in-



19
service teacher training, and introduction of other teaching/learning
materials. For the second and third items above, the project would finance
specialist services (12 staff-months of foreign specialists and 480 staff-
months of local specialists) fellowships (68 staff-months), MDT staff,
equipment, software, and incremental operating expenditures.
62.   Teachers' Guides.  The project would finance the production and
distribution of new teachers' guides for all teachers in classes 6, 7 and 8 in
all six subjects. These guides would be developed by MDTs, published by the
PTB (with specifications to last at least six years), and provided free to all
teachers.
63.   Supplementary Reading Materials.  The project would finance
supplementary reading texts in about 7.500 middle schools. The supplementary
materials program -- including the book procurement budget -- would be managed
by the CRDC. This would enable titles to be selected and/or developed in
close conformity to curriculum requirements and production specifications and
would achieve the cost benefits of bulk purchase. Selected titles would be
either bought from commercial publishers, adapted and translated by commercial
publishers from overseas publishers, or developed locally. This mechanism
would remove the burden of publishing, production and distribution from the
CRDC (which lacks the capacity to handle these activities), and would allow
the CRDC to focus on selection, management, implementation and evaluation.
Storage would be provided to maintain the collections in schools. DDOEs/AEOs
and headmasters would supervise usage of the collections in close harmony with
the curriculum and the textbooks. During AY93-95 the scheme would be piloted
in three districts. It would be evaluated during 1995, and expanded province-
wide in 1996, taking into account the results of the evaluation. The scheme
would involve the purchase (total estimated cost of RslOl million) and
distribution of about 4 million books p.a. (180 titles in 3 copies each to
7,500 schools) when fully on stream in 1996. In full operation, the
replacement cost is ebcimated at Rs5 million (or about 5% of initial cost),
representing 0.3% of GOPunjab's FY91 recurrent budget for middle schooling.
The project would finance 23 staff months of local technical assistance for
this sub-component.
3. Strengthen Policy-Making. Planning. Management. Monitoring and
Evaluation Capacity (Estimated Base Cost, US$3.7 million)
64.   The project, in addition to on-going externally financed operations in
primary education (para. 16), would have a major impact on policy formulation,
planning, management, monitoring and evaluation in the Department of Education
as a whole, including the Secretariat and its functional Directorates as well
as divisional and district offices. A description of the current and planned
organization of elementary education in the province is illustrated in Chart 1
15/. The proposed organizational restructuring would be accommodated mostly
through transfers/promotions among existing DOE staff.
15/ Detailed descriptions of roles and responsibilities of key managerial units are available in project
files.



20
Stre gthenin& Policy-Making and Planning Capacity (Estimated Base Cost, US$2.2
million)
65.   Policy-Making and Planning.  The project would support the Provincial
Education Council (PEC) by financing the incremental cost of professional and
secretariat support staff and externally contracted studies to facilitate the
work of the PEC (para. 32). To strengthen school location planning and school
mapping, the project would assist the Education Secretariat, the recently
established National Educational Management Information System cell 16/ and
divisional and district offices in developing a School Mapping Information
System (SMIS). The SMIS would complement production and analysis of
educational statistics with support systems to improve location and
distribution of schools, and would monitor the construction and maintenance
program. The project would support the development of the SMIS in the NEMIS
cell and in divisional and district offices by providing specialist services
(12 staff-months of foreign specialist)and fellowships (54 staff-months) for
divisional school planning officers and district education planners, equipment
and software, vehicles, and incremental recurrent expenditures.
Improving Management and Coordination (Estimated Base Cost, US$1.2 million)
66.   Effective Management and Coordination for Elementary Education would be
achieved through restructuring of the existing management structure of
elementary education. There would be two major changes. First, the vertical
bifurcation of the Directorate of Public Instruction (Schools) at the
provincial level into two separate Directorates of Public Instruction; one for
secondary education (grades 9 - 12), _.nd the other for elementary education
(grades 1 - 8), to be known respectively as the Directorate of Public
Instruction, Secondary Education [DPI(SE)] and the Directorate of Public
Instruction, Elementary Education [DPI(EE)]. The DPI(EE), when established,
would incorporate the current Additional Directorate of Public Instruction,
Primary Education [ADPI(PE)].   Second, divisional and district offices would
be bifurcated into elementary and secondary education, accompanied by a
redesignation of staff and duties in each of these two administrative groups.
The project would finance foreign specialist services (12 staff-months) to
support administrative unit development, training and incremental staff
salaries. During negotiations, GOPunjab provided assurances that it would
complete the establishment of the Directorate for Elementary Education and
fully staff the Directorate by July 1, 1993.
67.   To strengthen coordination of various agencies in DOE, the project would
support the creation of the Education Coordination Committee working under the
Edlucation Secretary, with coopted members from the Directorates of Public
Instruction, CRDC, EEC, PTB, CEC and NEMIS (para. 32). The Committee would be
assisted in its work by several committees. The project would finance
incremental operating expenditures of the Committee's secretariat consisting
of an executive secretary and support staff. Also, the project would support
the establishment of a new Directorate of Staff Development to coordinate and
oversee the pre- and in-service training of teachers as well as the in-service
training of educational managers at all levels. To this end, the new
161 Under the UNDP/USAID-supported National Educational Management Information System (NEMIS), an
educational data base is being developed with a computerized network based at provincial and divisional
headquarters.



21
Directorate will incorporate the management of the EEC and the GCETs.   During
negotiations, GOPunjab provided assurances that it would establish the
Directorate of Staff Development by July 1, 1993.
Strengthening Monitoring and Evaluation Capacity (Estimated Base Cost, US$0.3
million)
68. Monitoring and evaluation capacity would be strengthened through
improved collection and analysis of educational indicators, and impact
evaluation studies in priority areas related to participation and learning
achievement. A semi-annual reporting system would be developed in the
Education Secretariat with the view to provide senior managers with
information on program expenditures and implementation as well as progress on
educational indicators. The project would finance specialist services (6
staff-months of foreign experts) and fellowships (24 staff-months),
incremental operating costs and equipment and materials.



22
CHAPTER III
PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. DISBURSEMENTS AND IMPLEMENTATION.
A. PROJECT COSTS
69.   Summary of Project Costs.  Project costs are est5.mated at US$164.1
million. A summary of project costs by investment objective is shown in Table
3.1. Project costs by category of expenditure are shown in Table 3.2.
Details of project costs are shown in Annex 6.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT COSTS BY INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE
X of      X
----- PRs Million ----         ----  US$ Million  -- Base  Foreign
Local  Foreign    Total   Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
IMPROVED ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION
Access and Facilities                2,073.7      314.7  2,388.3      84.2      12.8    97.0        70X      132
Maintenance                            156.6       23.4     180.0       6.4      1.0      7.3        52      132
Female Participation                   260.4                260.4      10.6              10.6        8X
Local Government                        22.6       18.4      41.0       0.9      0.7      1.7        12      452
Private Sector                           1.4        3.2       4.6       0.1      0.1      0.2        0X      70%
Sub-Total Access, Participation:   2,514.6    359.8  2,874.4   102.1    14.6   116.7                  852      132
IMPROVED QUALITY
Teacher Effectiveness                  142.1       50.7     192.8       5.8      2.1      7.8        62      262
Learning Assossment                     12.7       27.3      40.0      0.5       1.1      1.6        12      682
Teaching-Learning Materials             48.1    142.6    190.7         2.0       5.8      7.7        62      752
Sub-Total Improved Quality:         202.9    220.6    423.5         8.2      9.0      17.2      122      522
STRENGTHENED MANAGEMENT
Policy-Making, Planning                 27.6       26.4      54.0       1.1      1.1      2.2        22      492
Management, Coordination                11.3       18.3      29.6       0.5      0.7      1.2        12      622
Monitoring, Evaluation                   2.2        6.3       8.5       0.1      0.2      0.3        02      742
Sub-Total Instit. Development:          41.0       51.0      92.0       1.7      2.0      3.7        32      542
TOTAL BASE COSTS:                       2,758.6      631.3  3,389.9   112.0    25.6   137.6           1002      192
Physical Contingencies:                275.9       63.1    339.0      11.2       2.6     13.8       102      192
Price Contingencies:                   262.0       50.6    312.6      10.6       2.1     12.7        92      162
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     3,296.4      7'45.1  4,041.5    133.8      30.3    164.1      1192      182
Nt:eaef gur         ==es m    =====  m=su= _ t=t ba o=i===n======
Note: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.



23
Table 3.2: PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
x of    X
----- Rs Million    ---    - USS Million -- Base Foreign
Local Foreign   Total  Local Foreign  Total Costs Exchange
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
Civil Works                 1,844.1   277.6 2,121.7   74.9   11.3   86.1    63%    132
Construction Management Serv.    66.6    16.6   83.2    2.7    0.7    3.4    2%    20%
Furniture                    194.6    29.1   223.7    7.9    1.2    9.1      7%    13%
Training Equipment & Materials   77.1   153.7   230.8    3.1    6.2    9.4   7%    67%
Vehicles                       8.8     8.8    17.6    0.4    0.4    0.7      1%    50%
Technical Assistance          32.5    99.9   132.4    1.3    4.1    5.4      4%    75%
Sub-Total Investment       2,223.7   585.7 2,809.4   90.3   23.8  114.1    83%    21%
II. INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
School Maintenance           156.6    23.4   180.0    6.4    1.0    7.3      5%    13%
Incentives for Female Partici,  260.4  0.0   260.4   10.6    0.0   10.6      8%     0%
Admin. Expend. & Allowances   85.8    14.2   100.0    3.5    0.6    4.1      3%    14%
Operations and Other Maint.   32.0     8.0    40.1    1.3    0.3    1.6      1%    20%
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs    534.9    45.6   580.4   21.7    1.9   23.6    17%      8%
TOTAL BASE COSTS:              2,758.6   631.3 3,389.9  112.0   25.6  137.6   100%    19%
Physical Contingencies:       275.9    63.1   339.0   11.2    2.6   13.8    10%    19%
Price Contingencies:          262.0    50.6   312.6   10.6    2.1   12.7      9%    16%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS:           3,296.4   745.1 4,041.5  133.8   30.3  164.1   119%    18%
Note: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.
70.    Basis of Cost Estimates.   PEP3's standard classroom designs (inclusive
of latrines, water pumps and boundary walls) would be used with suitable
modifications for the construction of 3, 4, 5 or 6 classrooms for existing or
new middle schools. In addition, these middle schools would be provided a
headmaster/headmistress' room, water pumps, latrines and boundary walls. Unit
costs of the construction program are based on reviews of recently awarded
contracts under PEP3. Costs of furniture, science demonstration desks,
supplementary reading materials, textbooks, vehicles, training costs and
consumable classroom materials are based on detailed analyses of unit costs
and requirements for the program.
71.    Technical assistance (TA) costs have been estimated on the basis of
recent prices for comparable TA in PEP2, PEP3 and Sindh PEDP -- and include
housing, relocation costs, salaries, subsistence, office services, fees, and
overhead costs. Costs of salaries and allowances to local staff are based on
current Government rates.
72.    Costs Rer Student.   Most construction would be additions to existing
facilities. At the margin, the average construction costs per student place
is estimated at about US$195, which puts these unit costs into the lowest
quartile of Bank-financed education projects 17/.
17/ The comparison is made with the latest study on this topic ("Unit Areas and Unit Cost Estimates in
Education Projects", November, 1983).



24
73.   Customs Duties and Taxes.  Project costs include an estimated US$12.7
million (or about 8% of total project costs) in duties and taxes on civil
works, goods and services.
74.   Contingencv Allowances.  All project items include an allowance of 10%
for unforeseen physical contingencies. Price contingencies between
negotiations (held in January, 1992) and the end of project implementation are
estimated at a US$12.7 million equivalent, or 9% of base costs. Because of
the substantial differential between the projected international (3.5% p.a)
and local (8% p.a. in FY93 and 6% p.a. between FY94 and FY98) price increases,
and based on the assumption that the rate of exchange of the Rupee would be
adjusted against the US$ in accordance with its purchasing power parity, only
the international rate of price increases has been applied to all project
expenditures, in USS and in Rupees. This method gives an accurate projection
of the price contingency calculations when expressed in US$ W.
75.   Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) construction and maintenance of existing facilities
- 13%; (b); furniture - 13%; (c) equipment - 67%; (d) vehicles - 50%; (e)
teaching-learning and other classroom materials - 91%; (f) foreign specialists
- 75%; (g) local specialists - 0%; (h) overseas training - 100%; (i) local
training - 3%; and, (j) salaries - 0%. Including contingencies, the resulting
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$30.3 million, or about 18% of
total project costs.
76.   Recurrent Costs.  Under the proposed project, incremental recurrent
costs would be generated by: (a) the enhanced school maintenance program; (b)
the incentives (scholarships and prizes for staff recognition) to improve
female participation; (c) the recruitment of teachers to staff new schools to
be established under the project; (d) supplies and maintenance of equipment
and vehicles; and (e) additional management staff due to the reorganization of
the Directorate of Public Instruction (Schools). In the course of annual
reviews, GOPunjab would submit for IDA's review the budget proposals for
maintenance, and scholarships and prizes (para. 78). During the period FY91-
98, recurrent expenditures on middle schooling are projected to grow 7.8% p.a.
in zeal terms (Annex 2, Table 4), well below the 11.2% average annual increase
in elementary education recurrent expenditures recorded in the Punjab during
the period FY81-89 (Annex 2, Table 1). Two factors contribute to reduce the
overall impact on incremental expenditures. First, because a large portion of
the construction program is devoted to consolidation of existing schools where
teachers have already been hired, the overall impact on the payroll would be
reduced. Second, by increasing average class size in rural schools (paras. 4-
5), additional savings would be generated through efficiency gains.
B. PROJECT FINANCING
77.   The total project cost of US$164.1 million equivalent would be financed
as follows: (a) the proposed IDA Credit of US$115 million would finance about
70% of total project costs, including all foreign costs (US$30.3 million) and
63% of local costs (US$84.7 million); and, (b) GOPunjab would finance the
18/ The total project costs, when expressed in Rupee terms and adjusted for local price increases, amount
to Rs4,070 million.



25
remaining US$49.1 million. In addition to this contribution to the project,
GOPunjab would, during the project period, provide an estimated US$706 million
to finance recurrent expenditure (para. 39). Project financing would be in
accordance with Table 3.3
Table 3.3: Financing Plan By Disbursement Category
US$ Millions
Government of   Total
IDA       Pakistan    Finance 
______________   --------------    --------    of
Category of Expenditure   Amount    S   Amount   S   Amount Total
A: CONSTRUCTION WORKS       78.3    76   24.7   24  103.0   63
B: CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERV.   4.1   100  -   -   4.1     2
C: FURNIT., EQUIPMT AND MATERIALS  19.6    90   2.3   10  21.8   13
D: VEHICLES                                0.8  100   0.8     0
E: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE      6.2   100                 6.2    4
F: INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS  6.9    24   21.3   76  28.1   17
TOTAL FINANCING             115.0    70   49.1   30  164.1  100
78.   To help promote the success of the project, regular annual reviews would
be held between the Government and IDA. During such reviews, the parties
would review progress of the entire sub-program and the project in relation to
other on-going or proposed development projects/programs, and agree on the
magnitude of the following year's action program, including maintenance,
scholarships and prizes (para. 76). The estimated financing requirements by
year are shown in Table 3.4 below. During negotiations, the GOPunjab agreed
to conduct annual reviews with IDA of the middle school sub-program and
project: to assess progress, agree with IDA upon a work plan for the next
fiscal year, including targets to be achieved and activities to be carried
out, and determine the size of the provisions to be made in the next year's
budget.



26
Table 3.4: Financing Requirements by Year
(US$ Millions)
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Total
Government of Pakistan   5.5   8.7   8.1  8,7   9.0  8.9 49.1
Intern'l Develop. Association   13.2  20.2  20.2  71.1  20.9  19.6 115.0
Financing Requirements   18.7  28.9  28.3  29,8  29.9  28.5 164.1
C.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
Implementation Responsibilities
79.   The Directorate of Public Instruction (Elementary Education) [DPI(EE)]
would be the principal implementation agency. Until DPI (EE) is established,
ADPI (PE) will remain responsible for the implementation of initial proiect
activity. It would be assisted by existing line agencies of the Punjab
Government, reinforced where necessary through TA. These agencies include:
(a) the DOE's Civil Engineering Cell (CEC) (construction program) (paras. 81-
83); (b) the Directorate of Staff Development (teacher education and staff
training) (para. 67); (c) the CRDC/TDC (educational assessment) (para. 58);
(d) the MDTs and the PTB (textbooks, teachers' guides and supplementary
reading materials) (paras. 61-63); and, (e) the Education Secretariat (school
mapping and school location planning, and monitoring and evaluation) (paras.
65 and 68).
Implementation of the Construction Program
80.   The proposed project would take into account the lessons learned from
previous implementation difficulties under PEPZ. These emphasized the need
to: (a) establish contracting procedures commensurate with local capabilities;
(b) strengthen quality assurance in school construction; (c) establish
disbursement-related mechanisms (accounting, budgeting, payment and
replenishment) early in project implementation; and, (d) ensure an adequate
mechanism to audit project accounts. The project's response to these lessons
of experience are discussed below.
81.   Contracting Procedures.   The DOE's CEC and constructicn managers
contracted from the private sector would share the responsibility for
implementing the largest part of the project -- the school construction
program. In combination, these agencies can implement dispersed construction
programs. On-going experience with the PEP3 construction program has shown
that large-scale contractors have not been interested in bidding on the highly
dispersed construction programs and relatively small-size contracts in rural
Punjab. There is an adequate number of small contractors throughout the
province. The proposed construction, renovation and maintenance programs
would (as under PEP3) be implemented as a series of small, individual school
construction contracts where CEC would, at the district level: (a) invite
tenders and award contracts; and (b) monitor payments to contractors (based on
the recommendations of the supervision staff) and inform the Directorate of
Public Instruction (Elementary Education) accordingly. In addition, in those
districts where private sector consulting firms are available, DPI (EE) would



27
contract construction managers to implement about 40% of the total school
construction program.
82.   Construction Quality Assurance.  To help the DPI (EE) plan and implement
the construction programs to be carried out by the CEC and the private sector,
the project would finance the services of a local consulting firm with
experience in design, programming and certification to:
(a)   develop detailed design documents, easily understood by the
contracting commun,ty (based on the existing design documents for
primary schools);
(b)   prepare construction programs, a system for collecting information
on progress and quality from the sites, and procedures to analyze
the information and recommend remedial action; and,
(c)   certify comtpleted works through final inspection visits to each
construction site.
83.     To permit the CEC to undertake the added responsibility of increased
construction and added maintenance, the supervision staff would be increased
by 50 sub-engineers, a minimum staffing to supervise at least 5 construction
sites concurrently. The supervision staff would: (a) certify progress
payments and/or completion of works; and, (b) periodically submit reports on
physical progress, unresolved problems and certified payments to the Executive
Engineers of the CEC, and to the design and programming consultants. During
negotiations the GOPunjab agreed to recruit 50 qualified sub-engineers to
strengthen the capacity of CEC.
84.   The proposed project would be disbursed over eight years.
Disbursements, based on the sector profile, are shown in Annex 7.
Disbursements would be made against the following expenditures:
(a)   76% of the contracts for civil works;
(b)   100% of the CIF cost of directly imported equipment and
educational materials;
(c)   100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured or
locally procured furniture, equipment and educational materials
[excluding vehicles which would be procured by the Government
under reserved procurement and therefore not financed by IDA --
para. 90 (d)];
(d)   100% of consultant services and fellowships.
(e)   70% of female teachers and student scholarships, up to a maximum
disbursement of US$2.9 million, subsequently 50% of female teacher
and student scholarships up to a maximum cumulative disbursement
of US$4.6 million and finally 30% of female teacher and student
scholarships up to a maximum cumulative disbursement of US$5.2
million; and



28
(f)   70% of incremental staff salaries, up to a maximum disbursement of
US$0.4 million, subsequently 50% of incremental staff salaries up
to a maximum cumulative disbursement of US$0.7 million and finally
30% of incremental staff salaries up to a maximum cumulative
disbursement of US$0.8 million.
85.   Disbursements against contracts for goods and services exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent would be made against normal documentation.
Disbursements against contracts below that level would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), available for review by Bank missions. To
facilitate program implementation, the Government would establish, maintain
and operate, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, two Special
Accounts in the National Bank of Pakistan, one for CEC and one for
ADPI(PE)/DPI (EE). Upon Project Effectiveness, IDA would make initial
deposits into the account, equivalent to about US$6.0 million. Applications
for the replenishment of the Special Account should be submitted at monthly
intervals. Withdrawal applications would be supported by appropriate
documentation. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Government would establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, two Special Accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan.
86.   Accounts and Audits.  The implementing agencies would maintain separate
accounts for the sub-program on middle schooling and prepare semi-annual
progress reports on physical and financial progress made in achieving its
objectives. Project accounts, including the Special Accounts, would be
audited in accordance with the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank". During
negotiations, the GOPunjab agreed to provide within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year an audit report of such scope and detail as the Association
may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against certified statements of expenditures.
87.   Site Acguisition.  During the first two years of implementation,
additional facilities would be provided to existing middle schools that have
been identified and are suitable for required expansion. Sites for
construction of new middle schools would be identified and acquired at least
one year prior to start of construction by DOE officials on the basis of the
school map and agreed-upon criteria and in consultation with representatives
of local communities. During negotiations, the GOPunjab undertook to: (a)
provide a list of sites acquired for construction of new middle schools
annually at the time of the annual reviews (para. 78) and agreed upon the
criteria for site selection (annex 5); (b) provide a list of school sites for
the first year program, in accordance with the criteria for school
construction, as a condition of Board Presentation; and (c) acquire the first
year construction sites as a condition of Credit Effectiveness.
D. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
88.   Procurement arrangements are described below and summarized in the
following table. There would be no International Competitive Bidding.



29
Table 3.5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS a/
Total Costs of Proposed Project Includiing Contingencies
(US$ Millions)
Category of Expenditure    ICB  Local  OTHER  N/A  TOTAL
CO'!STRUCTION WORKS           103.0              103.0
(78.3)            (78.3)
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT SERV.         4.1         4.1
(4.1)      (4.1)
EQUIPMT, FURNIT. AND MATERIALS  12.8   9.0       21.8
(11.5)  (8.1)     (19.6)
VEHICLES                               0.8        0.8
(0.0)      (0.0)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                  6.2         6.2
(6.2)      (6.2)
INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS                 28.1  28.1
(6.9)    (6.9)
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENTS   115.8  20.1  28.1  164.1
(TOTAL IDA FINANCING)        (89.8)  (18.3)  (6.9) (115.0)
Note: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.
/a Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit.
(a)   Construction Works (US$103.0 million).  Based on past experience
with procurement packaging (paras. 80-81), procurement of civil
works would be carried out through Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB). GOPunjab's LCB procedures are generally consistent with
the need for economy and efficiency in execution. During
negotiations, the GOPunjab agreed on procedures acceptable to IDA
(Annex 10).
(b)   Furniture (USS12.8 million) would be procured through LCB in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
(c)   Furniture. EguiRment and Materials (USS9.0 million)  Goods
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate value of US$9.0 million, would be procured under local
shopping procedures acceptable to IDA, on the basis of at least
three price quotations.
(d)   Vehicles (USSO.8 million)  Vehicles would be financed entirely by
the Government.
(e)   Technical Assistance and Construction Management (US$10.4
million). To ensure coordinated TA management, the DOE would
obtain specialist services and fellowships through about six
purpose-specific TA contracts (see Annex 8). Unless otherwise
agreed-upon with IDA, at least three qualified bidders from at
least two countries would submit proposals for each package,
following a shortlisting of individuals/institutions/agencies
acceptable to the Association. Consultants (including
construction managers) would be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures acceptable to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" (dated August



30
1981). The evaluation of qualified firms for the provision of the
technical assistance services would be a Condition of
Effectiveness for the proposed Credit.
(f)   Scholarships and Incremental Recurrent Costs (US$28.1 million)
would be financed partly by the GOPunjab and partly by IDA (US$6.9
million).
89.   Contract Reviews.  All IDA-financed contracts and services estimated to
cost $200,000 or more will be subject to prior IDA review. All other
contracts for goods would be subject to selective post award reviews. All TA
and construction management contracts would be subject to IDA review prior to
execution.
90.   Status of Proiect Concept Paper (PC-1) 191. Approval of the PC-1 by
the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) would be a
condition of Credit Effectiveness. Project completion would be December 31,
1999 and the Credit Closing Date would be June 30, 2000.
91.   Environmental ImRact.  The environmental impact of the proposed project
is expected to be neutral (screening category C). There would be emissions
associated with the baking of bricks in wood fired kilns and other unavoidable
environmental disruptions associated with the construction of a large number
of small schools. However, the project would improve the sanitary environment
of about 1,400 existing schools, which lack basic sanitary facilities and
provide such basic facilities for all new construction (para. 44).
92.   IDA Supervision Requirements.  The project would require intensive IDA
supervision, particularly in the first three years of operation, to assist
GOPunjab with start-up of project components. Initial annual supervision
requirements are therefore estimated at a minimum of 18 staff-weeks.
i9/ All development projects in Pakistan must be presented to the approving government authorities in a
prescribed format known as a PC-1.



31
CHAPTER IV
BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
93.   The project would increase middle-level enrollment, especially for
girls, by improving access and providing appropriate incentives to participate
in school. It would also improve learning by enhancing the quality of
instruction, and the availability and standards of educational materials.
Finally, it would improve efficiency through better management and
administration. Aggregate enrollments at the middle level are expected to
grow by 585,000 between Academic Year 1991-92 and Academic Year 1997-98, an
increase of 38%. In particular, rural female enrollment would grow 103%, from
233,000 to 474,000. Combined with incentives to improve participation of
rural girls in further education, these increases would help to alleviate the
shortage of female teachers in rural areas. By supporting priority quality
improvement inputs, the project would maximize the benefits to be gained from
elementary education expenditure at a time of severe resource constraints. A
pilot program with local government would enhance community participation and
accountability to users. The role of the private sector would be enhanced.
B. RISKS
94.   The major risk is that cutbacks in government expenditure on elementary
education would jeopardize the achievement of project targets. In a context
of very rapid population growth, the project supports the minimum investment
and recurrent expenditure needed to allow an increase in the rural
participation rate, improve efficiency, and improve the quality of instruction
to ensure that children acquire the knowledge and skills needed to become
productive workers or to further their studies. The government is firmly
committed to these objectives, and has given assurances at negotiations that
it would provide the necessary budgetary resources to meet investment and
recurrent costs objectives. A subsidiary risk is that the government may have
difficulties in carrying out the physical and institutional objectives of such
a large program. However, the Punjab Government's physical implementation
capacity has improved during the implementation of the on-going IDA assisted
project (PEP3), and would be further strengthened in the proposed project. To
minimize institutional constraints, the organization and management of
elementary education would be strengthened through technical assistance. The
project would also consolidate and extend programs that previously proved
successful, using and strengthening existing line agencies. It is possible
that the projected growth of the private sector falls short of expectations.
The Government is however committed to promote development of private
initiatives through a set of policies and programs which are endorsed by local
authorities.



32
CHAPTER V
CONDITIONALITIES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS
95.   During negotiations, GOPunjab provided assurances that it would, during
the period encompassed by the project:
(a)   agree to carry out and provide the necessary financial resources
for the middle school sub-program and to review such program
annually with IDA (para. 39 and Annex 2, Tables 4 and 5);
(b)   agree to maintain a balanced construction program, including a mix
of various types of schools, throughout project execution and
provide adequate budgetary resources annually, (para. 46);
(c)   agree to restru^ture DOE's Directorate of Public Instruction
(Schools) (DPI(S)) into a Directorate of Public Instruction
(Elementary Education), (DPI(EE)) and a Directorate of Public
Instruction (Secondary Education), (DPI(SE)), each with a separate
hierachy at the divisional and district levels. In addition, an
understanding was reached that only one District Education Officer
(Secondary Schools) would be appointed for botl. girls and boys and
that GOPunjab would to ensure that 50% of these positions would be
filled by female candidates.
(d)   review with IDA the results of the evaluation of the pilot program
to transfer responsibility of DOE schools and staff to the
Rawalpindi Municipal Corporation, and its recommendations by
December 31, 1995 and the desirability of the future expansions
(para. 52);
(e)   conduct an evaluation of the PEF activities by December 31, 1994,
and review with IDA the results of this evaluation and thereafter
prepare, on the basis of such review proposals on the role of
private enterprises and NGOs in the delivery of education services
and the measures to be taken for facilitating such role (para.
53);
(f)   by July 1, 1993, establish and adequately staff the TDC in
accordance with agreed job descriptions and substantially (para.
58);
(g)   by July 1, 1993, complete the establishment of DPI(EE) (para. 66);
(h)   by July 1, 1993, establish the DSD (para. 67);
(i)   agree to conduct annual reviews with IDA of the middle school sub-
program and project: to assess progress, agree with IDA upon a
work plan for the next fiscal year, including targets to be
achieved and activities to be carried out, and determine the size
of the provisions to be made in the next year's budget (para. 78);



33
(j)   by October 31, 1992, recruit 50 qua tfied sub-engineers in the
Civil Engineering Cell of the provincial Department of Education
(para. 83).
(k)   establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA two Special Accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan (para. 85);
(1)   provide within nine months of the end of each fiscal year an audit
report of such scope and detail as the Association may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditor on
disbursements against certified statements of expenditures (para.
86); and
(m)   provide a list of sites acquired for construction of new middle
schools in the context of annual reviews as described in para. 87.
B. CONDITIONS OF CREDIT EFFECTIVENESS
96.   The following would be conditions of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)   The first year construction sites would be acquired (para. 87);
(b)   The province shall have furnished to IDA evaluation of qualified
firms for the provision of the technical assistance services
(para. 88); and,
(c)   Approval of the PC-1 by the Executive Committee of the National
Economic Council (para. 90).
97.   Recommendation.  With the above agreements, the proposed Project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Development Credit of SDR 80.5 million
(US$115 equivalent) on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years to the
Islamic Republic of Pakistan.



34
AIrex 1, Table 1
PUNJAS MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Enrollment by Level of Education Between 1980-81 and 1988-89 1/
(Thousands)
K Anual
LEVEL (Clas8es)      1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89   Growth
2/    89/81
Primary LeveL (1-5)       3,128    3,281    3,391    3,699    4,037    4,146    4,602    5,170    5,924          8.3%
Middle Level (6-8)           873      898      915       998    1,060    1,177    1,262    1,401    1,605        7.9X
Secondary Level (9-10)       271      290      317       337      365      400       422      464       531      8.8X
.... ..... ... ...... ..  .....  ------  ......    .........  ------  ------. .. ------  ......... .
TOTAL                     4,272    4,469    4,623    5,034    5,462    5,723    6,286    7,034    8,061          8.3X
Source: Goverraient of Punjab, Statistical Yearbooks, Corresponding Years.
1/ Including all providers of education in the Punjab: the provincial Department of Education, local
governments, private sector, and schools owned and operated by the federal goverrmnent (e.g. Army) and by
national pubifc corporations (e.g. railways).
2/ Provisional data pubtished by the Bureau of Education, Punjab Education Department.
NOTE: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.
FILENAME: 0:\CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\A1T1.WK1



35                                         Arex 1, Table 2
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Ipact of Population Growth on Participation and Budgetary Requirements in Elementary Education
by Area and by Gender to the Horizon 1997-98
(Thousands)
LEVEL               Academic Year 1987-88                  Academic Year 1997-98                    Financial Impact 1/
....... ..........................  ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----  ............................................. ..
Area            Age-Group     Actual  GPR    Projected  Enroll. to Additional    Average   Avg. Annual Requirements
PopuLatich  Enrollees    X    Age-Group    Maintain   Number of     Annual    -----------------------
Gender                                    Population   87-88 GPR   Enrollees   Increase      Dev.     Rec.    Total
(Million FY91 RS)
PRIMARY LEVEL
Urban     Boys      1,307      1,070   82%       1,694         386          316         32
Girls      1,223        829   68%       1,584        i,074        245          25
Rural     Boys      3,050      2,183   72%       3,952       2,829         646          65
Girls      2,853      1,088   38%       3,696       1,409         322          32
Total     Boys      4,357      3,253   75%       5,645       4,215         962          96
Girls      4,075      1,917   47%       5,281       2,484         567          57
Total      8,432      5,170   61%      10,926       6,699       1,529         153      306       89      395
MIDDLE LEVEL
Urban     Boys        709        470   66%         919         610          139         14
Girls        649        288   44%         841         373          85           9
Rural     Boys      1,655        520   31%       2,145         674          154         15
Girls      1,514        122    8%       1,962         159          36           4
Total     Boys      2,365        991   42%       3,065       1,284         293          29
Girls      2,163        410   19%       2,803         532         121          12
Total      4,528      1,401   31%       5,868       1,815         415          41      164       56      220
ELEMENTARY EDUCATION
======  ======   =====   =====       =====        ~~===     ==      ===      .=
Total     12,960      6,571            16,794       8,514       1,944         194      470      145      615
Source: Government of the Punjab, Education Department, Bureau of Education, Educational Statistics (Schools) 1987-88;
World Bank Population Projection.
1/ Estimates based on average unit costs for investment and recurrent expenditure in FY91.
NOTE: Detailed figures may not add up to totals because of roundings.
FILENAME: O:\CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\A1T2.WK1



PUHJAB NIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                                             Armex 1, Table 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Enrollment by Area, Type of School, Level of Education and Gender in AY1987-8U
(Thousands)
AREAS AND TYPE OF SCHOOL 1/
LEVEL OF                         Rural Areas                                        Urban Areas                                 Rural wnd Urban Areas
EDUCATION 2/      ----------------~~                 ~~~
Prim.  X R   Nid.  X R   Sec.  X R  Total  X R  Prim.  X R   Nid.  X R   Sec.  X R  Total  X R  Prim.  X R   Mid.  X R   Sec.  X R  Total  X R
GENDER     X C          X C         X C          X C         X C          X C         X C          X C         X C          X C          X C         X C
PRIMARY (Classes 1-5)
Boys   1,645  75X    333  15X    203  9°  2,181 1001    683  641    232  22X    153  14%  1,068 1001  2.328  72X    565  171    356  11X 3,249 1001
1001         63X          31X         771         1001         73n          21X         611         1001         671          25X         711
Girls     758  701    210  191    118  11X  1,086 1001    429  521    176  21X    223  27X    828 100X  1,187  621    386  201    341  181  1,914 1001
100X         791          581         881         100X         79X          39X         681         1001         794          44X         781
Totat   2,403  741    543  171    321  10X  3,267 1001  1,112  591    408  221    376  201  1,896 1001  3,515  68    951  181    697  131  5,163 1001
1001         691          371         80X         1001         761          294         64%         1001         711          32X         731
MIDDLE (Classes 6-8)
Boys                  192  371    327 631    519 1001                    85  181    385  821    470 1001                  277  281    712  721    9691001
37?         491          18X                      27X         521          27?                      33X         511          222
Girls                   57  471     65  531    122 1001                   47  161    241  84X    288 100X                  104  251    306  751    410 1001   Ca
211         321          101                      211         421          241                      211         401          '7X
Total                  249  391    392  611    641 1001                  132  171    626  831    758 100X                  381  271  1,018  731  1,399 1001
311         451          161                      241         481          261                      291         47X          201
SECONDARY (Classes 9-10)
Boys                              134 1001    134 1001                              204 1001    204 1001                              338 1001    338 100X
201          51                                   271         121                                   241          7X
Girls                               21 1001      21 1001                              105 1001    105 1001                              126 1001    126 1001
101          2X                                   181          9X                                   161         5S
Total                              155 1001    155 1002                              309 1001    309 1001                              464 1001    464 100X
18X          4X                                   241         10X                                   211          7X
All Levels Boys   1,645  581    525  191    664  231  2,834 100X    683  39X    317  181    742  431  1,742 100X  2,328  511    842  181  1,406  311  4,576 1001
Girls     758  621    267  221    204  171  1,229 1001    429  351    223  181    569  47X  1,221 1001  1,187  481    490  201    773  321  2,450 1001
rotal   2,403  59X    792  191    868  211  4,063 1001  1,112  381    540  181  1,311  441  2,963 1001  3,515  501  1,332  191  2,179  311  7,026 1001
Source: Government of the Punjab, Educational Statistics (Schools), Academic Year 1987-88.                                FILENAME: 0:\CDI\PAKkEEDP\SAR\A1T4.WKI
1/  A school (primery, middle, secondary) is designated according to the highest level of education available in the institution.
2/  Enrollment data on secondary level of education include suall number (less than 1.51 of enrollees in classes 9-10) of students enrolled in Classes 11 and
12 in Higher Secondary Schools.
Note: 1X RH (percentage roa-wise) represents the proportion of students enrolled in each type of school at the corresponding level of education.
Similarly, U2 Co (percentage colt.n-wise) represents the proportion of boys / girls / total students enrolled at the cor,esponding level of education.



PUNJAB NIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                                           Amex 2, Table 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                                   Page 1 of 2
Public Expenditure on Education Between 1980-81 and 1991-92 1/
(Current Nillion Rs)
Avg. Am.
1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90   Growth    1990-91   1991-92
(90/81) (rev'd) E/ Cest'd) 3/
GOPunjab PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Development                      2,659    3,351    3,979    4,208    4,087    5,271    6,986    8,759    6,472    7,169         11.7X    10,358     9,992
Recurrent                       6,186    7,400    8,807   10,969   13,270   15,332   19,978   23,579   24,324   26,756          17.7X    29,030    36,756
Total                           8,845   10,751   12,786   15,177   17,357   20,603   26,964   32,338   30,796   33,925          16.12    39,388    46,749
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON EDUCATION AT ALL LEVELS (Provincial Department of Education)
Development (Total)                270      335      499       489      489       730    1,019    1,158    1,375    1,518       21.1X     1,277     1,730
of which:
Primary Level                    86       115      111        84      111      140       307      464       348      239 \   22.6X        106       163
Externally-financed Projects                                                                               200      300 /                400       400
Niddle Level                     32        46       40        60       55       123      150      161       172      188     21.72         97       127
Special Progrm                                                                                                                           100       100
Secondary Level                  43        55      126       124      111       190      249      311       409      500     31.5X        166       292
Others                           109      119      222       221      212      277       314      222       246      291     11.52        409       648
Recurrent (Total)                1,399    1,631    2,124    2,589    3,179    4,106    4,776    5,517    5,358    6,561        18.7X      8,726    10,425
of which:
Prim. & Nid. Levels             m         875    1,127    1,408    1,630    2,222    2,553    2,883    3,P93    3,553        18.52      4,765     5,977
Secondary Level                 332       398      517       624      814    1,016    1,261    1,506    1,672    1,698       19.92      2,098     2,590
Others                          295       357      480       557      735      869       963    1,129       393    1,311     18.02      1,863     1,859
TOTAL                           1.669    1,965    2,623    3,078    3,668    4,836    5,795    6,675    6,733    8,079         19.22    10.004    12,155
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON ELEMENTARY EDUCATION (Primry and Middle Levels)
Development                        118      161      150       144      166      263       456      625       720      727     22.3X        703       790
Recurrent                         772       875    1,127    1,408    1,630    2.222    2,553    2,883    3,293    3,553        18.52      4,765     5,977
Total                             890    1,036    1,277    1,552    1,796    2,485    3,009    3,508    4,013    4,280         19.12      5,468     6,767
NEMDRANDUM
GDP PAKISTAN                  277,394  321,794  363,884  421,245  482,108  547,126  608,145  675,389  769,745  862,452         13.42 1,016,728 1.178,800
EST'D PUNJABDS GDP (55X)      152,567  176,987  200,136  231,685  265,159  300,919  334,480  371,464  423,360  474.349         13.42   559,200   648,340
Deflator                         1.000    1.086    1.150    1.267    1.348    1.450    1.514    1.562    1.696    1.804                   1.997     2.191
Source: Goverrnent of Pakistan, Economic Survey; Government of Punjab, Plaming and Development, and Education Departments; world Bank data.
1/ Detailed figures my not add up to totals because of roundings.
2/ Revised budget allocations for FY90-91 as reflected in the FY91-92 provincial budget.
3/ Budgetary allocations in FY91-92 provincial budget.
Filename: 0:\CD1IPAK\EEDP\SAR\A2T1.WKI



PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                                      Arex 2, TabLe I
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                               Page 2 of 2
Public Expenditure on Education Between 1980-81 and 1991-92
(Constant 1980-81 Million Rs)
Avg. Am.
1980-81  1981-82  1982-83  1983-84  1984-85  1985-86  1986-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90  Growth   1990-91   1991-92
(90/81)   (rev'd)  (est'd)
GOPunjab PUBLIC EXPENDITURE
Development                   2,659   3,086    3,461    3,322    3,033    3,636   4,615    5,608   3,816   3,974         4.6X     5,167    4,561
Recurrent                     6,186   6,816    7,660    8,658   9,847   10,577   13,199   15,096  14,342   14,830       10.2X  14,536   16,779
TOTAL                         8,845   9,902   11,120   11,980   12,880   14,213   17,814   20,704   18,158   18,804      8.71   19,723   21,341
PLIBLIC EXPENDITLRE ON EDUCATION AT ALL LEVELS (Provincial Department of Education)
Development (Total)             270      308      434      386      363      504      673      741     811      841     13.5X       640       790
Primary Level                  86      105       96       67       82       97      203      297     323      299    14.81        253       257
Middle Level                   32       43       35       i7       41       85       99      103     101      104    14.01         98       104
Secondary LeveL                43       51      110       98       82      131      164      199     241      277    23.1X         83       133
Others                        109      109      193      175      157      191      207      142     145      161      4.41       205       296
Recurrent (Total)              1,399    1,502    1,848   2,044    2,359    2,833    3,155    3,532    3,159   3,637     11.21     4,369    4,759
Prim. & Mid. Levels           772      806      980    1,111    1,210    1,533    1,686    1,846    1,942    1,969    11.01     2,386    2,728
Secondary Level               332      367      450      493      604      701     833      964      986      941     12.31    1,051      1,182         6)
Others                        295      329      418      440      545      599      636     723      232      727    10.6"        933      849           00
TOTAL                         1,669    1,810    2,281    2,429    2,722    3,336    3,828   4,273    3,970   4,478      11.61     5,009    5,549
PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ON ELEMENTARY EDLUATION (Primary and Middle Levels)
Development                     118      148      131      114      123      181      301     400      425      403     14.6X       352      361
Recurrent                       772      806      980    1,111    1,210    1,533    1,686    1,846    1,942    1,969    11.02     2,386    2,728
Total                           890      954    1,111    1,225    1,333    1,714    1,988    2,246   2,366    2,372     11.5     2,738    3,089
RATIOS
Total Public Education Expend.
as X of Punjab's GDP            1.11    1.11      1.31     1.3X   1.42       1.61    1.71     1.81    1.61      1.7X                1.81     1.91
as 1 of Tot. Pub. Exp.         18.91   18.31   20.51   20.31   21.11   23.51   21.5X   20.6X   21.91   23.81                       25.41    26.01
Dev. Exp. on Education
as X of Tot. Dev. Exp.         10.21    10.01    12.5X 11.61   12.0X  13.81   14.61    13.21   21.21   21.21                       12.31    17.31
Recur. Exp. on Education
as X of Tot. Rec. Exp.         22.61   -22.01   24.11   23.6X  24.01   26.81   23.91   23.41   22.01   24.51                       30.11    28.41
Exp. on Prim. & Middle Levels
as X of PunJab's GDP            0.61    0.61    0.61    0.71    0.71    0.81    0.91    0.91    0.91    0.91                        1.01     1.01
as X Tot. Pub. Ed. Exp.        53.31   52.71   48.71   50.41   49.01   51.41   51.91   52.6    59.61   53.01                       54.7X   55.71
as X of Dev. Exp. on Educ.     43.81    48.01    30.11    29.51    33.9X   36.01   44.81   54.01   52.41   47.91                   55.01    45.7X
as X of Rec. Exp. on Educ.     55.21   53.71   53.12   54.41   51.31   54.11   53.41   52.31   61.51   54.11                       54.61    57.31
MEM IADIM: EST'D PUtJABIS GDP 152,567  163,011  174,060  182,877  196,761  207,586  220,980  237,830  249,626  262,919     6.21  280,008  295,969



Amex 2, Table 2
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHODLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Public Recurrent Expenditure on Education
by Level of Education and Type of Expenditure in FY89-90
(Current Million Rs)
Salary               OBM; Ed.Mat. 2/  Communications; Utilities       Other
LEVEL OF EDUCATION /                                                                                             TOTAL
ACTIVITY I/
Bssic  Allow-    Sub-  As X    Sub-   As X Commun- Utili-    Sib-  As X           As X
Salary   ances   Total  Tot.   Total   Tot. ication   ties   Total  Tot.           Tot.
Primary Education 3/
Primary           2,654.2   689.0 3,343.2  98.8X   20.1    0.6X   2.9       2.2     5.1   0.2X  15.3   0.5X 3,383.7
Primary (PEP3) 4/    69.8    27.2    97.0  85.6X    2.4    2.11   0.1       0.0     0.1   0.11  13.9  12.31    113.4
Secondary Education 1,396.9  369.9 1,766.7  97.8X    9.8    0.51   8.2    11.5    19.7   1.1X  10.2   0.61  1,806.4
Special Education      18.8    13.1    31.9  94.51    0.3    0.8X   0.5       0.3     0.8   2.31   0.8   2.41     33.8
Prof. Colleges         39.8    12.4    52.2  97.31    0.3    0.61   0.3       0.4     0.8   1.4X  0.4   0.71      53.6
Administration         13.4     4.7    18.0  80.31    1.0    4.61   1.9       0 6     2.5  11.31   0.9   3.81     22.5
Inspection             88.6   25.0   113.5  83.21    2.5    1.91  16.3       1.3    17.6  12.91   2.7   2.01    136.4
Examinations            1.2     3.5      4.7  50.91    3.0   32.51   0.7      0.0     0.8   8.41   0.8   8.11      9.2
Sudb-Total          4,282.6 1,144.8 5,427.3  97.61   39.5    0.7X 30.9    16.4   47.3   0.91  44.9   0.81  5,559.0
Source: Government of the Punjab, Budget Documents for FY1989-90.
1/  Selected levels of education and activities in the Provincial Department of Edhcation.
2/  Operations and Maintenance (0&M) includes purchase of replacement parts and expenditures on maintenance.
Educational Materials include stationery as well as books, periodicals, and textbooks.
3/ Expenditures on Primary Education include recurrent expenditures for both the primary and middle schools
operated by the Provincial Department of Education.
4/ Budgetary ressources to su4pport activities under the IDA-financed Third Primary Education Project (PEP3).
FILENANE: O: CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\A2T2.WK1



40                         Armex 2, Table 3
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Expenditure on Education by Mtwicipal Corporations
and Municipal Comittees Between 1965-86 and 1988-89 1/
(Mitlion Current Re)
Avg. Ann
1985-86  1966-87  1987-88  1988-89  1989-90   Growth
(90/86)
Total Revenues                 1,517.1  1,779.9  1,963.9  2,270.2  2,629.2       14.7%
Total Development
Expenditure  2/                671.5    811.9  1,070.2  1,279.7  1,678.9       25.7%
As % of Total Revenues          44.3%    45.6%    54.5%    56.4%    63.9%
Development Expenditure
on Education 2/                226.2    246.5    290.7    315.0    361.8       12.5%
As % of Total Revenues           14.9%    13.8%    14.8%    13.9%    13.8%
As % of Total
Development Expend.           33.7%    30.4%    27.2%    24.6%    21.5%
Source: Government of the Punjab, Local Goverrrent and Rural Dovelopment Department.
1/  Actual data for years 1985-86 to 1988-89; budgeted income and expenditure for
year 1989-90.
2/ Although more than 90% of expenditures on education by Municipal Corporations
and Comittees are "recurrent' expenditures (mainly salaries, benefits, and
instructional materials), they appear uwder "development expenditure"
in budgetary docuLmnts.
FILENAME: 0:\CD\1PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\A2T3.WK1



41
PUNJAO MIDOLE SCIOOLIG POJECT                       Avmex  2, Table 4
STAFF APPRAISAL uPONT                                Pag  1 of 2
Progrm of EApwufan of Elmantery Educatln in the Punjab I/
Ei_ntory Educa tion Developnt Progrm
ga" Year                ......              ......          .
87-88 90-91  91-92    92-93  93-94  94-9  9f-96  96-97  97-96       96-99  99-00
PROJECTED ENROLLMENT (Thouands)
1. PrImry Levl         Public   4,680  5,447 5,703  I 5,979  6,278  6,600  6,948  7,324  7,731  I 8,169  8,643
Private    490    620    682       750   825    90      996  1.098  1,206  | 1,329  1,462
Total   5,170  6,067  6,385  I 6,729  7,103  7,506  7,947 8,423  8,936  I 9,496 10,105
2. Niddle Level         Publie   1,271  1,507  1,542  I 1,603  1,675  1,761  1,863  1,963  2,126  I 2,295  2,496
Private     130    164   181       199   219   241    265    291    3201    353   3U
Totat   1,401  1,672  1,722     1,802  1,894  2,002  2,128  2,275  2,447  I 2,648  2,064
ArnuJl Enrol lnt Growth (Pefcentg)                                                                  I
1. Primry Level        Public             4.9X   4.71 |  4.81   5.01   5.1S   5.31   5.41   5.51 i   5.7X   5.6t
Private           10.01  10.01 I 10.0X  10.;    1JX  10.01  10.01  10.01 D    10.01  10.01
2. Middle Stae          Public            3.41   2.31 I  4.01   4.51   5.11   5.8X   6.51   7.21 I   8.0X   8.7X
Private           10.01  10.0X I 10.01  10.0X  10.01  10.01  10.01  10.01 I  10.0X  10.01
PARTICIPATION RATES (Percentage)
1. Primry Levl                      61X    67X    68X      701    721   741    77X    791    821 I    85X   881
2. Middle Level                     311    34%    34X1    351   361    371    38X    40X    421        441    47X
ELementary Educatfion Developfent Program          Annult
PROJECTED FINANCING REQUIREMENTS                -.                 .     .    ..-..................   Total Growth
Year              90-91  91-92    92-93  93-94  94-95  9S-96  96-97  97-98     93-98  98/91
A. CONSTANT FY91 MILLION Rs
1. Primry LeveL    DevelopMent          506    512  f  553    597   645    696    752    812  I 4,055    7.01
Recurrent         2,978  3,398  I 3,528  3,767  4,026  4,308  4,614  4,870   25,114    7.31
Total             3,484  3,909    4,081  4,364  4,671  5,004  5,366  5,682    2 29,169    7.2X
2. Middle Level    Develotmnt           197   206       2 245   290    343    407    482    571  | 2,338   16.4X
Recurrent         1,787  2,036    2,212  2,328  2,465  2,626  2,816  3.019  I 15,467    7.8X
Total             1,984  2,242  I 2,457  2,618  2,808  3,033  3,298  3,590  I 17,805    8.8X
5555s  5a5.5    Mason  ==*sss   *u55  Mass=  Mason  ==man  I55 5*an
Total Elementary   Doev.+Rc.          5,468  6,152  | 6,538  6,982  7,480  8,037  8,665  9,272     46,974    7.81
S. CURRENT MILLION Rs
1. Pria_ry Level   Development          506    563  |  657    752   861    985  1,128  1,291  | 5,673
Recurrent         2,978  3,737  | 4,191  4,743  5,374  6,096  6,921  7,743  | 35,068
Total             3,484  4,300    4,848  5,495  6,235  7,080  8,049  9,034    40,741
2. Middle Level    Deelopmnt            197   227  |  291    365    458    576    723    908  | 3,321
Recurrent         1,787 2,240  I 2,627  2,932  3,291  3,716  4,224  4,800  i 21,590
Total             1,984  2,467  I 2,919  3,297 3,749  4,292  4,947  5,708  I 24,911
Macau  Maa      =..   Samoa..   ga.me..    ....c a a. - n -.  en -    M
TotaL Elementary    Dev.+Rec.         5,468  6,767  I 7,767  8,793  9,984 11,372 12,995 14,741  I 65,652
C. CLRRENT MILLION US$
1. Pri_ry Level    Devtlopnt             23     22       24    27      30     34     39     431       196
Recurrent           133    147      155    170    190    212    236    260      1 1,224
Total               156    169  I  179    197   220    247    275    303  I 1,422
2. Middle Level    Developmnt             9      9  I   11    13    16    20         25     30  I   115
Recurrent            80     88       97    105    116    130    144    161        754
Total                89     97  I  108    118   133    150    169    191  I   869
..... ..sS.    ss s.  ss,ss=     .  Sumsa  us..  auss.   =mss..
Total Elementary    Dev.+Rec.           244   265  |  287   315   353    396    44         45     2,290
NOTE: Detailed figures my not add up to totaLs because of rourWdings.



42
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                        Annex 2, Toble 4
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                                  Page 2 of 2
Program of Expansion of Elementary Education in the Punjab 1/
Elementary Education Development Program
Base Year                ---    .       .
87-88  90-91  91-92    92-93  93-94  94-95  95-96  96-97  97-98         98 99  99-00
PROJECTED POPULATION (Thousands) (World Bank Estimates)
1. Age Group 5-9    (Primary)    8,432  9,104  9,342    9,586  9,839 10,098 10,366 10,642 10,926    11,219 11,520
2. Age Group 10-12  (Middle)      4,528  4,889  5,017    5,148  5,284  5,423  5,567  5,715  5,868          6,025  6,187
MEMORAMDU (World Bank Projections)
Domestic Inflation (Percentage)                       10X       8X     6X      6X     6X      6X     6X
Domestic Inflation (Index)                 1.000  1.100    1.188  1.259  1.335  1.415  1.500  1.590
Exchange Rate: USS1 a Rs                   22.37  25.50    27.05  27.87  28.29  28.69  29.27  29.81
BASES OF CALCULATION
Pupils per School:      150
Cost per School:        Rs300,000 at primary level and RsWO0,000 at middle Level in constant FY91 Rs.
Annual Recurrent Cost
per Pupil:            Rs580 at primary level and Rs1,370 at middle level in constant FY91 Rs.
Quality Improvement
Inputs:               Starting in 1992-93, a provision of Rs1O is made for each pupil enrolled in the public
education system; this provision is increased by RslO per year to a maximun of Rs5O in
1996-97, and maintained thereafter.
Calculation:            First, enrollments in the public and private sectors are calculated separately on
the basis of projected groith rates by level of education and by provider. Second,
projected arnual budgetary requirements (for public provision of primary and middle
levels only) are derived from: (a) application of unit investment costs per
additional schools to be built on the basis of number of pupils per school and the
estimated unit cost per school at primary and middle levels; (b) application of unit
recurrent costs for pupils enrolled at primary and middle levels; and, (c)
application of unit recurrent costs for quality improvement inputs for each pupil
enrolled by level of education.
Note:                   Detailed figures may not add up because of roundings.
FILENAME: 0:\CDI\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\A2T4NEW.WK1



43
Annex 2, Table S
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                           Page 1 of 2
STAfF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projected Enrollment in Elementary Education by Area and Gender
Between 1992-93 and 1997-98
(Thousands)
Elementary Education Development Progren Percentage
Base Year                  --....--------------..--..--..---------. Increase
87-88  90-91  91-92   92-93  93-94  94-95  95-96  96-97  97-98        98/93
PROJECTED POPULATION (UWrld Bank Estimates)
1. Age Group 5-9          8,432  9,104  9,342   9,586  9,839 10,098 10,366 10,642 10,926
Urban      Boys     1,307  1,411  1,448  1,486  1,525  1,565  1,607  1,650  1,694
Girls     1,223  1,321  1,355   1,390  1,427  1,465  1,504  1,544  1,585
RuraL      Boys     3,050  3,293  3,379   3,468  3,559  3,653  3,750  3,849  3,952
Girls     2,852  3,079  3,160   3,243  3,328  3,416  3,506  3,599  3,696
2. Age Group 10-12        4,528  4,889  5,017   5,148  5,284  5,423  5,567  5,715  5,868
Urban      Boys       708   764   784    805    826    848    870    894   917
Girls       649   701    719    738   757    777   798   8.9   841
Rural      Boys     1,655  1,787  1,834   1,882  1,931  1,982  2,035  2,089  2,145
Girls     1,514  1,635  1,677   1,721  1,767  1,813  1,861  1,911  1,962
PROJECTED ENROLLMENT (In Public and Private Schools)
1. Primary Level          5,170  6,067  6,385   6,729 7,103  7,508  7,947  8,423  8,938            33%
Urban      Boys     1,070  1,235  1,299   1,369  1,445  1,528  1,619  1,718  1,826           33%
Girls      829  1,011  1,080   1,154  1,235  1,322  1,418  1,522  1,635           42%
Rural      Boys     2,183  2,420  2,500   2,586  2,679  2,780  2,889  3,007  3,134           21%
Girls     1,088  1,401  1,507   1,621  1,744  1,877  2,021  2,176  2,344          45%
2. Middle Level            1,401  1,672  1,722   1,802  1,894  2,002  2,128  2,275  2,447           36%
Urban      Boys       470   511    523      538   555    574    597   622   651              21%
Girls       288   349   362    382   404    430    460    495    535              40%
Rural      Boys       520   593   604    623   646    673    704    742    786               26%
Girls       122   218   233    258   288   324    365    415    474               83%
GROSS PARTICIPATION RATES (Percentage)
1. Prinmry Levet             61%   67%   68%       70%    72%   74%   77    79%   82%
Urban      Boys        82%   87%    90%    92%    95%    98%   101%   104%   108%
Girls        68%   77%   80%    83%   87%    90%   94%    99%   103%
Rural      Boys        72%   73%   74%       75%    75%   76%    77%   78%    79%
Girls        38%   46%    48%    50%   52%   55%   58%   60%   63%
2. Middle Level               31%   34%    34%     35%   36%   37%    38%   40%    42%
Urban      Boys        66%   67%    67%      67%    67%   68%    69%    70%    71%
Girls        44%   50%   50%      52%   53%   55%    58%   60%    64%
Rural      Boys        31%   33%    33%    33%   33%   34%    35%    36%   37%
Girls         8%    13%    14%     15%   16%   18%    20%    22%    24%
Source: Annex 2, Table 4
Note: Detailed figures may not add up to totals becau'se ef roundings.



44
Annex 2, Table 5
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT                              Pase 2 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Projected EnrotLment in Elementary Education by Area and Gender
Between 1992-93 and 1997-98
(Thousands)
Eletentary Education Development Program         Cunulative
.... ... .......... .....  Total
92-93   93-94  94-95  95-96 96-97 97-98            (93 to 96)
ANUAL INCREASE IN ENROLLMENT IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SCHOOLS
A. PubLic
1. Primary Level                           276     298    322    348    376    406                2,028
Urban      Boys                      36      39     42     45     49     53                  264
Girls                      47      51     55     59     64     69                  345
Rural      Boys                      83      90     97    104    113    122                  608
Girls                     111     119    129    139    150    162                  811
2. MIddle Levet                             61      72    86    102    121    143                   585
Urban      Boys                       6       7      9     10      12     14                  58
Girls                      12      14     17    20      24     29                  117
Rural      Boys                      18      22     26     31     36     43                  175
Girls                      24      29     34     41     48     57                  234
8. Private
1. Primary Level                            68      75     83     91    100    110                  526
Urban      Boys                      34      38    41      45     50      55                 263
Girls                      27      30     33     36     40     44                  210
Rural      Boys                       3       4      4      5      5       5                  26
Girls                       3       4      4      5      5      5                   26
2. Middle Level                             18      20     22     24     26      29                 140
Urban      Boys                       9      10    11       12     13     15                  70
Girls                       7       8      9     10    11      12                   56
Rural      Boys                       1       1      1       1      1      1                   7
Girls                       1       1      1      1      1       1                   7
FILENAME: 0:\CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\GREEN\A2T5.WK1



Third Prima Eftcatimi PkOSect in the Ftoab (W.4..t 1821:PK)                                               Amex  3
9    a of Obiectftgp and Statos of I epl   ?rz4kl4                                                    r    1 of 4
Objective                Components / Means                         Indicators                         Progross to Date                             Coents
1. Reorganize and        a. Establish a new Additional         ADPI-PE to be established;       ADPI-PE fully established and staffed;   Although ADPI-PE  asm
strengthen the           Directorate Public Instruction        appointment of one Director    offices, equipment and trnsport               established in 1988, it
Directorate of            (Primary Education) (ADPI-PE)        and 9 Deputy Directors;          available;                                  become fully operational
Public Instruction       at provincial level;                  provision of offices,                                                        in mid-1990; need to
(DPI) to create a                                              equipmnet and transport,                                                     enhnce effectiveness
distinct focus on                                                                                                                           through further
primary education.                                                                                                                          delegation of respon-
sibility, staff
develop ent end
implementation of
monitoring systm.
b. Establish primary education       Appointment of Assistant         Primary education wings *stablished;        Weed to instituticralize
wings in the 8 Divisional            Directors (Primary               offices and transport made available,       roles and
Directorate*s                        Education) (AD-PE).                                                          responsibilities of
divisional offices.
c. Establish additional              Appointment of additional        DDEOs appointed; offices and transport   Staff training underway.
positions of Deputy District         DDEOs (30 males and 30           made available.
Education Officer (Primary           females).
Education) in 30 District                                                                                                                          4
Education Offices;
d. Reduce span of supervision        Appointment of additional        AEOs appointed; transport made              Staff training underway.
of Assistant Education Officers    AEOs (249 males and 249            available.
at Markaz level;                     females).
e. Enhance function of Learning    Appointment of an additional   LCs appointed; transport made                   Staff training underway.
Coordinators (LCs) at Union          1,578 LCs to achieve a ratio   available.
Council level,                       of 1 LC for 15 primary
schools.
2. Develop a             a. Establish a Monitoring and        Staff recruited and trained;    Local staff being recruited; foreign          Delays in imple entation
Monitoring and           Evaluation Unit in the ADPI-PE        detailed plan prepared and       expert services not yet available;          of technical assistance
Evaluation System        office;                               system developed; equipment      plan not yet developed.                     (TA) program. Arrival of
and transport provided.                                                      foreign experts currently
seboduled in early 1992.
b. Complete baseline survey          Data on enrollment,              Survey not completed; however, data on   The recently established
(April 1988);                       teachers, facilities,             enrollment, facilities and staff            National Educational
learning materials  student      collected by Additional Education           Management Information
achievement and financial        Secretariat (Planning) (AES-P) in           Systa_ (UIMIS) cell in
allocations.                     August 1990.                                AES(P) plan  to conduct
comprebensive survey
during autum 1991.



ThIrd Prisuur Edhc-tion ProJect in th- Pmtiab (Credit 1821-P4f)                                        AiNm I 3
Suinar  of ObJectivos *md Status of I l e rtatioa                                                 Page 2 of 4
Objective               Components / Means                        Indicators                       Progress to Date                            Comnents
c. Undertake Rapid Low Cost         Studies on: girls               Studies to be undertaken by local          Delays in implementation
studies to shape policies and       enrolLnent; teacher             consultants in 1991-92.                    of the TA program.
programs in delivery of rural       training; teacher
primary schooling;                  absenteeism; participation
of parents; efficiency;
pedagogical inputs.
d. Prepare detailed annual          Reports to be submitted         Regular progress reports on project        Need to streamline
evaluation reports,                 annually, in February.          components submitted; lack of data On    reporting system end
impact of policies, inputs and            incorporate survey data
measures supported by the project.        (item 2(b)).
3. Implement a           a. Support development of new       Establishment of Primary        PEUs established in NBCT and CRDC;         New integrated curriculum
curriculum reform at    curriculum for Grades 1-3 and        Education Units (PEUs) in       decision to introduce integrated           to be introduced in 1992.
primary level and        plan for revised curriculum for    National Bureau of               curriculum (Gr. 1-3) taken in early
improve supply of        Grades 4-5;                         Curriculum and Textbooks        1990; Materials Development Teoas
pedagogical                                                  (NBCT) and provincial           appointed in early 1991 to develop new
materials.                                                   Curriculum Research and         teaching-learning materials.
Development Center (CRDC).
Introduce new curriculum for
classes 1-3 in 1990; revised                                                                            a"
curriculum for classes 4-5
in 1993.
b. Improve quality and increase    Development and distribution   Teacher's guides being developed 'see    Need to coordinate
supply of instructional             of teacher's guides;            item 3 (a)). Teaching kits distributed   development of new
materials to primary schools        distribution of Teaching        to primary schools. Due to changes in    instructional materials
and teacher training               Kits and basic materials to    assistance strategy, co-financier            and teacher's guides and
institutions (Government            all primary schools and         withdrew proposed financing of paper       enhance use of teaching
Colleges for Elementary             GCETs; support paper            component in September 1991. Textbook    kits through supervision
Teachers- GCETs);                   acquisition costs of PTB to    development supported through support    by LCs. GOPunjab is
reduce textbook prices;         to MDTs (see item 3 (a)).                  examining alternative
support textbook development                                               sources of finance for
and distribution through                                                   paper component.
expert services and
provision of materials.
4. Reorganize,           a. Improve quality of pre-          Improved teacher training       Not yet started due to delays in
rationalize and          service training;                   curriculum in followire         provision of foreign specialist
strengthen the                                               areas: practice teaching;       services to revise curriculum; survey
teacher training                                            multi-grade teaching;            of GCET facilities completed.
system and staff                                             community relations; child
development,                                                 psychology. Provision of
additional staff facilities,
equipment and materials to
existing GCETs.



Tbird Primr, M&catlem Protect In the Ptudab (Credit 1821-PAD)                                          Anns 3
Smm-y of C11eotiwa emd Statom of Imnlgmetatioe                                                    Page 3 of 4
Objective               Components / Means                        Indicators                       Progress to Date                            Canents
b. Train unqualified teachers;      Train 17,500 unqualified        As a result of modified rules for          geed to evaluate imp* t
teachers (15,000 female)        teacher certification ano expanded         of modifications to
through Allama Iqbal Open       provision of pro-service training in      teacher certificati  and
University (AIOU) distance      temporary units established in            to phase out pre-sei ice
education programs, improved   existing secondary schooLs, GOPunjab        training units.
AIOU distance education         claims that unqualified teachers have
program.                        been certified; component on
improvement of AIOU's distance
education program not yet effective.
c. Revise and expand in-service    Train LCs to provide             Pilot training program  conducted by
training programs;                  academic and institutional      EEC; training plan scbeduled to start
supervision through training   in 1992 (see Item 1(e)).
of trainers at Education
Extension Center; train
trainers, supervisors and
administrative cadres in
improved teaching practices.
school supervision, science
instruction, teacher-
comnuity relations, and
monitoring and evaluation.
d. Strengthen management            Orientation program to staff   Orientation program conducted;
capability,                         of newly established ADPI-PE   specialized management training to be
at all levels; specialized      conducted by EEC, starting in 1992.
management training to
selected administrative
staff.
e. Develop and implement            Preference for localized        Studies to be undertaken in 1991-92.      Delays in implementation
policies related to appointment   recruitment of female                                                       of the TA program.
of female teachers, incentives      teachers in rural areas;
for rural service, and career      preference for recruitment
development.                        of girls from rural areas in
GCETs and provision of
scholarships; studies on
non-monetar' incentives in
rural areas and teacher
career system to be followed
by implementation of revised
policies and measures.



Third Pri_ary Edocatign Prolect in the P iudab (Credit 1821-PM)                                            nnx 3
Sury  of ObJectives   d Statts of Ial atatin                                                         Pee °    of 4
Objective                Components / Means                         Indicators                        Progress to Date                             Caments
5. Develop a             a. Monitor progress of an             Provision of advanced salary    In 1988, Department of Education             Need to evaluate results
co!Dmmications /         incentive plan to increase            increments to teachers,          initiated a provincial campaign to          and impact of campaign.
demand generation         rural primary school                 principals and AEOs who          enroll school-age children.
program.                  enrollment,                         bring 98X of boys or 50X of
girls to schools; monitoring
through school census, fees
collected, and district
level reviews;
b. Introduce flexibility in          Flexible scheduling of           New school year calendar (January to
scheduling of school calendar        school hours and calendar.       December, including summer holiday)
and activities;                                                       introduced in 1990.
c. Develop mass awareness            Training programs and            To stimulate demand for schooling and    Based on progress made
campaigns for connity and            motivation campaigns at          community participation, in 1988            end success achieved by
parents to enroll children to        local level through AEOs and   GOPunjab initiated motivation                 programs initiated at
primary and participate in           establishment of the             campaigns (see Item 5 (a)), and             provincial level, in 1990
school management.                   National Institute for           enhanced role of AEOs and LCs in            GOP and GOPunjab decided
Communication through            fostering community participation (see   not to ostablish the NICE
Education (NICE).                Item 4 (c)).                                at national level.
6. Support GOPunjab      a. Provide classrooms and            Facilities for: 5,200             Constzuction program started in FY88;    LG&RD did not perform
school construction      boundary wslls for shelterless       shelterless girls schools         as of June 1991, works completed / in       satisfactorily and their
and maintenance          girls schools and new girls           (estimated 416,000 school        progress in about 4,000 schools; due        work is to be completed
program.                 schools,                              places) to be carried out by   to underestimated costs, rapid price          by NESPAK.
LG&RD Department; and, 5,100    increases and decision to provide
new girls schools (estimated    additional amenities not included in
408,000 school places) to be   original price estimates (latrines and
carried out by Civil             water pumps), the scope of revised
Engineering Cell;                construction program has been reduced
to 7 100 schools (from 10,300
envisaged at the time of Appraisal).
b. Strengthen implementation         Consultant Engineers             Contract signed in June 1990 with           Need to strengthen
capacity for school                  appointed to assist CEC in       local Consultant Engineer to assist         managerial capacity of
construction,                        preparation, implementation      ADPI-PE and executing agencies in           ADPI-PE to monitor
and, monitoring of t'.r,         implementing and monitoring school          program and improve flow
construction program;            construction program.                       of funds.
c. Strengthen the maintenance        Study of school maintenance      Study to be conducted in 1992.              Delays in implementation
program.                             (December 1988) and, on the                                                  of the TA program.
basis of study, provision of
adequate annual budgetary
allocations to implement
maintenance program;



49
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
WORLD BANK GROUP LENDING IN EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN PAKISTAN
1.    The First Education Proiect (Credit 50-PAK of 1964 for US$8.5 million)
financed expansion of Faisalabad Agricultural University and equipment for six
Polytechnics. It vas completed eight years behind schedule. The Project
Completion Report (PCR) and Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) conclude
that the project had produced manpower in excess of demand although project
institutions operated at less than 60 percent capacity. Qualitatively, the
investment in agri:ultural education was successful, but little improvement
took place at the technical institutes.
2.    The Second Education Proiect (Cr. 206-PAK of 1970 for US$8.0 million)
assisted the NED Government Engineering College in Karachi and was completed
about four years behind schedule. The PCR and PPAR conclude that the project
successfully met manpower needs, but was qualitatively less successful.
3.    The Third Education Project (Cr. 678-PAK of 1977 for US$15.0 million)
supported primary teacher training, as well as university level agriculture
programs and extension training. The project was completed in June 1984, two
years behind schedule. The PCR and PPAR indicate that project objectives were
only partially achieved.
4.    The Fourth Education Proiect (Cr. 892-PAK of 1979 for US$10.0 million),
also referred to as the First Primary Education Project (PEPl), was completed
on time (1985). This credit supported an experimental primary education
project in selected districts of all four provinces with the objectives of
increasing access, reducing wastage and costs, and improving quality of
instruction. The project assisted the federal and provincial governments to
provide schools, improve teacher training, expand school supervision and
improve instructional materials. The PCR, issued in June, 1987, indicated
that: a) the quality of instruction improved because of increased
supervision, on-the-job training of teachers by Learning Coordinators (LCs),
and the provision of instructional materials; b) costs were reduced through
the employment of female assistant teachers in rural areas; and c) female
access was improved through the provision of boundary walls in girls' schools.
Also, the PCR pointed out that the overall school construction program was not
suW c-sful due mainly to the lack of supervision and clear lines of
communx_ation between the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) and the
government departments which managed the civil works program. The PCR noted
that the in-service teacher training program was too complex as designed and
therefore unsuccessfully implemented; the major reason being the lack of an
institutional base.
5.    The Fifth Education Proiect (Cr. 1109-PAK of 1981 for US$25.0 million),
also referred to as the First Vocational Training Project, supported the
establishment of a National Vocational Training System (NVTS), including the
construction of new and rehabilitation of existing training institutions, and



50
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
the revitalization of apprenticeship and in-plant training programs. The
project was completed one year behind schedule. The PCR, issued in June '.989,
indicated that many of the original objectives were achieved. However, the
lack of employer support was a serious handicap to the development of an
effective vocational training system; there was limited participation from
employers in training, their knowledge of the training system was scanty, and
their use of it negligible. The major lessons learned include: (a) the need
to determine, early in the project cycle, the full commitment of the
Government and industry and the seek active involvement in the policy and
decision-making processes; (b) monitoring and evaluation units need to be
established at the commencement of a project, so that feedback may be obtained
during the implementation period, in order that appropriate remedial actions
may be taken; and, (c) defining more clearly the specific responsibilities of
involved parties and ensuring the supply of sufficient and suitably qualified
staff for supervision of construction. Also, the PCR pointed out that the
technical assistance inputs contributed greatly to the successes of the
project, in particular the fellowship program to train staff and the
specialist services to guide and coordinate curricular development, trade
testing and instructor training.
6.    The Second Primary Education Project (PEP2) (Cr. 1602-PAK of 1985 for
SDR 53.0 million) seeks to build on Lhe experiences gained under PFP1. The
project is limited to selected districts in the Sindh, NWFP, and Balochistan.
It continues to support the elements of the First Primary Education Project
vhich were judged successful (LCs, assistant teachers, and provision of
teaching-learning materials). New approaches were designed for civil works
construction (use of pre-fabrication) and in-service teacher training. Aside
from construction, project implementation has been reasonably successful,
although slower than projected at appraisal. There have been major delays in
the construction program, due to difficulties in contracting for
prefabrication, and the consequent need to revert to conventional
construction, first in Sindh and later in the other two provinces. Intensive
supervision has resolved a number of bottlenecks in implementation, although
major problems still remain in NWFP and Balochistan. The original Closing
Date (March 31, 1991) has been extended twice (cne year at a time), and the
project is expected to be completed in 1993, two years behind schedule.
7.    The Second Vocational Training Proiect (Cr. 1670-PAK of 1986 for SDR
36.6 million) continues support to the vocational training system to meet
skilled and semi-skilled manpower requirements for the industrial and rural
sector. The project provides equipment for existing vocational training
centers (VTCs), establishes new VTCs, expands the National Training
Development Institute for instructor training, establishes pilot Women's
Technical Training Centers, and strengthen the apprenticeship system to expand
in-plant training. Also, it strengthens management and project implementation
capacity of the National and Provincial Training Boards. The project faces
major implementation issues: deviations from the original scope of the project
have been introduced without donor's agreement (CIDA, UNDP, EEC and GTZ); a



51
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
training needs study has been started in early 1991 after a long delay; and,
inactions on several implementation issues. On the basis of the recently
completed training needs study, GOP and the donors have agreed to reexamine
the project and redesign its components in 1991-92.
8.    The Third Primary Education Proiect (PEP3) (Cr. 1821-PAK of 1987 for SDR
113 million) is confined to the Punjab province, with some national aspects.
The pro.ject, which became effective in April 1988, seeks to improve
institutional capacity to plan, manage, and implement a large primary
education investment program by strengthening key agencics involved in the
delivery of primary education, implementing policy reforms affecting the
recruitment and training of female teachers, and supporting innovations in the
delivery of primary education. Also, the project supports a large rural
school construction program. Project start-up has again been slow, largely
due to delays in setting the institutional framework of -he project. Since
1990, the momentum in project implementation has improved with the full
staffing of the Additional Directorate of Public Instruction - Primary
Education, the start of construction program, and the recruitment, assignment,
and training of district-level staff. The major implementation issues which
have caused delays in provision of technical assistance services,
implementation of the construction program and disbursements are being
addressed by GOPunjab. [A detailed summary of objectives and status of
implementation is attached in Annex 3.]
9. The Sindh Primary Education Development Program (Cr. 2102-PAK of 1990
for SDR 85.2 million) supports the province's five-year (FY91-95) development
program in all districts. The Credit became effective in November 1990. The
objectives of the program are to: increase participation in primary schooling
in rural and urban slum areas, with emphasis on girls; enhance delivery of
primary education; and, increase student learning and achievement.  Innovative
components include a pilot school nutrition program and production of
supplementary reading materials. The preparation of the program has taken
into account a number of lessons learned during IDA's support for primary
education, including: (a) a single province operation to streamline project
implementation; (b) establishment of clear management systems and lines of
communication for primary education; (c) the extended time required to
introduce and establish innovations in the system; (d) the need for testing
and evaluation of new "software" such as teaching materials during development
and dissemination; (e) adopting construction methods and standards which are
realistic and familiar to local authorities and contractors; and, (f)
establishing a financing and implementation mechanism which provides
flexibility to take into account experience during implementation. Progress
to date is satisfactory and there are no major issues of project
implementation.
0:\CDI\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANX4LEN. TXT



52
Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
Criteria for School Construction
1.          To improve access to, and participation in, middle schooling, the
provincial Department of Education would prepare a balanced program of
construction, comprising existing middle schools, primary schools to be
upgraded into middle schools and new middle schools. The project would
provide classrooms (from 3 to 6), a headmaster/headmistress' room, and basic
amenities (sanitation and water supply, boundary walls). The following
criteria would be used in determining the school construction program:
2.          In existing middle schools:
(a)   Availability of land: minimum 4 kanals;
(b)   Enrollment:
(i)  At least 90 students at middle level and 125 students at
primary levei: provision of up to 8 classrooms (including
existing ones) and basic amenities;
(ii) At least 75 students at middle level and 100 students at
primary level: provision of up to 7 classrooms (including
existing ones) and basic amenities;
(iii) At least 60 students at middle level and 80 students at
primary level: provision of up to 6 classrooms (including
existing ones) and amenities; and,
(iv) In cases which do not meet the above criteria: provision of
up to 5 classrooms (including existing ones) and amenities.
(c)   Most of these schools would be located in rural areas.  Girls'
middle schools would represent about 70X of existing middle
schools included in the project.
3.          In existing primary schools to be upgraded into middle schools:
(a)   Availability of land: minimum 6 kanals;
(b)   Existing Buildings: at least 2 classrooms and a veranda;
(c)   Enrollment: at least 40 students in class 5 in the school to be
upgraded and at least 40 students in class 5 in existing primary
school(s) located within a distance of 4 km for boys' schools and
2 km for girls' schools: provision of up to 5 classrooms
(including existing ones) and other amenities;



53
Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
(d)   An estimated 20X of these schools would be located in urban slum
areas. Girls' middle schools would represent about 60X of
existing primary schools to be upgraded into middle schools
included in the project.
4.          Establishment of new middle schools:
(a)   Availability of land: minimum 6 kanals;
(b)   No middle, secondary or higher secondary school within a radius of
5 km in rural areas from the proposed site of the new middle
school;
(c)   Total population in the recruitment area of the school: minimum of
2,500;
(d)   Provision of 5-6 classrooms and amenities;
(e)  An estimated 20X of these schools would be located in urban slum
areas. Girls' middle schools would represent about 80X of new
middle schools included in the project.
0: \CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\A5CW. TXT



Annex 6
54                                               Page 1 of 8
ESTIMATED COSTS WITH CONT114GENVCES                      ............
11-Feb-92  .-       -         ..... ..... -- -       ..... Local   ----- ---  ----- ----- ----- ---  Foreign  Total
Type    -Distribution of Local Eac. Costs -  Esc.  -Distribution of Foreign Esc. Costs   Esc.   Esc.
----------- ............   of        (Amounts in USSOOO Equivalent)      Costs   (Amounts in v'$'000 Equivalent)    Costs  Costs
Subject     Objective       Input    1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  USSIOOO  1993  1994  '995  1996  1997  1998 USSOOO USS'OOO
.. ......sa .                                                                                .... .          .._  .  .. s,, sass.
1.1     (1) 3 Class. in  Buildings  3,192  3257  3371  3489  1805 1,869   16,981   477   487   504   521   270   279   2,537  19,519
Access,              900 Furniture    316   322   333   345   179   185    1,679    47    48    50    52    27    28        251   1,930
Facili- Middle Schools
ties
4 Classroons in  Buildings  3,058  4161  4845  5014  5767 4,775   27,620   457   622   724   749   862   713   4,127  31,747
1,200 Furniture    309   420   489   506   582   482    2,787    4      63    73    76    87    72       416   3,204
Middle Schools
5 Classrooms in  Bu!tdings  2,946  3006  3111  3220  1666 1,725   15,675   440   449   465   481   249   258   2,342  18,017
600 Furniture    281   286   296   307   159   164    1,493    42    43    44    46    24    25        223   1,716
Middle Schools
6 Classrooms in  Buildings  1,245  2541  2630  4083  8451 8,747   27,697   186   380   393   610 1,263 1,307   4,139  31,836
900 Furniture    123   251   259   403   833   862    2,731    18    37    39    60   125   129        408   3,139
Niddle Schools
(2) Construction Const.Mngt   290   365   472   587   675   873    3,270    75   91   118   147   169   218         818   4,088
Management and   Oet'd Specs    2                                        2                                                     2
Supervision      Certif'n      27    33    41    51    64    78        295                                                  295
tncr. Staff  35    43    55    69    79   102        382                                                   382
Incr Oper.    13    16   21    26    30    39        145     3     4      5     7     7    10       36     181
(3) Monitoring,  Training      22    23                                 45                                                   45
Accounting       Software       11    11                                22     3     3                                6       28
1.2 School               Routine      351   358   395   434   476   520    2,534    52    53    59    65    71    78        379   2,913
Maintenance              Rehabilita.  701   716   790   869   952 1,040    5,069   105   107   118   130   142   155         757   5,e26
1.3    (1) Scholarships Incr Oper.  639 1,303 1,349 1,396 1,445 1,578    7,710                                                    7,710
Female  for rural girls
Partici-
pation  (2) Scholarships Incr Oper.  290   592   613   635   657   717    3,504                                                    3,504
for Female Teachers
(3) Teacher      Incr Oper.   224   229   237   245   253   262    1,449                                                  1,449
Recognition
1.4     (1) Urban Local Local Cons       7    14    14     7                    41                                                    41
Local  Bodies            Consultant    13    26    27    14                     79    73   149   154    80                   455     533
Gover.,                  FelLowship                                                   55    56    58                         170     170
Ioplement.   90   183   378   294                    945    22    46    95    73                   236   1,181
1.5    (3) Private       Local Cons    13    14                                 27                                                    27
Private Schools          ConsuLtant    13                                       13    73                                      73      85
Sector                   Fellowship                                                   66                                      66      66
Accounting       Software       11    11                                23     3     3                                 6      28
-U....     .        -''' .s.ss-55...   .... . .     . . .                                                     ' saua   *UZZU
14227 18179 19727 21993 24073 24020   122219  2244  2640  2899  3096  3295  3272   17445  139664
-555....................  *.-333   ' ' ' '                                                      ' - '       ' .. ..... .... '    -sau



Annex 6
55                                             Page 2 of 8
ESTIMATED COSTS WITH CONTINGENCIES 
11-Feb-92 -.     --   ----- --- --- ----- ----- -           Locel.---- L-CO- .....    -----..  .....  ---Forciln  Total
Type    -Distribution of Local Esc. Costs -  Esc.   -Dlstribution of Foreign Esc. Costs   ESC.   Etc.
*-----------------------    of       (AMounts in USS'OOO Equivalent)      Costs   (Amounts in USSIor0c Equivalent)    Coats  Costs
Subject    ObJective        Input    1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Uss'0O. 1993  1904  1995  1996  1997  1998 U#'O000 US#'000
.. ..................... ............... .......   ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....   .... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... _lino   N ... ......... .. ......... .. ....._.
11  QUALITY
2.1     (1) Delivery of  Training            84     7    90    94             356                                                  356
Teacher Teacher Training Trg. Softu           I                                 1          10                               10      11
Effec-  (At EEC with EEC Consultant          13    13    14                    40          74    77    80                  231     271
tivnessas Executing      LocM Cons            7     7                          14                                                   14
Agency           FelLowship                                                 138  141   146   151                   575     575
EEC BLdIs          318                              318           48                              48    366
EEC Furn.           64                               64           10                              10      73
Equipment            3     3                          5           26    26                        52      57
Libr. Books          1     1     1     1              3            6     6     7     7            26      28
VehicLes            17    16                         33           17    16                        33      65
(At GCETS w. EEC OCET Bldgs         147   152                         299          22    23                        45     344
as Executing     GCET Furn.          29    30                          60           4     5                         9      69
Agency)          Sci Equipt           4     4                           8          42    43                         85      93
Software             0     0                           1           4     4                         8       9
Textbooks            4     4                          8           42    43                        85      93
Incr. Staff          9     9    10    10    10       48           2      2     2     2     3      12      60
Incr Oper.           2     2     2     2     2       10           0      0     0     0     1       2      12
(2) Science and Master Tnr.           5     5     7                    16           1     1     2                   4      20
English Teacher  Sc&Nath Trg        231   239   248   256   265    1,239           58    60    62    64    66     310   1,549
Training         English Trg         64    67    69    71    74       345          16    17    17    18    18      86    431
Demo Books           2     2                           4          20    21                        42      46
Dewo Eqpt            3     3                           6          31    32                        62      69
Incr Oper.         630                              630         158                              158    7pR
In 3 Class. Sch. Science Dsk        179   185   192   198             754          27    28    29    30            113    867
In 4 Ctass. Sch. Science Dsk        239   247   256   265           1,006          36    37    38    40           150   1,156
In 5 Class. Sch. Science Dak        119   123   128   132            503           18    18    19    20            75    578
In 6 Class. Sch. Science Oak        179   185   192   198             754          27    28    29    30            113    867
(3) School       Trng Instr.          2     2     2                    6            0     0     1                   1        7
Supervisfon and Trng HNs             42    44    45    47    49       227          11   11   11    12    12         57     284
Induction of New Local Cons    22    23                               45                                                   45
Teachers
2.2     (1) Testing      Buildings     23     8                                31     3     1                                5      35
Assess- Devwloprent      Furniture            6                                 6           1                                1       7
want    Center           Equipment            7     3                          11          74    33                        107    118
wnd                      Fellowship                                                 154    68    70                        292     292
Exsnr                    Consultant     4     9     9     9      9             40    24    50   51    53    55             233     273
inations                 Master Trg          30                                30                                                   30
Item-wr Trg         59   122    63                  245                                                  245
Seminars                  15   45                     60                                                  60
WP Training          1                                 1                                                    1
Software             0     0     0                     1           3     1     1      /            5       6
Dlv. Equipt          1     1    0                      2           6    10    4..        `         21     23
Vehicles       8     8                                16     8     8                               16     32
Veh. OSM             5     5     5     6     6        27           1     '     1     1      1       7     34



Annex 6
56                                              Page  3 of 8
ESTIMATED COSTS WITH CONTINGENCIES                       ......  ......
11-Feb-92   ------  ----- ----- -- - ---  ----- -----  Localt            ---- --- --   - -*---- ----Foreign  Total
Type    -Distribution of Local Eec. Costs -   Esc.   -Distribution of Foreign Esc. Costs   Esc.    Esc.
........................   of         (Anouts In USS'OOO EquivaLent)       Costs    (Aimts in USS'OOO Equivalent)    Costs   Costs
Subject     Objective        Input    1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  USS#OOO  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 USS'OOO USS'OOO
(2) Standardized Equipmant            15                                15         154                              154      169
Tests            Software              1                                 1          10                                10      11
Local Cons           7     7     7      7             28                                                    28
Consultant                13    14    14              41                 77    80    82            239     280
Stationery           5     6     6      6     6       29            1     1     1     1      2       7      36
(3) Aareness    Equipment             15                                1S         154                              154      169
C^pigns          Software              3                                 3          26                               26       28
Local Cons
2.3     (1) Textbook     Consultant      4                                       4    24                                      24      28
Teach./ Upgrading        LocaL Cons    11                                       11                                                    11
Learning(s) Study on      Incr Oper.     4                                       4     1                                       1       4
Naterf- Book Use          Fotlow-up           14    14    14                    42                                                    42
als
(b) Support to   Local Cons    8     90    93    96   100   103        571                                                   571
Materials Deve-  Consultant      8     4     4     5     5              26    49    25    26    27    27             153     179
Lopment Tem    Feellowship                                                   149   101    52                        303     303
for Textbook     Software      10                                       10   100                                    100      110
Upgrading        Pllot Test.   36    37    38    39    41              190     9     9     9    10    10             47      237
Incr Oper.    18    18    19    20    20              95     4     5      5     5     5             24     119
Tch. Gufdes          3     3      3     3     4       16           31    32    33    34    35      165     181
(2) Supplemn-   Readers              140   145   150                   436       1,402 1,451 1,502                4.356   4,791
tary Reading     Distribut.            7     7     8                    22          70    73    75                  218      240
MateriaLs        Replacement                22    22    23    24        91               215   223   230   238      906      997
Furn.Stor'S        596                               596          89                                89     686
Consultant    13    13    13      7     5             50    73    74    77    40    27             291     342
FeLlowship                                                  39    39                                78      78
Trng TrMers    1     1     1                           3                                                     3
Trng Teach.   15    15    16                          46                                                    46
Incr Oper.     9     9     9    10    10    10        58     2      2     2     2     3     3       14      72
,,,,,,,,..........................-------........ ...... ........ ... ...  ..... ..... gama    ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ...... cos   -.- ------  -  
274  3548  1998  1779  1524   553      9676   778  3252  2832  2504   699   379   10445   20121
-............................... . .....-.....-........................_.................   .......................



Annex 6
57                                             Page 4 of 8
ESTIMATED COSTS WITH CONTINGENCIES                      .....   ......
11-Feb-92   -------   ---- ---- ---- ----- ----- -----  Local   ----- ---- ---  ----- ---- --Foreign  Total
Type    -Distribution of Local Eec. Costs -  Esc.  -Distribution of Foreign Eec. Costs   Erc.    Esc.
........................   of        (Aecuts in USS'000 Equivalent)       Costs   (Amounts in USS'000 Equivaltnt)    Costs   Costs
Subljct    Objective        Input    1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  USS'000  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1993 USS'00O USS'000
..................    ..  ..........                                              . . ... . --- -............... .-.... _m_ "Runs
III   PCY-MAKING, PLNG, EVALUATION
3.1     (1) Provinciel   Local Cons     7    11     5                          23                                                   23
Policy- Education        Consultant    8      9     9                          26   49    50   51                          149     175
Making. Council          Vehicles       8     8                                16     8     8                               16      32
Planring                 Veh O&I.             5     5      5     6     6       27           1     1      1     1     1       7      34
(2) School       Equipment      3     5     a                          16   30    46    79                         156     171
Napping mnd      Software             1     1                           2          10   11                          21      23
School           Consultant    8      9     9                          26    49    50   51                         149     175
Pluming          Fellowship                                                 132    84    87                        304     304
Training      11   11   12                           34                                                   34
Incr. Staff   45    46    48    49    51    53      292    11   12   12   12    13    13          73     365
Incr Oper.     7    8      8     8     8     9       48     2      2     2     2     2     2      12      59
Vehicles      84    79                               163    84    79                             163     326
Veh 0&I.            54    56    58    60    62       290          14   14   14    15   16         72     362
(3) District-    Software       2     2                                 3    15   15                                30      33
Sased Progrcan    Training     17    17    17    18                    69                                                   69
Incr. Staff   38    38    40    41    43    44      244     9    10    10   I(   11    11         61     304
Iner Oper.     6     6     6     6     7     7       38      1    2      2     2     2     2      10      48
3.2     (1) Directorate  Consultant    4      4     4      5     5     S       27    24    25    26    27    27    28      157     184
Managt of Elementary    Fellowship                                                  110   113   117                        339     339
Coordi- Education        Training      11   11   12                            34                                                   34
nation                   Incr. Staff    8     8    9      9      9     9       52     2     2     2     2      2     2      13      65
Iner Oper.    6      6     6     6     7     7       38      1    2      2     2     2     2      10      48
Vehicles      72   68                                140    72   68                              140     280
(2) Directorate  Consultant
of Staff         Fellowship
Development      Training      20    20   21                           61                                                   61
Incr. Staff   10   10    10   11    11               51     2      2    3      3     3            13      64
Incr Oper.     7     7     7     8     8             37     2      2     2     2     2             9      47
VehicLes       9     8                                17    9      8                               17      33
Veh O&N.
(3) Education    Local Cons    13   14    14                           41                                                   41
Coordination     Consultant    13   13                                 25    73    74                              147     173
Council
3.3    (1) Evaluation   Local Cons
Nonito- Monitoring of    ConsuLtant           4     4      5                   13          25    26    27                   77      90
ring,   Perforwmnce      Fellowship                                                  33    34    35    36                  138     138
Evaluat.Indfcators       Training       7     7      7     7                   28                                                   28
Equipment      i    2      3                           5    10    15    26                         52      57
Incr Oper.     2     2     2     2     2     3        14     1     1     1     1     1     1       4       18
Vehicles       8   . 8                                16     8     8                               16      32
Veh O&I.             5     5     5     6     6        27           1     1     1     1      1       7      34
........................  ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....       -X ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....    _         ... -.
434   505  328   244   222   210      1943   738   760   560   142    82    80    2361    4304



58                                               Annex  6
Page 5 of 8
PAKISTAN
MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES
11-Fab-92    -----       --   -         -  - --   - -                           .
Type      Unit           ....Distribution of Owantities -.-    Total
.     of        of                         .- . .       .         .oty of
Subject     Objective         Input     Input            1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Input
I    ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION
1.1     (1) 3 Class. in  Buildings  K Spread               20X   20X 20X  20X  10X   10K   100X
Access,               900 Furmiture  X Sp Wod               20X 20X  20X  20X   10X   10X 1         OX
Fecili- Middle Schools
ties
4 Classroom  in  Buildings  X Spread               12K   161   18K   18K   20X  16X   100X
1,200 Furniture  X Spread              12K   16X   18K   18K   20K   16X   100X
Middle Schools
5 Classroows in  Bultdings  K Spread               20X   20X   20K   20X   10X   10X   100K
600 Furniture  K Spread              20K   20X   20X   20%   10X   10K   l0X
Middle Schools
6 Classrooms in  Buildings  K Spread               5   10K   10X   15%   30X   30K   100K
900 Furniture  K Spread               5K   10X   10X  1S%   30X   30X   100X
Middle Schools
(2) Construction Const.Mngt K Spread               10K   12K   15K   18X   20K   25K   100X
Management and   Det'd Specs mJmonth               12                                      12
Supervision       Certiftn    visits              200   242   290   350   420   498  2,000
Incr. StaffK Spread             10K   12X  15X   18X   20X 25K   100K
Incr Oper. K Spread             10K   12K   15K   18X   20K   25K   100X
(3) Monitoring,  Training    m/month               40    40                               80
Accounting        Software   K Spread              50K   50K                              100O
1.2 School                Routine    K Spread               15K   15K   16K   17K   18K   19K 100K
Maintenance                Rehabilita.K Spread              15K   15X  16K   17K   18X   19K   100K
1.3     (1) Scholarships Iner Oper. K Spread                9K   18    18X   18K   18   19X  100X
Female  for rural girls
Partici-
pation  (2) Scholarships Incr Oper. K Spread                 9K   18X   18X   18X   18K   19°   100K
for Female oachers
(3) Teacher       incr Oper. K Spread              17K   17X  17X   17X   17K   17X  100K
Recognition
1.4     (1) Urban Local  Local Cons  rn/month               6    12    12       6                  36
Local   Bodies            Consultant  rn/month              6    12    12       6                  36
Gover.,                    Fellowship  rnmonth              10    10    10                         30
Implement. K Spread              10X   20K   40K   30K                 100X
1.5     (3) Private       Local Cor;s  r/month              12    12                               24
Private Schools            Consultant m/month                6                                      6
Sector                     Fellowship  r/month              12                                     12
Accoumting        Software   X Spread              50K   50X                              100X



Annex 6
59                                              Page  6 of 8
11-Feb-92   ------- 
Type      Unit          --- Distribution of Quantities *---   Total
----- ------------------    of         of-- ----- .....  -. --- ..... -- -aty of
Subject     objective        Input     Input           1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Input
*uauauuuuuuguummauuuuuu    ...us ..   .......         ...mua-a... ....  ...  .....um- s  ...  ...sg.  .....u -- -auuu
2.1     (1) Delivery of  Training    m/month                   150   150   150   150          600
Teacher Teacher Training Trg. Softw % Spread                  100X                            100X
Effec-  (At EEC with EEC Consultant  m/month                    6      6     6                 18
tIvenessas Executing     Local Cons m/month                     6     6                        12
Agency)          FeLlowship  m/month             25    25    25    25                 100
EEC Bldgs  X Spread                  100X                            100X
EEC Furn.  X Spread                  1001                            100X
Equipment  1 Spread                   501   50X                      100X
Libr. Books% Spread                   251   25X   25X   251          1001
Vehicles   X Spread                   521   481                      1001
(At GCETS w. EEC GCET Bldgs X Spread                   501   501                      1001
as Executing     GCET Furn. 1 Spread                   501   50X                      1001
Agency)          Sci Equipt 1 Spread                   501   501                      1001
Software   X Spread                   501   501                      1001
Textbooks  1 Spread                   501   50%                      1001
Incr. Staff% Spread                  201   201   201   20%   201   1001
Incr Oper. 1 Spread                  201   201   201   201   20X   1001
(2) Science and  Master Tnr.X Spread                   301   301   401                1001
English Teacher Sc&Math TrgX Spread                    201   201   201   201   201   1001
Training         English TrgX Spread                   201   201   201   201   201   1001
Demo Books 1 Spread                   501   501                      1001
Demo Eqpt X Spread                    501   501                      1001
Incr Oper. X Spread                 1001                            1001
In 3 Class. Sch. Science DskX Spread                   251   251   251   251          1001
In 4 Class. Sch. Science DskX Spread                   251   251   251   251          100%
In 5 Class. Sch. Science DskX Spread                   251   251   251   251          1001
In 6 Class. Sch. Science DskX Spread                   251   251   251   251          1001
(3) School       Trng Instr. nimonth                   301   30%   401                100%
Supervision and  Trng HMs    m/month                   201   201   20%   201   20%   100%
Induction of New Local Cons  m/month             20    20                              40
Teachers
2.2     (1) Testing      Buildings  X Spread             751   25X                             1001
Assess- Development       Furniture  X Spread                  1001                            100%
ment    Center           Equipment  X Spread                    701   30X                      1001
and                      Fellowship  n/month             28    12    12                        52
Exam-                    Consultant  m/month              2      4     4     4     4            18
inations                 Master Trg  m/month                   53                              53
Item-wr Trg m/month                 105   210   105                 420
Seminars    mnimonth                        25    75                 100
WP Training m/month                    1                               1
Software   % Spread                   60%   20%   20%                1001
Div. EquiptX Spread                   30%   50%   201                100%
Vehicles   X Spread             52%   481                            1001
Veh. O&H   X Spread                   201   20%   201   20%   201   100%



60                                               Annex  6
Page 7 of 8
11-Feb-92   -------   -------       -----  -- ---    -       -     ----  -
Type      Unit           ----Distribution of Quantities ----   Total
------ ------  ----    of         of             ..---- *....  ..... --  --  -        Oty of
SubJect     ObJective        Input     Input            1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Input
(2) Standardized Equipment  X Spread                   100X                            100X
Tests            Software   X Spread                   100X                            1002
Local Cons  m/montt.                   6     6      6     6           24
Consultant  m/month                          6      6     6            18
Stationery X Spread                   202   202   202   202   20X   100X
(3) Awareness    Equipment 2 Spread                    1002                            1002
Campaigns        Software   2 Spread                   1002                            1002
Local Cons m/month
2.3     (1) Textbook      Consultant  m/month            2.0                                    2.0
Teach./ Upgrading         Local Cons  m/month             10                                     10
Learning(a) Study on      Incr Oper. X Spread            100%                                   100%
Nateri- Book Use          Follow-up  mr/month                   12    12                         24
als
(b) Support to   Local Cons  nVmonth             80    80    80    80    80    80    480
MateriaLs Deve-  Consultant ml/month               4     2     2      2     2            12
lopment Teams    Fellowship mr/month             27    18      9                        54
for Textbook     Software   2 Spread             1002                                  1002
Upgrading        Pilot Test. mrmonth              202   202   20%   202   202          1002
Incr Oper. 2 Spread             202   202   202   202   20%          100%
ich. Guides% Spread                   202   202   202   20%   202   1002
(2) Supplemen-   Readers    2 Spread                    33X   33%   332                1002
tary Reading     Distribut. 2 Spread                    332   33X   332                1002
Materials        ReplacementX Spread                          25X   252   252   252   1002
Furn.Stor'gX Spread                  1002                             1002
Consultant  m/month              6     6     6      3     2            23
Fellowship  m/month              7     7                               14
Trng Trners rnVmonth             2     2     2                          6
Trng Teach. m/month             27    27    27                        81
Incr Oper. 2 Spread             172   17X   172   172   17%   172   1002
------------------------    .......  .......  ......   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....   .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



61                                              Annex  6
Page 8 of 8
11-Feb-92----------------------------                               ............
Type      Unit           ----Distribution of Quantities ----   Total
of        of            - .           - -   * --- ..... -  --Oty of
Subject     Objective        Input      Input           1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  Input
III   PCY-MAKING, PLNG, EVALUATION
3.1     t1) Provincial   Local Cons  rn/month              6    10      4                        20
Policy- Education         Consultant  n/month              4     4      4                        12
Making, Council           Vehicles   X Spread             52%   48%                             100%
Planning                  Veh O&.  % Spread                    20%   20%   20X   20%   20%   100%
(2) School       Equipment % Spread               20%   30%   50%                      100%
Mapping and      Software   X Spread                    50%   50%                      100%
School           Consultant  n/month               4     4     4                        12
Planning         Fellowship  m/month              24    15    15                        54
Training   frnmonth             20    20    20                        60
Incr. Staff% Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Incr Oper. % Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Vehicles   X Spread             52%   48%                             100%
Veh O&M.  % Spread                    20%   20%   20%   20%   20%   100%
(3) District-    Software   % Spread              50%   50%                            100%
Based Programs   Training    m/month              30    30    30    30                 120
Incr. Staff% Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Incr Oper. X Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
3.2     (1) Directorate  Consultant m/month                2     2      2     2     2     2      12
Managmt of Elementary    Fellowship  m/month              20    20    20                         60
Coordi- Education         Training    rn/month            20    20    20                         60
nation                    Incr. Staff% Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Incr Oper. X Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Vehicles   % Spread             52%   48%                             100%
(2) Directorate  Consultant m/month
of Staff         Fellowship  m/month
Development      Training    m/month              36    36    36                        108
Incr. Staff% Spread             20%   20%   20%   20%   20%          100%
Incr Oper. % Spread             20%   20%   20%   20%   20%          100%
Vehicles   % Spread             52%   48%                             100%
Veh O&M.   K Spread                   20%   20%   20%   20%   20%   100%
(3) Education    Local Cons  m/month              12    12    12                        36
Coordination     Consultant mr/month               6     6                              12
Councit
3.3     (1) Evaluation   Local Cons rn/month
Monito- Monitoring of    Cu3sultant rnmonth                      2      2     2                   6
ring,   Performance       Fellowship  m/month              6     6      6     6                  24
Evaluat.Indfcators        Training    mnmonth             12    12    12    12                   48
Equipment % Spread              20%   30%   50%                       100%
Incr Oper. X Spread             17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   17%   100%
Vehicles   % Spread             52%   48%                             100%
Veh AM.   % Spread                    20%   20%   20%   20%   20%   100%
..                .    .  .... ...... ..                              .   ..       .   .     .



62
Annex 7
PUNJAB MIDDLE SCHOOLING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Schedule of Diabursements 11
DISBURSEMENTS        PROFILE 2/
FISCAL YEAR 
AND QUARTER          Quarter Cumulative  This       Sector
Project    Average
(US$ Million)      (Percentage)
1902403        First     0.00       0.00      0%
Second       6.00      6.00      5%          0%
Third      0.00      6.00      5%
Fourth      0.00      6.00      5%          1%
1993-04        First     0.00       6.00      5%
Second      0.00       6.00      5i          3%
Third      1.00      7.00      6%
Fourth      2.00      9.00      8%          6%
1904-05        First     2.00      11.00     10%
Second       3.00     14.00     12%         11%
Third      4.00     18.00     16%
Fourth      4.00     22.00     19%         18%
195-6         First     5.00      27.00     23%
Second      6.00      33.00     29%         28%
Third      7.00     40.00     36%
Fourth      7.00     47.00     41%         40%
19097          First     8.00      55.00     48%
Second      8.00      63.00     65%         54%
Third      6.00     69.00     60%
Fourth      5.00     74.00     64%         62%
1907-0         First     4.00      78.00     68%
Second      4.00      82.00     71%         70%
Third      4.00     86.00     76%
Fourth      4.00     90.00     78%         77%
1908-90        First     4.00      94.00     82%
Second      4.00      98.00     85%         83%
Third      J.00    101.00     a8%
Fourth      3.00    104.00     90%         88%
1990.00        First     3.00    107 0Q      93%
Second      3.00     110.00     06%         g6
Third      3.00    113.00     98%
Fourth      2.00    115.00    100%        100%
1/ The Closing Date it June 30, 2000
21 The country profile for Education Projects In Pakistan.
FILENAME: O:%CD1%PAK%EEDP%SAR%ANXSANX7.WK1



63
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(Figures expressed in staff months)
(Figures in brackets refer to local specialists)
(Of Which
COMPONENT                                     92-93   93-94   94-95   95-96   96-97   97-98   Total    Local
Spec.)
SPECIALIST SERVICES:
1. Design, Supervision md Certification
of Cmatruction
1.1 Detailed Construction Designs and
Specifications                                12                                                 12      (12)
(12)
2. Transfer of EleDmtary Education to
Local Governnt
2.2 Transfer of Responsibility of
Elementary Education to Municipal
Corporation                                   12      24       24       12                       72       (36)
(6)    (12)    (12)      (6)
3. Prootion of Private Education
3.1 Studies on Provision and Promotion
of Private Schooling                          18      12                                         30       (24)
(12)    (12)
4. Delivery of Education
4.1 Design of Teacher Training Programs
and Alternative Teaching Strategies                   12       12       6                        30       (12)
(6)     (6)
4.2 School Supervision and Enhanced Role
of Headmasters                                20      20                                         40       (40)
(20)    (20)
4. 3 Support to Reforms of Learning
Assessment Practices                           2       4        4        4       4               18
4.4 Support to Development and Adminis-
tration of Standardized Tests                          6       12       12      12               42       (24)
(6)     (6)      (6)     (6)
4.5 Support to Provincial Education
Council                                       10      14        8                                32       (20)
(6)    (10)      (4)
4.6 Support to Directorate of Elementary
Education                                      2       2        2        2       2        2      12
4.7 Support to Evaluation and Monitoring
Functions                                            2        2       2                         6
S. Production nd Distribution of Teaching-
Learning Haterials
5.1 Market Research on Book Use
in Schools                                    12                                                 12       (10)
(10)
5.2 Support to Materials Development
Teams                                         84      82       82      82       82       80     492      (480)
(80)    (80)    (80)    (80)    (80)    (80)
5.3 Support to Development and Distribution
of Supplementary Reading Materials             6       6        6        3       2               23
6. School Mapping Infomation Servic-s
6.1 Development of School Mapping
Information System                             4       4        4                                12
TOTALS                                               182      188      156     123      102      82      833      (650)



64
Annex 8
Paes 2 of 2
TECHNreAL ASSISTANKE PWROGRA AND IMPLEMENTATSON SCSEDULF
(Figures expressed in staff months)
(Figures in brackets refer to locai specialists)
COMPONENT                                   92-93   93-94   94-95   95-96   96-97   97-98             Total
FZLL0WSHIPS:
1. Deasi.  pervision *d Certification
of Ccustruetioa
2. Trafer of Zlmentary ZducatJou to
Local Government
2.1 Role of Metro./Mun l Corporations in
Education                                   10      10      10                                         30
3. Promotioo of Privat Education
3.1 Role of the Private Sector in Education:
Policies and Practices                      12                                                         12
4. Delivez of dawcation
4.1 Alternative Modes of Teacher Education
and Delivery of Training                    25      25      25      25                                100
4.2 Examinations and Test Design,
Administration and Interpretation           28      L2      12                                         52
4.3 Support for Directorate of Elementary
Education                                   20      20      20                                         60
4.4 Support to Evaluation and Monitoring
Functions                                    6       6       6        6                                24
5. Production and Distribution of Teaching-
Learning Materials
5.1 Publishing of Textbooks and Teaching-
Learning Materials                          34      25       9                                         68
6. Sebool Mapping Infometion Ssrvices
6.1 Development of School Mapping
Information System                          24      15      15                                         54
TOTALS                                             159     113      97       31                               400
FiLename: 0: \CD1\PAI\EEDP\SAR\ANXS.TA.PRN



65
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
DOCUMENTS FOR PROJECT FILE
1.    Sector Studies and Staff Appraisal Reports:
World Bank, "Pakistan: Lower Secondary Education in the Punjab", Report
No. 8913-PAK, Washington DC, December 18, 1990.
World lank, "Pakistan: Sindh Primary Education Development Program
(FY91-S'5)", Report No. 8178-PAR, Washington DC, February 6, 1990.
World Bank, "Pakistan: Education Sector Strategy Review", Report No.
7110-PAK, December 1988.
World Bank, "Pakistan: Third Primary Education Project", Report No.
6492-PAK, May 28, 1987.
2.    Working PaRers:
Local Government Participation in Elementary Education
Private Sector Participation in Elementary Education
Enhancing Teacher Effectiveness
Reforming Assessment of Student Achievement
Improving the Textbooks and Teachers' Books
Supplementary Materials Collection in Middle Schools
Strengthening Policy-Making, Planning, Management and Evaluation
Capacity
School Planning and School Mapping
3.    Cost Tables:
Detailed Program  .osting (Lotus Spreadsheet)
Unit Costs for Civil Works by Type of School and by Elements (as of July
1991).



66
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
4.    Others:
Government of Pakistan, "National Educational Management Information
System (NEMIS) - Project Document", Islamabad, March 5, 1991.
Government of the Punjab, Education Department, "School and Staff
Survey", Lahore, June 1991.
Government of the Punjab, Education Department, Bureau of Education,
"Educational Statistics (Schools)" [For Academic Years 1984-85, 1985-86,
1986-87, and 1987-88], Lahore.
Government of the Punjab, "Annual Development Program" and "Estimates of
Charged Expenditure and Demands for Grants (Non-Development)", Lahore,
Successive Years.
Government of the Punjab, Punjab Education Foundation Act (March 16,
1991) and Rules for Provision of Grants, Loans and Lease of Land (1991),
Lahore, May 1991.
FILENAME: 0:\CD1\PAK\EEDP\SAR\ANXS\ANX9DOCS.TXT



67
Annex 10
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
For the purpose of items to be financed out of the Credit, the
standard bidding procedures of the Government are considered appropriate,
provided that the following modifications are made:
(a)   Prospective bidders should be allowed at least 30 days to submit
bids from the date of the invitation to bid or availability of bid
documents, whichever is later, and require the bid invitation to
so specify;
(b)   require the invitation to bid to be advertized in the local
newspapers;
(c)   Require contracts to be awarded to the bidder who submits the
lowest evaluated responsive bid in accordance with the criteria
set out in the bid documents. To this end, the bid documents may,
where appropriate, specify factors, in addition to price, which
would be taken into account in determining the lowest evaluated
bid, and how such factors would be quantified or otherwise
evaluated;
(d)   Require the bids to be opened in public so that the bidders, or
their representatives are present at the bid opening, and require
the invitation to bid to so specify;
(e)   Preclude negotiations to be carried out with the lowest, or any
bidder, except with the Association's concurrence;
(f)   Require the time of the bid opening to be the same as that
specified for the latest delivery of bids;
(g)   Require late bids to be rejected; and
(h)   Require contracts expected to run more than 12 months to contain
suitable provision for any necessary adjustments in materials and
labor costs.



Chart 1
PUNJAB EDUCATION DEPARTMENT - NEW ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
d  Department of Education   |
| Minister of Ed   esotion                                                               t
r | | ~~~Punjab Edur  ..... Council 
|  Secretary
DEduc. Coordination Committee
|A E S a/       ||A E S a/                      |A E S a/
Administration        Acadeinic                    Planning  
Autoromous   ||D P I b/    |B|PI (EE) c/    DPI (SE) h/ | Directorate                                           Dir. tech.|
Bodies                                Colleges                                               of Staff         Education
Universitiesl            I                                             Devlopen
Div. Dir.      Divisional    DivisionalI 
(Colleges)        Dir. (8) d/   Dir. (8) i/
Islamia     l                    l                                   |EEC  k/    OCETs t/
Cadet              University|                           _______
Colleges           Bahawalpur            Intermediate     Dist. Educ.    Dist. Educ.
and Degree       Officers        Officers                           Dir. Aud. Vis.
Colleges         (64)  e/        (DEO) (32) j/                      Aids Bureau
Boards of     ||Bahuddin
Inter. & Sec.      Z  akariya
Education     IIUniv. Multanl                                                     
DDEO f| Dir. Physical
I                    I r                            § Elem. Educ.                                       Education
|Board of      ||Engineering &| 
|Technicat          Technicat                    
Ed. Lahore         Univ. Lahore                           AEOs g/                                            Dir. Public
Libraries
|Punjab        ||Punjab            |r             
Textbook           University                           Primary                  Secondary
§ Board       |  | Lahore         |                   { Schools     Schools      Schools
|Punjab Educ.  ||Govt. Colleg 
foundation           Lahore  
a/  Additional Education Secretary                              b/  Directorate Public Instruction
c/  Directorate of Public Instructions (Elem. Education)        d/  Divisional Director of Elementary Education
e/  District Education Officer (Elementar,- Education)          f/ Deputy District Education Officer (Elementary Education)
9/  Assistant Education Officer                                 h/  Directorate of Public Instruction (Secondary Education)
i/  Divisional Director of Secondary Education                  j/  District Education Officer (Secondary Education)
k/  Education Extension Centre                                  1/  Government College of Elementary Teachers



IBRD 23354
U.S.S.R.                          h     h           --I er:d
5., Worl Ba f' .s~.'nedi                         I
)--/        f   >/ala ~or/d I, ecc"i,rIo1  8t fo Inc         I<*           bd               ppct.lLn
z                                   Gr GHANhSANe de' aonsed   Attock            I sloRowalpindi'    '           Un.
sonQran,e.o at eg        ATTOCK    Z            RAWALPINDI I                  JAMMU
th a-do,' "                                                      .-.            AND
$ >   i_-   4 t 9  -.Chakwol                    KASHMIR
vO     U;   SPAKISTAN                              ._ g               CHAKWAl °    ,        JeuO'     
-             TADI                                          CHAKWAI 0    /           Jhelum   >- 
NDIA   ~     MIAN WAIl                          JHFLUM
GUIRAT
j                     -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~Miosnwali.                           Gurt0
.  KHUSHAB                                                  k Slt
NORTHWEST FRONTIER  /                             Khushob        Sargodho          'Guiranwl a           SIALKOT
PROVINCE                                                            rGURANWA,
BALUCHISTAN  t\  D.G-.   Leiols             ~                      f      ,J                            Kasur 
I     KHA           WA H         Khonewol  yR          SA
~   ID. '.~~HAKKARi
'  r D.G. Khon         /   MULTAN <VihorB                               t
[    *    | RAJANPUR                   ~                     t1 >J  isL1cEb
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h 9    FAISohawlpurAD,
Rojonpur                                       g 
BAUH                      D. Le/ J    /t/PKSTAN                      /
RohimyorKhan              A
*                             \       RAHIMYAR-KHAN                                                                                   E
t J ~~~~~~~~~~PROVIQAP_ EDUCATION DEPARTMENT;   o                           MAJOR CITIES
121 SIN OUDA   PAKISTAN             OITN'ALCIA
*                     SINDH                      .                     . Xv   ~        a\ ISAW P  PU NJARIES            S  CORPORAllONS
,{ 44s . . Dl~~~~~-   rSTlC1 BIOUNDARIES '                       /      e NAfTIONAL CAPITAI
CLAI EDUCATI  OEPARTMFNT.               MAJPROVINC ESUNDARIES
rr,onINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'Lolsoe ICily) cad Whomr (Canfornsrsntl 
part of the sone cdclinoi.dra,tiu dirict. Hon404r.                                   TRIBAL AREA
hron, fhr, point of vow of tho Pro-incuI Education
Dep,rlsn,nf,lthey.fsar. o   eprlt. di.sidds.
JANUARY 1997



