Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2354 PAK
                 (Punjab Middle Schooling Project)
                              between
                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated June 5, 1992
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2354 PAK
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1992, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by the Province of
Punjab of the Borrower (the Province) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
the Province the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement;
      (C)   the Project constitutes a part of the Province's Middle
Schooling Development Program (the Program) for the fiscal years
1992/93 through 1997/98; and
Page  2
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and the
Province;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Province of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (b)   "middle schools" means the schools for levels 1 through
8 in the Province's elementary education system;
      (c)   "DOE" means the Department of Education of the Province;
      (d)   "PEF" means the Punjab Education Foundation, an
autonomous body established by the Province and operating therein;
      (e)   "GCET" means the Government College for Elementary
Teachers of the Province;
      (f)   "EEC" means the Education Extension Center of DOE;
      (g)   "TDC" means the Testing Development Center to be
established under Part B.4 of the Project;
      (h)   "ECC" means the Education Coordination Committee of DOE:
      (i)   "DSD" means the Directorate for Staff Development to be
established within DOE pursuant to Part C.4 of the Project;
      (j)   "DPI(S)" means the Directorate of Public Instruction
(Schools) of DOE;
      (k)   "DPI(EE)" means the Directorate of Public Instruction
(Elementary Education) of DOE to be established under Part C.2 of
the Project;
      (l)   "DPI(SE)" means the Directorate of Public Instruction
(Secondary Education) of DOE to be established under Part C.2 of the
Project;
      (m)   "ADPI(PE)" means the Additional Directorate of Public
Instruction (Primary Education) of DOE:
      (n)   "CRDC" means the Curriculum Research and Development
Center of DOE;
      (o)   "PTB" means the Punjab Textbook Board, an autonomous
body established by the Province and operating therein;
      (p)   "DPI(EE) Special Account" means the account which the
Province shall open and maintain for ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) pursuant to
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the
Project Agreement, for purposes of all activities to be carried out
Page  3
under the Project other than the construction activities to be
carried out under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project for which
CEC shall be responsible;
      (q)   "CEC Special Account" means the account which the
Province shall open and maintain for CEC pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement and Section 2.01 (c) of the Project Agreement
for purposes of the construction activities to be carried out under
Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the Project for which CEC shall be
responsible;
      (r)   "Special Accounts" mean collectively the DPI(EE) Special
Account and the CEC Special Account, and "Special Account" means
each and any of those accounts individually; and
      (s)   "Guidelines" means the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eighty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 80,500,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
cause the Province to open and maintain for each of DPI(EE) and CEC
in dollars a special deposit account in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Page  4
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2027. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2012 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one-half
percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
      Section 2.09. The Chairman, Planning and Development Board of
the Province is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article
V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause the Province to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of the
Province therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Province to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to the Province.
Page  5
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by the Province pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                  with sound accounting practices, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                  which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
                  was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal
                  year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year the report of such
                  audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Association shall from time
                  to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Province shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
Page  6
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Province
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
of the Borrower has approved the PC-1 document with respect to the
Project;
      (b)   the Province has completed its evaluation of proposals
received for consultants' services to be engaged pursuant to Section
II of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, and has furnished a copy
of the evaluation report to the Association for its review and
approval; and
      (c)   the Province has acquired the sites required during the
first year of Project implementation for school construction under
Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by the Province, and is legally
binding upon the Province in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer in such Division is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government
              of Pakistan
            Economic Affairs Division
            Islamabad, Pakistan
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECONOMIC                  ECIDV-05-634
                  Islamabad
      For the Association:
Page  7
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                  ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
                  By /s/ Arshad Farooq
                                         Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              49,650,000        76%
(2)  Furniture and            12,450,000        100% of foreign
     educational                                expenditures and
     equipment and                              100% of local
     materials                                  expenditures (ex-
                                                factory costs) and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  Consultants'              6,600,000        100%
     and construc-
     tion manage-
     ment services
     and fellowships
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
Page  8
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(4)  Female teacher            3,850,000        70% until amounts
     and student                                disbursed from the
     scholarships                               Credit under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of SDR
                                                2,000,000,
                                                50% thereafter until
                                                such amounts have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of SDR
                                                3,150,000,
                                                and 30% thereafter
                                                until such amounts
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of SDR
                                                3,850,000
(5)  Incremental                 560,000        70% until amounts
     staff salaries                             disbursed from the
                                                Credit under this
                                                Category have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of SDR
                                                280,000,
                                                50% thereafter until
                                                such amounts have
                                                reached the equi-
                                                valent of SDR
                                                455,000,
                                                and 30% thereafter
                                                until such amounts
                                                have reached the
                                                equivalent of SDR
                                                560,000
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)  Unallocated               7,390,000
                               _________
         TOTAL                80,500,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental staff salaries" means the salaries
of the additional staff appointed as a result of the reorganization
of DPI(S) into DPI(EE) and DPI(SE) under Part C.2 of the Project.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
Page  9
      The objectives of the Project are (a) to improve access to
middle schooling in rural and low-income urban areas, (b) to improve
the quality of education and student achievement in middle schools,
and (c) to strengthen the capacity of the Province's educational
institutions for policy-making, planning, management and monitoring
and evaluation.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Access to Middle Schools
(1)   Expansion and improvement of about 1,400 existing middle
schools (about 70% of which are girls' schools) through the
construction, equipping and furnishing of about 6,900 new
classrooms.
(2)   Extension of middle schooling in about 1,400 existing primary
schools in rural and low-income urban areas (about 60% of which are
girls' schools), through construction of new classrooms and
provision of basic facilities, and construction and equipping in
such areas of about 800 new middle schools (about 85% of which are
to be girls' schools).
(3)   Carrying out of a program over the period 1992/1998 for the
maintenance of about 1,000 middle schools annually.
(4)   Expansion of the scholarship program to encourage girls to
attend middle and secondary schools.
(5)   Provision of scholarships in rural areas to enable female
candidates to acquire middle school teaching credentials.
(6)   Carrying out of measures to reward distinguished
headmasters/headmistresses of middle schools.
(7)   Carrying out of a pilot program in the Rawalpindi Municipal
Corporation area to experiment with the transfer of responsibility
for the provision of public elementary education to municipal
bodies.
(8)   Assistance to PEF in (a) the preparation of policy proposals
regarding the role of the private sector in education, (b) the
development of its institutional capacity, and (c) coordination and
collaboration in the carrying out of its activities with other non-
governmental organizations.
Part B:     Enhancement of Quality of Education in Middle Schools
(1)   Enhancing the skills and effectiveness of middle school
teachers through (a) strengthening of the teacher training
curricula, including the provision to GCET and DSD of necessary
technical services and materials, (b) development, testing,
adaptation and implementation by DSD of in-service teacher training
programs, and (c) expansion and upgrading of the facilities at EEC's
complex taken over by DSD in Lahore and at GCET.
(2)   Provision of science demonstration materials and equipment for
about 3,600 middle schools, and training of science teachers in the
use thereof.
(3)   Carrying out of training programs for about 3,000 middle
school headmasters/headmistresses.
(4)   Establishment within CRDC of a Testing Development Center
(TDC) to be responsible for educational assessment, development and
maintenance of a data bank on test questions on curricular topics,
production and administration of achievement tests and evaluation of
performance in tests, and the provision of related fellowships and
training.
Page  10
(5)   Upgrading the content, quality and design of textbooks through
(a) market research on current textbook use, (b) training on all
aspects of textbook development and production, and (c) introduction
of improved textbooks in middle schools and the monitoring and
evaluation of their effectiveness.
(6)   Production and distribution of (a) new teachers' guides for
all subjects in grades 6, 7 and 8, and (b) supplementary reading
texts for about 7,500 middle schools.
Part C:     Education Policy-Making, Planning and Management and
            Evaluation
(1)   Assistance for DOE in the area of education policy-making and
planning, including (a) the provision of advisory services for the
Provincial Education Council, established within DOE, (b) the
development of a school mapping information system, and (c) the
provision of related technical assistance, training, equipment and
materials.
(2)   Restructuring of the management system for elementary
education through reorganization of DOE's Directorate of Public
Instruction (Schools) (DPI(S)) into a Directorate of Public
Instruction (Elementary Education) (DPI(EE)) and a Directorate of
Public Instruction (Secondary Education) (DPI(SE)), each with a
separate hierarchy at the divisional and district levels.
(3)   Strengthening of ECC through the provision of technical
assistance and training.
(4)   Establishment within DOE of a new Directorate for Staff
Development (DSD) incorporating EEC to oversee pre- and in-service
training of teachers and supervisory staff.
(5)   Strengthening of DOE's monitoring and evaluation capacity
through the provision of technical services, training and equipment
required to improve collection and analysis of educational data, the
conduct of studies in related areas and the development of reporting
system in DOE's Secretariat to provide managers with periodic
information on educational activities and on progress on educational
indicators.
                             *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                         Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in respect of
ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE), an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited into the DPI(EE) Special
Account; and in respect of CEC, an amount equivalent to $3,000,000
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the CEC
Special Account, all pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Page  11
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
relevant Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish such Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation,
ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, shall furnish to the
Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the
basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf
of ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, shall have
requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account,
                  ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be,
                  shall furnish to the Association requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such requests,
                  ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be,
                  shall furnish to the Association the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Association
                  shall, on behalf of ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as
                  the case may be, withdraw from the Credit Account
                  and deposit into the Special Account such amount
                  as ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be,
                  shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                  by said documents and other evidence to have been
                  paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                  expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case
may be, out of a Special Account, ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the
case may be, shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into a Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or
CEC, as the case may be, directly from the Credit Account in
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for the parts of the Project
for which ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, is
responsible, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to such parts of the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the relevant Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Page  12
Categories for such parts of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in such Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be,
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit
into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until
ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association, refund to the Association such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   ADPI(PE)/DPI(EE) or CEC, as the case may be, may, upon
notice to the Association, refund to the Association all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
