CREDIT NUMBER 2354 PAK
Project Agreement
(Punjab Middle Schooling Project)
between
0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
Dated               -             , 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2354 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                            , 1992, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC TION (the Association) and PROVINCE
OF PUNJAB acting by its Governor (the Province).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty
million   five    hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 80,500,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Province agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Province;
and
WHEREAS the Province, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Province declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project through DOE with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate educational, administrative, financial


﻿- 2 -
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and the Province shall
otherwise agree, the Province shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2
to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Province shall carry out the obligations
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and
land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The Province shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b)   The Province shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by the Province of its obligations under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Province shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations, resources and expenditures with respect
to the Project.
(b)   The Province shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including the


﻿-3-
records and accounts for the Special Accounts,
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts as well as
the audit thereof, as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.02. (a) The Province shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, educational
materials, staff, services and other resources required for the
Program.
(b)   To that end, the Province shall:
(i)   prepare and furnish to the Association, for its
comments, and finalize in agreement with the
Association, not later than April 30 of each year,
an annual work plan which shall include: (aa) the
targets to be achieved and the activities to be
carried out under the Program during the following
fiscal year and the components thereof to be
financed under the Project from the proceeds of
the Credit, (bb) the sites of the schools to be
constructed or upgraded under such work plan, the
criteria adopted in the selection of such sites,
the measures taken by the Province for their
acquisition and the mix of the various types of
schools selected for constructing or upgrading,
and (cc) the requirements of staff and other
resources for the carrying out of such activities;
and
(ii)   review annually with the Association, in the
context of the preparation of any such work plan,


﻿-4-
the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
ongoing work plan and the adequacy of the
budgetary resources allocated therefor.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Province thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
Province of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified


﻿-5-
or at such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
For the Province:
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Cable address:               Telex:
DEVELOPMENT              952-44868
Lahore, Pakistan         Punjab Secretariat
Lahore, Pakistan
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Province, or by the Province on behalf
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken
or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development Board or such
other person or persons as he shall designate in writing, and the
Province shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
ByAes
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants" Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works, furniture, equipment and materials may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Items or groups of items of equipment and materials estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $9,000,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part B:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of a Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of such
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished


﻿-8-
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Province in the carrying out of the
Project,  the   Province  shall  employ,  under   time  schedules
satisfactory  to  the  Association,   supervisory  and  technical
consultants. and construction managers whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants and construction
managers shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.    Project Management
1.    DOE shall assign overall responsibility for carrying out the
Project initially to ADPI(PE), and then to DPI(EE) when established.
To that end, DOE shall ensure the completion of the establishment
of DPI(EE) under Part C.2 of the Project not later than July 1,
1993. Specifically, DOE shall assign responsibility for the carrying
out of:
(a)   construction works under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the
Project, to CEC or, in selected districts with the
agreement of the Association, to construction managers
employed from the private sector pursuant to the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   activities under Part A.8 of the Project, to PEF;
(c)   all other activities under Part A of the Project, to
DPI(EE) or, until the establishment of DPI(EE), to
ADPI(PE);
(d)   training of teachers and other staff under Parts B.1,
B.2 and B.3 of the Project, to DSD, to which end, DSD
shall be established, with organization, staffing,
functions and operational procedures satisfactory to
the Association, not later tlhan July 1, 1993;
(e)   Part 3.4 of the Project, to CkiG, which shall establish
TDC under that part of the Project, with organization,
staffing,   functions   and   operational  procedures
satisfactory to the Association, not later than July 1,
1993;
(f)   Part C of the Project, to DOE's Secretariat; and
(g)   Parts B.5 and B.6 of the Project, to PTB.


﻿- 10 -
B.    Employment of Staff and Consultants
2.    DOE shall:
(a)   ensure that CEC will employ, not later than October 31,
1992, at least fifty (50) additional sub-engineers
required for the purposes of the construction works to
be carried out under Parts A.1, A.2 and A.3 of the
Project; and
(b)   employ the consultants required for the purposes of the
Project and to be employed pursuant to Section II of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, not later than October 31,
1992.
C.    Pilot Program
3.    DPI(EE) shall: (a) carry out the pilot program described in
Part A.7 of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association; and (b) prepare and review with the Association,
not later than December 31, 1995, a report evaluating the results
of such program and the desirability of its expansion.
D.    Puniab Education Foundation (PEF) Activities
4.    The Province shall:
(a)   prepare and review with the Association, by December
31,.1994, an evaluation of the activities undertaken by
PEF under Part A.8 of the Project; and
(b)   thereafter prepare, on the basis of such review,
recommendations for submission to the appropriate
authorities of the Borrower regarding the role to be
performed by private enterprises and non-governmental
organizations in the delivery of educational services
and the measures to be taken for facilitating such role.
E.    Progress Reports
5.    The Province shall furnish to the Association semi-annual
reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on
progress in the carrying out of the Project and of other activities
of the Program included under the work plans to be prepared pursuant
to Section 3.02 of this Agreement.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


