CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 673 MA
Project Agreement
(Jengka Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
MAJLIS AMANAH RA'AYAT
AND
SHARIKAT JENGKA SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DATED MAY 20, 1970


﻿LOAN NUMBER 673 MA
Project Agreement
(Jengka Forestry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
MAJLIS AMANAH RA'AYAT
AND
SHARIKAT JENGKA SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DATED MAY 20, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated May 20, 1970, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank) and MAJLIS AMANAH RA'AYAT
(hereinafter called MARA) and its subsidiary the SHARIKAT
JENGKA SENDIRIAN BERHAD (hereinafter called the SJSB).
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith (herein-
after called the Loan Agreement) between Malaysia (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to eight million five hundred
thousand dollars ($8,500,000) on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that MARA and the SJSB agree to undertake certain obli-
gations toward the Bank as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS MARA and the SJSB are willing to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Loan Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) shall have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants of the SJSB and MARA
SECTION 2.01. The SJSB shall carry out the Project,
described in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement, with due


﻿4
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
silvicultural, engineering, economic, administrative and
financial practices, and under the supervision of competent
and experienced management.
SECTION 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the SJSB shall employ competent and experienced con-
sultants acceptable to the Bank, upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank to carry out and manage the
Project.
SECTION 2.03. Upon request from time to time by the
Bank, the SJSB shall promptly furnish to the Bank upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications and work sched-
ules for the Project and any material modifications subse-
quently made therein, and in such detail as the Bank shall
from time to time request.
SECTION 2.04. The SJSB shall maintain records ade-
quate to identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained sound accounting practices its operations, receipts
and expenditures; shall enable the Bank's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods and any relevant records
and documents; and shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, and the
administration, operations, and financial condition of the
SJSB.
SECTION 2.05. (a) The Bank, MARA and the SJSB shall
cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the Loan
will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall fur-
nish to the others all such information as they shall rea-
sonably request.


﻿5
(b) The Bank, MARA and the SJSB shall from time to
time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
MARA and the SJSB shall promptly inform the Bqnk of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan
or the performance by MARA or the SJSB of their obliga-
tions under this Agreement, or which shall increase or
threaten to increase materially the estimated cost of the
Project.
SECTION 2.06. The SJSB shall satisfy the Bank that
adequate arrangements have been made to insure the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against risks
incident to their purchase, importation into the territories
of the Borrower and delivery to the Project Area. Any
indemnity under such insurance shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 2.07. Except as shall be otherwise agreed by
the Bank, the SJSB shall use all goods purchased in whole
or in part with proceeds of the Loan exclusively in the
carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 2.08. (a) The SJSB shall cause all facilities
under its jurisdiction to be operated, maintained and re-
newed in accordance with sound silvicultural, engineering
and financial practices.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the SJSB
shall not (i) sell, lease, transfer or assign any of its prop-
erty or assets except in the normal course of its business
and (ii) sell or otherwise dispose of any goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, other than such goods as
shall have become worn out or obsolete.
SECTION 2.09. The accounts of the SJSB shall be audited
at least once each year by independent auditors acceptable


﻿6
to the Bank. The accounts and audit shall be prepared in
a form satisfactory to the Bank and the SJSB shall furnish
to the Bank within four months following the close of its
fiscal year signed copies of such auditors' reports.
SECTION 2.10. MARA shall cooperate fully with the
State Authority in accordance with the provisions of the
undertaking dated March 11, 1970 from the State Author-
ity to the Borrower's Minister of National and Rural
Development.
SECTION 2.11. The SJSB shall not change, amend or
modify any arrangement for the marketing of the produce
of the Project concluded pursuant to the Loan Agreement
without prior consultation with the Bank.
SECTION 2.12. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the SJSB shall not engage in any activity other than the
Project and shall not undertake or execute, for its own
account or for the account of any other party or parties,
any projects or developments other than the Project.
SECTION 2.13. The SJSB shall at all times manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance
with sound business practices. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the SJSB shall not (i) incur any indebted-
ness in excess of $100,000 equivalent in the aggregate at
any one time outstanding without the prior approval of
the Bank, and (ii) distribute any profits prior to the Closing
Date without the prior approval of the Bank and there-
after unless proper and adequate provision has been made
for meeting the SJSB's obligations including debt service.
SECTION 2.14. The SJSB shall at all times maintain its
existence and right to carry on operations and shall, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, take all steps necessary


﻿7
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, priv-
ileges and franchises which are necessary or useful in the
conduct of its business.
SECTION 2.15. MARA shall take all action which shall
be necessary on its part to enable the SJSB to perform all
of its obligations under this Project Agreement and shall
not take or permit any action which would prevent or inter-
fere with the performance of any such obligations of the
SJSB.
SECTION 2.16. SJSB shall at all times be staffed with
qualified and experienced senior personnel, shall inform
the Bank of any proposed change in the positions of its
(i) Managing Director, (ii) Project Manager and (iii)
Financial Controller or of personnel filling such positions,
and shall afford the Bank an opportunity to comment
thereon prior to effectuating any such change.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date when the Loan Agreement shall become
effective as provided therein. The Bank shall promptly
notify MARA and the SJSB of such date. If the Loan
Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 11.04 of
the General Conditions, the Bank shall promptly notify
MARA and the SJSB of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Project Agreement and all obligations
of the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and the
obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease and deter-
mine on the date when the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. No delay in exercising, or omission to
exercise, any right, power or remedy accruing to eJher
party under this Project Agreement upon any default shall
impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed
to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default;
nor shall the action of such party in respect of any default
or any acquiescence in any default, affect or impair any
right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any
other or subsequent default.
SECTION 4.02. Any notice, demand or request, required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram or cable
to the party to which it is required or permitted to be
given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or at
such other address as such party shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such de-
mand or request. The addresses so specified are:
For MARA:
MAJLIS AMANAH RA'AYAT
232 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Cable address:
MARAMAL
Kuala Lumpur


﻿9
For the SJSB:
SHARIKAT JENGKA SENDIRIAN BERHAD,
c/o. MAJLIS AMANAH RA'AYAT
232 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Cable address:
MARAMAL for SJSB
Kuala Lumpur
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 4.03. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement or under Section 8.01 of the
Loan Agreement on behalf of the SJSB may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the SJSB shall designate in writing.
SECTION 4.04. The SJSB shall furnish to the Bank suffi-
cient evidence of the authority of any such other person
or persons who will, on behalf of the SJSB, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be
taken or executed by the SJSB pursuant to any of the
provisions of this Agreement and to Section 8.01 of the
Loan Agreement and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.


﻿10
SECTION 4.05. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names by
their representatives thereunto duly authorized and deliv-
ered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
MAJLIS AMANAH IRA'AYAT
By s/ TAN SRI ONG YoKE LIN
Authorized Representative
SHARIKAT JENGKA SENDIRIAN BERHAD
By s/ TA SRI ONG YoK LiN
Authorized Representative


