Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
Report No. 22017
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$90.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P006866
L/C NUMBER: 36830
March 29, 2001
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Country Management Unit for Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange rate Effective December, 2000)
Currency Unit = Colombian Pesos (COP)
COP 2,229.18 = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CREM            Municipal Center for School Resources
CREP            Institutional Center for School Resources
DANE            National Administrative Department of Statistics
DNP             National Planning Department
FINDETER        Financial Company for Territorial Development PLC
FIS             Social Investment Fund
ICFES           Colombian Institute for the Promotion of Higher Education
MEN             Ministry of National Education
MHCP            Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
PEI / PIM       Institutional Plan for School Improvement
PEM             Municipal Education Plan
SABER           National Evaluation System for the Quality of Education
SED             Departmental Education Office
SNC             National System for Co-financing
SEM             Municipal Education Office
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UPCE            Project Unit for External Loans
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Management Unit Director:   Olivier Lafourcade
Country Sector Leader:   Eduardo Velez
Sector Management/Unit Director:   Xavier Coll
Task Manager:   Martha Laverde



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
(LOAN 3683-CO)
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                               1
2. Principal Performnance Ratings                                              1
3. Assessment of Development Objectives and Design, and Quality at Entry      2
4. Achievement of Objectives and Outputs                                      7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                         18
6. Sustainability                                                             22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                              22
8. Lessons Learned                                                            25
9. Partner Comments                                                           28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                          44
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                          45
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                          46
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                          46
Annex 5. Rating for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components           48
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                             48
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                         49
Preliminary work on this document was undertaken by Joel Reyes with the assistance of Marisella
Aguilera and Darlyn Meza whose contributions are gratefully acknowledged. After Mr. Reyes's transfer
to the Bank's Guatemala Country Office, Martha Laverde, task manager of the project, took the
responsibility to complete and finalize the document as well as lead the ICR Mission with the Colombian
Government. The report is based on project documentation and interviews with officials from the
Ministry of Education (MEN) and other relevant National Agencies as well as with senior project staff.
Two workshops were held with project stakeholders who provided useful insights and comments. The
collaboration of Rosa Cristina Siabato who organized the stakeholders workshops is gratefully
acknowledged. Assistance in preparation of the final report was provided by Maria Elisa Caro and
Veronica Jarrin.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID:    PE-P006866                   Project Name: Secondary Education
Team Leader:  Martha Laverde                TL Unit:       LCSHE
ICR Type:    Core ICR                       Report Date:  March 29, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Secondary Education       L/C/TFNumber: 3683
Country/Department: COLOMBIA                       Region: Latin America and Caribbean
Sectorl subsector: ES - Secondary Education               Region
KEY DATES
Original     Actual
PCD: NA                             Effective: 11/09/94      03/28/95
Appraisal: 11/19/93                         MTR: 06/06/96        11/06/96
Approval: 12/16/93                       Closing: 12/31/2000    12/31/02*
* The 1999 amendment to reallocate all undisbursed funds to the reconstruction of the Coffee Zone
changed the closing date to 2002. However, all activities related to the Secondary Education project as
such were terminated on December 31, 2000.
Borrower /Implementing Agency:   MIN. OF EDUCATION
Others Partners:   ICETEX, FINDETER AND FIS
STAFF                        Current                       At Appraisal
Vice President:              David de Ferranti             Shahid Husain
Country Manager:             Olivier Lafourcade            Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:              Xavier Coll                   Jacques Van der Gaag
Team Leader at ICR:          Martha Laverde/ Joel Reyes    Michael Potashnik
ICR Primary Author           Martha Laverde with inputs
from Marisella Aguilera and
Darlyn Meza
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS= Highly Satisfactory, S = Satisfactory, U = Unsatisfactory, HL = Highly Likely, L= Likely, UN =
Unlikely, HUN =Highly Unsatisfactory, H = High, SU = Substantial, MS= Moderated Satisfactory, M =
Modest, N = Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: L
Bank Performance: MS
Borrower Performance: MS
QAG (if available): N.A.
Quality at Entry: U
Project at Risk at any time: YES



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry
3.1. Original Objectives:
The educational policies adopted in the country between 1991 and 1994, in the context of thePlan
de Apertura Educativa (Educational Expansion Program), aimed principally to achieve higher
levels of educational attainment of the labor force in order to raise its productivity and contribution
to economic growth. Therefore, the efforts in the education sector focused on giving fresh impetus
to the increase in coverage and the improvement of the quality of education available to the
Colombian population.
To support the initiatives of the Government, the project envisaged the following objectives: (i)
contribute to the implementation of the new national strategy of co-financing with the departments
and municipalities for education investments; (ii) provide incentives to regional and local
governments to achieve national education targets; and, (iii) support the assumption by
municipalities of an expanded role in education by building local capacity for the planning, co-
financing, and implementation of investments.
Specifically, the basic guidelines of the national policies in connection with basic and secondary
education were oriented towards: (i) massively increasing enrollment in secondary schools and
improving the quality of education at all levels; (ii) advancing the establishment of the system of
decentralization and modernization of the education system; (iii) developing financial mechanisms
to solve problems of equality; (iv) promoting competition among the private and public schools as a
means of increasing the quality of education; and, (v) increasing overall investments in education, at
both the regional and local level.
The original project objectives were consistent with the Bank strategy for Colombia during the
FY93-96 period, that placed special emphasis on human resource development and poverty
reduction within an overall agenda of support for private sector development, decentralization, and
growth with equity. The Bank supported the Government's policies and programs to reduce poverty
and income disparities with effectively targeted social outreach programs which enhanced equity,
efficiency and service quality. It also supported the Government's strategy to increase social
spending, improve responsiveness to local needs through decentralization, and improve efficiency
by promoting private delivery of services and replacing subsidies to service producers with targeted
grants.
3.2. Revised Objectives:
No change
3.3. Original Components:
In accordance with the objectives of the Project, four components were designed: (i) increasing
coverage; (ii) expanding access through the Voucher Program; (iii) enhancing educational quality
through the funding of Institutional Plans for School Improvement (Proyectos Institucionales de
Mejoramiento Escolar -PIMs-); and, (iv) strengthening the management of educational services.
The following table presents the original budget for the four components.
2



Table No. 1: Original Allocation of Resources per Component
Distribution of resources
(US$ millions)
Components                            Credit  Counterpart  Total
funds
A. Increasing coverage: obtained through funding of the: (i) new
school constructions and enlargement; and, (ii) rehabilitation of the   37.0  16.8    53.8
installations and facilities of the public basic and middle secondary
education institutions.
B. Expanding access: Supports the access of private secondary schools
which have the capacity to accommodate students from low-income    4.0      3.5        7.5
families who do not have access to basic and middle state institutions in
a participating municipality or district.
C. Educational Quality Enhancement: obtained through the funding
of Institutional Plans for School Improvement (Planes Institucionales
de Mejoramiento Escolar -PIMs-),' includes  the training of   33.0         27.3       60.3
headmasters and teachers, the supply of school textbooks, materials and
teaching equipment.
D. Management and Institutional Strengthening: In order to help the
departments (states) to carry out their new functions and responsibilities    6.0  6.1  12.1
arising from the decentralization process, oriented towards the
formulation of policies and the overseeing of the System.
E. Unallocated                                                  10.0        6.7       16.7
TOTAL                                                           90.0       60.4      150.4
60%        40%       100%
The project was originally designed to support schools in 87 municipalities in 11 departments. In
reality, 89 municipalities were reached.
3.4. Revised Components.
In 1996, the Project's administrative and financial management procedures were reoriented, without
changing the original objectives and components as set forth in the Loan Agreement. The purpose
of the adjustment was to adapt the implementation mechanisms and procedures to the new legal
educational context, as well as the new institutional and educational policies of the country. In
conformity with the country's decentralization policies, project implementation was simplified in
terms of operating procedures and more attention was given to the task of increasing the
participation of the local communities. Implementation during the first years of the project (1994-
1996) had revealed that the dispersion of activities under the various components led to
inefficiencies in the use of the loan resources. The central authorities had initially distributed the
loan resources across seven distinct investment lines, however, only one of these financing
categories was accessible to the municipalities. For example, one year civil works would be
designated and the following year educational materials would be designated. To simplify
procedures, the seven budgetary lines originally set up were combined into two groups with each
one targeting a specific type of subproject: (i) the Municipal Education Subprojects (Subproyectos
Educativos Municipales) which focused on increasing coverage in grades 6 to 11, improving the
quality of education, and strengthening management at the municipal level; and, (ii) the Institutional
' In the nomenclature of the Law 115/94, the PIM become Institutional Education Plan (Proyectos
Educativos Institutionales -PEIs-).
3



School Improvement Subprojects (Subproyectos Educativos Institucionales) which financed the
proposed PEIs oriented to improve the quality and management of education at the school level.2
With this adjustment, the central government's decentralization to the municipal level was better
supported by the project and school autonomy was strengthened. Schools gained the capacity for
planning, managing, executing and evaluating the processes defined in each one of their
institutional improvement projects. For the preparation of the Municipal Education Plan (PEM),
technical assistance was organized at the national level by the Ministry of Education (MEN),
consisting of: (i) technical guidance to the municipalities for the situational diagnosis of the
education sector and the design of the PEM; and, (ii) information on how to gain access to loan
resources and national funds available through the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and Financial
Company for Territorial Development (FINDETER).
While the project's effectiveness was enhanced by the above-mentioned restructuring, the transfer
of project resources to the municipalities was seriously constrained by the acceleration of the
financial crisis experienced by the country and the limitations of the new Co-Financing System3 for
education.,. The following difficulties coming from the co-financing system were observed: (i) the
scheme was too complex with too many entities involved in the approval process of the sub-projects
presented by the Local Authorities; (ii) decision-making remained centralized at the national level;
(iii) there were significant inequalities in the allocation of budgets to the various municipalities,
with the result that the weakest municipalities with the greatest needs had less chances of getting
resources; and, (iv) the FIS operated as a very politicized and bureaucratic institution, at both the
national and local levels.
As a result of these problems, in August 1998, the National Planning Department (DNP) decided to
cancel the loan altogether. A proposal was made to use the undisbursed resources for a Social
Sector Adjustment operation. Although this did not happen, in the meantime, no allocation for use
of loan resources nor counterpart funds were assigned for the Secondary Education project in the
1999 budget, apart from those necessary to finance the commitments already made.
In January 1999, as a result of the earthquake in the coffee production zone (Eje Cafetero), the
Government decided to use the remaining loan resources to support the reconstruction of the
affected zone, together with the resources of three other projects from the Bank portfolio and some
from the IDB. After that date, all project funds were transferred to the Reconstruction Fund for the
coffee production zone. This decision was taken by DNP over strong objections from MEN because
of the latter's concern that the municipalities would be left without resources and without the
possibility, at least at that time, of gaining access to external loans through the co-financing
modality.
As a result of this decision, the financm; envelope for the various components was modified as
shown in table 2 below:
2This Subproject groups the following components: support to initiatives that improve management capacity,
make pedagogical management more dynamic and promote community participation in the institutions,
teacher-training, the provision of educational material and the improvement and/or rehabilitation of
infrastructure.
3The national co-financing system started in 1993 as an instrument to finance social investments with
resources from the central government and the local governments. Specific institutions were established at
the national and local levels to implement this co-financing system.
4



Table No. 2: Definitive Allocation of Resources per Component
Components                           Distribution of resources
(US$ millions)
Credit  Counterpart funds  Total
A. Increasing coverage                             14.7         19.1          33.8
B. Expanding access:                                1.8         22.6          24.4
C. Educational Quality Enhancement                 19.7          7.5          27.2
D. Management and Institutional Strengthening:      4.1          1.5           5.6
TOTAL                                              40.3         50.7          91.0
3.5 Quality at Entry.
ICR Rating: U
The design of the project responded directly to the priorities defined by the Government during the
1991-94 period. These objectives were maintained and strengthened during the implementation of
the national and local subprojects. It should be noted, however, that the design of the Secondary
Education project may not have been realistic in its plan to introduce and consolidate such
important reforms within the lifespan of a single project. It would have been more appropriate to
establish intermediary targets and to design the implementation of the reforms over a longer period
of time.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the following risks as the main threats to project
implementation: (i) delays due to the weak implementation capacity of MEN, FIS and other
government agencies; (ii) the institutional weakness of local government; (iii) reluctance of the
local governments to participate fully because of a lack of confidence in the central government;
(iv) the investment restrictions from the local governments for secondary education facilities
according to the targets; and, (v) the lack of political acceptance for the voucher program.
The measures taken to mitigate risks were partially adequate to manage most of the risks mentioned
above. Some important risks, such as the large quantity of actors involved in project
implementation, frequent turnover of senior MEN staff, various legal modifications, the
macroeconomic situation, and the rising violence, were not given sufficient weight.
Legal aspects: The design of the Secondary Education Project started during the 1991-94 period,
when the Plan de Apertura Educativa (Education Expansion Plan) was being prepared and the
country was going through a profound constitutional change. The project faced various legal
modifications like: The potential impact of key changes in regulations linked to the new
decentralization law, the Law 60 on Competencies and Resources (La Ley 60 de Competencias y
Recursos), the creation of the Social Investment Fund (FIS) and the new General Education Law
(Ley General de Educaci6n). These laws were incorporated in the Secondary Education Project in
the final preparation phase and during negotiations, to reflect the need to support the new
decentralization process and the related co-financing arrangements between the national and local
levels.
Another important challenge came from substantial changes in the country's education policies,
especially with the new Education Law promulgated in 1994. It made basic education compulsory
and redefined basic education to include grades 0 to 9 and secondary education to include (grades
5



10 and 11). The old secondary education system recognized as grades 6 to 11, which was in place
when the project was designed, was phased out. At the level of the municipalities, this change
resulted in the physical, technical and administrative integration of all institutions previously
involved in the delivery of the various levels forming the new Basic Education cycle. The
mechanisms of distribution of budgetary resources and the education statistics systems were also
modified to fit the new basic education concept. All of this meant that the original design and focus
of the project became out of line with what the country was proposing. Implementation of the
project finished during the transition phase to MEN's new system, which began in 1994.
Economic Variables: During almost the entire project implementation period (1994-2000), the
country experienced a situation of acute fiscal crisis which made it impossible to use either loan
proceeds or counterpart funds as scheduled. At the same time, the Secondary Education Project was
instrumental in supporting the new National Co-Financing System that defined the distribution of
resources between the central and the local authorities (department and municipal). The
implementation of this system, however, turned out be very difficult because of its complex
procedures and politicization. In the end, it became necessary to rethink the operation system and to
adopt the mechanism of integrated Projects PEM/PEI - Municipal Education Plan and Institutional
Education Plan.
Rising Violence: Above all, violence in many parts of the country had a major impact on the
project. In many instances, the municipal authorities had to refocus their attention to deal with the
concrete consequences of the armed conflict. In cities like Medellin, Cartagena, Pasto and Cucuta,
emergency programs had to be put in place in order to attend to the education needs of displaced
youths from the municipalities directly affected by the civil war. The mayors of these municipalities
were also compelled to reallocate considerable resources to programs to alleviate the consequences
of the war, for example in the health sector. In smaller municipalities like Maria la Baja in the
Department of Bolivar, the presence of different fighting factions prevented the authorities from
visiting the affected localities to look at the education needs and plan the necessary investments.
Multiplicity of Actors: In particular, the intervention of three main co-executors (ICETEX,
FINDETER, and FIS) with limited institutional capacity to administer a large and complex
investment program made it very difficult to coordinate project activities in an effective manner.
Unclear responsibilities and operational mechanisms for the implementation of some of the
financing categories, compounded by difficulties in coordinating procedures among the various
institutions involved, hampered project implementation and loan disbursements.
Turnover of Senior MEN Officials: One of the major implementation difficulties was the absence
of leadership and ownership by MEN staff at the central level. There were eight Ministers and six
coordinators during the lifetime of the project. Because of frequent turnover, more often than not,
project leadership and management did not rest with technical staff of MEN, but with outside
contracted consultants. Contrary to what was expected, implementation capacity turned out to be
much better at the local level where the teams in the SEMs were characterized by high levels of
leadership, commitment and stability.
6



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1. Outcome/Achievement of Objective
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactory
The projected objectives were reached in general. Even though the project was terminated before
the planned closing date and a significant proportion of the loan was reallocated to the
reconstruction of the Coffee Production Zone, the overall outcome is satisfactory because the
municipalities invested more resources than originally planned to finance project activities. The
fact that the project was instrumental in mobilizing additional resources is in itself a mark of
success.
The supporting information to measure the degree of achievement of the Project objectives was
collected through: (i) indicators of co-financed educational investments in keeping with national
policy; and, (ii) indicators of institutional interventions at the local level, such as training programs,
formulated development programs and the existence of other activities connected with institutional
strengthening of both the Territorial Entities and the schools themselves. The quantitative
information used to calculate the indicators is presented in Annex No. 1.
The Secondary Education project was one of the Government's main instruments to promote
increases in education budgets at the municipal level within the context of the new decentralization
policy. The project's success in achieving this result is illustrated by municipal levels of counterpart
funding that are significantly higher than those originally planned for all components. Following the
positive outcome of the voucher program initiated under the project, MEN abandoned the
traditional approach of giving subsidies linked to the supply-side and promoted instead, through the
General Education Law, a system of incentives in all departments and municipalities to give
demand-side subsidies which are now widely in use throughout the country.
The Secondary Education project had a very positive impact in terms of permitting the development
of methodologies and instruments to assign higher priority to education in the plans and programs
of local governments. A new culture of planning by objectives and projects was introduced at the
level of the municipalities and the schools themselves, which resulted in higher levels of autonomy
for the schools and better planning capacity in the municipalities.
As a result of the project's restructuring, the technical assistance strategy was changed to focus on
selected municipalities, for which the department assumed the role of advisor and overseer,
improving the overall implementation process. Under the new approach, the departments were able
to exercise a more systematic control of project design and execution at the local level. There was
also a better understanding of relative responsibilities between the different national actors and the
municipalities.
7



4.2. Outputs by components:
INCREASING COVERAGE
ICR Rating: S
The first component, which focused on increasing coverage, financed new construction, as well as
the rehabilitation and remodeling of existing installations and equipping them with the necessary
facilities. The school construction sub-component was funded through loans given by FINDETER.
The municipalities had to demonstrate solvency and accept the contractual commitment involved in
the FINDETER loan. The financing arrangement went as follows: the municipality contracted a
loan equivalent to 50% of the total amount, the municipality itself contributed up to 30% with its
own resources, and the last 20% came in the form of a central govemment grant administered
through the FIS. All rehabilitation and remodeling works were carried out by the Social Investment
Fund. The FIS financed 80%, using the resources of the Bank loan, and the municipalities financed
the remaining 20%.
This was the most successful component in terms of achieving the original targets. The number of
additional classrooms, either through new construction or rehabilitation of existing facilities,
exceeded the project target by 63%. This resulted in significant increases in the enrollment levels of
the relevant population groups, as reflected in the evolution of the gross and net enrollment rates for
the 12 to 17 age group. The gross enrollment rate rose from 75.4% in 1994.to 87.7% in 1998, and
the net enrollment rate from 56.9% in 1993 to 67.9% at the end of the project period4. Enrollment in
public schools had a significant increase, close to 5% per year during the four years of execution.
The share of the public sector went from 48% in 1994 to 53% in 1998.
Table No 3: Evolution of enrollment in the municipalities targeted by the Secondary
Education Project (1993-98)
Grades                  1994                 1998         Annual Growth Rate
6° a 90               663,985              778,163              4.0%
10°y 110              201,495             262,191               6.8%
Total                 865,480            1,040,354               4.7%
Source: MEN-UCPE documentation center "Coverage Study in the Evaluation of the Secondary
Education Project, 1999"
In total, enrollment in public secondary schools in the municipalities supported by the project
increased by 174,874 pupils in the 1994-98 period.  This represents an increase of 20.2%,
equivalent to an average annual growth rate of 5.1%. Between 64 and 80 places were created in
every additional classroom (organized in two shifts) and a little more than 4 places were created for
every million Colombian pesos invested in this component.
4 The gross enrollment rate measures the ratio between the total population enrolled in secondary and the total
school-age population (12-17 years old). The net enrollment rate measures the ratio between the population
of a specific age group enrolled and the total of the population in the same age group.
8



EXPANDING ACCESS
1CR Rating: S
The voucher component, which aimed at expanding access, was very successful and exceeded the
original targets by 776%. It is worth noting the special efforts of the municipalities to provide
counterpart funds beyond the expected 20% contribution (115% level of execution'), which more
than compensated for the low level of disbursements of project resources at the national level (only
47%). The under-utilization of loan resources for this component can be attributed to a lack of
effective communication between the schools participating in the scheme and the Municipal
Education Offices and the irregular communication between these entities and the central and local
offices of ICETEX, the entity responsible for assigning the vouchers and for certifying the provision
of education services by schools.
The vouchers component was designed as complementary funding within the framework of existing
grants offered by the Government. It was established as a general rule that the municipalities would
contribute 20% of the subsidies granted and the National Government would cover the remaining
80%. The resources from the loan were included in the share of the National Government.
This component supported an innovative voucher-like system consisting of a public subsidy to
students who could not obtain a place in the public education system for lack of space, and
alternatively would need financial help in order to finance their studies in a private school. The
strategy consisted of using the existing capacity of the private sector to complement the public
school system. The operating methodology for the scheme had the following considerations: (i)
developing efficient mechanisms in order to avoid the substitution of private education for public
schools, by avoiding a situation whereby students who performn poorly and lose their places in
public schools, would be transferred from better public schools to lower quality private schools; (ii)
encouraging municipalities to invest their own resources in support of the scheme making it
sustainable even after the loan resources are exhausted; and, (iii) guaranteeing the continuity of
resources for the students until they finish their secondary education (provided they maintain good
academic results and do not repeat classes).
More significantly, it is important to underline that the voucher scheme fully met its educational
objectives from the viewpoint of offering good quality schooling alternatives to students from low
income families. As revealed by an in-depth evaluation study conducted by MEN and the World
Bank's research department (DEC), most beneficiaries of the vouchers were indeed students from
the lowest two income groups (strata I and 2) and the private schools they attended did not charge
more than the value of the voucher.5 Moreover, the academic results of the participating private
schools, as measured by the learning achievement tests of the National Evaluation System for the
Quality of Education (SABER), were equal to or slightly better than comparable public schools.
The study found that the cost per student in that system represented only 77% of the unit cost in
public schools.
5 King E., Rawlings L. (The World Bank); Gutierrez M., Pardo C., and Torres C. (Goverment of Colombia).
1977. "Colombias's Targeted Education Voucher Program: Features, Coverage and Participation." Working
Paper series on Impact Evaluation of Education Reforms, Paper No. 3, Development Economics Research
Group, The World Bank, Universidad de los Andes, Bogota.
9



Overall, the successful implementation of this component reflected the high level of commitment of
the municipalities towards expanding secondary education coverage by combining resources for the
construction of new infrastructure and for the vouchers which allowed to take better advantage of
existing capacities in the private sector.
EDUCATIONAL QUALITY ENHANCEMENT
ICR Rating: MS
The aim of the educational quality enhancement component was to promote changes in the way
schools operate, as well as the way municipalities (Secretarias Municipales de Educacion - SEMs)
support them. To help schools transform themselves into institutions fully responsible for the
integral formation of students, the following responsibilities were given to the SEMs: (i) the
planning, design and execution of the PEMs; (ii) the organization and administration of theCREMs,
which had a high level of execution; and, (iii) the technical assistance and overseeing needed for the
design and execution of the Institutional Education Plans.
To assess the degree of achievement of the outputs of this component, the following elements were
considered: (i) degree of assimilation of the academic content of the program, seen through the
evolution of the academic performance of the students as measured by the SABER Test and the
national exams of ICFES (Colombian Institute for the Promotion of Higher Education) which
evaluate the basic competencies of students in grade 11 and how well they are prepared to begin
university studies; (ii) the results of the students in terms of promotion, repetition and dropout rates;
(iii) improvement of the school's conditions as an activity attributed to the PEI and its incidence in
the institution and its educational community; (iv) funding and use of the learning resources; (v)
management of the PEI; (vi) adaptation in funding and organization of the CREMs and the CREPs
(Resources Center of the School); and, (vii) training of teachers, principals, administrative
personnel in institutions and SEMs, and parents.
It is important to mention here the opinion of the education authorities who felt that the construction
and remodeling work had a decisive impact in terms of educational quality enhancement. In
addition to helping achieve the coverage objectives, the new and refurbished buildings were an
important factor in the improvement of the educational environment as they provided better
physical conditions for learning.
10



Table No 4: Work carried out by the Project within the Framework of Educational Quality
Enhancement Activities6
Rubric                           Article                        Estimated     Actual
Textbooks and     Textbooks acquired and distributed                 4,200,000    780,571
educational                                                         (1,207,380
materials                                                              revised)
Number of schools benefiting from textbooks                       1,238
Number of library books                                          27,338
Number of educational aids acquired                             538,767
Number of computers                                                189
Other equipment                                                  34,110
CREM and CREP   CREPs EQUIPPED                                                        263
with laboratory                                                     83
with computers                                                     115
with libraries                                                     116
with educational aids                                              208
CREMs EQUIPPED                                                     177
with laboratory                                                     83
with computers                                                     119
with libraries                                                     120
with educational aids                                              109
Total number of schools helped by CREM                             984
Total number of schools helped by CREM and CREP        1,250      1,244
INSTITUTIONAL   Number of schools covered                                  600      1,664
MANAGEMENT   Number of people trained in the PEI                                  519,917
Number of training events carried out in the PEI training         8,822
Number of technical assistance contracts for the                   707
formulation of PEIs
Number of Institutional Education Projects Developed    600        784
Source: Data-base of MEN-UCPEE, with information obtained through the evaluation study of the Secondary
Education Project, collected directly from the Territorial Entities and the Educational Institutions.
With regard to the publication and distribution of textbooks, it should be noted that this sub-
component underwent changes over the life of the project. Initially, the SAR stipulated7 that
textbooks should be assigned at the ratio of 4 textbooks per student. Therefore, with a public
enrollment in the 1994-1998 period of 952,917 students, it was necessary to distribute 3,811,688
textbooks. In 1996, the ratio for textbooks per student was revised to 1.33 or four textbooks for
every three students, with an appropriate system of distribution, maintenance and rotation.8 With
this new norm, the number of textbooks required increased to 1,267,380. The actual number of
textbooks financed by the project was 780,571, representing only 19% of the original target (with
the old norn) but 62% based on the new norms of MEN.
6 Except for the number of textbooks, the SAR failed to established specific targets.
Based on a previous study of the Colombian consulting firm "Econometria"
8 Guias de Procedimientos para la Presentacion de Proyectos Educativos (Guides for the Presentation of
Educational Projects), 1996. MEN-FIS Publication.
11



The Municipal Resource Centers (Centros de Recursos Educativos Municipales - CREMs) are
resource centers administered by the municipality or by one or several schools whose function is to
make educational materials available to the community at large with the purpose of meeting the
educational needs of students and teachers in neighborhood schools.
In terms of the creation of CREMs and CREPs, the overall target of 99.5% was achieved. In terms
of equipment that the CREMs actually received, the results are less satisfactory. At the end of the
project, only 18% had laboratories; 28%, had computers and libraries; and, 26%, received the
educational materials they were supposed to get.
Despite the quantitative achievements observed, the following weakness were identified for future
reference: (i) the majority of CREMS users feel that the equipment and resources are not
conveniently located As a result, all schools are not able to take advantage of the CREMs services
equally; (ii) the principals or the persons in charge of the materials do not allow for their free use;
(iii) when the CREMs are directly managed by the municipality appropriate assistance to visitors
using the center is rarely available; and, (iv) parents are not well informed about opportunities for
their children to access the resources of the CREMs.
The overall results of the Educational Quality Enhancement component can be assessed in three
complementary ways: (i) by looking at improvements in the internal efficiency of the schools as a
proxy of better quality of the pedagogical processes; (ii) by measuring the results of the academic
achievements and performance of students in the SABER tests and in the National Exams
administered by ICFES; and, (iii) by looking at the results of the Institutional Management Study
undertaken at the end of the project which deal with changes in the pedagogical process and
academic organization of the schools.
From the point of view of the academic achievements and performance of the student, it is
premature to have a comprehensive answer because of the time lag usually needed to see
improvements which can be directly attributed to the project. There are, nevertheless, some
preliminary indications worth mentioning. MEN contracted the University of Rosario to analyze
the results of a representative sample of students in schools supported by the project with respect to
two measures: a comparison of the 1993-94 and 1997-98 scores of students in grades 7 and 9 in the
tests of cognitive achievement applied by the SABER tests and the results of grade 11 students
taking the National Exam administered by ICFES. The SABER tests revealed a mixed picture: for
grade 7, the students experienced significant improvement in language, but in grade 9 there was a
slight deterioration in all subjects, and a marked drop in math scores. The results were markedly
better in the ICFES Exam. The numbers in Table 5 show a significant improvement in the quality
of education, between 2% and 6% points, in all subjects except Science.
12



Table No 5: Trends of National Exams Averages, 11Ih grade, 1996/1999
1996        1999        99/96
Science             47.57       47.72       0.3%
Municipalities    Language          47.90       50.47       5.0% *
helped by the  Mathematics          48.70       49.45       2.0% *
Project        Social Studies       46.96       48.03       2.0% *
Total              239.57      245.49        2.0% *
* with a significant coefficient at p<o.0 I
Source: MEN-Universidad del Rosario, 1999 available in MEN-UCPE documentation
center
Further studies are needed to gain a full picture of the quality impact of the project from the point of
view of academic achievements and performance of the student.
Recognizing that better management at the school level was an important factor of improvement in
the quality of education, MEN conducted a survey of schools supported by the project. The
following positive results were revealed:
*  The schools were directly responsible for managing the School Improvement Plans (PEIs) and
they responded with great enthusiasm, demonstrating that they were effective executors and
used the financial resources attached to the PEIs in a successful manner.
*  All participating schools had a PEI duly registered in the Departmental Education Office and
ratified by the Education Office of the Municipality, the entity responsible for giving the
schools the legal and administrative authorization enabling them to receive resources from FIS.
-  As a result of the training of students, parents, teachers and school principals (more than
500,000 people in 8,822 events), the entire educational community has become directly
involved in an important way in the design and implementation of the PEIs.
-  The institutional improvement strategies implemented in the PETs generally included a strong
element of training of the principals and teachers, as well as the establishment of external
partnerships with NGOs and Universities in order to strengthen pedagogical performance.
*  The analysis of the academic and pedagogical organization of the schools investigated showed
that 86.4% of them had elaborated a fornal Study Plan and a Curriculum. It was found that in
at least 68% of the schools, in terms of relevance, the study plan and the curriculum met the
needs and expectations of the students, teachers and parents. In 88.6% of the schools, the
academic content for each grade within the Study Plans is well defined. 60% of parents indicate
that they have some knowledge of what their children are being taught and 78% state that they
are aware of the criteria taken into account in the graduation of their children.
*  With regard to the use of pedagogical resources in the classroom, most schools responded that
the project had brought about significant improvements. What they most appreciated is that
they had been given the opportunity to prioritize their needs and to decide how to rationalize the
selection and use of resources accordingly.
13



MANAGEMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
ICR Rating: U
This component's aim was to strengthen the administrative and pedagogical capacity of educational
institutions (from the SEMs to the schools) so they could give better quality educational service. To
evaluate the degree of success of the component, the main elements looked at were: (i) the
curriculum and its organization in the PEI; (ii) the existence and use of a study plan in the
pedagogical area, pedagogical innovations; and, (iii) the availability and use of educational
materials.
Departmental and Municipal Strengthening
The technical assistance and training activities offered under this component, which were
administered through a contract with the UNDP, had the purpose of improving the professional,
teaching and administrative performance of principals and professors. They also aimed to enhance
the collaboration and commitment of the parents in school activities, that were considered to be key
factors of change and of institutional strengthening. On the academic side, the involvement of the
parents was expected to bring about significant improvements in the learning process of the
students.
Overall, the original targets for this component were fully achieved or even exceeded in some cases.
A total number of 1664 schools benefited from institutional strengthening activities compared to the
600 originally planned, and the total number of Institutional School Improvement Plans (PEls)
carried out was 784, representing 131% more than the SAR projections. More than half a million
people were trained in 8,822 events, with an average attendance of 59 people per event.
An Institutional Management Study was carried out to assess the main achievements of this
component. The following salient features were observed:
*  During the first phase of project implementation, 186 civil servants from the institutions in
charge of implementation (MEN, FIS, FINDETER, ICETEX and Departmental Education
Secretariats) were trained. At the municipal level, training was given to support the organization
of the SEM and the formulation of the PEM, through feasibility studies and technical assistance,
and to support the establishment of management information systems and the promotion of
community participation through the formation of leaders within the educational community.
*  86.4% of all secondary schools in the 89 municipalities supported by the project had designed a
curriculum and a study plan adapted to the own context and needs, and were in the process of
implementing them. In terms of relevance, the survey found that, in at least 58% of the cases,
there was a perception of a close correspondence with the needs and expectations of the
students.
*  The strategy of transferring funds directly from the municipalities to the schools and to manage
these resources through the Fund for Teaching Services was highly successful. Even though it
existed by law before the project, it had never been implemented. The project was instrumental
in putting this strategy in practice, thereby empowering the school community and making the
entire implementation process more efficient and transparent at the same time.
14



* The level of mobilizing (political and financial) was greater in the smaller municipalities than in
the larger ones. This observation is supported by the low level of utilization of project
resources in the budgets of municipalities like Bogota, Medellin, Cali, Barranquilla, Cartagena,
Bucaramanga, Cucuta and Pereira.
* It is important to highlight the positive results of the special efforts of the Local Authorities in
providing the necessary counterpart resources, which played a determining role in the execution
of the project, especially when the resources committed at the national level were not
forthcoming. This becomes even more apparent when looking at the final disbursement figures:
only 45% of the total loan amount was used as compared to a disbursement rate of 84% for
counterpart funds at the municipal level, despite the difficult fiscal situation.
Notwithstanding the good results achieved in terms of achieving the quantitative objectives of the
component, it should be noted that the institutional strengthening program has met with
sustainability difficulties caused by frequent changes in administration at the departmental and
municipal levels. Governors and mayors hold office for three years, and when they leave office the
entire administration changes as well.
Clear and transparent criteria had been defined to allocate project funds, such as unsatisfied basic
human needs, indicators of education inequalities, management capacity of the municipalities, but
they were not applied in reality when it came to allocate resources for the various sub-projects.
Several factors came into play to create this divergence from the original allocation strategy: (i)
changing criteria for authorizing disbursements; (ii) lack of respect of the order in which
subprojects were presented; and, (iii) cumbersome and useless requirements by the municipalities,
such as certificates which did not serve any purpose but added to the cost of preparing subprojects
proposals. During the first years of project implementation, the allocation of resources transferred
from the department to the municipalities were more likely to follow political considerations than
objective criteria, which resulted in increased inequalities among municipalities.
Educational Statistics
In the course of establishing a planning process at the level of the Local Authorities in order to
formulate the PEMs, a number of instruments and operational manuals were developed to define
and collect relevant education statistics in the municipalities. These were used for diagnosis
purposes. At the same time, government officials were trained in the collection and use of these
statistics at MEN, in the departments and in the municipalities.
Similarly, decisions regarding the purchase of textbooks, school furniture and equipment for the
CREMs were based on the use and analysis of education statistics. The Social Unit of DNP was
contracted by the project to produce the relevant information and projections to calculate the needs
for the whole country.
DNP formulated a strategy for the development of reliable and timely coverage and internal
efficiency indicators, theoretically involving MEN in the process. Although in reality this activity
was carried out almost exclusively by DNP with marginal inputs from MEN and the project, it
turned out to be very useful in as much as the country had unified and consolidated statistics which
were effectively used for decision making. It should be noted that further work is needed to
improve the system, especially with respect to the statistics produced directly by the SEMs.
15



National System of Learning Achievement Assessment
The project worked closely with the Testing Department of ICFES on the application of math and
language tests for grades 7 and 9 as well as the analysis and dissemination of the results. However,
the project was not able to fully use the testing system in terms of formulating a pedagogical
strategy for dealing with the gaps identified in the assessment of learning achievements results.
One of the important outcomes of this work, though, was the recognition of the need to apply the
tests to the entire universe of students or, at the very least, to design a specific sample in each
department of the country. The fact that the tests were administered on a sample basis for the entire
country and that different samples were drawn each time did not allow for a meaningful analysis
and comparison of results in each department. In the new Bank-supported projects in Antioquia and
Pasto, the assessment is conducted on the basis of a specially designed sample in the case of
Antioquia and is applied to the entire student population in Pasto. This is particularly important
when the school level test (SABER) scores form a key part of the basis for the preparation and
implementation of Institutional Plans for School Improvement.
Another important aspect of the project was the analysis of the effectiveness of the assessment
system and the added value of the associate factors. The Javeriana University participated in this
work which enabled MEN to analyze the relevance and degree of consistency of these assessments.
The project supported the participation of Colombia in the Third International Mathematics and
Science Study (TIMSS) as well as in the comparative study conducted by the Latin American
Laboratory for the Evaluation of the Quality of Education (Laboratorio Latinoamericano de
Evaluaci6n de la Calidad de la Educaci6n - LLECE). The results of both studies were used by
MEN and the Secretariats of Education in the departments and municipalities for the preparation of
the PEMs.
Studies and Evaluation Research
Even though MEN did not adhere systematically to the study program proposed in the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR), the following studies were undertaken:
Three studies were carried out to evaluate the voucher program. One of them was a joint
research activity between MEN and the Bank (as mentioned earlier in this report); the other two
were conducted by research centers of the Universidad de los Andes to assess the performance
of the municipalities and the schools involved in the implementation of the voucher program.
The principal results of these studies are as follows: (i) the decision of municipalities to
participate depended on their relative supply of public and private secondary school places as
well as their demographic and economic characteristics which affected both the need for and the
potential gains to be realized from the program; (ii) the non profit schools and vocational and
technical schools tended to have a higher propensity to participate than do others schools; (iii)
the simple comparison of the score on achievements tests in mathematics and language showed
that, on average, students in participating schools perform at least as well as students in public
school in both tests. Hence, for about two-thirds of the per-pupil cost of public school, the
government was able to offer many poor students secondary education that is comparable in
quality to public schools; and, (iv) the municipalities showed a decline in participation after the
third year of the program due to the difficulties in the administration especially with respect to
the disbursements of the funds.
16



* In preparation for the National Consultation on Rural Education, the project supported studies
to evaluate various education modalities to respond to the demand for secondary education in
rural areas.
* Towards the end of the project, limited support was given to the government's initiative to
undertake a national consultation on higher education reform. This process which went on
under the name of "Social Mobilization for the Higher Education System" (Movilizaci6n Social
por la Educacion Superior), coordinated by MEN, DNP and ICFES, resulted in a reform
proposal which puts emphasis on the development of a national student loan program to
increase coverage at the tertiary level.
* The project financed an evaluation of the "accelerated [earning" program put in place in seven
major cities to help youths displaced as a result of violence.
* In the context of the Impact Evaluation of the Secondary Education project, and in agreement
with the Bank, MEN set up a team that prepared and led the implementation of four studies
(Annex 7) on the following themes: (i) coverage; (ii) quality; (iii) management; and, (iv) cost
effectiveness of the project.
4.3. Net present Value / Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include a formal economic analysis of the present value or intemal rate of return
of the project. The goal defined in the SAR was to support on average 60% of the total investments
requirements for the 87 municipalities with the following potential benefits: (i) increasing access to
public secondary education for an estimated 90,000 primary school graduates; (ii) providing
opportunities for secondary education in private schools for up to 22,000 students of low-income
families; (iii) enhancing the quality and efficiency of education in the 1,250 public secondary
schools in the 87 municipalities through the provision of up to 4.2 million textbooks, the training of
teachers and principals and the provision of instructional material and equipment; and, (iv)
strengthening the administrative and managerial capacity of 11 departments, 87 municipalities and
up to 1,250 public school administrations to plan and implement education improvement programs.
The following results were assessed as indicators of the Intemal Efficiency of the Educational
System:
* The proportion of over-age students (18 years or older who are still studying at the secondary
level) has decreased from 23.5% to 22.6% in the municipalities covered by the project. The
reduction in the over-age student ratio is much more noticeable for grades 10 and 11, where it
went down from to 52.9% to 50.5%.
* Positive results were also observed in terms of promotion, repetition and dropout rates.
Compared to a national average of 74.5% in 1994, the promotion rate in the municipalities
supported by the project increased from 81% in 1994 to 88.3% in 1998. Similarly, the dropout
rate, which was 9.6% at the national level, decreased for the municipalities of the Secondary
Education Project from 6.4% to 4.4%, and the repetition rate, which stood at 15.9% at the
national level, decreased in these same municipalities from 12.6% to 7.3%.
17



4.4. Institutional development impact:
The Project covered 11 of the 33 administrative departments of Colombia; focusing on 85
municipalities and 4 districts. Overall, the project reached 45% of the total school population in the
country, and in terms of schools it reached 1,250 public schools and 2,125 private ones. The project
helped to introduce fundamental institutional changes at the departmental and municipal level,
thereby strengthening the decentralization process and the national system of co-financing. The
institutional development impact is closely linked with the other goals of the project in terms of
increase in coverage and enhancement of the quality of education. In many cases, however, the
institutional strengthening activities and the improvements in leadership and management were not
strong enough to guarantee the sustainability of the project.
The Secondary Education Project supported substantial transformations in the SEMs and in the
schools themselves, leading to a better understanding of the education process and the
responsibilities of each actor in the integral formation of the students. The project had a major
impact in getting the SEMs to plan and implement the PEMs, to organize and administer the
CREMs, and to provide the necessary technical assistance for and overseeing of the Institutional
School Improvement Plans based on a realistic assessment of the community's educational needs.
It should be emphasized that the Secondary Education project was the principal vehicle used by the
central Govemment to translate the legal changes brought about by the General Education Law, the
creation of the FIS, and the National Co-Financing System into operational terms. The Government
relied on the project to test the new system of resource allocation among the national, departmental
and municipal entities, the voucher scheme, and the transfer of resources from the municipalities to
the schools to promote *he participation of the community in school management.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
T The fiscal and financial crisis of the country resulted in the reduction of counterpart funds and
of loan resources for the participating municipalities.  It is important to note that the
municipalities were able to partially compensate for this by investing additional resources from
their own budget. Another complicating factor was the inflexibility of the co-financing rules
which conditioned access to the construction grant linked to the FINDETER loans. The amount
of resources available to the municipalities were seriously affected by the economic recession
and the ensuing fiscal crisis of the last few years, as well as by the complications with
FINDETER. The use of that financial intermediary as an entity that guarantees the debt process
of the municipalities became a serious obstacle because the municipalities had no more
indebtedness capacity.9 It is also important to mention that the implementation of the project
was initially hampered by disbursements difficulties arising from the complexity of the
country's budgetary process.
9 FINDETER, being a secondary market bank, had to rely on a financial intermediary to hand over the loans
to the institutions.
18



* Changes in national and local leadership and all levels affected project implementation. The
project was executed under two different political administrations, which involved different
ministers and many changes in key national and local staff.
* The 1999 earthquake in the coffee-growing zone of the country, caused severe destruction in
many densely populated centers, and forced the government to reallocate resources and efforts
toward relief of the damages and reconstruction of housing and public services infrastructure,
including schools.
* The situation of violence in many parts of the country adversely affected the implementation of
the project. It became necessary to pay special attention to the educational needs of the children
of displaced groups. The local authorities also had to focus their efforts on conflict resolution
on a permanent basis to guarantee the provision of educational and other public services.
* Another complicating factor was the successive changes in the national system of co-financing,
especially during the last year of project implementation when the FIS was dismantled.
5.2. Factors generally subject to government control
* Multiplicity of Institutional Actors. The diversity of actors involved and the complexity of
procedures made coordination almost impossible. The lack of definition of common approaches
and mechanisms for the execution of some of the lines of funding made it difficult to use loan
resources. In addition, it should be noted that many of the co-executors were from other sectors
outside education. For example, FIS came under the authority of DNP, FINDETER was under
the Ministry of Finance, while the Departmental and Municipal Education Secretariats were
respectively under the govemors and mayors.
-  Complexity, politicization and inefficiency of the national system of co-financing and its main
instrument, the FIS. The intervention of the various arms of the FIS at the national and local
levels created serious problems, because they constituted yet another authority in the flow of the
resources, which caused delays in the processes. They acted as a parallel structure to the
departmental entities, disrupting the established sectorial planning processes and developing a
regional system of nepotism by putting their political supporters and friends in important posts.
* Lack of preparation for the implementation of the new decentralization policy. One of the main
problems was that there was no transition phase in the implementation of the new
decentralization policy. From one day to the other, the country went from a centralized to a
decentralized system.
* Lack of clarity in the legal framework. The implementation of the project was hampered by an
overlapping of competencies between the national, the departmental and the municipal levels.
* Lack of clarity in the definition of school autonomy. Under the new policies, the schools were
granted responsibilities to be exercised in an autonomous manner, but there was no related
allocation of resources to apply these responsibilities in reality.
19



*  Complexity of the budget process. As a general rule, the procedures for utilization of resources
from the special account as well as the government counterpart funds are extremely
cumbersome and time consuming in Colombia.
*  Simultaneous projects from the multilateral Banks. The decision by the government during
project implementation to start the preparation of a parallel loan with IBD with some
overlapping components and with different administrative and procedures created additional
complications. Both projects were managed simultaneously by the same Coordination Unit,
and since the two Banks had different procedures, there were significant delays in the
preparation of the necessary technical and financial reports.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementation agency control
*  Continuous changes in the professional team of the Coordination Unit generated a loss of
institutional memory and therefore discontinuity in the implementation processes. The Unit
was affected by the change of ministers as it was not seen as a technical unit whose staff
required adequate professional qualifications.
*  With the external institutions the Coordination Unit did not manage to assert its leadership and
establish strong coordination mechanisms with the different co-executors and actors involved in
project implementation.
*  Weak relationship with the territorial entities, because the initial promotion, diffusion and
training activities about the project were not carried out in a systematic and integrated way. In
addition, the Coordination Unit did not work directly with the municipalities, butthrough the
departments which did not help to establish good direct linkages.
*  In overseeing the execution of the subprojects at the local level, the Coordination Unit put more
emphasis on the financial controls, which did not make much sense given that the resources in
the budgetary Law were assigned to the FIS. Less attention was paid to the fulfillment of the
educational objectives and results of the local projects, in this way limiting the possibility of
solving problems as they came up.
*  Lack of leadership by the highest level authorities of MEN.
*  Delay in designing and establishing the monitoring and evaluation system of the project. As a
result, the Coordination Unit was not equipped to identify problems and take corrective
measures in an effective and timely manner.
*  Lack of participation of the technical departments of MEN that should have taken responsibility
for the various components. All the work went to the Coordination Unit which was mostly
staffed with external consultants.
20



5.4. Costs and Financing
The total estimated cost of the Project was initially US$150 million, corresponding to a US$90
million IBRD Loan and US$60 million local counterpart Funds, or 60% total project financing for
IBRD and 40% for the local counterpart funds. Of the US$90 million loan amount, only US$40.3
million or 45% were used.
The pattern of disbursements was very uneven. The first disbursement was made in September
1995, the activities of 1994 and part of 1995 having been financed out of the nation's and
municipalities' own resources. Disbursements were very slow in 1995, but picked up in 1996 and
reached peak levels in 1997 and in 1998. One of the reasons for slow disbursements was the
cumbersome expenditure authorization process within the Colombian bureaucracy and difficult
management procedures of the special accounts. The low rate of physical execution of the Project
was another contributing factor. A third factor was that the Government allocated a larger share of
counterpart funds in 1994 and 1995. To compensate, a lower level of counterpart funds was
allocated from 1996 onwards, but this was not enough. In general terms, MEN did not manage to
influence the allocation of resources. Furthermore, neither the Ministry of Finance nor DNP
respected the amounts initially established in the Loan Agreement when it came to assigning the
annual indebtedness ceilings corresponding to the level of loan resources MEN could use.
The level and rate of disbursement of counterpart funds (of the central government and of the
municipalities) were closely related to the availability of loan resources and the speed of transfer of
these resources through FIS and FINDETER. At the beginning of the project, the municipalities
covered all expenses in order to be able to begin project implementation without having to wait for
the loan resources. They continued to contribute a higher share than expected to avoid interruptions
in project activities when there were delayed in the transfer of loan resources from the nation.
Compared to the initial distribution of resources stipulated in the Loan Agreement (60% Bank and
40% Government), in reality 44% of project resources came from the loan and 56% from
counterpart funds. Of the total investment made by the Project, US$50.7 came from local
contributions, corresponding to 84% of the counterpart funds initially agreed upon.
The special efforts of the municipalities need to be recognized. When the project had been designed,
one of its attractions for the local governments was that they would receive co-financing resources
through the Loan. However, in reality, the implementation of the project ended up demanding a
greater effort from the territorial entities. Furthermore, since the debt contracted with FINDETER
is assumed by the municipalities, in some cases where FINDETER did not make the funding
available, the municipality had to assume directly the costs of the construction projects.
For the management of the project resources, two special accounts were opened, one for FIS-MEN
and one for the construction programs of FINDETER, each one with US$2 million. As time passed,
the account of FIS-MEN was increased to US$4 million, due to execution requirements, while the
FINDETER account was reduced to US$1 million because of low execution. The existence of
different co-executors for the different components -MEN, FIS and FINDETER- with separate
administrative arrangements and accounts, created problems in the financial management of the
project. FIS and FINDETER used their own accounts and reports, and even when MEN integrated
them into the final reports, there were consolidation problems.
21



6. Sustainability
6.1. Rationale for sustainability rating
ICR Rating: L
  Some of the more successful components of the project, such as the coverage expansion
strategy combining school construction and the voucher program, are likely to be sustainable.
There are clear indications that at the local level most municipalities have gained the capacity to
design and implement their own coverage expansion strategies.
*  In terms of management, the project demonstrated the effectiveness of the training received by
the municipalities in order to formulate and execute the PEMs as powerful planning tools. It
also led to significant improvement in the management and strengthening of the municipalities
in preparing, analyzing and using statistical performance indicators of the education system.
However there are still some bottlenecks in the way PEMs are designed, in their focus and in
their implementation procedures. These have to be overcome in order to achieve a greater
sustainability of the overall PEM process. At the same time physically quantifiable goals have
to be included in the programming of the PEMs in order to be able to verify the fulfillment of
their objectives.
i  Greater school autonomy accompanied by a high level of community participation are now
irreversible processes in the country.
6.2. Transition arrange ment to regular operation
The Government has transferred the policy and financial responsibilities for education to the Local
Authorities on the assumption that they know more precisely the needs of the population. As a
result policies to expand coverage and access are now exclusively handled by the departments and
municipalities. In tenns of education policies still managed at the national level, the priorities are:
(i) improvement in the quality and the management of the education sector; (ii) strengthening of the
Evaluation National System; (iii) clarification of the Resources Transfer System from the Nation to
the Local Governments according to the new education law; and, (iv) implementation of the
Management Information System.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1. Lending
The Bank's performance in the project design phase is rated as unsatisfactory. The following
aspects are worth mentioning in relation to this phase: (i) the project design was overly complex and
the crucial dimension of administrative capacity to implement such a complex project was not
treated with the same degree of thoroughness as the technical design of the project's components;
(ii) the preparation work was not conducted in such a way as to promote institutional ownership of
the project because it relied mostly on external consultants who did not belong to the MEN; (iii) the
Bank team failed to take into consideration the legal changes which were occurring at the time of
project preparation and which affected the project directly; (iv) there was no allowance for the risk
22



involved in the decision to include as co-executors three institutions reporting to three different
authorities without defining clear coordination strategies and mechanisms; and, (v) there was not
institutional and financial assessment of the capacity of these three institutions to implement the
project efficiently and effectively
7.2. Supervision
Supervision of the project on the Bank side can be rated as moderated satisfactory. The Bank team
was working with the participating entities during the implementation of the project and maintained
systematic communication with the different teams of the entities involved, especially those of
MEN.
In total, 12 formal supervision missions took place over the four years of the project. After the mid-
term review, the lingering disagreements between the Bank and the Borrower regarding
procurement procedures and institutional arrangements were satisfactorily resolved; project
implementation and disbursements gained considerable momentum, and supervision became more
effective.
7.3. Overall Bank Performance
Overall, the Bank performance can be considered moderated satisfactory, even though the project
preparation stage failed to secure acceptance of the project by MEN staff who should have
supported the proposed quality interventions and assumed substantial responsibility for their
implementation. The project was unnecessarily delayed in its implementation. Loan disbursements
lagged considerably, because of the lack of cooperation on the part of MEN and the low status of
the Project Coordination Unit, as well as disagreement and misunderstanding between Bank and
Govemment staff. But the problems were eventually resolved trough improved Bank relations with
the Borrower, and implementation proceeded at an accelerated pace during the last two years of the
project.
Borrower
7.4. Preparation
The performance of MEN, DNP and FINDETER during identification and preparation of the
project was moderated satisfactory. The Government provided a team of expert consultants to work
with the Bank on the identification, design and preparation of the project components. This
permitted the complete dedication of the national experts to the complex and time-consuming tasks
of putting together a coherent project proposal for presentation to the Bank, and also relieved the
regular MEN staff from the additional work that could have overburdened them and taken them
away from their ordinary duties. But this separation of responsibilities had the unwanted effect of
alienating key staff persons, since they were not consulted on important decisions which had to do
with policies for improving the quality of basic education. The project was seen with suspicion, and
the fact that it was being designed by outside experts was seen as an intrusion in the regular system.
7.5. Government implementation performance
The performance can be considered moderated satisfactory. As the project was being developed,
MEN had to deal with the challenge of assimilating new sectorial policies because it was a period of
23



constitutional transition. With respect to its performance during project implementation, its most
notable failing was the lack of a permanent system of monitoring and supervision in the technical
and financial areas. This continuously generated incorrect information at the different levels, and
made it very difficult to take timely decisions and to redirect some strategies when problems arose.
The inter-institutional coordination exercised by MEN is qualified as weak. The multiplicity
institutions involved and the complex processes which were developed for the implementation of
the Project made coordination very difficult. The implementation and operational strategies were
not clear. In addition, the local authorities (department and municipalities) were assuming new
responsibilities as decentralized entities and no allowance was made for helping them to learn the
new procedures involved in the national system of co-financing as well as those of the Project
which permitted access to foreign loan resources.
Government authorities changed at the time the loan became effective, and the new authorities took
considerable time to become acquainted with the project and with Bank procurement and
disbursement rules. Implementation at a regular rhythm was only possible during two years (1997-
1998).
7.6 Implementing Agency
The performance of the Project Coordination Unit during the years when the project was actively
implemented was unsatisfactory. There was an initial delay of two years due to the lack of
understanding of the Bank's norms and procedures as well as limited technical expertise to provide
support to the other implementing agencies in matters of procurement and financial management of
the project.  Multiple implementing agencies for various components of the project made
coordination somewhat more difficult and complicated.
Coordination within MEN had many ups and downs. At times there was an enthusiastic response
from MEN towards the Project, but it was often short-lived and overall there was a lack of
continuity. The technical staff of MEN was not able to generate full support from the highest
authorities of MEN. The importance of assuming leadership of the Project and coordinating its
various components in a systematic manner was never internalized.
Similarly, coordination of MEN with the territorial entities was weak. Promotion efforts at the
beginning of the Project were insufficient, as was the initial training program to prepare the staff at
the local level with respect to the requisites to gain access to the funds, such as those of
FINDETER.  Throughout the project implementation period there was a weak supervision
performance on the part of MEN.
7.7. Overall Borrower performance
Overall, borrower performance was moderated satisfactory as a result of several factors, described
below:
Performance in Financial and Legal. The co-executing institutions of the Project fulfilled most of
the legal covenants as established in the Loan Agreement. Problems of an accounting, financial and
administrative character were overcome without too many difficulties, except for conditions of a
technical nature which were not fulfilled due to changes in the implementation mechanisms, such as
the fusion of the PEM and the PEI, and complications in the purchase of textbooks.
24



Performance of the Social Investment Fund -FIS-, as a co-executing entity. The FIS faced serious
difficulties due to: (i) the lack of administrative capacity to respond to the needs created by the new
National System of Co-financing, of which the Secondary Education Project represented a very
important share; (ii) poor coordination with the Local Authorities and lack of monitoring of the sub-
projects; (iii) excessive politicization; (iv) complex procedures; (v) a very bureaucratic and
inefficient structure at the national and departmental levels; and, (vi) lack of monitoring and
supervision systems. In the end, the Government eliminated not only the FIS but also the co-
financing system.
Performance of the Financing Company for Local Development -FINDETER. FINDETER's
contribution to the implementation of the Project was hampered by many problems and, as a result,
things happened very slowly. Some of the factors which affected its performance are: (i) the lack
of information, among the local entities supported by the Project, about the requisites to gain access
to a FINDETER loan; (ii) an important discrepancy between the municipalities targeted by the
Project and those who fulfilled FINDETER's eligibility criteria. For FINDETER the capacity for
getting into debt was an indispensable requisite to give a loan. The rigidity in FINDETER's criteria
was compounded by the fiscal crisis and the economic recession of the last few years, which further
reduced the already low indebtedness capacity of the municipalities; (iii) the necessity of a financial
intermediary to give loans to the municipalities. After the crisis began no commercial banks wanted
to be the guarantor of any municipality; and, (iv) the political-administrative crisis of various
municipalities and their ensuing budgetary problems also affected the implementation of the Project
and the participation of FINDETER.
UNDP administered the funds for the Management and Institutional Strengthening component. The
resources served to finance two types of activities: (i) the hiring of regional consultants; and, (ii)
the execution of projects directed to support the PEMs and PELs. There were delays in the hiring
process because the technical requirements had not been clearly defined at the outset and the UNDP
would impose additional legal requirements. The UNDP would also require MEN to present a
specific project justification with objectives and indicators beyond what already existed in the Bank
project documentation. In addition, the municipalities did not have a clear idea about how they
could benefit from the UNDP-managed resources. Lack of coordination between MEN and the
UNDP at certain times during project implementation also caused delays which impacted negatively
on the implementation of sub-projects at the local level.
The Municipalities and the Municipal Education Secretariats. The municipalities, through their
Education Secretariats, were among the principal beneficiaries and at the same time they were
strategic actors in the execution of the Project. Among the problems which arose during the
implementation of the Project were the weak administrative capacity and planning for the
formulation of the PEMs, the lack of information to support the formulation of the Plan, and delays
in the transfer of counterpart resources to the schools.
8. Lessons Learned
The MEN and the Bank evaluated together, on a regular basis during the life of the Project, the
status of implementation and the results achieved. This permitted the identification of positive
lessons which were incorporated in the design of two new projects at the department and municipal
level (Antioquia and Pasto), as well as the Rural Education project at the national level. The most
important lessons were as follows: (i) the need to establish at the beginning of any project a baseline
25



for evaluation purposes; (ii) the importance of focusing on the pedagogical aspects of the project;
(iii) the need to translate the concept of PEMs and PEIs defined by the General Education Law into
operational instruments; (iv) the need to operationalize the concept of school autonomy by
providing financial resources; and, (v) the importance of working directly with the local authorities.
a) Demand side subsidies can be effective: the project allowed to initiate a policy of support for
demand side subsidies, replacing the supply side subsidies traditionally given by the Local
Authorities and the National Government. It showed that it was possible to increase coverage
and improve equity through the private sector without reducing quality. Particularly successful
were the experiences in the Department of Antioquia, Bogota, and the District of Cartagena, as
well as the national program.
b) Involvement of the Local Authorities can have a positive demonstration effect: the positive
results achieved under the Secondary Education Project incited the Local Authorities to invest
more in the education sector and to seek other Bank loans. In recent years, two new loans were
prepared and signed, one with the Department of Antioquia and the other with the Municipality
of Pasto.
c) Budget Incentives: Small amounts of resources can go a long way towards stimulating
increased interest in education development at the municipal level.
d) Increased awareness of the importance of education can translate into increased resources
for the sector: the project encouraged the municipalities to think of education as a key factor of
local development. This translated into increased investment for the sector. Today it is clear
that many officials in the departments and municipalities consider education as a high priority
in their development plans.
e) Municipalities and schools can learn to prepare and implement education improvement
plans in an effective way: the project generated an awareness, in the municipalities and the
participating schools, of the importance of good quality PEMs and PEIs as key development
instruments for the educational sector. The Project was effective in developing the local
capacity to plan and formulate education plans, and to assign financial resources in accordance
with what was laid out in the PEM and the PEI. The direct transfer of funds based on the needs
of municipalities and schools allowed them to assume greater responsibilities and engage in a
more efficient management of available resources.
f) Need to define the means to promote institutional autonomy: The General Law of
Education established the notion of autonomy at the school level, but it did not define the
necessary mechanisms to make it happen. The project allowed the direct transfer of resources
to schools, which contributed to give these schools the necessary means to translate the concept
of autonomy into real practice. The project established clear arrangements for resource
allocation and use through the Funds for Teacher Services (Fondos de Servicios Docentes).
g) Importance of systematic supervision from the beginning at both the central and local
levels: The problems which arose from the weak supervision and monitoring of the Project by
MEN (UCPE) demonstrated that it is necessary to oversee and monitor project implementation
from the very beginning. Collecting accurate and up-to-date information is the only way
problems can be identified and acted upon.
26



h) Better coordination is needed among all actors involved: The participation of multiple
actors in the implementation of the Project and the institutional problems which arose
demonstrate that it is necessary to have a strong leader in charge of coordination. It is also
important to have continuity in the key positions. Constant staffing changes negatively affect
project implementation. It is therefore a prerequisite to analyze-the institutional capacity of the
participating implementing agencies at the time of project preparation.
i) Need for a clear definition of roles and procedures in the project design: The participation
of several institutions and the lack of uniformity in procedures and requirements hampered
project implementation, provoking delays and differences of interpretation. It is necessary to
define roles and procedures with clarity during the project design process.
j)  Increased  decentralization  of financial and  administrative  procedures to  reduce
bureaucracy: To make decentralization a reality, it is important to define simple and
transparent procedures which allow for an effective system of allocation and transfer of
resources from the central to the local levels.
k) Need for regular supervision on the part of the Bank: Despite that the Project faced several
problems during the different phases of implementation, continuous supervision and appropriate
technical assistance from the Bank allowed the Project to proceed with the necessary
adjustments and helped it avoid additional difficulties and complications, considering the
changing context in which the project was prepared.
1) Need to anticipate the impact of frequent turnover of top MEN staff: The political history
of Colombia reveals that there are usually several changes of Cabinet, including MEN, during
any presidential term period. It is therefore important to analyze what type of contingency
measures can be taken to minimize the impact of these frequent changes on project ownership
and implementation.
m) Use of an impact evaluation study at the end of project implementation: The preparation of
an impact study at the end of the project implementation period as a concerted effort between
the project implementation team and the Bank has many positive effects: (i) it provides an
opportunity to identify or confirm in an objective manner the strengths and weaknesses of the
project which can be incorporated in the design of new operations; (ii) it enables establishment
of a statistical database on the project results even when the general educational statistical
system is very limited; (iii) it provides information upon which to make decisions to ensure the
sustainability of project activities; and, (iv) the national counterparts are more receptive to the
conclusions and recommendations of the impact evaluation when it is done as a joint activity.
27



9. Partner Comments
Aportes al Pais y Lecciones Aprendidas
9.1. Consideraciones Generales
El plan de Gobierno para el periodo 1990- 1994, estableci6 la educaci6n como estrategia clave para
el desarrollo social del pais. A comienzos de 1992, se iniciaron gestiones ante el Banco Mundial
para la identificaci6n del proyecto de educaci6n secundaria, con el cual se previ6 apoyar no solo la
consecuci6n de metas propias para el sector sino tambien fortalecer el proceso de descentralizaci6n
educativa asi como el sistema nacional de cofinanciaci6n. En los primeros meses del afio 1994 entr6
en efectividad el Programa de Ampliaci6n de la Cobertura y Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Secundaria y Media- PACES, amparado por el contrato de prestamo 3683-CO, celebrado
entre la Naci6n y el Banco Interamericano de Reconstrucci6n y Fomento - BIRF-, por un valor total
de US$150 millones, de los cuales US$ 90 millones, correspondian a cr6dito del Banco, y el resto a
contrapartida de la Naci6n y aportes de los Municipios, para ser ejecutado en 6 afios, comprendidos
entre 1994 y 2000.
Al cierre del proyecto, la ejecuci6n de los recursos fue la siguiente: de los recursos del Banco se
ejecut6 la suma de US$40.3 millones, es decir el 70% de la suma inicialmente prevista; la ejecuci6n
de la contrapartida ascendi6 a la suma de US$50.7 millones, para un total ejecutado de US$91
millones. La razon del menor valor de ejecuci6n frente al contrato de prestamo obedeci6 a una
decisi6n del Gobiemo Nacional en 1999 de suspender la ejecuci6n del programa PACES y
reorientar el 55.3% de sus recursos (saldo de los recursos del Banco) a la reconstrucci6n del Eje
Cafetero, como consecuencia del terremoto acontecido en la zona cafetera.
9.2. Principales Logros
Durante los cuatro afios efectivos de ejecuci6n del programa PACES, se apoyaron 11
departamentos, 85 municipios y 4 distritos, 1.244 planteles educativos para un beneficio de
aproximadamente 1.040.000 estudiantes. Los objetivos y estrategias que se propuso el proyecto
fueron los siguientes: (i) ampliaci6n de cobertura, mediante la financiaci6n de la construcci6n,
ampliaci6n y renovaci6n de instalaciones y dotaci6n de las instituciones educativas oficiales de
secundaria; (ii) acceso extendido, por medio de becas otorgadas a estudiantes de bajos ingresos en
colegios de secundaria privados con capacidad instalada y ubicados en un municipio o distrito
participante; (iii) mejoramiento de la calidad a traves de la financiaci6n de Proyectos Educativos
Institucionales, la capacitaci6n de rectores y docentes, la dotaci6n de textos escolares, materiales y
equipos de ensefianza y la dotaci6n de Centros de Recursos Educativos, CREM y CREP; y, (iv)
fortalecimiento administrativo y desarrollo institucional por medio de la contrataci6n de asesores
regionales y la ejecuci6n de Proyectos de Fortalecimiento Institucional como apoyo al desarrollo del
Plan Educativo Municipal.
Para el Sector Educativo fue importante el momento de transici6n politica y legal-administrativa en
que tuvo lugar la ejecuci6n del prestamo CO-3683, con la iniciaci6n de un proceso de organizaci6n
institucional descentralizada, en donde se sentia la necesidad de apoyar procesos de planeaci6n,
administraci6n, competencia legal, metodologia contable y ejecuci6n de los recursos, con
responsabilidad directa no solo de las entidades territoriales, sino tambi6n, de las instituciones
educativas con responsabilidad compartida en la administraci6n de recursos y disefio de politicas
educativas apropiadas a las condiciones y expectativas de las comunidades locales.
28



El mejoramiento de la cobertura asi como la ampliaci6n en el acceso a la educaci6n secundaria se
logr6 principalmente por la estrategia de construcci6n, reparaci6n y habilitaci6n de aulas como
tambien por el programa de Becas o subsidio a la demanda. En este caso como logro del prop6sito
se tiene que la matricula oficial creci6 en un 20.2% durante el periodo 1994 a 1998, siendo el efecto
mayor en la educaci6n media (grados 10° y 110), con un 30% y en la secundaria basica en un 17%.
Un indicador bastante representativo de las ejecuciones del proyecto consiste en el numero de aulas
construidas o habilitadas, el cual super6 en un 63% la meta prevista inicialmente en el Contrato de
Prestamo. La iniciativa de Becas PACES en la educaci6n privada, consistente en el subsidio
otorgado a nifios que habiendo terminado el ciclo de la primaria, debian suspender los estudios por
falta de cupo en los establecimientos oficiales. En este componente es de relevancia la participaci6n
de los recursos propios de la naci6n, que financiaron aproximadamente 13 veces las becas cubiertas
con recursos de credito, en el marco del Programna.
En el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n se desarroll6 una estrategia unificada en procura
de una atenci6n integral, logrando por asociaci6n de componentes potenciar los resultados del
mejoramiento de las condiciones tanto fisicas como pedag6gicas de las instituciones educativas, la
cualificaci6n del desempeflo docente y el fortalecimiento del clima pedag6gico - institucional, en
favor de los ninos y nifias matriculadas en la educaci6n secundaria y media oficial. En este caso es
importante mostrar la relevancia que con los recursos del Programa apoyaron aspectos pedag6gicos
como la revisi6n del PEI en el ambiente curricular, la construcci6n de planes de estudio, proyectos
de investigaci6n y de aula, fomento de la innovaci6n pedag6gica y trabajo en tematicas especificas
relacionadas con clima institucional e integraci6n de la comunidad a la instituci6n educativa. En
relaci6n con metas fisicas, vale la pena destacar las 519.917 de personas de la comunidad educativa
capacitadas, la dotaci6n de textos a raz6n de 0.82 textos por alumno y la dotaci6n de materiales
educativos y de elementos basicos, apoyo a las intervenciones pedag6gicas de los docentes en favor
de los alumnos y del area administrativa a las Secretarias de Educaci6n y a las Instituciones
Educativas.
La concepci6n del proyecto PEM-PEI fundamentado en el principio de integralidad permiti6
repensar el colegio en el contexto de la politica social del municipio, sin perder su autonomia de
instituci6n educativa dando respuestas pertinentes a las necesidades del vecindario y comunidad en
general. La orientaci6n de la politica educativa trabajada en PACES concibe la instituci6n educativa
con un enfoque multidimensional comprometido en la buisqueda de soluciones integrales, con
respuestas acordes a exigencias propias de un mundo globalizado. En este caso es importante
resaltar como un buen indicador, el caracter masivo de la capacitaci6n, pues en el tema de la gesti6n
con enfasis en el disefno y construcci6n del PEI, las personas capacitadas superaron el medio mill6n,
se realizaron alrededor de 8.822 eventos, con un promedio de 59 asistentes por evento, incluidos
directivos docentes, docentes, personal administrativo, estudiantes y padres de familia.
Dentro del componente de fortalecimiento institucional, el proyecto plante6 el desarrollo de varios
estudios de investigaci6n, de los cuales solo se pudo desarrollar la evaluaci6n del programa de
becas, mediante tres investigaciones dirigidas a evaluar las caracteristicas propias del programa, la
cobertura lograda, la participaci6n de los municipios y de los colegios. Los resultados de dichos
estudios brindaron importantes elementos de juicio al Gobiemo Nacional para evaluar este tipo de
subsidio en el marco de la descentralizaci6n educativa. En todo caso se resalta que el programa de
becas ha sido una estrategia efectiva para reducir la diferencia entre la matricula de primaria frente a
la secundaria, aprovechando la infraestructura del sector privado, expandir las limitadas altemativas
que tienen los j6venes de las familias mas pobres para continuar sus estudios al egresar de la escuela
29



primaria y valorar la participaci6n de los colegios privados como esquema de sana competencia en
terminos de calidad de la educaci6n al romperse el monopolio de las instituciones educativas
publicas. A pesar de los anteriores beneficios, los estudios permitieron identificar los principales
temores para la participaci6n municipal entre los cuales priman la baja credibilidad en el sector
puiblico, el temor a la politizaci6n del programa y la oposici6n del sindicato de maestros a la
privatizaci6n de la educaci6n.
Aunque las estimaciones efectuadas para el programa de Becas, a nivel nacional explican la tasa de
becas per capita no ofrecen resultados concluyentes, si ofrecen indicios de que la asignaci6n
centralizada de los recursos por parte del MEN gener6 un sesgo en la selecci6n de los municipios
beneficiados al haberse preferido a los de mayor desarrollo relativo y a los mas urbanizados. Este
sesgo pudo generarse, en parte, por la forma en que estan distribuidos los establecimientos
educativos privados; sin embargo, aun excluyendo de la muestra a los municipios sin
establecimientos privados, se corrobor6 la presencia de un sesgo en favor de municipios mas
urbanos y con mayores ingresos fiscales per capita.
El Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria, en el componente de Becas, tuvo dificultades administrativas
en su ejecuci6n. Las administraciones municipales percibieron negativamente la tardanza en el giro
de los recursos y la trama burocratica a recorrer para que los colegios beneficiarios recibieran los
fondos de las matriculas oportunamente; esto debilit6 la credibilidad y legitimidad del Proyecto,
haciendo menos llamativa la participaci6n de los colegios privados en 6l. Por otra parte, los
municipios no contaron con la asesoria necesaria por parte de las instancias nacionales y
departamentales, de forma que les permitiera utilizar herramientas efectivas para realizar un
monitoreo efectivo del Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria, de manera que algunas de sus falencias
operativas y administrativas pudieran ser corregidas sobre la marcha. Se otorg6 poca importancia a
las labores de seguimiento y monitoreo y en general los manuales de procedimiento del Proyecto no
eran conocidos o eran de muy poca utilidad.
Por otra parte, es importante sefialar que el Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria de Becas gener6
expectativas positivas en la mayoria de los municipios en que oper6 y que existe un ambiente
favorable por parte de los municipios para continuarlo y mejorarlo. En particular, el grupo de
opini6n encuestado sefial6 al Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria como la segunda causa para una
positiva expansi6n de la cobertura de la educaci6n secundaria en el municipio. Es particularmente
importante resaltar que mas del 45% de los encuestados manifestaron que el municipio deberia
tener una mayor participaci6n en la financiaci6n de las becas y consideraron que el Proyecto de
Educaci6n Secundaria fue benefico para el municipio.
A nivel general se puede concluir que la modalidad de becas establecida en el pais demostr6 ser un
mecanismo eficaz para movilizar en forma efectiva a los colegios privados, permitiendoles
contribuir a solucionar de manera efectiva la problematica de cupos insuficientes en la educaci6n
secundaria frente al numero de egresados de las escuelas primarias del sector publico.
9.3. Evaluaci6n de Impacto del Proyecto
La decisi6n del Gobierno Nacional de suspender la ejecuci6n del proyecto a partir de 1999 y
reorientar el saldo de sus recursos a la reconstrucci6n del eje cafetero, conllev6 a que en forma
conjunta el Ministerio de Educaci6n (MEN) y el Banco Mundial acordaran para los dos uiltimos
afnos del pr6stamo (1999 y 2000) disefiar y desarrollar una evaluaci6n de impacto del programa
PACES en las siguientes areas: Cobertura, Gesti6n, Costo-Efectividad y Calidad.
30



Para el desarrollo de esta fase, se conform6 al interior de la Unidad de Coordinaci6n un grupo
responsable de la evaluaci6n, quien se encarg6 en un primer momento del levantamiento,
organizaci6n y sistematizaci6n de la informaci6n en los diferentes niveles del sector (nacional,
departamental, municipal e institucional) asi como de las entidades co-ejecutoras del proyecto
(ICETEX, FIS, FINDETER). Este valioso ejercicio implic6 numerosos talleres de discusi6n para
deterrninar los mecanismos de la recolecci6n de informaci6n. Posteriormente el grupo se encarg6 de
disefiar los terminos de referencia, establecer la metodologia y sistema de analisis para los
diferentes estudios propuestos y apoyar la logistica del proceso de convocatoria y selecci6n. Los
resultados de las tres investigaciones realizadas entre el MEN, el Banco Mundial el ICFES e
ICETEX durante los afios 1997 y 1998 frente al programa de becas se constituyeron asi mismo en
importante insumo de este proceso.
Los principales hallazgos de los estudios realizados son los siguientes:
Estudio de Cobertura
Con el fin de garantizar evaluaci6n objetiva concemiente al cumplimiento de metas y objetivos del
proyecto, se desarroll6 un estudio cuyo objetivo fue identificar el efecto del prestamo en la
ampliaci6n de la cobertura de educaci6n basica secundaria (grados 6-10) y media (grados 10-11) en
92 municipios de Colombia (87 del proyecto y 5 municipios testigos).
De acuerdo al marco legal (Ley 115, articulo 19), existe obligatoriedad de un grado minimo de
educaci6n preescolar y 9 grados de educaci6n basica (5 de primaria y 4 de secundaria).
Las acciones directas del proyecto con relaci6n a la ampliaci6n de la cobertura consistieron en la
construcci6n de aulas nuevas, ampliaci6n y renovaci6n de instalaciones y dotaci6n de las
instituciones educativas oficiales de secundaria
El estudio revis6 las bases de datos con cifras oficiales del periodo 1994-1998 (se consideraron
tanto las estadisticas educativas de los aflos correspondientes como la informaci6n censal de 1993).
Fueron abarcados 5789 establecimientos escolares, 2155 oficiales y 3634 no oficiales. Del total de
establecimientos, 5339 estaban localizados en municipios focalizados por el proyecto y 460 en
municipios testigos. Se revisaron series de tiempo para 21 variables, relativas a aspectos como: la
matricula, la deserci6n, la reprobaci6n, la repitencia, las tasas bruta y neta de cobertura, la extraedad
y la retenci6n. Se hicieron, entre otras, desagregaciones por grado, sector (oficial y no oficial) y
municipio.
Dado que mas de la mitad de las inversiones orientadas a expandir los servicios educativos
comenzaron en 1996, el estudio no permiti6 detectar el impacto completo del proyecto. Sin
embargo se observaron los siguientes efectos incipientes:
1. El numero de establecimientos aument6 significativamente. Se observ6 una reducci6n en la
densidad de los establecimientos oficiales, lo que indica la existencia de una capacidad
instalada para atender nueva matricula en el futuro.
2. La matricula oficial se increment6 en un 20% en los municipios del proyecto. Al desagregar
por nivel, se observa que el incremento fue del 30% en educaci6n media y del 17% en la
educaci6n secundaria basica.
31



3. Mientras que la tasa bruta de matricula no oficial se redujo en un 2.6%, la matricula oficial
aument6 de 39.8% a 46.9%, lo que dio un crecimiento nacional de 83.1% a 87.7%.
4. Se observaron mejoras en las tasas netas de escolarizaci6n y en la extraedad y, asi mismo, en
los indicadores de eficiencia, tales como las tasas de aprobaci6n, deserci6n, repitencia y
retenci6n.
5. No se identificaron diferencias significativas entre los municipio apoyados por el proyecto y
los testigos; esto puede explicarse por el pequefto tamaflo del grupo control y porque en todos
los casos, los testigos fueron capitales de departamento.
6. Del total de municipios del proyecto, 59% tiene tasas de crecimiento superiores al promedio.
Este valor sube a 66% cuando se trata de municipios que tienen inversiones en construcci6n.
Estudio de Gestion
El prop6sito fue examinar el desempenlo institucional de los agentes responsables de la ejecucion
del proyecto y la forma como se gestionaron los componentes. La evaluaci6n en si de la gesti6n del
proyecto, se realiz6 mediante el indice de integralidad construido con informaci6n de las ejecutorias
en construcciones, ampliaciones y reparaciones, CREM-CREP, dotaci6n de textos y gesti6n PEI. El
resultado mostr6 c6mo los 4 distritos y el municipio de Pasto presentaron indices altos, de eficiencia
productiva, indicio de una mayor capacidad de gesti6n del ente territorial y claridad en los
prop6sitos de las administraciones relacionadas con el mejoramiento de la calidad y cobertura del
servicio educativo.
Los actores involucrados en la ejecuci6n del proyectos fueron los siguientes: (i) en el nivel
intemacional, el Banco Mundial y el PNUD; (ii) en el nivel nacional, el Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n (DNP), el Banco de la Repuiblica-Mininisterio de Hacienda, MEN-UPCE, FIS,
FINDETER, ICETEX-BCH, la Fiduciaria; (iii) en el nivel departamental, la Secretaria de
Educaci6n Departamental (SED), la UDECO y la CODECO; y, (iv) en el nivel municipal, el
municipio-SEM, el Concejo Municipal, el Intermediario Financiero, las ONG y universidades, los
proveedores y contratistas y el establecimiento escolar.
El proyecto experiment6 dos fases de desarrollo. Durante la primera, los recursos son asignados
bajo cupos predeterminados por departamento, se transfieren por medio de instancias
departamentales: las UDECO y CODECO y se adoptan siete lineas de financiamiento, para cubrir a
85 municipios. Frente a los problemas enfrentados durante la primera fase y a fin de lograr mayor
eficiencia y eficacia, se introducen una serie de cambios que dan origen a una segunda fase de
desarrollo. En esta fase, se asignan cupos por municipio focalizado; los municipios y las
instituciones educativas se constituyen en receptores directos de recursos y ejecutores, sin
mediaci6n del departamento, y se integran las acciones en dos mecanismos esenciales: los PEM y
los PEI. El colegio presenta su proyecto al municipio, este lo incorpora a su plan y lo tramita ante
las autoridades nacionales.
Gestion delproyecto
El disefio del proyecto antecedi6 a un intenso proceso de cambios juridicos e institucionales, lo que
caus6 interferencias, perdidas de energia y disociaciones. En general, la multiplicidad de agentes y
32



procesos hizo inoperantes las acciones, lo que result6 en dilaciones, interrupciones, procesos
incompletos y proyectos cancelados. El proyecto comenz6 con casi un afno de retraso. La alianza
PROYECTO-FIS, prevista en el diseffo del proyecto estaba encaminada a propiciar la cultura de
proyectos, a apoyar el jalonamiento de recursos de contrapartida de las entidades territoriales
especialmente de los municipios focalizados y a promover el principio de equidad regional; en la
practica no se estimul6 la descentralizaci6n y mas bien provoc6 una asignaci6n ineficiente de
recursos por el uso de cupos indicativos y la injerencia politica.
La gesti6n de la Unidad Coordinadora del Proyecto -MEN-UPCE- fue sensible a los cambios
ministeriales afectando las acciones de coordinaci6n y seguimiento de las operaciones del proyecto.
Gesti6n del Plan Educativo Municipal- PEM
El exito de las estrategias propuestas para aumentar la matricula depende en gran parte de una
adecuada gesti6n educativa municipal. Con el Proyecto se introduce una visi6n de largo plazo y un
interes por diagnosticar los problemas, trazarse objetivos locales y metas fisicas; se observa
apropiaci6n de mejores m6todos de analisis mediante la capacitaci6n brindada en la construcci6n y
uso de indicadores y en el manejo de fuentes de presupuesto y estimaci6n de costos. Los municipios
apoyados por el Proyecto tienen una preocupaci6n mas notoria por mantener vigentes sus PEM para
garantizar la ejecuci6n de los proyectos y convenios comprometidos. Cuando recogen informaci6n,
los municipios desarrollan mejores sistemas de seguimiento. Se proveen servicios eficaces en
algunos CREM-CREP. Los municipios hicieron importantes aportes financieros para asegurar la
realizaci6n de las acciones. Se apoy6 al personal de la SEM mediante procesos de capacitaci6n. Se
estimul6 la participaci6n comunitaria reforzando los procesos de descentralizaci6n. Se observan
esfuerzos por vincular los PEI a los PEM y, en algunos casos, las SEM dan apoyo a los rectores y
docentes en la gesti6n del PEI. En general, los actores municipales manifiestan una percepci6n
positiva sobre el aporte del proyecto PACES a la labor educativa local.
El estudio tambien plantea algunas debilidades pendientes de corregir tales como: la debilidad de
los procesos de evaluaci6n de los PEM ya que muchos de ellos no incorporaron metas especificas y
mensurables asociadas a sus objetivos, la falta de una agenda de seguimiento y evaluaci6n a los
PEM en la mayoria de las instancias departamentales; la falencia en sistemas de informaci6n para el
seguimiento a los PEM, en este orden de ideas es importante observar que a pesar del apoyo
brindado por PACES a la reorganizaci6n de varias Secretarias de Educaci6n y la contrataci6n de
proyectos para el desarrollo e implementaci6n de sistemas de informaci6n al interior de dichas
instituciones son resultados importantes en materia de fortalecimiento institucional, a(in faltan
acciones encaminadas a fortalecer el nivel departamental.
En algunos casos, la SEM se muestra como instancia debil en la gesti6n municipal, mientras que el
poder politico se concentra en el alcalde. Los estudios y la capacitaci6n resultan poco pertinentes
para la gesti6n educativa, lo que es agravado con los cambios de autoridades. Se observa desorden
en los registros financieros. La articulaci6n entre la Secretaria de Educaci6n Departamental y la
Municipal es muy incipiente. En algunos casos, no hay esfuerzo por involucrar a los actores locales
al proceso del PEM. En otros casos, existe un distanciamiento entre la SEM y el proceso de
formulaci6n de los PEI.
Gesti6n del Proyecto Educativo Institucional- PEI
33



En los colegios del proyecto PACES, la comunidad educativa muestra un mayor conocimiento del
PEI. Todas las instituciones, PROYECTO y no PROYECTO, cuentan con PEI, lo cuales estan en la
SED. Es probable que el proceso del PEI ha ayudado a fortalecer la participaci6n e integraci6n de la
comunidad. Sin embargo, se percibe la necesidad de pasar a un estadio mas operativo: actuar para
resolver problemas. La relaci6n de la SEM es fuerte hacia los establecimientos PROYECTO,
mientras que la relacion SED es mas fuerte con los no PROYECTO, probablemente debido a la
dinamica introducida por el proyecto, sobre todo en la segunda fase de desarrollo. Se observa una
clara homogeneidad de conceptos y procedimientos sobre organizaci6n escolar, comunidad
educativa, convivencia y organizaci6n curricular a raiz de la influencia de la Ley 115. Tambidn se
nota homogeneidad y capacidad en el manejo financiero, administrativo y contable, proveniente del
apoyo recibido del municipio y el departamento. Hay evidencias de que las instituciones estan
desarrollando capacidades para un desempeilo aut6nomo. Los colegios han apreciado positivamente
los recursos del proyecto, aunque cuestionaron frecuentemente la tardanza en la Ilegada de los
mismos. Consideran que, durante la segunda fase del prestarno, se fortaleci6 la transparencia y la
autonomia. Las instituciones apoyadas por PACES valoran la capacitaci6n y el apoyo extemo
recibido. Fue acertada la oferta de una canasta amplia de inversiones, lo que permiti6 a las
instituciones escolares priorizar y focalizar el uso de los recursos. Sin embargo, el acceso a los
recursos sustituy6 los del propio establecimiento y tendi6 a desanimar la buisqueda de recursos de
otras fuentes. Podrian desarrollarse lineas de cofinanciaci6n directa al nivel de las instituciones.
Dotacion de textos e insumos educativos.
Los convenios de textos iniciaron su desarrollo mediante una prueba piloto en 3 municipios en el
afio de 1994; la experiencia capitalizada consisti6 en la no adopci6n de la estrategia probada
(compra directa de textos por municipio) y para los afios siguientes (95, 96) se adopt6 el sistema de
bonos. Los textos adquiridos para los grados 60 a 90 fueron matematicas, castellano, ciencias
sociales integradas, para los grados 100 y 110 estAn los de matematicas, castellano, ciencias
naturales, fisica, quimica, educaci6n ambiental, educaci6n sexual, comportamiento y salud,
filosofia, constituci6n politica y democracia, derechos humanos, etica y valores, ciencias politicas y
econ6micas. Las bibliotecas se dotaron con enciclopedias, libros de referencia y documentales. En
ayudas educativas se adquirieron laminas, globos terraqueos, mapas, audiocasettes, videocasetes,
graficos, tablas, figuras geometricas, juegos de mesa. Para cultura recreacion y deporte se
encuentran mallas, aros, equipos de gimnasia, instrumentos musicales y elementos para actividades
culturales. Equipos complementarios como radiograbadoras, televisores, videograbadoras,
mime6grafos, fotocopiadoras, retroproyector, pantallas para retroproyector, estabilizadores,
paquetes de software, equipos de laboratorio, entre otros.
En estudio determin6 que los elementos y recursos adquiridos dan respuesta a los requerimientos de
los PEI, que se utilizan en casi la totalidad de los casos y los estudiantes pueden acceder a ellos en
horarios y formas estipuladas. Los libros de consulta solo se dan en prestamo para que los
estudiantes los puedan llevar a sus casas en un 59.6%.
Las principales conclusiones del estudio fueron las siguientes: (i) El proyecto contribuy6 al Plan de
Apertura Educativa con el cumplimiento significativo de metas cuantitativas y financieras, a pesar
de la menor ejecuci6n del monto del credito; (ii) en el resto de la estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo
se verificaron logros con diferencias no significativas entre los municipios PACES y los no PACES;
y, (iii) Al observar la gesti6n y la asunci6n de responsabilidades en los procesos PEM y en los
procesos PEI, el proyecto impuls6 mejoramientos, nuevas formas de planificaci6n y de gesti6n y
cambios actitudinales frente al manejo del destino educativo municipal.
34



Estudio de Costo- Efectividad
El estudio se propuso establecer la magnitud y alcance de la metas fisicas y finaricieras logradas en
la vida del proyecto y analizar su efectividad con relaci6n a la poblaci6n meta y suIs necesidades.
El estudio se bas6 en la l6gica de que cada recurso invertido en una actividad significa un aporte al
objetivo del componente que la contiene. La unidad de analisis del estudio fue el municipio, aunque
tambien se hicieron analisis a nivel nacional y de establecimiento escolar. Sobre la informaci6n
disponible se realizaron tres actividades de analisis: (i) confrontar los resultados obtenidos contra lo
previsto en el SAR; (ii) verificar los esfuerzos del esfuerzo institucional realizado en terminos de
metas fisicas y financieras; y, (iii) contrastar el desempeffo de los municipios focalizados y asociar
resultados con el analisis de gesti6n. El analisis de costo-efectividad contempl6 dos enfoques
centrales: (i) la eficiencia productiva, que examina el grado en que los insumos aplicados y las
actividades ejecutadas ban contribuido a la entrega de productos y a la generaci6n de efectos
directos perseguidos por el Proyecto; y, (ii) eficiencia asignativa, que intenta verificar si los
recursos recibidos por los municipios respondieron a criterios de equidad, necesidad o prioridad.
Los logros analizados corresponden al periodo de ejecuci6n efectiva: 1994-1998.
Cumplimiento de metasfisicas
Respecto al cumplimiento de las metas fisicas, puede observarse lo siguiente: (i) a pesar de las
dificultades enfrentadas, las metas fisicas fueron, en general, cumplidas satisfactoriamente y, en
varios casos, superadas significativamente; (ii) las metas de cobertura fueron las de mejor
desempefio: el numero de aulas adicionales o habilitadas para nueva matricula super6 las metas en
63%; (iii) la adjudicaci6n de becas para acceso extendido super6 la meta en 5% - aunque la
contrapartida nacional financi6 un 115% sobre lo proyectado, mientras que el crddito, solo 47%;
(iv) el nivel de cumplimiento en calidad es variable: metas ampliamente superadas, como el numero
de instituciones atendidas y de PEI preparados; metas adecuadamente cumplidas, como el numero
de colegios beneficiarios de los Centros de Recursos Educativos CREM-CREP y logros que
quedaron por debajo de la meta, como la distribuci6n de textos, que apenas se cumpli6 en un 62%;
y, (v) en Asistencia Tecnica y Fortalecimiento institucional, las metas fueron satisfactoriamente
cumplidas y, en varios casos, superadas, como la capacitacion de funcionarios centrales y
departamentales, ejecutada en un 310%.
Analisis de eficiencia productiva por componente
Cobertura: Se incorporaron 2726 nuevas aulas, generando 64 cupos por cada aula adicional y se
abrieron un poco mas de 4 cupos por cada mill6n de pesos invertido en nuevas aulas. La matricula
de secundaria y media aument6 en 174,874 alumnos durante el periodo 1994-1998, lo que
represent6 un 20% respecto a la matricula base de 1994. Las becas otorgadas superaron la meta,
aunque el crddito tuvo baja ejecuci6n en este rubro.
Calidad: (i) se distribuyeron 780 mil textos a 953 mil alumnos; (ii) la dotaci6n de CREM y CREM
correspondi6 a la meta; (iii) se detect6 un uso de los CREM inferior a lo previsto; (iv) fue
extraordinario el nuimero de personas capacitadas (mas medio mill6n en 9 mil eventos) para el
desarrollo de los PEI; (v) las obras de infraestructura tuvieron un efecto positivo en el ambiente
escolar; y, (vi) los municipios mejor dotados en libros por alumno, fueron los que mas capacitaron
personas por alumno.
35



Fortalecimiento institucional: Se capacit6 a funcionarios claves en la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Se
realizaron diversas consultorias para apoyar la formulaci6n de los Planes Educativos Municipales.
Aunque las metas cuantitativas fueron cumplidas, hay evidencias que indican el apoyo no
necesariamente se tradujo en mejor desempefio de los municipios. La eficiencia productiva
municipal demostr6 que el grupo de municipios que logr6 mas aulas adicionales en funci6n del
deficit es el que menos matricula adicional aporta por cada peso aplicado en aulas, mientras que el
grupo de municipios que genero menos aulas adicionales por deficit es el que obtiene la mas alta
eficiencia en matricula adicional.
Analisis de la Eficiencia Asignativa
Cobertura: Al establecer una relaci6n entre el monto en pesos recibido para aulas adicionales por el
numero de j6venes en edad escolar que no asisten a secundaria, se encontr6 que la distribuci6n real
de los recursos fue inequitativa e ineficiente.
Calidad: Al establecer la proporci6n entre la inversi6n ejecutada en calidad y la cantidad de
alumnos matriculados en colegios oficiales (1994) se encontr6 lo siguiente: (i) los municipios
"sobreasignados" logran alto nivel de costo-efectividad; (ii) la subasignaci6n limit6 la eficiencia de
los municipios "subasignados"; y, (iii) la eficiencia asignativa, aunque fue te6ricamente racional en
el diseno del proyecto, no opero en la distribuci6n y gesti6n real de los recursos financieros.
El analisis integrado de costo-efectividad a nivel municipal demostr6 que el programa PACES
activ6 mayor potencial en los pequenios conglomerados focalizados, pero que no alcanz6 a
proyectarse intensivamente en los grandes conglomerados urbanos, en cuya inversi6n el sector
educativo tuvo una baja participaci6n.
Ejecuci6nfinanciera y esfuerzo municipal.
Tomando en cuenta los aportes de contrapartida, el esfuerzo local fue determinante en la ejecuci6n
inicial del proyecto, mientras se hacian efectivos los recursos del credito: el prestamo se ejecut6
solo en 45% de los contratado, pero la contrapartida local se ejecut6 en 84% sobre lo previsto. Los
municipios tuvieron una carga importante para asegurar el respaldo financiero de las acciones del
proyecto: ademas del 20% de contrapartida, tuvieron que financiar actividades mientras llegaban los
recursos del prestamo (retrasados por diversas razones, entre ellas mayor valor por demoras de
procesos de pagos, no consecuci6n del intermediario financiero, entre otras) y asumir el
endeudamiento de FINDETER, lo que demuestra que fueron los municipios quienes tuvieron la
mayor carga en este esquema de cofinanciaci6n. Sin embargo, no puede afirmarse que el proyecto
conllev6 a procesos significativos de inversion local; de hecho, los municipios no beneficiados con
el proyecto tuvieron que efectuar un esfuerzo financiero para respaldar las mejoras de cobertura y
calidad que el proyecto no les financi6.
Estudio de Calidad
La Ley General de Educacion estableci6 la obligatoriedad de los Planes Educativos Institucionales -
PEI-, abriendo la figura de cofinanciacion para acceder a recursos destinados a su desarrollo ya sea
bajo el esquema de capacitaci6n al cuerpo docente y personal administrativo o la adquisici6n de
textos, materiales y equipos de ensenianza. El estudio de calidad se bas6 en los resultados de los tres
estudios presentados anteriormente y se llevo a cabo en 120 instituciones educativas donde se
36



indag6 por los resultados del PEI y los aspectos operativos para su desarrollo tales como el
componente academico, los procesos administrativos y organizacionales y las relaciones con el
entorno, en especial, su articulaci6n con la planeaci6n educativa municipal.
Los resultados del estudio muestran que tanto los recursos del proyecto como las acciones de
capacitaci6n y acompahamiento del MEN y otras entidades contribuyeron para que en la gran
mayoria de instituciones exista un curriculo y un plan de estudios disefiados e implementados,
pertinentes y acordes a las necesidades y expectativas de la comunidad educativa; en un 78.7%
existe un diagnostico sobre la comunidad educativa. La mayor parte de las instituciones reconocen
que han definido contenidos precisos para las asignaturas y que existen logros definidos para cada
grado, aunque todavia no se percibe la existencia de criterios unicos para la evaluaci6n de dichos
logros. Asi mismo se observa una significativa participacion de los diversos actores del proceso
educativo en la definicion de necesidades, selecci6n y elaboraci6n de recursos y materiales de
apoyo pedag6gico y se percibe la utilizacion de diferentes tipos de recursos pedag6gicos para el
trabajo en el aula.
En lo que concieme al gobiemno escolar, la totalidad de las instituciones lo han constituido de
acuerdo a la norma, en un 97.8% de las instituciones beneficiarias de PACES existe un Consejo
Directivo cuya funci6n principal es la aprobaci6n del presupuesto y en un 92.1% existe el Consejo
Academico encargado principalmente de organizar el plan de estudios y orientar su ejecuci6n. El
87.2% de los actores encuestados consideran que el gobierno escolar atiende sus intereses y por
ende son cuerpos reales y no formales; el 97.8% de las instituciones han experimentado cambios
organizacionales en las areas o departamentos. La mayoria de las instituciones han definido su
Manual de Convivencia y los diferentes estamentos de la comunidad educativa expresan conocer y
haber participado en su construcci6n, raz6n por la cual conocen sus principales aspectos. Los
rectores lo perciben como una herramienta que promueve la convivencia pacifica de los miembros
de la comunidad educativa dentro de la instituci6n.
En lo atinente a la planeaci6n escolar el 87.6% de las instituciones apoyadas por el proyecto cuentan
con mecanismos o instrumentos de planeaci6n anual; para el 42.7% es el Plan Operativo Anual,
para el 33.7% es el presupuesto y el 32.6% utiliza el diagnostico o evaluaci6n de necesidades.
En un 34.8% de los casos, las instituciones consultadas perciben que su PEI se encuentra en proceso
de reestructuraci6n y de reformulaci6n, lo cual indica un proceso de reflexi6n critica encaminado a
la articulaci6n de los diferentes elementos que constituyen la gesti6n escolar. El 51.7% de los
colegios plantean que su misi6n y visi6n se encuentran plasmadas en el PEI; el 35.6% de los PEI
fueron producto de un trabajo participativo mientras que en un 39.1% consideran que no todos los
actores fueron consultados para su construcci6n.
Uno de los elementos claves para el mejoramiento de la calidad educativa es la formaci6n y
desarrollo de los docentes, de los directivos y de toda la comunidad educativa, proceso que
promovi6 el programa PACES; en un 51.7% la capacitaci6n estuvo dirigida a los docentes, 16.6%
de las actividades fueron los alumnos y padres de familia la poblaci6n objetivo, 4.2% el personal
administrativo y los directivos solo en un 2.9%. Gran parte de la capacitaci6n estuvo dirigida al
disefno e implementaci6n del curriculo y del plan de estudios, raz6n por la cual el 37.1% de los
colegios consideran que se ha dado un mejoramiento en el cuerpo docente
El 95.5% de las instituciones observadas tienen un presupuesto uinico, constituido en un 92.9% por
el presupuesto del Fondo de Servicios Docentes; estos ultimos parecen haber causado un impacto
37



positivo en la autonomia de las instituciones. No parece haber problema de cartera en las
instituciones PACES, ya sea porque se recaudan la mayor parte de los ingresos al comienzo del afio
(por matricula y otros cargos educativos) o porque hay una mayor celeridad en su recaudo a lo largo
del afio. En esto puede haber incidido tanto la gesti6n de la instituci6n como una mayor conciencia
de los padres de familia acerca de la prioridad que tienen los gastos educativos de sus hijos.
Resultados de las pruebas SABER
Los resultados de las pruebas SABER es una aproximaci6n al comportamiento de la calidad
educativa. Debido a la naturaleza actual de la muestra, que es representativa solo en el nivel de los
departamentos y grandes ciudades, fue dificil analizar la evoluci6n de los resultados en los
municipios intervenidos por el proyecto PACES. Para el grado 70 se observ6 un mejoramiento de la
calidad, pues aument6 la proporci6n de estudiantes que alcanzaron los niveles B y C, aunque a
expensas de una reducci6n del nivel D. En el grado 90 se evidenci6 un deterioro de la calidad. Al
confrontar dichos resultados con la distribuci6n del logro por regi6n se observ6 un comportamiento
similar en todas las regiones del pais y en la naci6n en general. Las recomendaciones derivadas de
las pruebas SABER es "la implementaci6n de un trabajo serio con los textos verbales y no verbales
que circulen por el aula".
Rendimiento en el ICEES
Otro dimensi6n para analizar la evoluci6n de la calidad de la educaci6n es el rendimiento de los
estudiantes que presentaron los examenes de Estado del ICFES, entre 1996 y 1999. En este periodo
se observ6 un deterioro de la calidad de la educaci6n en los municipios PACES con relaci6n a los
testigos, si bien no es de gran magnitud. En matematicas la diferencia aument6 en 0.5 puntos y en
Lenguaje 0.7 puntos. Los colegios PACES y no PACES muestran un comportamiento bastante
parecido durante todo el periodo. La estimaci6n del efecto de la presencia del Proyecto de
Educaci6n Secundaria sobre la calidad de la educaci6n -medida por el puntaje en las pruebas de
Estado- se dificult6 en la medida en que aun no hay suficientes graduados que hayan gozado del
subsidio y, ademas, esta informaci6n suele estar cobijada por la reserva estadistica. De todas
maneras, la presencia del Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria no tuvo efectos significativos sobre los
promedios municipales del puntaje ICFES.
9.4. Desempeiio del Banco Mundial
El Banco hizo presencia en las diferentes etapas y ejecutorias del prestamo, mediante las misiones
de supervisi6n, asistencia tecnica y evaluaci6n. La percepci6n del Ministerio es que en raz6n a las
dificiles circunstancias de ejecuci6n del proyecto por la presencia de multiples actores involucrados
y las dificultades en su coordinaci6n, las misiones del Banco se tuvieron que centrar principalmente
en aspectos administrativos, financieros, de coordinaci6n y contables. Hubiera sido interesante, que
en estos procesos se hubiera aprovechado mAs la fortaleza del Banco para conocer experiencias de
otros paises en el area de la descentralizaci6n de la educaci6n.
Un apoyo sustantivo que el Banco siempre prest6 al Proyecto fue en el tema de evaluaci6n. Por un
lado el desarrollo de la Evaluaci6n del Programa de Becas que junto con expertos internacionales,
funcionarios del Banco y expertos nacionales se realiz6 con resultados muy positivos. El Banco
siempre estuvo incentivando y apoyando para que a traves del proyecto el Ministerio asumiera su
papel de evaluaci6n frente al sector educativo.
38



Se reconoce el esfuerzo que el Banco siempre tuvo por propiciar la institucionalidad del Proyecto y
como esta reflejado en muchas de las Ayudas Memorias siempre se exigia la participaci6n de las
diferentes direcciones del Ministerio y un mayor liderazgo por parte de las directivas en las
orientaciones tecnicas del Proyecto. Esto signific6 en muchos momentos conflictos que dilataban
los procesos, pero que finalmente fueron solucionados.
Se reconoce el interes y decisi6n del Banco para propiciar la reflexi6n y evaluaci6n en la misi6n de
medio termino, a mediados de 1996, en la que se tom6 la decisi6n de reorientar el proceso y
desarrollo del proyecto, en el sentido de aceptar solamente proyectos articulados PEM-PEI,
viabilizados directamente entre el municipio y el MEN y, el FIS, ademas de apoyar la flexibilidad
de la metodologia para que en forma responsable la instituci6n educativa disefiara su propio
Proyecto de Mejoramiento Educativo y en forma aut6noma lo ejecutara con el apoyo de su
Gobierno Escolar y su comunidad educativa.
Es importante reconocer el proceso puntual de acompaniamiento tecnico por parte del Banco a la luz
nuevo contexto legal del sector educativo combinado con una revisi6n de las exigencias de manejo
del prestamo pactadas y complementadas con las de la LEY 80, lo cual deriv6 en un cambio
positivo en terminos de las ejecutorias tecnicas y fueron garantia de buenos manejos de los recursos,
en los diferentes niveles de su ejecuci6n.
Es importante tener en cuenta como las Ayudas Memoria de las misiones de supervisi6n, se
constituyen en la memoria sistematizada del proyecto, plenamente aceptadas por las partes, siendo
los compromisos y recomendaciones obligaciones para las partes, esto contrarrest6 un poco los
cambios frecuentes del personal, en las entidades del nivel central y las entidades territoriales;
procesos normales dado la organizaci6n politica administrativa del pais.
Se reconoce el valioso apoyo del Banco en el disefio y desarrollo de los cuatro estudios de impacto
del proyecto, los cuales brindaron multiples beneficios al sector educativo tales como: (i) generar
procesos de recolecci6n de informaci6n; (ii) recolectar datos que se encontraban dispersos; (iii)
organizar y sistematizar la informaci6n recolectada; (iv) evaluar los resultados del proyecto; y, (v)
contar con informaci6n objetiva para la toma de decisiones en la etapa de sostenibilidad del mismo
proyecto y en general para futuras actividades del sector en sus diferentes niveles. En este sentido se
puede afirmar que el proyecto PACES defini6 una nueva modalidad para los procesos de cierre de
los proyectos de prestamo, incorporando una estrategia novedosa y de utilidad.
Se debe destacar el hecho de contar con un jefe de proyecto en la misi6n residente del Banco, pues
es reconocido por todos que esto mejora el desarrollo del proyecto, facilitando y logrando el mutuo
acuerdo en la toma de decisiones.
9.5. Desempeno de la Entidad Prestataria
Se llama la atenci6n sobre la debilidad (carencia) de mecanismos de seguimiento y control de la
ejecuci6n del Programa. En este caso estaba previsto la implementaci6n de un sistema de
informaci6n, que apoyara la ejecuci6n, seguimiento y evaluaci6n del Programa en forma global,
ademas del monitoreo del desarrollo y logros de cada proyecto en particular, y esto por diferentes
razones no fue posible lograrlo. Esta situaci6n afect6 la evaluaci6n del Programa, ya que uno de los
objetivos prioritarios de la politica educativa del primer quinquenio de la d6cada del 90 era lograr el
39



maiximo de cobertura de la educaci6n bAsica secundaria y media en los 87 municipios focalizados
del programa PACES.
La metodologia disefnada para el manejo financiero y tecnico del prestamo gener6 distancia entre, el
nivel nacional donde se interrelacionaban en forma horizontal -entidades como MEN, DNP,
MINHACIENDA, BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA, FINDETER-FIS, y los municipios con sus
instituciones educativas. Este hecho gener6 dificultad en las comunicaciones y la tramitaci6n de los
recursos, en este sentido, los municipios y las instituciones educativas manifestaron no sentirse
interpretados en sus expectativas ni apoyados en su compromiso para con la comunidad y sus
problemas del sector educativo. Por tanto, la consolidaci6n del estado actual del proceso de
descentralizaci6n requiere todavia de un mayor acercamiento del gobierno central al territorial y de
fortalecimiento de la autonomia administrativa tanto en los municipios como en las instituciones
educativas.
En futuros prestamos y programas es ineludible fortalecer la presencia de los municipios en la toma
de decisi6n y, no solo, de coordinaci6n y ejecuci6n de proyectos, lo cual significa acercar el Estado
a las comunidades e instrumentar la Ley 134 de 1993de Participaci6n Ciudadana.
Inicialmente el desempenlo de la Unidad Coordinadora del proyecto - MEN-UPCE- fue debil: tuvo
poco liderazgo al interior del MEN y hacia las instituciones extemas. Se debe reconocer como
desde 1995 se registr6 un cambio sustancial en la ejecuci6n del Plan. La Unidad Coordinadora de
Programas de Credito Extemo -UCP- tuvo importantes avances en la gesti6n del credito con efectos
sobre la ejecuci6n de los recursos programados. Tales acciones hubieran sido mAs eficientes si se
hubieran acompaniado con el replanteamiento del actual esquema de planeaci6n del MEN-UCP y la
ejecuci6n por parte del FIS. Adicionalmente, la UPCE no tuvo personal estable y fue sensible a los
cambios de autoridades. Ello afect6 las acciones de coordinaci6n y seguimiento de las operaciones
del proyecto. Se propone, para pr6ximas experiencias, considerar un sistema de planeaci6n integral
al interior del MEN estructurado desde el comienzo y en el marco de una red interinstitucional y
que se soporte con un banco de informaci6n actualizada, funcional y amplia sobre todos los
componentes de la gesti6n. con el prop6sito de hacer mas eficientes las actividades de ejecucion,
seguimiento y alcance de los objetivos de politica sectorial.
9.6. Desempeno de Otras Instituciones Co-Ejecutoras del Proyecto - Fondo de Inversion Social
(FIS), FINDETER y PNUD
El Fondo de Inversi6n Social-FIS, segun el contrato tripartito suscrito con el Ministerio de
Hacienda y MEN en marzo de 1995, en su calidad de coejecutor del Proyecto de Educaci6n
Secundaria, asumi6 ia responsabilidad de efectuar, a traves de contrato fiduciario, los desembolsos
de la cuenta especial a su cargo, destinados a todos los componentes del proyecto hasta por un
monto de US$ 60 millones.
Como entidad coejecutora el FIS tuvo dificultades debido a los siguientes aspectos: (i) Falta de
capacidad administrativa para atender la demanda de los proyectos objeto del Sistema Nacional de
Cofinanciaci6n, entre los cuales el Proyecto de Educaci6n Secundaria representaba un porcentaje
muy pequefno; y, (ii) desorganizaci6n y descoordinaci6n en los procedimientos con las entidades
territoriales y carencia de seguimiento a los proyectos.
Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial - FINDETER se vinculo al proyecto a traves del contrato
de febrero/1995, subsidiario al contrato 3683-CO-BIRF, para ejecutar la linea de credito
40



complementado por subsidios (FIS), a la construcci6n, dentro del componente de ampliaci6n de
cobertura. El subsidio oper6 como co-financiaci6n de proyectos para los cuales se habia obtenido
credito redescontable en FINDETER. El Sistema oper6 bajo una matriz de cofinanciaci6n 50-30-20
(credito FINDETER, Subsidio FIS- Contrapartida Municipio). La linea a cargo de FINDETER tuvo
un monto de US$13 millones para lo cual le fue autorizada una cuenta especial.
La ejecuci6n de FINDETER tuvo muchos problemas, los cuales ocasionaron una ejecucion
demasiado lenta. Entre los factores que afectaron el desempeffo de la Financiera estan:
- Falta de informaci6n en las entidades territoriales sobre los requisitos para acceder a un
credito con FINDETER.
- La focalizaci6n del Programa no coincidi6 con la focalizaci6n de FINDETER.
- Muchos de los municipios focalizados en el Proyecto no cumplian con los criterios de
elegibilidad. para FINDETER la capacidad de endeudamiento era requisito indispensable
para otorgar cr6dito.
- La rigidez en la matriz de cofinanciaci6n para subsidio a la construcci6n se vio afectada por
la crisis fiscal y la recesi6n econ6mica de los ultimos aflos, lo cual redund6 en la baja
capacidad de endeudamiento de los municipios.
- La necesidad de un intermediario financiero par colocar los creditos a los municipios,
despu6s de comenzar a crisis ya ningun banco comercial queria ser garante del municipio.
- La crisis politico-administrativa de varios municipios y las limitaciones de las vigencias
presupuestarias tambien afectaron la ejecuci6n del Proyecto y la participaci6n de
FINDETER.
El PNUD administr6 los fondos para la ejecuci6n del Componente de Fortalecimiento Institucional
para los proyectos de asistencia tecnica y fortalecimiento institucional, mediante dos tipos de
actividades: en primer lugar, la contrataci6n de asesores regionales y consultores y, en segundo
lugar, la ejecuci6n de proyectos de Fortalecimiento Institucional como apoyo a la gesti6n PEM. En
esta ejecuci6n, se dieron demoras en los procesos de contrataci6n, debido a las demasiadas
exigencias, no se definieron con claridad los requisitos, sino que se iban haciendo solicitudes sobre
la marcha, adicionando otros requisitos. Esto ocasion6 dilaciones en los procesos; en los municipios
no se tuvo una idea clara sobre las posibilidades que tenias con el PNUD y el aplicar exigencias de
organismos de mayor capacidad, frente a administraciones locales debiles, interfiri6 en los objetivos
del proyecto. La coordinaci6n de procesos compartidos entre MEN -UCPE y PNUD caus6
tropiezos dilaciones que alargaron demasiado la ejecuci6n de los proyectos locales.
El Nivel Municipal y las Secretarias de Educacion Municipal. Los municipios a traves de las
Secretarias de Educaci6n estuvieron entre los principales beneficiarios y, a la vez, fueron actores
estrategicos para la ejecuci6n del proyecto. Entre los problemas suscitados durante la
implementaci6n del proyecto estuvieron falta de capacidad administrativa y de planeaci6n para la
formulaci6n de los proyectos y del PEM, carencia de informaci6n para soportar la formulaci6n del
Plan y demoras en las transferencias de recursos de contrapartida a las Instituciones Educativas o su
colocaci6n en las cuentas en el caso de proyectos locales.
9.7. Perspectivas de Sostenibilidad
Definici6n de competencias, para el Gobierno Nacional es claro que el rol de la Naci6n ha
cambiado y la responsabilidad se encuentra en el nivel local. El proyecto y en especial los estudios
adelantados durante la fase de evaluaci6n de impacto brindaron importantes elementos de juicio
41



para continuar desarrollando en forma operativa los roles y competencias de los diferentes niveles.
Especialmente importante es definir el rol estrategico y competitivo del departamento privilegiando
sus capacidades para la capacitaci6n municipal y replanteando muchas de las funciones de
intermediaci6n que se le han otorgado.
Desarrollo operativo de la Ley General de Educaci6n, los logros observados en la ejecuci6n del
proyecto PACES indican la necesidad de mantener el interes en la ampliaci6n de la cobertura de la
educaci6n, pero especialmente centrar el enfasis en el mejoramiento de la calidad. El desarrollo de
la Ley se constituye en un reto a continuar, en especial afianzando los procesos de autonomia,
pertinencia y participaci6n en las instituciones escolares; fortaleciendo el binomio PEM-PEI como
elemento clave para conectar la acci6n territorial con los objetivos nacionales y propiciando
mecanismos para el diseffo y desarrollo de proyectos pertinentes e integrales especialmente en el
nivel municipal e institucional.
Fortalecer el compromiso y capacidad local observados, continuar con los objetivos de
mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n son viables en la medida que se aproveche la capacidad
de financiacion demostrada tanto en el nivel local como institucional. El reto a seguir es estudiar la
posibilidad de realizar programas de cofinanciaci6n directos entre municipio- instituci6n o naci6n -
instituci6n, de amplio espectro, mediante los cuales se oriente la inversi6n jalonando los recursos de
la instituci6n y evaluando los aspectos en que es necesario focalizar o reforzar a traves de politicas
de subsidio. Asi mismo el continuar fortaleciendo las administraciones educativas municipales y
departamentales en la interpretaci6n y asunci6n apropiadas de sus responsabilidades y competencias
enfatizando en el dialogo permanente con las instituciones escolares. El esquema de cofinanciaci6n
no debe entenderse como una transferencia de recursos sino como un instrumento para inducir la
movilizaci6n de recursos locales y departamentales hacia sectores y objetivos que el nivel nacional
considera prioritarios y estrategicos.
Decisiones en torno al programa de becas, aunque la investigaci6n adelantada demostr6 las
dificultades de mantener su financiaci6n, es importante analizar su pertinencia como un instrumento
de equidad y de calidad, para lo cual se hace necesario repensar el esquema de gesti6n a seguir
donde haya una menor injerencia de problemas politicos y tecnico-adminstrativos.
9.8. Lecciones Aprendidas
Los futuros proyectos deben tener disefios simples, orientados al cliente, no a los
intermediarios. Para pr6ximas operaciones se recomienda disenar proyectos donde el principio sea
llegar directamente al protagonista que esta mas cercano a la soluci6n de los problemas del
ciudadano, en lo local, sin intermediarios. La cascada territorial o intergubernamental debe en lo
posible eliminarse, a no ser que haya exigencias de ley. Asi mismo se deben privilegiar procesos
elementales y agiles, exigiendo menos actividades de preparaci6n y capacitaci6n para su puesta en
marcha. Los complejos procedimientos del programa PACES determinaron en gran parte la baja
ejecuci6n durante los dos primeros afnos.
Establecimiento del subsidio a la demanda, el proyecto fue un insumo importante en el marco de
la politica educativa nacional para establecer el concepto y mecanica operativa del subsidio a la
demanda; el programa de becas en el marco del programa PACES permiti6 que por primera vez se
incorporara este concepto en el sector educativo y ademas se promovi6 una amplia investigaci6n en
torno a su funcionamiento permitiendo analizar en forma exhaustiva los pormenores de sus
caracteristicas e incidencia en terminos de cobertura v calidad de la educaci6n. El pais cuenta en
42



este momento con suficiente informaci6n para determinar si se puede revivir el programa de becas
como un esquema redistributivo el cual es necesario ajustar en su eficiencia y focalizaci6n.
Proyectos locales sencillos y con mayor contenido pedag6gico, se reconoci6 que es en el nivel
local donde se encuentra toda la potencialidad para la generaci6n de proyectos de impacto, raz6n
por la cual se debe buscar priorizar aquellos encaminados al mejoramiento de las dotaciones e
instalaciones escolares, a la capacitaci6n y formaci6n del recurso humano y al intercambio amplio
sobre enfoques y metodos pedag6gicos.
Carencia de informaci6n, a pesar de los importantes esfuerzos que se vienen haciendo en el pais
en los iiltimos afios se continua observando dificultades en el sistema estadistico del sector; se
requieren acciones encaminadas a la coordinaci6n de las diferentes entidades encargadas del manejo
de los datos (DANE, MEN, ICFES, Secretarias Departamentales, Secretarias Municipales e
instituciones) asi como romper el esquema y concepto de manejo centralizado que auin persiste. El
proyecto en su fase de evaluaci6n e impacto evidenci6 esta debilidad, los talleres y acuerdos
logrados para la recuperaci6n y recolecci6n de la informaci6n deberan revisarse en forma detenida
para retroalimentar las futuras proyecciones y ajustes del sistema de informaci6n.
43



Annex 1: Key Indicators for the execution of the Project
Outcome/impact Indicators
Indicator                      Projected in SAR                    Actual
Enrollment in the Secondary Level  (Estimated target not available)  1998: 1,946,291 (including
Baseline*: 1,809,024              public & private enrollment)
Gross Enrollment                   83.1%                             87.7%
Public Enrollment Participation    39.8%                             46.9%
(865,480)                         (1,040,354)
Net Enrollment                     (Estimated target not available)  67.9%
Baseline 1994: 56.9%
Overage Students                  (Estimated target not available)   22.6%
Baselinel994: 23.5%
Promotion                         (Estimated target not available)   1998: 88.3%
Baseline 1994: 81.0%
Dropout                            (Estimated target not available)  1998: 4.4%
Baseline 1994: 6.4%
Repetition                         (Estimated target not available)  1998: 7.3%
Baselinel994: 12.6%
Additional Enrollment / Additional                                   64 places per class room
Classrooms
Additional Enrollment / $1 million                                   Over 4 places per $1 million
invested in coverage                                                invested
Quality Productive Efficiency      1.33 textbooks per student        0.82 textbooks per student
*Baseline means the information available in the country at the moment of the beginning of the project.
Output Indicators
Indicator                    Projected in SAR                     Actual
Municipal Education Plans prepared                40                            87
(PEls)
Number of New Schools                             60                             55
Number of rehabilitated Schools                   150                           131
Number of Remodeled Schools                       120                          469
Additional o rehabilitated classrooms           1,677                         2,720
Number of Vouchers distributed                 22,000             170,815 (total vouchers distributed)
110,426 (with loan resources)
Number of improvement plans of the               600                            784
prepared schools
Number of schools helped with the                600                          1,664
component of improving the quality
Number of textbooks                 4,200,000 /1,207,380 (revised)          780,587
Number of Schools helped by CREM-               1,250                         1,244
CREP
Number of evaluation tests                         2                              2
administered
Government officials trained                      60                            186
Departments supported by                          11                            11
strengthening activities
Municipalities supported by                       40                            87
strengthening activities
44



Annex 2: Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a: Project Costs by Components ( in U.S.$ million equivalent)
Project Component            Appraisal Estimate   Actual/latest   %O of Appraisal
Estimate
Increasing coverage                            53.8              33.8            62.82%
Expanding access                                7.5              24.4           325.33%
Educational quality enhancement                60.3              27.2            45.10%
Management and institutional strengthening     12.1               5.6            46.28%
Unallocated                                    16.7                 -                  -
TOTAL                                         150.4              91.0           60.50%
Annex 2b: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Categories   Procurement method Appraisal estimate         Procurement Method Actual
ICB    NCB   OTHER   NBF   TOTAL    ICB    NCB   OTHER  NBF  TOTAL
WORKS          -    43.80    13.60     -      57.40                              -    33.50
-    (26.30)  (8.10)    -    (33.40)           (12.7)   (1.7)    -    (14.40)
GOODS        30.80   9.90    14.40      -     55.10      -              27.20    -    27.20
(18.50)  (5.90)   (8.70)    -    (33.10)           (0.4)   (19.30)    -    (19.70)
SERVICES       -       -     37.50     -      37.50      -              30.00    -    30.00
-      -    (22.50)    -    (22.50)             (0.2)   (5.70)    -    (5.90)
MISC           -       -       -       -        -                -               -       -
TOTAL        30.80   53.70   65.50      -     150.00     -              57.20    -    91.00
(18.50) (32.20)  (39.30)  -    (90.00)            (13.3)  (26.70)    -    (40.00)
Annex 2c: Project Financing by Component ( in US$ million equivalent)
Secondary Education Project
PARI-PASSU                        Execution
Total    BIRF        Local      BIRF   Counterpart, Additional, Total
SAR                                     local        local       Local
(US$)  (US$) %   (US$)  %  ($US) %    (US$)   %          (US$)    US$)
Extension of the coverage   53.8    37.0 69   16.8  31   14.7 69    6.7   31       12.4     19.1
Extended access           7.5      4.0 53    3.5  47    1.8 53    1.6   47    21.0          22.6
Improvement of the       60.3    33.0 55   27.3  45   19.7 72    7.5    28          -        7.5
quality of education
Institutional             12.1     6.0 50    6.1  50   4.1  73    1.5   27          -        1.5
Strengthening
Not distributed           16.7    10.0 60    6.7  40
90.0 60   60.4  40   40.3  70    17.3   30    33.4        50.7
TOT A L                 150.4            150.4                            91.0
45



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
Annex 4: Bank Inputs
(a) Missions
Stage of      Month /   Number           Specialty         Implementation  Development
project cycle  year      people                                status        objectives
Identification  12/09/91   2     Human Resources
/Preparation                      Specialist, Education
Consultant
03/07/92      1    Education Consultant
03/29/92     4     Human Resources
Specialist, Human
Development Specialist,
Infrastructure Consultants
06/15/92     4     Human Resources
Specialist, Human
Development Specialist,
Education Specialist,
Textbooks Specialist
10/05/92     4     Human Resources
Specialist, Education
Consultant, Civil Works
Consultants
Appraisal/    02/24/93     4     Human Resources
Negotiations                     Specialist, Infrastructure
Consultants, Civil Works
Specialist, Procurement
Consultant
10/04/93     5     Human Development
Specialist, Education
Specialist, Lawyer,
Operations Officer,
Disbursement Officer
Supervision
#1            02/28/94     4     Education Specialists, Inst.     S             S
Strengthening. Specialist
#2            11/28/94      8    Education Specialists,           S              S
Economist, Social Dev.
Specialist
#3            11/08/95      5    Education Spec.,                 S              S
Economist, Communication
Spec., Social Sector Spec.
#4            11/17/95     4     Education Spec.,                 S              S
Economist, Communication
Spec., Social Sector Spec.
#5            06/06/96     4     Education Spec.,                U              U
Economist, Social Sector
Spec., Management Special
46



#6            12/13/96     7    Financial Analyst, NGO          U              U
Spec., Education Spec.,
Country Officer, Economist,
Social Sector Spec.,
Infrastructure Sp.
#7            10/20/97     5    Education Spec.,                U              S
Economist, Consultants
#8           06/16/98      6    Education Spec.,                 S             S
Economist, Consultants
#9           04/24/99      3    Inst. Dev. Spec., Education      S             S
Specialist, Sector Leader
#10           12/20/99     1    Education Specialist             S             S
ICR
#11          05/17/00      3    Education Specialists,           S             S
Consultant
#12           12/01/00     0    Update                           S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of the cycle of the project         Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff Weeks          US$ (,000)
Identification/Preparation           138.5                   342,293
Appraisal/Negotiations                21.7                    51,307
Supervision                           98.9                360,136.09
ICR                                     2                  11,276.73
Total                                261.1                 765,01282
47



Annex 5: Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs by Components
Objectives/                 High      Substantial    Modest   Negligible  Not Applicable
Outputs                     (H)          (SU)         (M)         (N)          (NA)
Macro policies                            0
Sector Policies                           0
Physical                                  a
Financial                                             a
Institutional Development                             0
Environmental                                                                   a
Social:                                   a
Poverty Reduction
Gender
Other(specify)
Private sector development                            a
Public sector management
Other (Please specify)
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly    Moderated                                  Highly
Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
(HS)        (MS)         (S)           (U)           (HU)
6.1 Bank performance
Lending
Supervision
Overall
6.2 Borrower performance
Preparation                             a
Government
implementation
performance
Implementation agency
performance
Overall                                  a
48



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Study                         Objective                  Date        status
Evaluation of the Voucher   Effectiveness of the voucher program in  1997     Finished
Program                  increasing quality education and secondary
school enrollments of students from low-
income strata, in Colombia.
Municipal participation in   To identify the benefits and difficulties  1997  Finished
the Voucher Program      from the municipalities in the execution of
the voucher program and comparison with
other modalities existing at the local level.
School Participation in the   To analyze the impact of the voucher  1997      Finished
Voucher Program          program from the point of increasing
coverage, quality education, costs and
administrative procedures at schools in the
municipalities supported by the project.
Coverage Study           Evolution of enrollment and improvement   2000       Finished
of coverage in the municipalities supported
by the project comparing the results with
municipalities control, during 1994 -1998
Quality Study            Evaluation of results regarding the       2000       Finished
improvement of the quality of the education
Management Study         Evaluation of the achievements in         2000       Finished
institutional, municipal and educational
institutional strengthening, regarding the
frame work of the project, his management,
the procedures and relations between the
different executors.
Cost effectiveness Study  Comparison of the physically programmed  2000       Finished
goals versus the actual ones achieved,
analyzing the effectiveness of the project in
meeting the needs and expectations of the
educational community.
49



