L ~~~~~~-                    Sv*j- G-Rv
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAI. USE ONLY
Report No. 11834-CO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COLOMB IA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 19, 1993
M 1(-,NICKGRAPHI(
Pe E,,:rt NC,n      llbU4
Type: SAP
Country Department III
Human REsources Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Reg'on
This document has a restricted distribution snd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Currency Unit = Colombian Peso (Col $)
Col$1.00 = US $0.001233 (September 1993)
US$1.00 = Col$ 810.8 (September 1993)
Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Academic Year
Calendar A Febniary I - November 30
Calendar B Septeinbcr I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCH            Banco Central Hipotecario
(Central Mortgage Bank)
CEP            Centros Experimentales Piloto
(Pilot Experimental Centers)
DANE           Direcci6n Nacional de Estadisticas
(National Statistics Department)
DNP            Departamento Nacional de Planeaci6n
(National Planning Department)
FER            Fondos Educativos Regionales
(Regional Education Fund)
FECODE         Federaci6n Colombiana de Educadores
(Colombian Teackers Union)
FINDETER       Financiera del Desarrollo Territorial S.A.
(Financial Development Corporation)
FIS            Fondo de Inversi6n Social
(Social Investment Fund)
ICETEX         Instituto Colombiano de Credito Educativo y Estudios
Tlcnicos en el Exterior (Colombian Institute of
Educational Credit and Training Abroad)
ICFES          Instituto Colombiano para el Fomento de la Educaci6n
Superior (Colombian Institute for the Development of
Higher Education)
ICONTEC        Instituto Nacional de Normas Tecnicas
(National Institute of Technical Norms)
INEM           Instituto Nacional de Ensefianza Diversificada
(Diversified Secondary School)
ITA            Institutos Tecnicos Agricolas
(Agriculture Technical Schools)
IVA            Impuesto al Valor Agregado
(National Value-added Tax)
MEN            Ministerio de Educacion Nacional
(National Ministry of Education)
MEP            Municipal Education Plan
MHCP           Ministerio de Hacienda y Credito Publico
(Ministry of Finance)
PCU            Unidad Coordinadora de Proyecto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
SENA           Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje
(National Vocational Training Service)
SNP            Servicio Nacional de Pruebas
(National Examination Service)
TVET           Technical Vocational Education Training
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- I
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
BASIC DATA SHEEW                 ................................ v
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY  ...............................   vi
I. INTRODUCION .................................                                                 1
A. The Economic and Social Setting . ...........................  1
B. The Education Sector ................................    2
C. Main Issues in Secondary Education .......................... 6
D. Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy  ...................                     12
E. Bank Role and Strategy .................................   13
HI. THE PROJECT  .......................................                                        14
A. Project Objectives ..................................... 14
B. Project Description   . ..................................  14
III. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN   ..........                           .............  23
A. Project Cost .......................................   23
B. Financing Plan  ......................................   24
This report is based on the fiadings of preparation and pre-appraisal missions which visited Colombia during June
and October 1992, comprisin5 Mmes./Messrs. Michael Potashnik (Mission Leader, LA3HR), Himelda Martinez
(EAPH), Maria Helera Maldonadi-Villar (Consultant, LA3HR), Luis Lmas, Luis Secco, Emesto Schiefelbein,
Steven Hoenack (Consultants). An Eppraisal mission visited Colombia in March 1993, consisting of Mmes./Messrs.
Michael Potashn i (Mission Leader LA3HR), Himelda Martinez (EA3PH), Eduardo Velez (LA2HR), Maria Helena
Maldonado-VIllar (Consultant, LA3HR), Luis Secco, Clemencia Chiappe, Oscar Alvarado, Colin Seelig
(Consultants). Maria Victoria Lister (LA3HR) prepared the cost tables. Emmanuel Jimenez (PRDPH) advised on
the ovaluation sub-component. William Mayville (LA4DR) helped edit the report. Rafael Orduz (Vice Minister
of Education of Colombia), Javier Serrano (MEN), Carmen Helena Vergara (DNP) and an inter-ministerial team
of officials from MEN and DNP contributed greatly in the preparation of this report. The peer reviewers of this
report were Mmes. Himelda Martinez (EA3HR) and Estelle James (CECPS). Messrs. Jacques van der Gaag and
Yoshiali Abe were, respectively, the managing Division Chief and Department Director.



Iv.  IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,   AUDITING,
MON1rORING ANDSUPERVISION  .......................... 25
A. P'oject  a1a       t .      ................................ 25
B. ImplementationSchedule ............................... 28
C. Procutsanent            ....................................... 29
D. Acoonts  dDb z              .............................. 32
E. Audts  ...........................................  32
F. ProeMo it g,EvaluationandSSuprsion  .................. 33
V.  EXPECTED BENuEFS AND RISKS  ........................... 34
A. Benefits .......................................... 34
B.   isks    ..................................    .....   34
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ............... 34
ANNEXES AND CHARTS
Annex 1:   The Education System, Structure and Curriculum
Annex 2:   Education Administration
Annex 3:   Education Statistics
Table 1:     National Enrollment Projections by Grade for 1991-1997
Table 2:     Estimated Actual and Projected Progressions of Efficiency Rates
for Secondary Education (Grades 6 to 11)
Table 3:     Total Enrollment in the Colombian Education System ('000) and
Annual Grcwth Rates (in percent)
Table 4:     Cohort of Projected Progression and Efficiency
Table 5:     Adult IllitWcy Rate
Table 6:      Years of Schooling of the Labor Force
Annex 4:   School Renovation and Construction: Role of FINDETER
Annex 5:   Vouchers for Private Secondary Schools
Annex 6:   Educational Quality Enhancenment
Annex 7:   Management and Institutional Strengthening



-iv -
Aam  5:  Sttcs for Da              ad Municipalit PaJicipag in the Poject
Table 1:    Papultion of the 87 Prticipating Pilct Municipalities
Mg* 2:      Pqulaton by Department of the 87 Pa    Mipaig Pilot
Municipalides
Table 3:    Basc  Education Data for 87 Pcipating Pilot Mu lies
Table 4:    Not Pdmary Educa    Enromt Ratio 1990
bble 5:    Not Seconday Education Elrolmnt Ratio 1990
ble 6:      Primazy Pupil Teacher Rat  1990
able 7:     Snday  Pupil Teacher Ratio 1990
Ane  9:  Prct CooMditon Unit Stnicturo and uincdons
Ann  10:  Poec Costs
Table 1:    Costs by Categories of Expenditures
Table 2:    Project Components by Year
Table 3:    Summary Accounts by Year
Table 4:    Summary Accounts by Project Component
Table 5:    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 6:    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Anna 11:  Project Flow of Funds
Ann  12:  Monitoring Indicators, Supervision Plan and Evaluation Studies
Ann  13:  Seected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP:       IRD No. 24591



v 
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
A.   General Country Data:                         Data          Year
1.    Population Estimate (million)          32.3          1990
2.    Population Growth Rate 1989-2000 (%)     1.5         1990
3.    GDP Per Capita (US$)                   1,260         1990
4.    GDP Growth Rate (%)                      4.1         1990
5.    Area ('000 Sq. Km.)                    1,139         1990
B.    Education Data:
1.    Enrollment Rate (%):
Net Primary Education                    84          1990
Net Secondary Education                  46          1990
2.    Public Education Expenditures:
As % of GDP                           2.4         1992
As % of Govemment Spending            29          1989
In per Capita US$:
Primary Education                   62          1990
Secondary Education                125          1990
Tertiary Education                 666          1990
3.    Estimated Average Student/Teacher Ratio:
Primary                               30          1990
Secondary                             19          1990
4.    Year of Schooling of the Labor Force     6.1         1990
5.   Illiteracy Rate                          12.2         1985
Sources:    Human Development Report, UNDP, 1992
Social Indicators of Development, World Bank, 1991-92
Plan de Apertura Educativa Statistical Annex, DNP-UDS-DEC-2518, 1991



- vi -
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Colombia
ef-ards :           Ministry of Education (MEN), Local Governments, and Private Schools
Loan Amount:        US$90.0 million equivalent
Tems:               Repayment in 20 years including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Project Objectives:   The project would support education initiatives designed to: (a) implement a new
national government strategy of cofinancing investments in education with the
departments and municipalities; (b) provide incentives to regional and local
governments to support national educational development targets; and (c) support
the "municipalization" of educition by building local capacity for the planning,
co-financing, and execution of investments by municipalities.
Project Description:  The project comprises four main components designed to provide participating
municipalities with the assistance needed to implement their education plans and
investment programs for secondary education development. In order to receive
project support, each municipality would be required to prepara a Municipal
Education Plan (MEP) with sub-projects. Funding for sub-projects would be
provided in the following areas:
(1) Increasing Coverage (US$62.9 million).  The project would provide
funding--within the framework of municipal plans and investment programs for
secondary education---for grants and loans for the rehabilitation of an estimated
50 percent of some 1,250 public secondary school facilities in the 87 pilot
municipalities and for new construction of public secondary school facilities to
meet projected increases in enrollment; (a) US$5.5 million for furniture; and
(b) US$2.8 million for architectural fees.
(2) Expanding Access (US$8.3 million). In municipalities where low-income
students do not have access to public secondary schools, and are at high risk to
dropout of the education system, the projcct would fund vouchers to enable these
students to gain access to selected private schools that have excess capacity. The
project would fund some 55,000 voucher years through 1997 at an average
annual cost of 100,000 pesos (US$143) per voucher year at 1991 prices.
(3) Educational Quality Enhancement (US$65.7 million). The project would
provide the following inputs to improve instruction and enhance student
achievernent in municipal public schools: (a) funding fo. School Improvement



- vii -
Plans (SIP) to encourage principals and teachers to diagnose their school aaid
formulate programs to improve school quality and efficiency; (b) in-service
training for secondary school teachers and principals; (c) funding for the
purchase up to 4.2 million textbooks; and (d) resources to purchase other
instructional material and equipment to cover a wide range of curriculum
requirements.
(4) Managenent and Jmtitutional Atrengthening (US$13.1 million). The
project would provide for: (a) management and institutional strengthening in the
departments and municipalities and in MEN, based on the adoption of a plan
prepared by MEN for implementing the decentralization of education; (b)
improve quality and reliability of educational statistics; (c) assist MEN in
conducting national assessments of student achievement in math and reading at
the secondary school level; and (d) conduct policy and evaluation research.
Project Benefits:    The project will support on average 60 percent of the total investment
requirements for the 87 municipalities with the potential benefits as follovs: (a)
increasing access to secondary education for an estimated 90,000 primary school
graduates in 87 municipalities; (b) providing opportunities for secondary
education for up to 22,000 students of low-income families; (c) enhancing the
quality and efficiency of education in the 1,250 public secondary schools in the
87 municipalities through the provision of up 4.2 million textbooks, teacher and
principal training and instructional materials and equipment; (d) strengthening the
administrative and managerial capacity of 11 departments, 87 municipalities, and
up to 1250 public school administrations to plan and implement education
improvement programs; and (e) increasing the overall level of investments in
education, and secondary education in particular, made by regional and local
governments.
Project Risks:       The major risks to project implementation are: 'a) insufficient impiementation
capacities in the MEN, FIS and other government agencies could result in slow
project execution; (b) the institutional weakness of local government and the high
turnover of key municipal personnel could jeopardize the pursuit of coherent
education programs at the local level; (c) local governments may not bp willing
to participate in the project, because they lack confidence in the central
government's commitment and ability to deliver on its promises; (d) local
governments may not be able to invest in secondary educational facilities to the
extent needed to reach the enrollment targets; and (e) the voucher program will
not gain the requisite political acceptance, although the first year of the programn
has been generally successful. The project design, including the sequencing of
Bank assistance, implementation arrangements, a flexible manage,ment approach,
and the use of technical assistance would help diminish these risks,



-vi
h~~~~~~~~~~~~H -  c
-     US$ million-
Local  Foeign   ToWl
Incaing Coverae                    37.5     15.7      53.2
Expanding Acsu                      7.5      0.0       7.5
Quality F _ancemst                42.8    16.7       59.5
Maagment Strengthening              9.4      2.5      11.9
BEl  Colo                          97.2    34.8      132.0
Physical Contingencies             1.9     0.8       2.7
Prie Contnecies                  ILl                1
Toal Project Costsa V'            uQ                 1A
' Totals may not add exactly due to rounding.
Note: Estimates exclude taxes and dutes.
Fhmnding Plan:
- S$millioll
Local   Foreign   Total
Loa Govenments                 30.0       -       30.0
Financial Intermodiary/ia      30.0       -       30.0
National Government
IBRD                           -          °       9
Total Costs                    §U       2Q
EslbatEd IBRI Dhbmieasg:
MDX             D F Y     m    mim                         199  '9 2Qw  2MQ
Annual                     1.8   9.0   13.5  18.0  18.0  18.0  9.0    2.7
Cumulative                 1.8  10.8  24.3  42.3  60.3  78.3  87.3  90.0
Rate of Retn:      Not applicable.



I. INTRODUCTION
A. The Economk and Social Setting
1.1   High rates of economic growth averaging 4.5 percent per year and a reduction in the
population growth rate--from a peak of 3.7 percent between 1964-78 to less than 1.8 percent
between 1978-88, have enabled Colombia to make impressive social progress in recent
decades. Water supply, health care and educational services have all grown rapidly and have
produced substantial improvements in social conditions. Infant and maternal motality
declined from 80 to 40, and from 2.5 to I per 1,000 births, rwpectively, between 1965 and
1990; life expectancy at birth now stands at 69 years, compared with 59 years in 1965.
Over 80 percent of the relevant age group now attends primary school, 46 percent of the age
group attends secondary school and the average schooling of the labor force is approximately
6 years.
1.2   Despite economic growth and social progress, the distribution of social benefits
remains highly skewed. Marked disparities persist in key social indicators and across regions
and among rural, peri-urban and urban aeas. Poverty also remains a critical problem; an
estimated 25 percent of the population is living below the poverty line and rural poverty is
more than 50 percent higher than in urban areas. Where there is high social service
coverage, the indicators often mask serious shortfalls in quality and efficiency. There are
also large service deficits in health and education resulting from insufficient social sector
expenditures. In the 1970s, overall per capita public expenditure for education was among
the lowest in Latin America. During the 1980s, social sector expenditures stagnated at
around 7.5 percent of GDP, and have declined as a proportion of public expenditures from as
tigh as 43 percent in 1984 to a low of 33 percent in 1989.
1.3   Education and other social services are primarily financed by the natic-al
government. However, the administration of social services has been a joint rftponsibility of
the national govermnent and regional authorities. In the years prior to the mid-1970s,
education was centrally financed but administered regionally, and after the mid-1970s until
recently, education became a national government service. The decentralization process has
accelerated during the last decade and is now an integral part of Colombia's new
Constitution, which was promulgated in 1991. The new Constitution provides for the direct
election of regional and local officials and greater responsibility for the management of local
affairs by the 33 departments and territories and over 1,000 municipalities. It also requires
the national government to transfer an increasing share of budgetary resources to regional
and local governments to help defray investments and operating expenditures of social
services. At the same time, the national government has adopted a strategy offering
cofinancing to local authorities to stimulate local investments in social services of national
importance. The expansion of secondary education and the improvement in its quality at the
municipal level figures prominently in this strategy.
1.4 The Colombian Government's economic and social development plan for 1990-94
known as La Revoluci6n Pacifca makes education the centerpiece of its social development
strategy. Under the program known as the apertura educativa Government has declared its
higbest sector priority to be the expansion and inprovement in the quality of secondary
education. While giving priority to secondary education, Government has not lost sight of the



-2-
imporSance of early childhood or primary education. However, the expansion of secondary
education and improving its quality is an appropriate goal at this time, given the fact that
during the past 20 years the Colombian urban labor force has nearly attained universal
primary education and that the social retums to investments in secondary education,
conservatively estimated at about 11 perceni, remain relatively high compared to other
investments in Colombia and to secontary education investments in most other Latin
American countries '.
B. The Educat. n Sector
Orpnization of the Education System (Ann 1)
1.5   The Colombian education system begins with 1 year of obligatory preschool for
children under 6 years, followed by five years of primary schooang for children 7 to 1 1
years, and six years of secondary education for children from 12 to 17 years. The five years
of primary and the first four years of secondary comprise the basic education cycle (ciclo
bdsico). The last two years of secondary school are referred to as middle education
(educaci6n media). It provides further general education or diversified technical-vocational
education culminating in general or vocational bachiller degrees. Post-secondary technical
education and vocational training are widely available through the National Apprenticeship
Service (SENA) and private schools. Higher education is provided in numerous public and
private universities offering undergraduate and graduate degrees.
Administrative Structure and Functions (Annex 2)
1.6   Up until the late 1960s, Colombia's departments and municipalities wpere responsible
for the administration and financing of primary and secondary education. However, the
national government began to exert increasing control over education in order to address
growing concerns about low standards, inadequate financing and poor administration of
educational services. After having increased its responsibilities for the financing and
administration of education, in the late 1980's the national government began once again to
return the responsibility for education to the departments and municipalities as part of a trend
toward political, administrative, and fiscal decentralization. As a result of the many shifts in
responsibility for education over the years, a myriad of laws, decrees, and statutes have
defined the roles and responsibilities of each level of government, some of which, lacking
regulations, have never been implemented. Thus, in order to implement provisions of the
new Constitution concerning inter-governmental transfers of social expenditures and to clarify
the roles and responsibilities of regional and local governments in managing the social sector,
the national Government adopted Law 60 (1993). It is also has a new law under
consideration in the Congress which defines other political and administrative 'oles and
responsibilities of each level of Government for education. Law 60 delineates each level of
govemment's roles and responsibilities as follows:
(a) At the local level some 1,000 municipalities are charged with administering public
education from preschool through middle secondary; making the necessavy
1. George Psacharopoulos and Ying Chu Ng, Earnings and Education in Latin America. World Bank,
December, 1992.



-3-
investments in infrastructure and equipment and providing for their maintenance; and
inspecting and evaluating educational services.
(b) At the regional level, 33 departments are charged with administering national
government budget transfers to the local level (situadofiscaO; coordinating and
harmonizing sector planning; financing educational services at the local level and
regulating public service delivery; and regulating curricula and use of educational
materials in line with national norms.
(c) At the national level, MEN retains the tasks of formulating national educational plans
and policies, establishing curricular and other educational norms to guide regional
authorities, administering co-financing funds for sectoral development, and
determining the overall guidelines, rules and regulations of service for teachers and
administrators.
1.7   The thrust of the new legislation is clearly to transfer responsibilities for the
management of education from the national level to regional and local governments. While
this process was initiated several decades ago, its outcome has varied, since in practice
neither the departments nor the municipalities have always assumed new roles and
responsibilities transferred by the national government. However, departments are now
taking charge of what were previously national govemment educational administrative entities
such as the Regional Education Funds (FER) v.'hich administer teachers' salaries, and the
Centers for Pilot Experiments (CEP) which provide teacher training and technical assistance;
The larger cities have their own municipal secretaries of education, which hire teachers,
administer salaries, and manage schools. Other municipalities have also assumed these
responsibilities--which were transferred to them by the national government under laws
passed in 1988. However, for the majority (77 percent) education remains a national or
departmental responsibility that is administered by Educational Development Units (Nicleos
de Desarrollk Educativo), paid for by the national government and headed by a mayoral
appointee. These units are currently responsible for executing national and departmental
policy, preparing educational development plans and assessing and overseeing the operation
of schools.
Enrollment (Annex 3)
1.8   Over the past four decades, Colombia's tducation system expanded dramatically at all
levels. Whereas in the early 1950s less than 50 percent of children between 7 and 11 years
of age attended school, the number with access increased to approximately 80 percent by
1990. During the same period, net secondary education enrollments also grew rapidly,
doubling during the decades of the 1970s and 1980s to reach the current net enrollment level
of 46 percent. Higher education enrollments have also increased dramatically over the
period. Enrollments in the education system are currently as follows.
1.9   As pre-school education was only made obligatory under Colombia's 1991
Constitution, enrollments remain low and are mainly in private schools in urban areas.
However, the current Government has an ambitious program called APso 0 to expand access
rapidly to public preschool education as a complement to other pre-school, integrated-service



programs. The intent is to reduce first-year repetitions and subsequent dropouts in primary
school and to improve student achievement at the primary level.
1.10 Primary education enrollment in public and private schools has grown rapidly during
the past three decades and reached an estimated total of 4.1 million students in 1990. An
estimated 16 percent of primary enrollments are in private schools. Students are almost
equally divided between males and females. Access to primary education has increased
dramatically in rural areas as a result of the Government's campaign for universal primary
education and its innovative multigrade teaching system, Esruela Nueva. However, some 20
percent of children in rural areas still do not attend school beginning at age 7. Enrollment
ratios and access also vary according to the level of development in the departments and
income distribution.
1.11  Secondary education enrollment has also grown rapidly. In 1991 there was an
estimated enrollment of 2.4 million students. Although Colombia has a diversified secondary
education system, the general education track remains the predominant mode, enrolling some
78 percent of students; the balance is distributed among five vocational tracks offered in two
different types of schools: (a) basic secondary vocational schools (including agricultural,
commercial, industrial, pedagogical and social services schools) that account for 95 percent
of vocational enrollments, and (b) the comprehensive secondary schools (INEMs) of which
there are 21, and agricultural technical schools (ITAs) with 5 percent of vocational
enrollments.
1.12   Some 84 percent of enrollments are in urban areas, making secondary education an
essentially urban service. The net enrollment ratio for secondary schooling was only some
46 percent of children between 12 and 17 years of age. Enrollment ratios in the large
municipalities average 58 percent but are only 36 percent in the smaller municipalities. An
estimated 60 percent of enrollments were in public schools and 40 percent in private
institutions. Students from upper-income families all attend private schools; however, private
schools serve students from all income groups.
1.13 Over half of the students graduating from secondary schools continue to full-time
further education. Some 90 percent of secondary graduates take the higher education
entrance examination (ICFES); of these an estimated three out of four gain admission to
some type of post-secondary institution, university or other tertiary institution 2. There were
an estimated 500,000 students enrolled in 236 higher education institutions during 1989.
Some 70 percent are private. Until quite recently, higher education only served a small,
select group of the population.
2. Post-secondary technical education has grown rapidly over the last decade as part of a drive to opcn up a
non-university altemative for secondary school graduates. Follow-up studies indicate that only some 50 to 60
percent are still studying in higher education three years after graduation. Opinions vary as to how well
qualified are secondary graduates who enter the labor market. Rates of return of secondary graduates are close
to 10 percent for those from vocational tracks.



Adult Literacy and Years of Schooling
1.14 Colombia reduced the illiteracy rate of its adult population from 37.7 in 1951 to 12.2
in 1985. While in 1951 more than 40 percent of the labor force had no formal education and
only 8 percent had gone beyond primary school, by 1985 less than 10 percent had no
education at all and more than 30 percent had finished primary school. As of 1990, the
average years of schooling among the labor force was 6.1 years. These figures place
Colombia among the countries in the region with the highest illiteracy rate and one of the
lowest-years-of-schooling rate. However, considerable variations exist in average level of
educational attainment by urban and rural areas, with the lowest rates not surprisingly in the
poorest areas of the country.
Educational Flnancing and Expenditures
1.15   Public spending on education has either stagnated or declined in real terms since the
mid-1980s. It is currently estimated at 2.4 percent of GDP (1992) and about 20 percent of
the budget--well below that of many countries at a comparable stage of development. During
the first half of the 1980s, expenditures had reached 3.1 percent of GDP and 22 percent of
the budget, as a result of the national government's decision to take over the responsibility
for public primary and secondary education from the departments and to raise teachers
salaries. However, since then, the national government has sought to control educational
expenditures by freezing the recruitment of teachers paid by the national government as a
result of which expenditures have declined to current levels. Thus, in 1990, educational
expenditures in real terms were below those in 1984.
1.16  The pattern of per student public spending at different educational levels of education
in 1990 generally follows the skewed pattern of other Latin American countries. per pupil
expenditure for primary education grew about 50 percent between 1978 and 1984, and with
small variations remained at this level until the end of the decade, yet was still below the
average for Latin American countries in 1990. In 1990 per student spending at the
secondary level (US$125) was roughly double that at the primary level (US$62) while the
ratio of per student higher education spending (US$666) to per student spending can be
tenfold or more. The increase in spending directed to secondary education reflects both the
tremendous growth in enrollment at that level during the 1980s and perhaps the higher unit
costs associated with the provision of secondary education. On the other hand, pupils from
higher income levels are overrepresented in secondary and hi-her education; thus, a greater
portion of these allocations tend not to benefit the poorer segments of the population.
Expenditures at the primary and secondary levels are also almost entirely personnel-related,
thereby curtailing expenditures on essential instructional inputs and supplies of basic
materials and equipment for schools.
1.17   There has been limited public investment in education in recent years. After 1984,
mainly because of fiscal adjustment measures, per pupil expenditures not only stopped
increasing but actually began to decline. Despite progress over the 1980s, per pupil
expenditure continues to be low by international standards. Per student investment in 1990
reached US$4.13 at the primary level; US$5.39 at the secondary level; and US$49 for higher
education. Per student investment spending in 1990 as a percentage of per student



-6-
operational spending was only 6.7 at the primary level, 4.3 at the secondary level, and 7.4
for higher education. Investment spending per student at the primary level, while low, has
increased significantly since the late 1980s. In addition to these investment expenditures,
MEN directly allocated annually to municipalities and departments an estimated US$1 million
from a special Fund created under Law 21 for repairs of diversified secondary schools.
1.18   The national government is primarily responsible for the funding of public education,
providing 90 percent of total costs. The departments and municipalities also cover some
educational expenditures from their own resources. For example, the Fondo de Servicios
Docentes is based on a small fee charged to students and is used for maintaining adequate
school supplies (e.g., chalk and paper) and for physical maintenance (e.g., replacing broken
glass and light bulbs). A board, comprised of the principal and a teacher from the academic
and technical stream, a community representative/s, an accountant, and a supplier/s, will
oversee expenditures, with audits done by the National Comptroller's Office. Since 1975,
the Nation's funding share has dramatically increased from 61 to 90 percent, while the
departments' share declined from 40 to 5 percent. The municipalities, on the other hand,
increased their contribution to total education expenditures to 2 percent. The funding shares
of the departments and municipalities are being used primarily co pay the salaries of teachers
recruited outside the official national roster.
1.19   The national govemment's funding for education and other social services is
transferred to the departments and municipalities via two transfer mechanisms: the situado
fiscal and municipal transfers. The situadofiscal flows directly to departments to be divided
between funding educational and public health services (66.4 percent of the situadofiscal was
allocated to education in 1992). The municipal investment transfers are apportioned directly
to local governments on the basis of population. These two transfers represent 25 percent of
the central govemment's current revenues. In line with the 1991 Constitution, the central
government is preparing a new law to implement a gradual increase in transfers to the
departments and municipalities under the situado fiscal and municipal investment transfers
that would amount to 46 percent of the central govemment's revenues. It would also modify
the formulae for computing the transfers to take account of the social service provided, the
number of constituents lacking service, population, fiscal effort, and administrative
efficiency. A third and new source of national government support for education is the
Social Investment Fund (FIS) which provides project cofinancing to departments and
municipalities from national and extemal sources. The FIS was created by decree in
December 1992 and is supposed to be operational on January 1, 1994.
C. Main lssues in Secondary Education
1.20 The main issues in secondary education are: (a) low student enrollment; (b) limited
and unequal access; (c) low efficiency; (d) unsatisfactory quality; and (e) weak institutional
and managerial capability to implement the decentralization of education.
Low Student Enrollment
1.21 While Colombia has successfully expanded enrollment in primary education and will
soon achieve universal access, secondary education enrollment lags far behind. Colombia's



net enrollment rate is 46 percent, below the Latin American average of 52 percent, and
considerably below the secondary education enrollments in countries such as Chile's 81.6.
Colombia's low enrollment rate in secondary education is the result of two causes:
historically low rates of internal efficiency in primary education combined with high drop out
rates after 5 to 6 years of schooling, and past under-investment in public secondary school
facilities. Both trends will need to be reversed in order to increase secondary school
enrollments in the years ahead.
Internal Effciency in Primary Education
1.22 Although Colombia has improved access to primary education, low internal efficiency
continues to be a major issue at this level and impacts on enrollment at the secondary level.
While th: gross enrollment rate at the primary level reached 110 percent in 1991, the net
enrollment rate (for the cohort between 7 and 11 years of age) was 75 percent. This
difference is explained by high average repetition rates during the five years of primary
education, beginning with approximately 26 percent repetition in grade 1. On average, every
student graduating from primary requires 7 years to complete five grades. While on average
87 percent of primary students complete all five grades, 19.5 percent of the graduates do so
only after repeating three or more courses. After 5 to 6 years of schooling, students who
turn 12 and 13 years of age begin to leave the school system in increasing numbers, probably
out of economic necessity.
1.23 The national policy of automatic promotion at the primary level adopted in 1988, and
high retention rates (resulting from the school improvements introduced under the Escuela
Nueva) are projected to increase both primary education completion rates and primary to
secondary education transition rates. As a consequence, whereas secondary education
enrollment has grown at an average annual rate of some 2.1 percent over the past five years,
it is now projected to increase during the remainder of the decade at an annual rate of
between about 4 percent. This roughly translates into a projected increase of about 27
percent in secondary education enrollments over the period 1991 to 1997, provided access
increases simultaneously 3 (Annex 3).
Limited and Unequal Access
1.24 As most of Colombia's public secondary schools already operate on two and three
shifts, few municipalities are able to offer increased access to public secondary education
without investing in the expansion of schoo! facilities. Further, as secondary school places
have become a premium, municipalities that can offer them have been attracting students
3. In its Plan de Apertura Educativa the Government has targeted a massive increase in secondary education
enrollment in the order of 1.1 million students by the end of the decade. However, this target is not achievable
in the short run based on projected enrolment rates calculated for this project by E. Schiefelbein from
UNESCO-OREALC, with data provided by MEN. Assuming no improvements in efficiency rates at the
primary level, national enrollment growth at the secondary level from 1991 to 1997 would be in the range of
230,000 students. Assuming growth of slightly over 4 percent per year, projected increases during the perod
1991-97 could reach a total of 642,000.



- 8 -
from neighboring communities that have no secondary school places available. To counter
this trend, municipalities will not only need to make investments in school facilities. They
will need to plan their investments carefully and coordinate the location of schools with
neighboring communities.
1.25 For upper and middle income families, the limited access to public schools is not a
compelling problem, since most families prefer private secondary education and can pay for
it. However, the poor do not often have a choice. Public secondary school places are in
short supply compared to primary school places. (For example, in 1982, in the 87
municipalities of the project, some 20 percent of the students graduating from public primary
had no places in the public secondary school). When access to public education is not
available, parents must either spend their extremely limited income on private secondary
schooling or their children go without secondary schooling. In 1982, some 14 percent of 5th
grade students dropped out of ..;. system, a portion of which would no doubt have gone to
school had they had access to public secondary schooling. However, the precise numbers are
difficult to determnine without further research.
1.26   The national government's voucher program, inaugurated in 1991, aims to expand
access to secondary education by offering vouchers to low-income students to attend private
secondary schools that have excess classroom capacity. This special program, cofinanced by
the national government, offers municipalities a short-term, cost effective, and efficient
option for expapding access to secondary schooling compared to that of constructing new
classrooms in public schools. However, the voucher program raises several issues to which
the national government and local authorities will need to give attention in designing the next
cycle of the program. They are: substitution, quality, and sustainability.
1.27 Although the voucher program aims to increase enrollments, it is highly likely that the
increases could turn out to be substantially less than projected due to substitution. Three
possible scenarios exist in the awarding process of the vouchers, of which only one would
increase enrollments while the other two would cause a substitution effect. First, enrollments
would not increase if the students that receive the voucher would have attended a private
school with or without the vouwler. Second, a shift in enrollments would be caused by the
students who have a place in public schools, are awarded vouchers, and go to private
schools. Finally, enrollments would increase only if the voucher is given to those students
who would have not gone to school if the program did not exist. Thus, the targeting of
vouchers to the students most in need would be essential to limit the substitution effect.
1.28  It is essential that recipients of vouchers have access to private schools that offer an
education equal in quality to that of other public schools or at least not below a minimally
acceptable standard. The acceptable comparative standard which can be used is the average
scores of public schools on the ICFES examination. An additional requirement might be a
degree-granting license approved by the education authorities of the municipality or
department. Schools which offer only a partial secondary education or where students do not
take ICFES would be required to have an operating license and their teachers would have to
hold a minimum standard on the escalaf6n docente. These criteria would need to be applied
in selecting schools participating in the program.



1.29 The slistainability of the voucher program depends upon the commitment of the
participating municipalities to contribute their share of the total cost of the program.
Unfortunately, however, some municipalities such as Santafe de BogotA are not even
fulfilling their financial obligation to co-fund the vouchers with the national government.
This threatens the future education of thousands of students attending school on vouchers and
places the financial burden on the Central Government to pay 100 percent of the costs. To
improve the prospects of program sustainability, the national governnent should only fund an
amount of vouchers which can be paid for by the municipality over time. Ideally,
municipalities will begin to invest in the expansion of public secondary school facilities, so
that neither they nor the national government would need to sustain the voucher program to
increase access.
1.30 There is also a lack of investment incentives for private secondary education. Since
private schools are roughly 50 percent of the total of secondary schools, their services play a
critical role in meeting the current demand for secondary education. They also have a
crucial role to play in expanding access in response to the growing demand for secondary
education. While the national and local governments fund public education, and would be
expected to provide cofinancing for the renovation and expansion of public secondary schools
under the proposed operation, they are not allowed to cofinance private schools. Private
schools that are well-endowed with solid collateral have relatively little difficulty securing
commercial credit. However, other private schools, perhaps the majority, have greater
difficulty securing credit. As the national government would like to encourage the expansion
of private secondary schools, it will need to identify appropriate incentives for commercial
credit institutions to lend to private institutions. In this way it would help establish a "level
playing field" for both public and private school expansion. While there are no such
investment incentives for private schools, there is one promising option, to extend the current
system of guarantees for small businesses to private education. MEN is currently pursuing
this option.
Low Educational Efficiency
1.31  In addition to its low enrollment rates, Colombia's public secondary education suffers
from unsatisfactory efficiency. Estimated 1991 promotion rates average 74.5 percent (62.2
percent in grade 6 to 91.3 percent in grade 11), dropouts average 9.6 percent (4.1 percent in
grade 11 to 13.7 percent in grade 6), and repetition rates average 15.9 percent. A large
number of incomplete secondary schools contribute to reduce promotion and completion
rates. Only 50 percent of 6th grade students achieve grade 11 five years later, and those
who complete secondary school are primarily from the higher income groups. In both small
municipalities and rural areas, secondary education typically does not extend to grade 9.
Unsatisfactory Educational Quality
1.32 The quality of public secondary education in Colombia is unsatisfactory--particularly
in comparison with private secondary education--and has been declining since the early
1980s. This unsatisfactory performance is attributed to many factors but is mainly due to:
(a) poor student preparation in primary school; (b) inadequate secondary school management;
(c) lack of teacher preparedness; (d) lack of textbooks; and (e) shortages of other
supplementary educational materials.



- 10 -
1.33 Primary School Preparation. The results of Colombia's first national assessment of
prinary education (conducted in the 1990-91 school year) point to very serious student
deficiencies in reading comprehension and mathematics, as well as in socially accepted norms
and values. In response, MEN has developed a comprehensive plan to address these
deficiencies which will be implemented in 1993 as part of the program of support for
universal primary edutl ion. As part of this plan, MEN will also need to help equip
secondary schools to assist new students to overcome their primary school learning
deficiencies. This would greatly facilitate the difficult transition students have to make from
primary to secondary schools and would improve their prospects in secondary education.
1.34 School Management. In the late 1960s, the n-tional government established the
Regional Education Fund (FER), by which it imposed significant requirements on
departments to access funds for education, which included hiring only teachers who passed
national qualifying examinations and creating an adequate number of supervisory positions,
again to be staffed only by those who receivej national certification. A part of this initiative
was an attempt to transfer more accountability over school administration and financial
resources to the local and ultimately school level. While experience * Is gained by school
principals, decentralization of school management responsibilities has been highly variable
and difficult to sustain, given policy shifts at the center that worked against using the
capacity that exists at the school level.
1.35  Currently, public school principals have limited authority and resources to manage
their schools. Virtually all important decisions affecting the operations of schools are made
elsewhere. Nonetheless, sample surveys conducted during project preparation indicate some
principals are having an impact where they have been able to: (a) motivate teachers to
prepare and implement institutional development plans, and (b) conduct in-service training
and other staff development activities to introduce educational innovations in their schools.
On the other hand, principals do not receive much in-service training to improve their
management skills. The CEPs have very few, if any, in-service training courses for
principals and there are only a few other institutions which offer such training specifically for
principals. In view of the generally recognized importance of improving school
management, there is need to develop alternatives for the recruitment and training of
principals.
1.36 Teachers. The majority of Colombia's approximately 75,000 teachers in public
secondary schools and the 53,000 in private secondary schools are university educated.
Moreover, after obtaining their teaching degrees, most secondary school teachers regularly
attend at least one-service training course during the school year. These courses are offered
by their school principal, a local university, or the departmental CEP, although most of the
training offered by the CEPs is for primary school teachers. Training is taken to obtain a
salary increase, a degree, or for personal interest. However, teachers do not often pursue
training as part of an overall plan to upgrade the quality of the academic program of their
institution. Moreover, rarely is the training offered in response to the identification of
training needs by the teachers and principals in the schools. To maximize the benefits of
teacher training, school officials and teachers need to better plan their requirements at the
school level in accordance with their school's development objectives. These and other
training requirements once identified at the school level could be vetted by the municipal or



- 11 -
departmental secretaries of education (or some other entity) and conducted under contract
through the CEPs or directly by local universities or other training sources.
1.37 Textbooks. Textbooks are widely available in Colombia and are supplied by
numerous local publishers offering many choices in titles for each course and grade level.
Textbooks are also generally of good quality and are based on the curriculum. However,
textbook use is limited in public secondary schools: the vast majority of students cannot
afford to purchase them owing to their cost and the quantity (usually eight books) required at
each grade level. The majority of students thus go without textbooks or acquire only one or
two books. In glaring contrast, the students in private schools serving the upper strata all
obtain the required textbooks with their tuition. In private schools serving students of the
middle and lower quintiles textbook use is also limited. As textbooks are among the most
cost-effective means to improve learning, the MEN proposes to increase their availability in
public secondary schools. This would be done by offering municipalities generous
cofinancing for purchasing textbooks and assisting them in implementing a textbook loan
scheme in their schools. Since the provision of textbooks in public schools will be one of
local government's new responsibilities under decentralization, textbook loan schemes would
require some form of cost-recovery or other budget provisions to be sustainable.
1.38 Instructional Materials and Equipment. Many of Colombia's secondary schools
lack basic instructional materials and equipment essential for effective teaching and learning.
Libraries are extremely limited in their selection or do not exist. Laboratories are
unavailable or if available are poorly equipped, in ill-repair, and lack essential consumables
for use. Moreover, others that have been purchased (e.g. 414 integrated science and 57
informatics laboratories from Spain) have been seriously under-utilized for lack of installation
and/or inadequate orientation and training of teachers. In addition, most municipalities have
not been investing in instructional materials and equipment for their secondary schools nor
providing them with adequate budgets to purchase essential consumables for instructional
purposes. Few of the smaller municipalities can afford to equip each secondary school with
laboratories and other instructional infrastructure. For these municipalities, it is probably
more efficient to establish Educational Resource Centers to serve the needs of all the teachers
and students in the community centrally, rather than attempt to upgrade each institution's
equipment and facilities. Nonetheless, the pros and cons of these centers need to be carefuUy
examined on a case-by-case basis before they are introduced in a municipality.
Weak Managerial and Institutional Capacity
1.39 The education sector has weak managerial and administrative capability to plan and
implement decentralization efficiently and effectively. Its major handicaps are the following:
(a) lack of clarity as to the functions, responsibilities, and accountability of the MEN,
departments and municipalities and absence of a plan or strategy to implement
decentralization; (b) the limited capacity of education sector personnel to plan and implement
educational programs; and ( ) MEN's lack of capability in carrying out monitoring,
evaluation and policy research on the education system.
1.40 Lack of Clear Functions and Responsibilities of Regional and Local
Governments. The effective implementation of the decentralization of education requires
that the Government clearly define the functions and responsibilities of MEN, the



- 12 -
departments, and the municipalities. Good progress has been made towards this objective in
two draft laws now before Congress: the Ley general de educaci6n and the law regulating
Articles 356 and 357 of the Constitution. These laws now need to be adopted, however, in
order to institutionalize the functions and responsibilities assigned to each level of
government. In addition, MEN needs to develop an overall plan or strategy to support the
gradual implementation of decentralization in the departments and municipalities. Lastly, the
restructuring of MEN, approved by decree in December 1992, needs to be impleniented so
that MEN can direct attention to its new functions, responsibilities, and accountability under
decentralization.
1.41 Shortage of Qualified Education Personnel. While some departmental secretaries of
education (e.g., Antioquia and Valle) and municipal secretaries of education (e.g.,
Bucamamanga and Peirera) are widely recognized for their technical and administrative
capacity, the majority of Colombia's regional and local educational authorities need to be
strengthened. Since regional and local authorities will be called on to plan and manage an
increasing level of resources for education, there is a widely acknowledged need to build
capacity in areas such as: educational planning, financial management (especially projecting
resource transfers from the national government and programming their use), project
preparation, project implementation, and monitoring. Some of this training has been
provided over the years to directores de nucleos and to other officials at the local level.
Tlese training initiatives should be built on and adapted to meet new training requirements of
the departments and municipalities.
1.42 Inadequate Monitoring, Evaluation, and Policy Research in NMEN. The
decentralization process has enabled MEN to divest itself of many administrative and
management tasks which will now be carried out directly by the departments. Consequently,
it can now turn its attention to its main functions of data collection, developing policies and
norms, and monitoring and evaluating the performance of the system. In order to perform
these functions effectively, MEN will need to: (a) improve the quality and reliability of its
educational statistics which at present are unreliable and lack uniformity; (b) implement its
plans for the establishment of a national examination system to assess student achievement
and feedback results to local schools for follow-up; and (c) develop an applied research
program to provide inputs for policy, educational norns, and investment program
preparation.
D. Government Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
1.43  The current Govemment has a comprehensive plan for the development of the
education sector for the period 1991-94, which consists of: (a) achieving universal primary
school enrollment, massively expanding secondary school enrollment and improving the
quality of education at all levels; (b) moving forward with the decentralization and
modernization of the education system; (c) developing financial mechanisms that benefit the
poorest segments of the population and the regions most in need of basic education; (d)
promoting competition between public and private education institutions to increase
educational efficiency and quality; (e) increasing educational investments by regional and
local govemments; and (f) providing credit to finance higher education as well as to increase
enrollments in public and private education institutions.



- 13 -
E. Bank Role and Strategy
1.44 The new country strategy for Colombia for FY93-96 places special emphasis on
human resource development and poverty reduction within an overall agenda of support for
private sector development, decentralization, and growth with equity. In human resource
development, the Bank's priorities are to achieve universal coverage and a better quality of
primary education, expand and improve secondary education, and to build skills and aptitudes
in agriculture and industry needed for economic growth. The Bank supports the
Government's policies and programs to reduce poverty and income disparities with
effectively targeted social outreach programs which enhance equity, efficiency, and service
quality. It also supports the Government's strategy to increase social spending, improve
responsivz,ness to local needs through decentralization, anci to improve efficiency by
promoting private delivery of services and replacing subsidies to service producers with
targeted grants, such as the proposed vouchers for secondary education, to eligible
beneficiaries.
1.45 Lessons Learned from Previous Bank Involvement. Since 1968, the Bank has
invested US$150 million in four education projerts. The first two projects helped Colombia
establish a system of diversified secondary schou,s (IN1M) and were reviewed in OED's
report Colombia: Sustainability of the First and Second Education Projects (J'rne 1989)
and other publications. The review of the first two operations found that the INEM system
was both costly and inefficient: many graduates failed to enter the labor market, with little
correlation between vocational skills obtained and subsequent employment. The third and
fourth projects addressed rural primary education. Important lessons from the first and
second primary education projects include: (a) sufficient managerial capacities should exist
as a condition for lending; (b) projects should build on existing administrative arrangements
rather than imposing new ones; (c) sector lending should be carefully phased, with a first
operation of modest size to provide the Borrower with sufficient experience to handle
subsequent operations; and (d) the need to address the issues of educational quality,
measurement, evaluation and monitoring.
1.46 The above lessons from previous Bank experience in Colombia have been taken into
account in the preparation of the proposed*project and incorporated as follows:
(a) Managerial Capacities. Management capabilities in the education sector are in short
supply. Both the MEN and the Secretaries of Education in the departments have had
difficulties recruiting and retaining highly qualified managers, and these difficulties
will likely continue. They are due to the low salaries offered to managers in the
public sector and to the high turnover in managers resulting from the brief tenure of
elected officials. Under these circumstances, the project would: (i) count on the full
support and collaboration of the senior educational professionals in MEN to manage
the pr 'ect; (ii) supplement the staff in MEN with other professionals from outside the
ministry; and (iii) involve the educational professionals in the departmental and
municipal secretaries of education in managing the project at the regional and local
levels.
(b) Existing Administrative Arrangements. These arrangements would be used
wherever possible to implement the project rather than imposing new ones. Thus,



- 14 -
while a Project Coordination Unit would be created to manage project
implementation, the unit would be located within the MEN and draw upon MEN's
professional staff for assistance. Similarly, the project would work within the context
of existing governmental organizations such as the Social Investment Fund (FIS), the
Financial Development Corporation (FINDETER), and the Colombian Institute of
Educational Credit and Training Abroad (ICETEX) as well as with the departmental
and municipal secretaries of education Where existing administrative arrangements
are very weak, the project would attempt to strengthen them or utilize new ones. For
example, project procurement specialists would assist municipalities in procuring
educational materials and equipment; greater administrative and financial flexibility
than exists in other MEN units would expedite project staff travel, direct purchasing,
and recruitment of consultants.
(c) Phasing-in Bank Assistance. The proposed operation is quite large for a pilot
project, but still only covers a small percentage of the total needs of Colombia's over
1000 municipalities. Assistance is being phased in order to: (i) take account of
MEN's limited management capabilities; (ii) permit MEN and the Bank to assess the
feasibility of the proposed strntegy and approach for assisting other municipalities in
the education sector; and (iii) allow time for the national government to develop and
test new and improved mechanisms, such as the Social Investment Fund, for co-
financing assistance to municipalities in the social sectors.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1   The objectives of the project are to support Government's initiatives designed to:
(a) implement a new national government strategy of cofinancing investments in education
with the departments and municipalities; (b) provide incentives to regional and local
governments to achieve national educational development targets; and (c) support the
assumption by m..icipalities of an expanded role in education by building local capacity for
the planning, cofinancing, and execution of investments.
B. Project Description
2.2    The project comprises four main components: (a) increasing coverage by funding
grants and loans for the expansion and rehabilitation of public secondary school facilities and
equipment; (b) expanding access for low-income students through funiding vouchers to attend
private secondary schools; (c) enhancing the quality of secondary education by funding
School Improvement Plans (SIP), principal and teacher training, textbooks, instructional
materials and equipment, and related inputs; and (d) institutional strengthening to help the
departments perform their new roles and responsibilities for the planning, co-financing and
management of education services, while helping MEN to focus on its new, more policy-
oriented and system monitoring responsibilities under decentralization. The scope of the



- 15 -
project is limited to 11 of Colombia's 33 departments and territories, and 87 of its over
1,000 municipalities 4 (Annex 8).
2.3   Municipal Education Plans. Each municipality which participates in the project
would prepare a Municipal Education Plan (MEP) that delineates an integrated set of
development objectives, strategies and investment priorities to improve secondary education.
They will use a Municipal Planning Manual developed and pilot-tested du. .ng project
preparation in the designated municipalities of Pereira, Zipaquira, and Jamundi. The MEPs
will also be used to specify the type of sub-projects and amount of assistance needed by the
municipality to achieve its secondary education development objectives. The respective
Departnental Secretaries of Education would monitor and assist the municipalities in
preparing their MEPs and sub-projects. Municipal Councils would give final approval to the
plans and authorize the required counterpart funding for sub-projects. A departmental
committee of the FIS would approve the FIS allocation for the sub-projects in the MEP.
2.4   Conditionality. To obtain assistance under the project, municipalities would be
required to agree to all of the following minimum conditions:
(a) increase student enrollments in secondary schools by at least 7.5 to 10 percent over
three vears, through a combination of measures. These measures could include one
or a combination of the following: rationalizing the use of existing school facilities,
expanding or constructing new facilities (with project subsidies and loans); or
providing vouchers to enable students from low-income families to attend private
schools;
(b) purchase (with a project subsidy) essential instructional materials and equipment for
public schools beginning with a set of textbooks in at least four subjects (math,
natural sciences, social sciences and Spanish), which then could be loaned to all
students for the school year for a small fee;
(c) cause secondary school directors and their staff to prepare and implement plans in
order to increase student achievement and reduce repetition and dropouts during the
MEP period. These plans might consist of improving teaching, working with parents,
and introducing regular testing of student perfonrance;
(d) undertake responsibility for administration and maintenance of school facilities in
accordance with Law 60 (1993) and its regulations within the three year period of the
MEP; and
(e) support the training of administrative and technical staff of municipalities and sclhools
in educational planning, project preparation and implementation, and sector
management and administration.
2.5   A municipality would also have to comply with the following conditions of
participation:
4. The reference to municipalities in this document includes the Distrito Capital of Santafe de Bogota
and the Distrito 7uristico y Cultural of Santa Marta and Cartagena.



- 16 -
(a) if seeking loans through PINDETER, meet comparable financial soundness and fiscal
performance criteria employed by FINDETER in other municipal operations;
(b) appoint a municipal committee consisting of, inter alia, the Secretary of Education,
the Jefels de Nikeo, members of the Municipal Council, principals and parents, to
assist in preparing the municipal education plan and assign a senior official in the
municipality (e.g. Secretary of Education) to serve as project coordinator; and
(c) establish and maintain a system of accounts, following acceptable accounting
practices, for any project resources which might be transferred to the municipality.
Components
2.6   The project consists of four major components: (a) increasing coverage; (b)
increasing access; (c) improving quality; Rnd (d) strengthening the management and
administration of educational services.
Increasing Coverage (US$62.9 million) (Annex 4)
2.7    This component provides support for the rehabilitation, upgrading, and expansion of
public seconidary school facilities. Funding for rehabilitation aims to raise the quality of
school facilities to acceptable standards in order to: (a) improve the learning environment in
schools, and (b) encourage municipalities to take over the responsibilities from national and
regional authorities for their operations and maintenance. Funding for upgrading and
expansion would optimize the use of physical infrastructure and enable municipalities to meet
the growing demand for secondary education. Surveys of the 1,250 public secondary schools
conducted during project preparation in the 87 pilot municipalities revealed that
approximately 50 percent of their facilities, equivalent to some 750,000 student places, were
in need of some kind of rehabilitation. Of the total, 12 percent would be adaptations and 35
percent repairs. Additionally, it was estimated that some 3 percent of school places would
require substitution and 50,000 new ones constructed for additional enrollments between
1991-97.
2.8    The US$62.9 million budgeted for this component would cover an estimated 60
percent of the total requirements of the 87 municipalities. Of the total budgeted, grants and
loans in the amount of US$11.4 million would be earmarked for rehabilitation, US$24.6
million for upgrading existing facilities to better standards, and US$18.6 million for new
construction. The budgeted estimates would enable the municipalities to accommodate
projected increases in enrollments to about the end of the decade. Grants and loans totalling
US$5.5 for furniture and US$2.8 million for architectural fees are also budgeted.
2.9    Grants for civil works would be provided by the FIS through FINDETER (para.
4.4). FIS would provide grants for 80 percent of sub-project costs to municipalities to give
them a strong incentive to rehabilitate their school facilities and take over responsibilities for
their operations and maintenance. The project would provide through FINDETER small
grants to cover the costs of technical assistance and architectural fees for sub-project



- 17 -
preparation. Municipalities would be expected to pay 20 percent of the costs of sub-projects
and technical assistance from their own resources.
2.10   For all civil works, in order to encourage and increase the very modest municipal
investments in education, FINDETER would also administer a line of credit under which it
would rediscount subloans to municipal entities (para. 3.5). The project would provide a 30
percent subsidy of sub-project costs as an incentive for municipal investments in expanding
school places. Municipalities would be required to fund a minimum of 20 percent of total
project costs, leaving some 50 percent for financing through other financial intermediaries
and FINDETER.
2.11   To qualify for grants and loans for school rehabilitation and new construction
respectively, municipalities would be required to ratify their agreement to assume
responsibilities from the National Government for constructing and maintaining secondary
school facilities as provided under Law 60 of 1993. While some municipalities have
assumed these responsibilities, most have not. Prior to negotiations, Government submitted
to the Bank for review and agreement, the proposed legal procedures to be followed by the
national and departmental governments in transferring responsibility for secondary school
construction and maintenance to the municipalities (para. 6.1 (a)). During negotiations,
Government confirmed that these procedures would be incorporated into the regulations for
Law 60 which would be issued by March 1994; in the interim, MEN would devise a plan to
provide training and/or technical assistance to the departments to facilitate their working with
the municipalities in implementing these regulations (para. 6.2 (a)).
Expanding Access (US$8.3 million) (Annex 5)
2 12  In municipalities where low-income students do not have access to public secondary
schools, the project would fund the award of vouchers to students to enable them to gain
access to selected private schools that have excess capacity. Project funding would
supplement the Government's existing voucher program which has already awarded 72,000
vouchers since 1992 and will fund an additional 25,000 annually in the next several years.
The number of vouchers being provided by the Government could be more than are actually
needed in the 87 municipalities as some 4Q,000 to 50,000 students who annually complete
public primary school have aleady been transferring to private secondary schools and paying
private school tuition costs. On the other hand, there are some 10 percent to 15 percent of
5th grade students, (35,000 to 40,000 annually) who are dropping out of the system after
primary school, some of whom might be encouraged to continue schooling, if they can be
identified and provided vouchers.
2.13   The project would, therefore, supplement the Government's 25,000 vouchers--which
are for the country as a whole--by funding not more than 5,500 for the 87 municipalities in
the project. With this total number of vouchers, local governments could make good inroads
on reducing dropouts. This amount is equivalent to some 55,000 vouchers during the period
1994-97, based on a projected 5 percent average dropout rate among voucher recipients.
Vouchers would be fund-d at an average annual cost of $100,000 pesos (US$143) per
voucher year at 1993 prices. No voucher would exceed the average cost.



- 18 -
2.14   All 5,500 vouchers would be distributed among the 87 pilot municipalities according
to demand, with an upper limit determined for each municipality according to the total
number of vouchers available annually. Under the project, eacti municipality would be
required to program its requirements for vouchers within the framework of their secondary
education plans and to verify both the demand and the availability of places in private
secondary schools. Since low-income students are more likely to drop out of the education
system for financial reasons, the voucher program will have a significant impact on
increasing access and enrollments at the secondary level.
2.15 The voucher program would have strict eligibility requirements for both students and
secondary schools. The main requirements for students are that: (a) they come from the
lowest two socio-economic strata; (b) have graduated from a public school or a non-profit
private school; and (c) are not more than 15 years old. The private secondary schools are
required to provide evidence of their ability to offer an acceptable standard of education
evidenced by their having: (a) a bachillerato degree-granting license (licencia de aprobaci6n)
issued by the Secretary of Education; and (b) average test scores on the ICFES examination
for the previous two years that are at least equal to the average public and private school
scores (excluding test scores of the "elite" private schools) in the municipality. New private
schools not having the above qualifications would be required to provide evidence of having:
(a) an operating license (licencia defuncionamiento); (b) a teaching staff which has been
granted permission by the Secretary of Education to teach secondary school; and (c) adequate
educational and health facilities as detennined by the Secretary of Education.
2.16 The MEN would sign agreements with each participating municipality setting forth the
terms and conditions of the fellowships and the financial and administrative arrangements.
Municipalities would determine the number of vouchers required, certify that private sclhools
meet the requirements for participation, and jointly monitor the progress of the program with
ICETEX. Upon approval of the MEP, municipalities would work out execution arrange-
ments for the voucher sub-project with ICETEX. Prior to negotiations, MEN submitted to
the Bank for review and approval, a manual setting forth the policies and administrative
procedures to be used in managing the voucher program, and in particula-, and the
procedures to be used by ICETEX and the municipalities for assessing qualifications ol
schools (para. 6.1 (b)). During negotiations, it was agreed that the draft manual on the
policies and administrative procedures to be used in the management of the voucher program
would be submitted to the Bank for final review and approval and that relevant sections
would be incorporated into the project operations manual (para. 6.2 (b)).
Educational Quality Enhancement (US$65.7 million) (Annex 6)
2.17 School Improvement Plan. The project would fund a variety of interventions to
improve the quality of instruction and student achievement levels in public schools. In order
to plan these interventions, municipalities would invite each of their secondary school
principals and teachers to prepare a School Improvement Plan (SIP) for their schools. The
purpose of the SIP is to encourage each school to diagnose itself as an educational institution,
define institutional goals to improve quality, and prepare a plan of action to achieve those
goals, including budget and funding. Further, it aims to promote the adoption of certain
common characteristics of effective schools such as: (a) a clear vision of the goals and
objectives they wanted to achieve; (b) a principal who provided strong leadership; (c) well



- 19 -
defined internal organization and a disciplined environment conductive to leaming, (d) a staff
development program and feedback to teachers on their performance; (e) clear standards for
the students; and (f) a school managed budget that allowed the school principal to procure
essential instructional and managerial resources.
2.18 Each school would receive US$6 per enrolled student annually for an initial two-year
period in support of their SIP. The funds would be administered by the school and would
mainly be used for training of school principals and teachers, but could be used for other
educational inputs not included in the MEP. Items eligible and ineligible for funding would
be Licluded in the SIP operational manual. Some 1,250 public secondary schools are
potential beneficiaries, although the ultimate number would depend upon how many schools
prepare SIPs as part of the municipal education planning process. SIPs would be approved
by the same school committee managing the school's Fondo Docente and the administration
and accounting of the funds would be similar. Each school's Fondo Docente would be
expected to provide at least five percent cofinancing for the SIP. Funds are provided in the
project to renew support for a SIP for an additional two years, subject to a favorable
evaluation after the first two years.
2.19  Evaluation of SIPs. The evaluation sub-component of the project includes support
for evaluation studies to assess both the processes and impact of the inputs funded under the
SIPs. For example, the studies would assess the quality of SIPs, the relevance of their
institutional development strategies, the use of the manual; the effectiveness of in-service
training on teaching practice, the usefulness of training provided to principals and whether
administrative practice had improved as a result. However, inost importantly the evaluations
would focus on the SIP's impact on the indicators of educational quality, internal efficiency
and the personal and social development of students in each school.
2.20 Quality Improvement Inputs. Project inputs to improve quality would consist of the
following:
(a) In-service Training for Teachers and School Managers. Funding would be
provided in the SIP to cover the costs of in-service training for secondary school
teachers and school managers (mainly principals and vice principals) in the
participating municipalities. The precise training requirements for the teachers in
each school would be determined during the preparation of School Improvement Plans
or Municipal Education Plans. However, on the basis of a preliminary identification
of training needs of teachers and principals carried out during project preparation, the
project would likely fund in-service training of teachers geared to: (i) increase their
familiarization with the curricula; (ii) update their knowledge in fields of
specialization; (iii) develop appropriate values and attitudes, self-esteem and skills in
working with the community; (iv) equip them with research methods; and (v) greater
knowledge of regional education needs. Principal training would focus on leadership,
decision-making, and strategic planning. In-service training for teachers and
principals would be provided locally; teachers would be provided training by the
principals or attend courses held by local universities and training institutions
c6uraciVAJ' by lie CEPs. Principals would also attend training courses offered by
local universities or selected training centers which specialize in training for
principals. MEN is preparing an inventory of professional in-service training



- 20 -
throughout the country to help teachers and principals identify suitable course for their
professional development. Where there is a strong demand from teachers or
principals for particular courses which are not being offered, MEN would try to
encourage universities to offer them by supporting the preparation of a course design
and/or subsidizing the initial instructional costs. This activity would be carried out in
close collaboration with the CEPs in each department.
(b) Textbooks. Funding would be provided for sub-projects which enable municipalities
to purchase textbooks for their secondary schools. The schools would in turn lend the
books to students for use during the school year. Students would be responsible for
returning books in good condition at the end of the school year so they can be
reissued the following school year. The project would encourage municipalities to
adopt a cost-recovery scheme for textbook rentals to cover the costs of replacements,
which are estimated to be required every three years. The textbooks procured would
be selected by the municipality with inputs provided by the teachers. Municipalities
would be encouraged by MEN to standardize textbooks in use in each school to
facilitate purchase, distribution and replacement. The project would make available
funds for the purchase of about 4.2 million textbooks, of which 3.3 million would be
textbooks for grades 6 to 9, and 950,000 for grades 10 and I l. It would recommend
that municipalities purchase, if affordable, four texts per student in each grade, out of
the average of eight required. The recommended texts would cover math, language,
science and social studies. Teachers' manuals might also be funded. Procurement
4rangements for textbooks are described in Annex 6.
(c  Other Instructional Materials and Equipment. The project would fund in the MEP
a wide range of curriculum-specific, high quality, and reasonably-priced instructional
materials and equipment for public secondary schools and participating municipalities.
The materials and equipment to be provided would be that recommended by MEN as
fulfilling the basic minimum requirements for each school's instructional programs.
The materials and equipment would form part of each school's Educational Resource
Center (CREP) and include: selected supplementary textbooks various teaching aides,
audio-visual and printed instructional material for teachers, and equipment. These
materials and equipment were preliminarily identified by MEN during project
preparation. A final list of materials and equipment with specifications would be
prepared in the first year of project implementation by MEN with the assistance of the
Instituto Nacional de Normas Tecnicas (ICONTEC). These items would be included
in an Instructional Materials and Equipment Catalogue similar to the one for
textbooks and offered to municipalities for incorporation in their MEP. Municipal
Resource Centers (CREM) would also be funded where it is both cost-effective and
feasible for a group of schools to share libraries, laboratory facilities and expensive
instructional equipment rather than for each to have their own. The experience with
CREMs has been mixed, with both successes and failures. Consequently special care
would be taken by MEN to ensure that municipalities are committed to fund the
operations and maintenance of CREMs and that they also enjoy community support.
Management and Institutional Strengthening (US$13. I miiiion) (Annex 7)
2.21 Department and Municipal Strengthening. Management and institutional
strengthening would be supported in the departments and municipalities based on the



- 21 -
adoption of a plan being prepared by MEN for implementing the decentralization of
education. In the initial years of project implementation, it would: (a) support the process
of municipalization of education by encouraging municipalities to take on the administrative
responsibilities for paying teachers salaries, constructing and maintaining school facilities,
and most importantly, investing in the expansion and improvement of the quality of public
education; and, (b) strengthen the role of municipalities in educational planning, project
preparation and project management. In the latter years, and depending upon the progress
achieved in the initial years of project implementation, it would help improve the
administration and financial management of education.
2.22 To support the process of municipalization of education, the project is offering
municipalities financial incentives in the form of sub-project financing, if they voluntarily
take on the responsibility from the national Government for the administration and
maintenance of facilities for secondary education. Secondly, it is promoting educational
planning by municipalities and requiring that MEPs provide the rationale and framework for
sub-projects in support of secondary education. Thirdly, the Departmental Secretaries of
Education, with the assistance of the PCU, would provide training and orientation in
education planning for staff in the departments and municipalities as a prelude to the
preparation of municipal plans and sub-projects for project financing. Training would focus
on the use of the project's planning manuals and data formats. Lastly, technical assistance
would also be offered to the departmental secretaries of education and municipalities in
projecting their resources and expenditures in the social sector and in education, in
particular. These projections would be made utilizing a model devek,ped during project
preparation. Training would be provided for an estimated 120 regionel and local officials
during the life of the project. Prior to negotiations, the MEN submittAd for Bank's review
its proposed plan for implementing the decentralization of education in 1993-95 (para. 6.1
(c)). During negotiations MEN agreed to revise and re-submit for Bank review by March
1994, its proposed plan. The revised plan would include a strategy with targets and actions
which would be taken jointly with other agencies for implementing the decentralization of
education (para. 6.2 (c)).
2.23 Educational Statistics. The project would help improve the quality and reliability of
educational statistics. This would be achieved through support of workshops organized by
MEN's Statistical Division for the orientation and training of technicians in departmental and
municipal planning and statistics offices. Training would focus on data collection and
processing of educational statistics on coverage, quality and enrollment. It also would fund
the production and distribution of manuals for data collection and processing and the
purchase of computer hardware and software for MEN and the departments and
municipalities. MEN's own professional staff would also receive training in specialized data
management and processing.
2.24 National Achievement Assessments. The project would assist MEN in conducting
national assessments of student achievement in math and reading at the secondary school
level, analyzing these assessments, and feeding back the results to local schools. It would
fund national assessments in 1994 and 1997 covering an estimated 28,000 students in grades
7 and 9 from public and private schools through out the country. The assessments would be
carried out under contract by the SNP and local consultants. The results would be analyzed
by MEN and disseminated to school officials for information and follow-up. MEN would



- 22 -
also develop a proposed strategy for addressing learning deficiencies based on assessments.
The project would also help assess student achievement in science by funding Colombia's
participation in the Third International Mathematics and Science Study being conducted by
the International Association for the Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IAEA).
2.25 Studies and Evaluation Research. Lastly, the project would support MEN, as
required, in conducting policy and evaluation research on: (a) the demand for secondary
education in rual areas; (b) the employment and income earning experiences of secondary
school graduates and SENA apprentices; (c) values, attitudes and expectations of secondary
school graduates; (d) evaluation of different models of secondary education in rural areas;
and (e) case studies of effective secondary schools.
2.26   Evaluation research would focus on the impact of the project and cover two main
topics. One study would evaluate the effectiveness of the voucher program in increasing
secondary school enrollments of students from low-income strata. It would also assess
student achievement in a sample of those private schools where vouchers are used with a
comparable sample of public schools in order to determine the quality of education offered
by such private schools. The other study would assess the impact of improvements in the
quality and quantity of instructional inputs provided under the project on student achievement
in secondary schools. The evaluation research studies would be carried out under contract
by local research groups and guided by a small project research committee established by
MEN.
Selection Criteria for Departments and Municipalities Participating in the Project
2.27 The departments and municipalities included in this pilot project were selected
according to the following criteria: (a) departments which in the view of DNP possess the
necessary minimum administrative capacity to manage Central Government resource
transfers; and (b) the municipalities which include capital cities of each department and those
municipalities with at least 80 percent net primary education enrollment, within 50 kilometers
in closest geographic proximity, having at least 10,000 people and three secondary schools.
In the aggregate, the population of the participating municipalities is approximately 45
percent of the total population of Colombia and is categorized as follows:
Population          No. Municipalities
500,000+                       5
100,000 to 500,000            14
50,000 to 100,000             11
20,000 to 50,000              33
20,000-                       24
Total                    87
Secondary school enrollments in these municipalities total 1.5 million students, and are
evenly divided between public and private schools. However, there are only some 1,250
public schools compared to 2,125 private schools in these municipalities. Basic information
on the departments and municipalities participating in the project appears in Annex 8.



- 23 -
2.28   The MEN would annually review the list of pilot municipalities. In the event that
some of these municipalities for some reason might not be able to participate in the project,
they could be replaced by others who have expressed a strong interest in participating.
Newly selected municipalites would be required to fill the above-noted criteria with the sole
exception that new municipalities could be located: (a) within a radius of 100 kilometers of
the capital city rather than the original 50 kiBmeter limit in the first group of departments;
and (b) in sub-systems of capital cities and surrounding municipalities in new departments.
2.29   The large metropolitan areas such as Santaf6 de Bogota, Cartagena, and Santa Marta
are considered as a municipality, even though they have numerous smaller municipal
administrative divisions within their boundaries (alcaldfas). For example, Santafe de Bogota
has 20 akaldfas menores or localidades. Since these alcaldfas are dependent district
councils municipal councils and other bodies, including the district secretaries of education,
they will be deaIt with in the project through the mayors and secretaries of districts.
[M. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Cost
3.1   The total cost of the project is estimated at US$150 million equivalent, net of taxes
and duties. Costs are based on estimated prices at November 1992. The total foreign
exchange cost is estimated at US$40.0 million, or 26.5 percent of the total cost. Table 3.1
summarizes the estimated project costs by component. Detailed project costs are shown in
Annex 1)0.
Table 3.1: Costs by Component
% Foreign % Total
Local  Foreign    Total     Exchange Base Cost
------------------------US$ million ---------------------------
Increasing Coverage             37.5    15.7      53.2        29.3    40.2
Expanding Access                 7.5     0.0       7.5         0.0     5.7
Quality Enhancement             42.8    16.7      59.5        28.0    45.0
Management
Strengthening                   9.4     2.5      11.9       21.0      9.0
Base Costs                      97.2    34.8    132.0         26.3
Physical Contingencies          1.9     0.8      2.7        29.6      2.0
Price Contingencies            11.3     4.4      15.7        28.0    11.8
Total Project Costs 2'         110.4    40.0    150.4         26.5   113.7
*' (Totals may not add due to rounding)



- 24 -
Contingency Allowance-
3.2   Physical contingencies amount to 5 percent of base costs for civil works and furniture.
Price contingencies for foreign costs are based on a projected intemnational inflation rate of
3.1 percent over the fife of the project. Local cost price contingencies, adjusted for
projected changes in the exchange rate, are 24 percent for 1993, 16 percent for 1994, 22
percent for 1995, 20 percent for 1996, 18 percent for 1997, 16 percent for 1998 and 10
percent thereafter.
B. Financing Plan
3.3   Project Financing. The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of
US$90 million or 60 percent of total project cost. Foreign exchange expenditures are
estimated at US$40.0 million equivalent. The Bank loan will cover 100 percent of these
foreign expenditures and 45 percent of estimated local costs. National and local governments
in Colombia would finance the remaining US$60 million. Table 6 of Annex 10 provides a
breakdown of the allocation of loan proceeds.
3.4   Cost-Sharing Formula. The initial cost-sharing formula for all sub-projects, with the
exception of school construction, would consist of the central government providing 80
per-cent of the costs and' municipalities 20 percent. After three years, the National
Government's shaxe couild be reduced to 60 percent and the municipalities' share increased to
40 percent. However, the implementation of this shift in the cost-sharing formula would
depend upon whether or not municipalities receive the increases in the level of resources for
social development projected under pending legislation. During negotiations, Government
submitted the formula it proposes to use for transferring national funds for social
development situado fiscal to local governments for review by the Bank (p~ara. 6.2 (d)).
3.5   Credit Line Management and Terms. The line of credit for school construction to
be adminib,ered by FINDETER would operate as follows: (a) departmental and municipal
entities would be eligible; (b) financial intermediaries eligible would be those appraised by
FINDETER, using criteria and methods satisfactory to the Bank, as being creditworthy, able
to assess municipal credit risk, and havingappropriate financial controls especially with
respect to portfolio performnance; (c) FINDETER would only finance sub-projects meeting
their financial and technical criteria. These criteria would be incorporated in FINDETER' s
operational manual and Regulations Statement (Re glamento de Credito), which were reviewed
duiing appraisal; (d) FINDETER would adopt as required its operational manual for
management of loans to be made in the education sector; and (e) FINDETER has already
prepared an Instructivo para Presentaci6n de Proyectos de Educaci6n, approved by the Bank,
to guide municipalities in preparing education sector investment projects. Each sub-borrower
would be required to provide equity contributions of at least 20 percent of total costs for sub-
projects approved by FINDETER.
3.6   FINDETER will rediscount the credits at a variable interest rate pegged to the market
deposit rate (DTF). Maturity and grace periods for subloan amortization would be up to 12
years and up to 2 years respectively. FINDETER would keep its rediscount rate at no less
than DTF plus 5 percentage points (DTF+5 %). Intermediaries would assume the credit



- 25 -
risk, and charge a spread determined competitively, up to the interest rate ceiling set by the
Monetary Board.
Project Costing and Financial Feasibility
3.7 Three main assumptions underlie the costing of the project: (a) not all 87
municipalities are going to want to participate in the project, and very likely only about half
the number will ultimately prepare suitable plans for project support; (b) not all
municipalities would be able to cover the counterpart costs required for participation; and (c)
the MEN would have serious constraints in implementing a large national program without
first acquiring experience in executing a pilot project.
3.8 To determine the financial feasibility of this project for the municipalities, two major
issues were examined during project preparation: (a) whether or not the total amount of the
proposed transfers under the situadoffiscal and municipal transfers would adequately cover
current departmental and municipal operational expenditures in education; and (b) whether or
not the level of the proposed transfers would be sufficient to cover projected investment and
operational costs in education. The research was carried out in 11 municipalities. It
analyzed each municipality's educational costs and educational funding, and projected these
values to the year 1999 under pessimistic, neutral, and optimistic scenarios. It was found
that educational costs depend mostly on teacher-student ratios and teacher salaries. While in
seven municipalities transfers were considered to be adequate under the neutral scenario to
cover operating requirements for projected increases in enrollments and for continued
purchases of instructional materials, in four municipalities, high teacher-student ratios cause
projected educational spending to exceed projected available educational funding by as much
as 50 percent. The analysis suggests that these mnunicipalities and others which might be in
similar circumstances would very likely not participate in the project because they would be
unable to provide the required amounts of counterpart and recurrent cost financing.
3.9   Total recurrent costs to municipalities for the operations and maintenance of
equipment, furniture, and buildings furnished under the project are roughly estimated to be
US$1.7 for the period of implementation. Further recurrent costs would accrue to
municipalities for annually replacing their textbooks after approximately the third year of
operation of their textbook schemes. These and other costs will be estimated in each MEP to
enable municipalities to assess tsheir capacity to participate in the project and to sustain future
investments.
IV. IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT,
AUDITING, MONITORING AND SUPERVISION
A. Project Management
4.1   Management Structure (Annex 9). MEN would be responsible for overall project
planning and execution. The Vice-Minister of Education would be directly responsible for
all project operations and would report to the Minister of Education. A Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) reporting directly to the Vice-Minister, would be charged with the day to day



- 26 -
management of the project. The PCU would consist of a Coordinator and a te-am of 13
professionals drawn from MEN's own permanent staff and outside consultants. The PCU
would have the responsibilities for project planning and promotion, technical support and
supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of project execution and impact. Part-time
supplementary support for project management would be provided to the PCU by staff in
MEN's Directorate for General Education and Directorate for Educational Planning. The
project would finance the PCU's operating expenses (roughly estimated at US$1.7 million),
including the services of a fiduciary agent to assist MEN in contracting and paying for goods
and services required by the PCU. Prior to negotiations, the Government: (a) submitted the
final staffing plan for the PCU for the Bank's approval; (b) recruited a Project Coordinator
with tenns of reference and qualifications approved by the Bank; and (c) appointed a
fiduciary agent for the activities of the PCU (para. 6.1 (d)). During negotiations, the
Government agreed that MEN would issue a resolution establishing the project Coordination
Unit by December 31, 1993. The unit would be established on the basis of the document
submitted to the Bank prior to negotiations and in accordance with agreements reached at
negotiations (para. 6.2 (e)), and that MEN would immediately begin implementing the
agreement signed with a fiduciary agent to provide services to the Coordination Unit. It was
further agreed that MEN will maintain such services for the duration of project
implementation (para. 6.2 (f)). The employment of the three senior managers for the PCU,
with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 6.3 (a)).
4.2    Project Management Responsibilities. The departments and municipalities would
each play important roles in project management. The Departmental Secretaries of
Education would be mobilized by MEN to provide coordination and technical support for
project activities in their departments. To this end, MEN would sign formnal agreements with
the Governors of each department, by which the Departmental Secretary of Education would
undertake to: (a) secure the active participation in the project by the pilot municipalities in
their department; (b) provide technical assistance to municipalities in preparing their MEP
and related sub-projects; (c) allocate resources for MEPs; (d) support project execution at the
municipal level; and (e) monitor project implementation. The mayors of participating
municipalities would also sign a formnal agreement with the Governor under which they
would confirm their commitment to the golls of the project and accept responsibilities for
project execution and monitoring. Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted to the
Bank: (a) copies of at least three agreements signed between the MEN and the Governors,
and at least one agreement between each such Governors and a Mayor regarding their
participation in and implementation of the proposed project, and (b) a draft operations
manual of the project (para. 6.1 (e)). During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that future legal agreements signed between the MEN and the participating
departments and between the departments and the municipalities would refer to the
conditionality for project funding as stated in the SAR (para. 2.4) and municipal and district
education plans would be expected to contain relevant targets and plans to sustain increases
in educational expenditures resulting from their investments (para. 6.2 (g)). Bank approval
of the work program for the first year of project implementation would be a condition of
loan effectiveness (para. 6.3 (b)).



- 27 -
4.3   Flnancing Flows and Control. Project funding would be managed according to the
administrative responsibilities assigned to the FIS, MEN and FINDETER (Annex I1).
Loan disbursements would be made to the Ministry of Finance (MHCP) which in turn would
disburse them as follows:
4.4    FIS. All resources for the co-financing of sub-projects for school rehabilitation,
vouchers, school improvement plans, textbooks and other instructional materials and
equipment would be channelled through the newly established PIS, which is expected to be
operational by January 1, 1994. The law establishing the PIS mandates the use of fiduciary
agent/s. Fiduciaries, both private and public, are commonly used in Colombia to administer
funds. They are regulated by the Banking Superintendency under legislation and Presidential
decrees uating from the 1920s to the present. The Superintendency ensures that fees
conform with established limits (for fiduciaries operating non-income earning funds such as
those to be managed through the FIS, current fees for service range between 2 and 3 percent
of the value of the funds managed), and that fiduciary arrangements generally maintain
transparency for users and the public. The FIS would enter into service contracts with the
fiduciaries, and the FIS and the departments would enter into sub-project agreements with the
participating municipalities. The fiduciaries would assist municipalities, as required, in
finalizing sub-projects arranging for procurement of goods and services and paying
contractors and providers of such goods and services. The fees charged by the fiduciaries
would be paid by the FIS and the municipalities, through their contribution to sub-project
financing, which would be deposited in advance in a local FIS account. The PIS would be
directly responsible for monitoring the flow of funds and for auditing finances. Upon
signing the contracts for goods and services, copies would be submitted to the relevant
fiduciary which would normally pay contractors an amount equal to 30 percent of the price.
Prior to subsequent disbursements, works supervisors and auditors, retained by the FIS and
reporting to the FIS fiduciaries, would confirmn that the contractors had performed their side
of the agreement adequiately. As conditions of loan effectiveness, FIS would have ratified
the project agreement, executed and delivered subsidiary agreements, and would be fully
operational for implementing the project (para. 6.3 (c)); and FIS would have furnished to the
Bank standard draft contracts with fiduciaries and sub-project executors (para. 6.3 (d)).
4.5   FINDETER. In addition to acting as a fiduciary agent for the FIS for the funding of
school rehabilitation, FINDETER would administer the credit line for the construction of
new school facilities and associated furniture. Funds for the credit line would be channelled
to FINDETER and disbursed through financial intermediaries to the municipalities in
accordance with FINDETER's standard procedures. Following approval of the MEP,
FINDETER would assist municipalities in completing the design of sub-projects, in tendering
civil works contracts, and in supervising their completion. Assistance would normally be
provided through FINDETER's regional offices. FINDETER's operating procedures would
be used in approving and executing these sub-components. MEN's norms and specifications
for school rehabilitation and construction, which were reviewed during project preparation,
were found acceptable and will be followed by FINDETER. FINDEIER would carry out
timely physical and financial monitoring of its activities under the project, within the
monitoring framework provided by the PCU. As conditions of loan effectiveness,
FINDETER would have ratified the project agreement, executed and delivered subsidiary and
trust agreements, and incorporated technical and financial criteria for education sub-projects



- 28 -
satisfactory to the Bank in its operational manual (para. 6.3 (e)); and FINDETER would
have furnished to the Bank standard draft contracts for execution of sub-projects
(para. 6.3 (f)).
4.6   MEN. Financing for the centrally-financed components of the project (management
and institutional strengthening for both MEN and the departments and municipalities, as well
as studies and evaluation research) would flow from the MHCP to the MEN. During
negotiations, the Goverment and the Bank agreed to review project operational
arrangements and financial flows arrangements annually and make adjustments, if needed.
The Government further agreed to increase the amount of technical assistance provided to the
departments and municipalities, if found necessary to improve project implementation
(para. 6.2 (h)).
B. Implemnentation Schedule
Readiness for Implementation
4.7   The Government will need to take several steps before and after negotiations to ready
the project for implementation. The first and most important steps pertain to the staffing and
administrative arrangements for the project. The PCU needs to be established and made
operational; it, in turn, needs to work out agreements with the Secretaries of Education in the
departments on their work programs and to organize and convene orientation and training
courses on municipal planning and sub-project preparation. Equally important all project
manuals need to be completed, in particular, the operations manual so that municipal officials
and education professionals are able to begin work on municipal plans and sub-project
preparation. During negotiations, the Government agreed that DNP, MEN, and FINDETER
would prepare model sub-projects to guide municipalities in implementing their MEP. These
models would be prepared by March 1994 and submitted to the Bank for review, after which
they will be incorporated in the MEP manual (para. 6.2 (i)). Third, sample bidding
documents need to be completed for the recruitment of fiduciary agents and steps taken to
develop a short list of agencies; equally important, standard bidding documents need to be
developed for the procurement of goods and services by municipalities. Fourth, the FIS
must be made operational and given clear policies and procedures for administering funds for
th^ co-financing of projects. Monitoring systems for all project components also need to be
designed and made operational by the PCU in collaboration with other agencies associated
with project implementation. As a condition of loan effectiveness, operations manuals for
the project as well as for the FIS, ICETEX and FINDETER, satisfactory to the Bank, would
have been issued and submitted to the Bank for review and approval (para. 6.3 (g)).
4.8   The strategy for project implementation would provide for the phasing in of project
operations at both the departmental and municipal levels. The pace at which operations
would expand would be determined by both the demand for project assistance from the
departments and municipalities and the capacity of the PCU team to mobilize project
resources in response to this demand. During project preparation, the departments of
Antioquia, Valle, Risaralda and the municipality of Pereira, Jamundi and Zipaquira were
among the first to express a strong interest in participating in the project; consequently, the



- 29 -
implementation schedule assigns a high priority to these departments and municipalities. The
final schedule would be reviewed and completed following the project launch workshop.
C. Procurement
4.9    The bulk of procurement under the project, summarized in Table 4.3, would be
carried out by the municipalities themselves in accordance with the Bank's guidelines.
Certain discrepancies between national legislation and the Bank's guidelines for ICB and
practices for LCB would be resolved by stipulating the cerresponding provisions in the Loan
Agreement. Assigning responsibility for procurement to municipalities is consistent with the
Govenmment's decentralization policy objectives. It is also a practical approach for the 87
municipalities to follow in procuring the civil works and goods and services to be funded in
the various sub-projects included in their MEN-s. Procuring civil works and other sub-project
inputs will challenge the administrative and management capacity of the municipalities.
However, many of the participating municipalities have successfully managed local
procurement of civil works, particularly in complex infrastructure projects financed by
FINDETER. In contrast, the procurement of textbooks, instructional materials and
equipment will be a new responsibility for many of the municipalities, for which
municipalities are expected to need some administrative and technical assistance.
4.10    The project will provide participating municipalities with the required technical and
administrative assistance in procurement. This will be done through a combination of
fiduciary agents, and procurement advisor/s based in the PCU. Fiduciary agents will, inter
alia, help municipalities carry out local shopping and pay suppliers; the procurement
advisor/s will assist municipalities in organizing tendering, based on standard bidding
documents developed for the project. In addition, the PCU procurement specialist/s, would
offer training to municipalities in procurement in an effort to expedite project
implementation. Among their tasks one would be to conduct short-term training workshops
on procurement for municipal officials. As a condition of effectiveness, evidence be
provided of the appointment of a procurement advisor/s for the project with terms of
reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.3 (h)).



- 30 -
Table 4.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Project Element          ICB       LCB        Other      N.B.F.       Total
Cost
Civil Works/Fees           -       43.8         13.6         -         57.4
(26.3)       (8.1)                 (34.4)
Furniture                  -         3.1         2.2                    5.3
(1.8)      (1.4)                   (3.2)
Equipment,                7.2        6.8        12.2         -         26.2
Instructional             (4.3)     (4.1)       (7.3)                 (15.7)
Materials and
Reference Texts
Textbooks                23.6        -                                 23.6
(14.2)                                        (14.2)
Studies                    -         -           5.3         -          5.3
(3.2)                  (3.2)
Technical                  -         -           2.3         -          2.3
Assistance                                      (1.4)                   (1.4)
Vouchers                   -         -           8.3         -          8.3
(5.0)                  (5.0)
School Improvement         -         -          16.1         -         16.1
Plans                                           (9.6)                   (9.6)
Project Unit               -         -           1.9         -           1.9
(1.1)                  (1.1)
Project                    -         -           3.6         -          3.6
Administration                                  (2.2)                   (2.2)
(Fiduciaries)
Total                    30.8      53.7        65.5          -        150.0
(18.5)    (32.2)      (39.3)                  (90.!)
Note:  Figures in Parenthesis are the respecive amounts financed by the Bank loan.
N.B.F.: Not Bank-Financed.



- 31 -
4.11  Civil Works.  The bulk of civil works would be comprised of refurbishing,
adaptations, and extensions of existing schools as well as the construction of new schools in
various municipalities. Civil works would be procured through LCB and local shopping
procedures. Each municipality would be responsible for managing the procurement of civil
works financed through FINDETER. Municipalities would be expected to carry out
procurement in accordance with policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank. The Bank is
assisting FINDETER in preparing standard bidding documents for use by municipalities in
procuring small scale civil works. These documents would be consistent with the Bank's
Standard Bidding Document for Smaller Works. The preparation of standard bidding
documents under LCB for civil works and goods and materials, acceptable to the Bank, will
be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.3 (i)).
4.12  Works for secondary school renovations and extensions are expected to cost US$57.4
million. The expected amount of each contract for civil works could vary between US$0.1
million for the small municipalities of 20,000 population and US$1.0 million for the larger
municipalities with population of 200,000. These contracts are not expected to be of major
interest to foreign competitors; however, local competitive bids will be open to foreign firms
in accordance with national regulations and Bank guidelines and are expected to generate
suifficient interest to create competition. An aggregate of US$43.8 million would be awarded
through LCB for civil works contracts valued between US$200,000 and US$3.0 million.
Civil works valued at up to US$200,000 equivalent per contract would be procured through
local shopping up to an aggregate amount of US$13.6 million.
4.13 GCoods and Materials. The goods aid materials would consist of three types: (a)
furniture, totalling US$5.3 million, which for contracts estimated to cost below US$250,000
up to an aggregate of US$3. 1, would be procured under LCB, and for contracts estimated to
cost under US$50,000 would be procured through local shopping, up to an aggregate amount
of US$2.2 million; (b) textbooks totalling US$23.6 million, which would be procured under
ICB; and (c) equipment, including science laboratories, instructional materials and reference
texts for libraries, totalling US$26.2 million. These items would be procured through 1CB
for contracts over US$300,000, up to an aggregate amount of US$7.2 million; LCB would
be used for contracts estimated to cost below US$300,000 and up to an aggregate amount of
US$ 6.8 million; and local shopping for contracts estimated to cost below US$50,000 and up
to an aggregate amount of US$12.2 million.
4.14   School Improvement Plans. Funds totalling US$16.1 million would be used to
support school improvement plans roughly averaging US$7,000 per school over two years,
and procured by local shopping, however, individual contracts for these expenditures would
not exceed US$5,000 per plan. These funds are going to be used primarily to support in-
service training of principals and teachers, although small purchases of instructional
materials, supplementary to those provided by the municipality, may be made by the school
administrations through local shopping to support teaching programs.
4.15 Technical Assistance. Consultants would be hired in accordance with Bank
guidelines (August 1981). Prior review by the Bank of terms of reference, consultant



- 32 -
qualifications and conditions of employment would apply to all individual consultants
regardless of their cost, and to all assignments of critical nature.
4.16 Items Not Involving Procurement. The bulk of the funds allocated for school
improvement plans, as noted in para. 4.10, would be used for covering the cost in-service
training of principals and teachers at local universities and training centers.
4.17 Prior Review. Prior review by the Bank would be required for all procurement
documentation for ICB contracts above US$250,000 and for the first LCB contract for goods
and for works for each municipality or fiduciary agent, as well as all LCB contracts
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, for goods, and US$500,000 or more, for works.
Contracts awarded without prior Bank review would be selectively reviewed postfacto
during Bank project supervision missions. All documentation for the hiring of consultants
for contracts valued above US$100,000 per contract, as well as single-source contracts,
regardless of value, would also be subject to prior review by the Bank.
D. Accounts and Disbursements
4.18 The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed based on the schedule
shown in Annex 10, over a period of 7-1/2 years; this schedule is in accordance with the
profile for Colombia. The project completion date would be June 30, 2000, and the project
closing date would be December 31, 2000. The length of the disbursement period takes into
account the elapsed time likely to be required for planning and implementing civil works and
school improvement initiatives in numerous municipalities throughout the country. Annex II
also illustrates in detail the flow of funds that will be channelled to the different entities
included in the project. The allocation of loan amount and the disbursement percentages are
summarized in Table 6 of Annex 10. Disbursement would be made against certified
Statement of Expenditures, except for contracts requiring prior review.
4.19 To reduce the interval between payments made by the beneficiaries and receipt of
reimbursements from the Bank, two Special Accounts would be established in the Central
Bank of Colombia. The Special Accounts would be denominated in US dollars and would be
established with initial deposits of US$2.0 million each, somewhat below the average four-
month requirement. Project expenditures would be monitored by the PCU from information
provided by each project executing agency. The PCU would request replenishment of the
Special Account on the basis of standard disbursement procedures.
4.20 The Bank would finance up to US$9 million or 10 percent of the proposed loan
retroactively for expenditures incurred by MEN after March 1, 1993, and in accordance with
Bank procurement guidelines. Retroactive financing is required so that the Govermment may
begin the gradual implementation of several programs in a timely manner.
E. Audits
4.21 The Bank would require that an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank: (a) audit
all accounts, SOEs, and Special Accounts; (b) apply auditing standards and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank and conforming to generally accepted auditing practices; (c) carry



- 33 -
out its auditing work in a timely manner (an annual report would be presented no later than
six months after the end of each calendar year); and (d) render an audit opinion or the
reasons whereby such opirion cannot be rendered. The hiring of one or more auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, to audit project accounts, SOEs and Special Accounts would be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 6.3 (j)).
F. Project Monitoring, Evaluation and Supervision
4.22 Monitoring. Overall monitoring and evaluation of the project would be the
responsibility of the PCU. Specific tasks include: (a) preparing annual progress reports on
project implementation, with year-end projections, which would be submitted to the Bank by
November 30; and (b) preparing updated implementation schedules and expenditure plans for
the subsequent year, which also would be submitted to the Bank by November 30 of each
year. During project preparation, MEN identified the major components of a monitoring
system for the proposed project as well as the monitoring indicators and key performance
targets. The proposed project monitoring system takes into account the monitoring
requirements of each implementing agency as well as of individual pilot municipalities.
4.23 A mid-terrn review of the project would be conducted towards the end of June 1996
to assess achievements, identify constraints, and to make needed adjustments in the overall
strategy for the remaining years of project implementation. It would also examine the level
and composition of education expenditures for a sample of municipalities with a view toward
ensuring adequate provision for educational materials and recurrent costs. Monitoring
indicators for each component have been developed to track project implementation in
relation to key perfonnance targets and objectives. These targets are an integral part of the
project action plan prepared for the project. At negotiations, and following subsequent
consultations, the Govemment confirmed its agreement to the proposed mid-term review and
to the monitoring indicators and key performance targets which appear in Annex L. (para.
6.2 (j) and (k)). A condition of effectiveness would be for the Government to propose a
system for project monitoring which is satisfactory to the Bank, would be ready to be put
into operation immediately (para. 6.3 (k)).
4.24 Evaluation. The project includes funding for evaluation studies which would be
conducted in the course of project implementation and shortly after termination by local
research groups. The studies would be conducted under contract from MEN (para. 2.25).
The proposed evaluation studies are described in Annex 12.
4.25 Supervision. The supervision of this operation will require larger than average
coefficients because of its innovative character and the scope of operations which eventually
could include 87 municipalities. The supervision plan for the project takes these factors into
account (Annex 12). It includes a project launch seminar, annual and mid-term reviews,
regular Bank staff supervision missions, and supplementary special missions by others for
specific project components. An estimated 12 staff weeks (SWs) per year of Bank
supervision will be required. Headquarters supervision would be supplemented by 10 staff
weeks of in-country supervision and support for implementation by a human resources
specialist based in the World Bank Resident Mission.



- 34 -
V. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1   The project will support on average 60 percent of the total investment requirements
for the 87 municipalities with the potential benefits as follows: (a) increasing access to
secondary education for an estimated 90,000 primary school graduates in 87 municipalities;
(b) providing opportunities for secondary education for up to 22,000 students of low-income
families; (c) enhancing the quality and efficiency of education in the 1,250 pubL;e secondary
schools in the 87 municipalities through the provision of up 4.2 million textbooks, teacher
and principal training and mstructional materials and equipment; (d) strengthening the
administrative and managerial capacity of 11 departments, 87 municipalities, and up to 1,250
public school administrations to plan and implement education improvement programs; and
(e) increasing the overall level of investments in education, and secondary education in
particular, made by regional and local governments.
B. Risks
5.2   The major risks to project implementation are: (a) insufficient implementation
capacities in the MEN, FIS and other government agencies could result in slow project
execution; (b) the institutional weakness of local government and the high turnover of key
municipal personnel could jeopardize the pursuit of coherent education programs at the local
level; (c) local governments may not be willing to participate in the project, because they
lack confidence in the central government's commitment and ability to deliver on its
promises; (d) local governments may not be able to invest in secondary educational facilities
to the extent needed to reach the enrollment targets; and (e) the voucher program will not
gain the requisite political acceptance, although the first year of the program has been
generally successful. The project design, including the sequencing of Bank assistance,
implementation arrangements, a flexible management approach, and the use of technical
assistance would help diminish these risks.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1 Prior to negotiations, the Government submitted the following for the Bank's review
and agreement:
(a) the legal procedures to be followed by the national and departmental governments in
transferring responsibility for secondary school construction and maintenance to the
municipalities (pam. 2.11);
(b)  a manual setting forth the policies and administrative procedures to be used in
managing the voucher program, and the procedures to be used by ICETEX and the
municipalities for assessing qualifications of schools (para. 2.16);



- 35 -
(c) a proposed plan for implementing decentralization of education in 1993-95 (para.
2.22);
(d) the final staffing plan for the PCU for the Bank's approval; the recruitment of a
Project Director with terms of reference and qualifications approved by the Bank;
and, the appointment of a fiduciary agent for the activities of the PCU (para. 4.1);
and
(e) copies of at least three agreements signed between the MEN and the Governors, and
at least one agreement between each such Governors and a Mayor regarding their
participation in and implementation of the proposed project, and a draft operations
manual of the project (para. 4.2).
6.2   At negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a) that the legal procedures for transferring secondary school property to municipalities
would be incorporated in the regulations for Law 60 which are expected to be
prepared by MEN and DNP and issued by March 1994. Meanwhile, MEN will
devise a plan to provide training and/or technical assistance to departments to
facilitate their working with the municipalities in the implementation of these
regulations (para. 2.11);
(b) that the draft manual on the policies and administrative procedures to be used in the
management of the voucher program would be incorporated into the project operations
manual (para. 2.16);
(c) to revise by March 1994 its proposed plan for implementing decentralization of
education to include a strategy with targets and actions which would be taken jointly
with other agencies (para. 2.22);
(d) to submit the formula it proposes to use for transferring national funds for social
development (situado fiscal) to local governments for review by the Bank (para. 3.4);
(e) that MEN would issue a resolution establishing the Project Coordination Unit by
December 31, 1993. The unit would be established on the basis of the document
submitted to the Bank pricr to negotiations and in accordance with agreements
reached at negotiations (para. 4. 1);
(f) that MEN would immediately begin implementing the agreement signed with a
fiduciary agent to provide services to the Coordination Unit. It was further agreed
that MEN will maintain such services for the duration of project implementation
(para. 4.1);
(g) that future legal agreements signed between MEN and the participating departments
and between the departments and the municipalities would refer to the conditionality
for project funding (pam. 2.4); and that municipal and district education plans would



- 36 -
be expected to contain relevant targets and plans to sustain increases in educational
expenditures resulting from their investments (para. 4.2);
(h) to review project operational arrangements and financial flows arrangements annually
with the Bank and make adjustments, if needed. It further agreed to increase the
amount of technical assistance provided to the departments and municipalities, if
found necessary to improve project implementation (para. 4.6);
(i)  that DNP, MEN, and FINDETER would prepare model sub-projects to guide
municipalities in implementing their MEP. These models would be prepared by
March 1994 and submitted to the Bank for review, after which they will be
incorporated in the MEP manual (para. 4.7);
(j) on the holding of a mid-term review of project implementation towards the end of
June 1996 based upon the monitoring indicators and key performance targets of the
project (para. 4.23); and
(k)  to the monitoring indicators and key performance targets which appear in Annex 12
(para. 4.23).
6.3   Conditions for loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  three senior managers for the PCU be employed with terms of reference and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.1);
(b)  the work program for the first year of project implementation be prepared and
submitted to the Bank for review (para. 4.2);
(c)  FIS would have ratified the project agreement, executed and delivered subsidiary
agreements, and be fully operational for implementing the project (para. 4.4);
(d)  FIS would have furnished to the Bank standard draft contracts with fiduciaries and
sub-project executors (para. 4.4);
(e)  FINDETER would have ratified the project agreement, executed and delivered
subsidiary and trust agreements, and incorporated technical and financial criteria for
education sub-projects, satisfactory to the Bank, in its operational manual (para. 4.5);
(f)  FINDETER would have furnished to the Bank standard draft contracts for execution
of sub-projects (para. 4.5);
(g)  operations manuals for the project as well as for the FIS, ICETEX and FINDETER
satisfactory to the Bank, would have been issued (para. 4.7);
(h)  evidence be provided of the appointment of a procurement advisor/s for the project
with terms of reference and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.10);



- 37 -
(i)  standard bidding documents for civil works and goods and mateials under LCB,
acceptable to the Bank, would have been prepared (pan. 4.11);
(j) one or more auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, would have been hired to audit project
accounts, SOEs and Special Accounts (para. 4.21); and
(k)  a system for project monitoring, satiiactory to the Bank, be ready to be put into
operation immediately (pam. 4.23).
6.4   Recommendation. With the above agreements and assurances, the prposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$90 miion equivalent to the Republic of
Colombia.



- 38 -                               Annex 1
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
The Education System, Structure and Curriculum
Preschool and Primary Education
1.    Preschool has not been compulsory in Colombia. However, the Constit0tion of 1991
establishes one year of preschool called "ano 0". One of the main objectives of "aflo 0" is
to reduce the high rate of repetitions in the first year of primary education by preparing
children for first grade. The goal of the program is to ensure that by the year 200, three
pre-school years will be the norm. The vast majority of the existing pre-schools, or
kindergartens, are privately owned. Children may enter preschool as early as age 3 and
continue through age 6,
2.    Primary education lasts 5 years. Children may - oll in primary schools at age 6,
although most enter at 7. The primary school curriculumil, including the number of subjects
at each grade level, time spent on each subject, and the topics to be covered, is specified in
detail by the Ministry of Education (Table Al.1).
Table A1.1: Primary School Curriculum
------------------------Hours per Week----------------------
Subject              Grade I  Grade 2  Grade 3  Grade 4   Grade 5
Aesthetic and
Manual Training        3        3         3       3          3
Mathematics              5        5         5       5           5
Natural Science          3        3         4       4          5
Physical Education       3        3         3       3           3
Religion                 3        3         3       3          3
Social Studies           4        4         5       5          5
Spanish                  9        9         7       7          6
Total Hours           3Q 0Q               Q       3Q
Source: Decree 1710 of 1963, and Resolution 2308 of 1971.
3.    In rural areas most primary education is provided by Escuela Nueva. Escuela Nueva
was officially launched in 1976 in 500 schools, and by 1989, 17,948 of these schools were in



- 39-                              Annex 1
operation serving 800,000 students.' The program is based on a multigrade teaching
technique, designed to provide a full five-year primary course with no more than three
classrooms and three teachers. The program aims to improve student achievement, enhance
educational efficiency and productivity, and integrate the school and the community.
Appraisals of Escuela Nueva show that it is feasible to raise the quality of primary education
for a modest increase in the unit cost per student.
Secondary Education
4.    A series of overlapping national laws have modified the secondary education
curriculum making the system confusing and preventing standardization. Among the most
recent reforms of Secondary Education are the following: Law 43 of 1975 (nationalization),
Laws 088 and 102 (Regional Educational Funds (FER) and Law 089 (ICFES and Higher
Education) of 1976, Decree '419 of 1978 which mandates a new curriculum and procedures
for its implementation and Decree 1002 of 1984 which regulates Law 088 of 1976 and
Decree 1419 of 1978. Decree 1002 establishes the goals of education, the characteristics of
the curriculum and the curriculum process, and the mechanism that allows for curriculum
diversity according to regional need.
5.    The result of the 1984 reforms is the establishment of a four-year cycle from grades 6
to 9 (Ciclo Bdsico) followed by a two-year cycle from 10-11 (Media Vocacional). All grades
of the four-year basic cycle have the same core courses, although they differ in the number
of hours taught: 30 the first two years and 25 the second two years (Table A1.2). All
programs in the two-year cycle require 35 class hours per week, except pedagogy which
requires 39 hours per week. This means that all students in grades 6 to 9 have the same
curriculum and for grades 10 and 11 there are optional subjects. All programs lead to a
Bachiller diploma.
6.    Under the 1978 decree there are only three types of Bachilleratos: Sciences (with
specialization in math, natural sciences or social sciences); Technology (with specialization in
pedagogy, industry, agriculture, commerce, health and nutrition education and recreation,
community work); and Art (with specialization in art or applied arts). However, the MEN
still awards seven types of Bachilleratos recognized under the pre-1978 legislation:
Academic, Commerce, Agricultural, Industrial, Pedagogical, Social Services, and others
(Fine Arts, Science, and a miscellany of "others" representing a minuscule percentage of the
total) (Table Al.3). Most secondary education establishments offer only one type of
bachillerato, the Bachillerato AcadAmico, even though since 1974 (Decree 080), all schools
by law must offer at least two Bach/ileratos. Upon completion of the second cycle, the
student receives the Bachiller diploma, which is a requirement to enter university. However,
most universities also require a satisfactory result in the State Examination (ICFES).
I Psacharopoulos George, Carlos Rojas and Eduardo Velez, Achievamei Evaluation of Colombia's Escuela
Nueva. Is Multigrade the Aswer? (World Bank, April 1992), p. 2.



-40-                               Annex I
Table A1.2: Secondary School Basic Cycle Curriculum
------------------Hours per Week----------------
Subject                Grade 6   Grde 7   Glade 8   Grade 9
Aesthetic and
Manual Training        2           2          2         2
Foreign Languages        4          4          3         3
Mathematics              5          5          4         4
Natural Science          4          4          4         4
Physical Education       2          2          2         2
Religion                 2          2          2         2
Social Studies           6          6          4         4
Spanish                  5          5          4         4
T=otal Hours          30          30         25        25
Source: Resolution 130, January 23, 1978; and Resolution 4785, July 9, 1974.
Table A1.3: Colombia Enrollment Distribution by Tracks, 1954-91
(in percentages)
Tracks             1954  1966  1975 1984  1988   1991
Academic           61.9  62.8  75.2  76.4  77.2   78.5
Pedagogical        9.6  12.5  5.2  3.6   3.7    2.5
Commerce           17.9  13.0  11.6  12.4  12.0   11.4
Industrial          6.1   4.2   5.0  4.2   3.7    3.8
Agriculture         1.4   .9   1.7  1.8   1.9    1.7
Social Services    3.4   6.6   .5  1.6   1.5    .9
Others              -     -      -    -      -     1.2
Source: Ministry of National Education-Sectoral Office of Educational
Planning, Division of Statistics & Systems, 1991.



-41-                               Aunci
7.    The Insntuto Nacional de Educacion Media (INEM) is a comprehensive multi-track
secondary school offering academic and vocational curricula under one roof. The INEM
offers a six-year program. During the first two-year cycle, students are exposed to
prevocational subjects to acquaint thekn with knowledge and career options in various trades.
The second two-year cycle is oriented to vocational subjects, such as agriculture, industry,
social services and commerce, along with continuing academic study. Those who leave
school at this level are regarded as prepared for further training, such as the National
Vocational Training Service (SENA) or on-the-job apprenticeships. Finally, during the last
two-year cycle, further specialization takes place; e.g., students in the commercial track can
focus on fields such as secretarial or accounting studies, students in the industrial track could
focus in fields such as electricity or construction. In this way, it is expected that students
would get a more varied education so that their range of future education and occupational
opportunities would be wider. There are only 21 INEMs throughout the country.
Calendar
8.    There are two school calendar years, A and B. Calendar year A is used by most
schools. The first semester begins February 1 and ends June 15, with a vacation period from
June 16 to July 15. The second semester begins July 16 and ends November 30, with
vacation during December and January. Calendar year B is used by most bilingual schools.
The first semester begins September 1 and ends December 15, with vacations until January
15. The second semester begins January 15 and ends June 30, with vacations during July
and August. The primary and secondary schools are in session from Monday to Friday, 198
days a year.
Higher Education
9.    Colombia's system of higher education has been dominated by universities modeled
on those the Spanish settlers had known in Europe. Therefore, until fairly recently, higher
education only served a small select group of the population. Enrollment rate for 1989 was
only 11.3 percent of secondary school graduates for that year. Further, the universities offer
only a small number of specialties; mainly, traditional fields such as medicine, law, civil
engineering, and architecture. Change in the university sector has been a slow process.
10.   Reforms of higher education are carried out by the InsPituto Colombiano para el
Fomento de la Educaci6n Superior (ICFES). This agency, created in 1964, is responsible for
regulating and inspecting all matters related to higher education. However, ICFES tends to
have a low political profile and even less clout, giving it little bargaining power over the
more powerful higher education institutions, such as the National University. Some
universities in Colombia possess a high degree of autonomy.
11.   All students who wish to enter an institution of higher education must hold a BachWller
diploma and take the State Examination. Each institution requires a minimum grade on the
State Examination, and weighs the results in accordance with the academic requirements of
the corresponding program. The institutions may also have other entry requirements of their
own, such as specific examinations, interviews, etc.



- 42 -                               Annex 1
12.   In 1989, 236 higher education institutions were operating in Colombia, of which 30
percent were public and 70 percent private. Of these, 76 were academic universities and the
rest provided other types of higher education.
13.   The main recent reform in higher education was implemented by the MEN by
Decree-Law 80 of July 20, 1980. This Decree-Law established four categories of higher
education. These four categories are the following:
(a)  intermediate professional studies, which are relatively short-term (four to five
semesters in length) curricula for clerical and lower-level white-collar jobs;
(b)  technological studies which are also relatively short-term programs (six to seven
semestars in length), but for careers considered technical;
(c)  professional studies, which encompass traditional careers (e.g., law, medicine,
engineering), and have a usual length of 10-12 semesters in length for graduation; and
(d)  graduate studies, which are concentrated in only the major universities and in a few
"traditional' fields (e.g., history, literature, philosophy).
14.   The main difference between the first two categories of higher education and the third
and fourth is that the latter two have to comply with more stringent regulations established by
the ICFES, and confer a higher social and professional prestige.
The National Vocational Training Service: SENA
15.   SENA was established in 1957 as a semi-autonomous (decentralized) institution
assigned to the Ministry of Labor. It is managed by a Board consistirg of representatives of
the government, employers, and workers. It is funded through a 2 percent payroll tax paid
by the private sector and semi-autt nomous public institutions plus a 0.5 percent payroll tax
paid by the public sector entities.
16.   SENA offers a non-academic vocational training program to help workers perform
more effectively on the job. To enroll, a student must be employed and have an equivalent
of five years of elementary education. The types of programs offered are determined by the
business community and its need for trained workers. The training program at SENA can be
as short as three months and rarely lasts more than three years. Participants usually split
their time between on-the-job training and the SENA program. All graduates obtain a
certificate recognized by MEN.
17.   The Colombian government also has a distance learning program, i.e., primary
education by radio and secondary education by TV. Both programs are aimed at achieving
minimal educational standards at their respective levels and are targeted to people who cannot
attend school everyday. Periodically, the students must meet at regional centers, where they
are tested and their progress evaluated.



COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
The Educaton System In Colombia
Preschool                   Primary                  ,                    Secondary                                                 Post Secondary
_One Cycle
One d  everatoptions:l    
Acadmic.Agriultual.Industrial,                                iniermeidate Technlcal Vocational Training
*  Commercial, Padagogic, Social Services                          (SENA) (Non-f oaal)
(2 years)
:                                                                                                       :
.                                     ~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~Basic Cycle  Media vocational  tC
[ii II         1      2   | 3   | 4   | 5         |           | 6   | 7   | 8  | 9     10 + 11                  .        _ Technical Vocaoa Educaion Traig (Formal) 4
2   3   4       7                       la I I I                3:  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(2 years
Media vocational options:                               in.
Science: Math. Natural Science Social Science;
Technology: Pedagogy Industry, Agriculture.
Commerce. Health, Nutrftion and Recreation.
Community work
Art: At & Appled arts                                               Universy
INEM
a .,
.   Vocaltinal         Vocational      Occupational
exploration       orientation     speclaHzation
A   6
Age  S          6- 7    0      9     10     11      :     12      13        14     15          16     17
I ' I I I I I . I I I 1 1 1 ,



- 44 -                      Annex 2
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Education Administration
The Mistry of National Education
1.    The Ministry of National Education (MEN) is the major administrative authority in
Colombia for all levels of education. This authority extends from the President to the
Minister of Education and through him to the departments and municipalities. MEN has the
legal power to issue decrees and resolutions, which are the legal foundation of the
educational structure. It determines types of curriculum, minimum course requirements, the
school calendar, qualifications of teachers, and related administrative functions. The
ministry ex.rcises control over public and private schools. MEN makes annual evaluations
of financial needs and recommends adjustments of the fiscal budget for the department and
municipalities. It has tight control over budgetary allocations to departments and
municipalities and pays salaries and pensions to official educational staff.
2.    Recent laws aimed at decentralizing education in Colombia have not been entirely
successful and may have had the opposite effect. Law 24 of 1988 and Law 29 of 1989
reasserted the powers of MEN, establishing it as the institution responsible for overseeing
and defining national policies on education, science, technology, culture, sports and
recreation, and environmental protection. According to these laws, the municipalities and the
departments are responsible for the administration of the educational system. In other words,
the departments and municipalities must shoulder the economic problems associated with the
management of education, but have little say in establishing education priorities. MEN was
reorganized th -,ugh Decree 2127 of December 29, 1992, in line with the current
decentralization process. Some responsibilities were transferred to the departments and
municipalities but MEN still has oversight of financial areas. MEN will also provide advice
in pedagogical and curricular matters.
Departments
3.    The 1886 Constitution established the Governor, who was appointed by the President
of the Republic, as the chief administrative officer of the department, and thus controlled the
administration of all departmental schools in his sector. He also appointed the Sec.etary of
Education, who was the departmental chief educational officer. The Secretary of Education
was accountable to the Governor not the Minister of Education, with responsibility for
administering the educational system in the department in accordance with standards
established by MEN.
4.    The future role of the department in the proposed decentralization of education is still
being defined. Article 303 of the 1991 Constitution states that governors will be elected



- 45 -                      ADni 2
publicly for a period of three years and cannot be reelected. The departments will continue
to have the responsibility to administer and coordinate the educational system in their
jurisdictions, and have the further obligation of encouraging the decentralization process at
the municipal level. Current legislation on education also bypasses closer links between
MEN and the municipalities.
5.    The Secretarfa de Fducaci6n Depantamental is responsible for executing MEN
policies governing education, science and technology, recreation, sports and culture. The
secretarfas managed secondary education within the department until MEN nationalized the
responsibilities in 1975. Primary education has always been a decentralized and
responsibility of the secretarfas.
6.    The Fondo Educativo Regional (FER) is the financial mechanism to pay for teachers
on the official roster, and is administered by the departments. The? FER is composed
primarily of resources transferzed from the central government. Since the establishment of
the FER in 1968, teachers have been paid on time, which had not been the case before. This
has diminished the number and intensity of teacher strikes. The governing authority of the
FER is the Administrative Board which proposes to MEN the number of teachers needed in
the departmeins and municipalities (i.e., provides a list of qualified teachers).
7.    The Centros Experimentales Piloto (CEP) work closely with the Secretaries of
Education, even though they come under the jurisdiction of MEN. Their function is to keep
the departments and municipalities informed of experimental programs MEN is
implementing, and in this way they act as a furt'iler link between the department and the
national level. The CEPs are also responsible for promoting the enhancement of education at
all levels. They organize evaluation and performance systems for promotion of personnel;
design and evaluate mechanisms for educational improvement; and develop experimental and
curricular programs in cooperation with schools in their geographical area.
Municipalities
8.    Traditionally, local governments were not given much importance, but were simply
seen as another source of patronage by national leaders, with little local accountability. Only
recently has decentralization been an accepted concept in the political dialogue of the
country. Only since 1988 have mayors actually been elected by popular vote. However,
even today the much-used phrase by politicians of "political centralization and administrative
decentralization" connotes the belief at the national level that municipal governments are even
more inefficient than the national o.le. However, among other administrative work,
municipalities should be allocated sufficient financial resources to perform their tasks, since
the municipalites are more accountable to the population than the central government.
9.    The municipalities are required to adopt policies and plans established at the
departmental and national levels. They have been acquiring more tasks with the
decentralization process, although they have limited control over educational finance because
their educational budgets are eanmarked by law at the national level. MEN and the
departments pay public school teachers' salaries and determine the number of teachers
needed in each municipality through the FER Board. The municipality can propose teaching



- 46-                      Annex 2
and administrative staff but appointments have to be approved by the department.
Nevertheless, municipalities are permitted to hire qualified teachers who are needed but
because of a hiring freeze could not be hired provided the municipalities pay their salaries
and pensions through their own budgets.
10.   Municipalities are now responsible for day-to-day administration of education
personnel, including transfer of teachers among municipal public schools, and for building
and maintaining the physical infrastructure for education.
11. Following the government's "nuclearization" program, implemented in 1959, each
municipality was divided into small administrative districts (nickleos) consisting of 10 to 20
schools. The aim of nuclearizacion is to enhance educational management by making it more
accountable to the community. Nuclearization only became a national program, however, in
the mid-1970s. Today there are an estimated 800 or so nicleos in operation; however, they
are projected to reach 1,841 in the next few years. The idea behind the nicleo is that
education should be decentralized and focus on the needs of the community. The mayor
appoints the Directores de Nkckeo who in tum advise him on all municipal educational
matters and on national educational policy.
Decentralization of Education
12.   Decentralization Efforts of the 1960s and 1970s. The constitutional reform
undertaken during the administration of Carlos Lleras Restrepo in 1968 was the beginning of
the decentralization process in the Colombian educational sector. The reform deconcentrated
the central government by creating a host of decentralized institutes to help manage
education. MEN retained veto power over these institutes, which specialized in various
aspects of educational policy. Therefore. the complexity, operations, and responsibilities of
MEN grew--before 1968, MEN only controlled policy for national schools, which accounted
for only 1 percent of enrolled primary students and 6.5 percent of enrolled secondary
students.
13.   To finance the educational sector, the FER was created as a hybrid system intended to
centralize funding and decentralize resources available to educational personnel. Under the
FER system, the national government allocated funds used to pay teachers' salaries. The
departmental governments were required to enter into a contract with the national
government that imposed numerous conditions on how the funds could be spent. Implicit in
this transaction was the threat of the central government withholding resources if the
departments refused to act according to national guidelines. Another measure to ensure
adequate funding for education was the Situado Fiscal (Education Tax Allowance), enacted in
1971. It earmarked national government expenditures and sales taxes for educational
purposes.
14.   As a further effort to harmonize the educational sector, the juntas de escalaf6n
departamental were created to ensure that teachers met certain qualifications. To promote
cooperation among levels of governments, the juntas were supposed to receive input from the
national and departmental levels; however, MEN was clearly the senior partner in this
arrangement.



- 47 -                     Annx2
15.   Decentralization in the 1980s. Throughout the 1980s a stated policy objective has
been to increase local participation in education, including policy- making. However, few
attempts have been made to train local officials or to develop local institutions for their
enhanced responsibilities.
16.   The policy-making environment was to change after the Mapa Educativo was enacted
in 1982. This program aimed to introduce microplanning to education, and therefore
increase the input of local levels of government. This program was an attempt to expand the
nucleanizaci6n program to the national level. Unfortunately, the departmental Secretariats of
Education saw this as a further intrusion of MEN into their affairs and effectively opposed its
implementation. The result was that MEN maintained a monopoly over educational policy-
making.
17.  In 1986, Congress enacted Law I requiring the election of mayors beginning in 1988.
This marked the start of effective decentralization. This law was followed by a series of
measures aimed at increasing the fiscal autonomy of municipalities. Since 1986, sales taxes
have been increasingly collected and retained at the local level as an important means of
financing for municipal governments. This law meant that municipalities would now be
responsible for the construction of educational infrastructure through their own resources. In
addition, certain municipalities would be required to contribute to the FER in an attempt to
redress regional inequalities. However, increased revenue collection by municipalities has
not implied increased independence. The municipality must devote 30 percent of its grants to
education, of which 5 percent must be used to maintain school physical infrastructure. These
percentages were established at the central level by MEN.
18.  In 1988, local governments were given the power to manage their educational
systems, even though MEN remains responsible for national education policy. This measure
attempts to make local governments directly responsible--and therefore accountable, for the
actual provision of education. The municipality is responsible for the administration of
educational personnel, even though teachers are still paid by the central government and
subject to national "escalaf6n" criteria.
19.   Decentralization in the 1990s. The Constitution of 1991 attempted to strengthen the
decentralization process. It established a framework to distribute the functions at different
administrative levels and increased the responsibilities of the departments and municipalities
in the delivery of social services. However, the actual outline of the new functions was to be
defined by the Education Law. The draft education law still maintains the primacy of MEN
in the educational sector by making it the sole entity responsible for educational policy and
planning, and giving it the authority to eannark municipal budgets for educational purposes.
20.   Colombia now is going through a period of "devolution," which is a form of
decentralization that involves the diffusion of political and administrative autonomy to local
governments. Under this type of decentralization, the central government grants local level
organizations the authority to make decisions affecting them; nevertheless, the central
government usually maintains some control over local governments by managing the
national, and sometimes municipal, budgets.



- 48 -                     Ane 2
21.   Decentralization will be successful in Colombia only if local governments are
empowered to assume the responsibilities involved. Simply creating decentralized- structures
for enhanced decision making and announcing new procedures for participatioe, in plalining
and administration will not guarantee that they will be effective or generate economic growth
with greater social equity. Thus, if decentralization is to be effective, the attitudes and
behavior of both central government officials and local leaders must be altered to recognize
the value and legitimacy of shared decision-making and more widespread participation in
development planning and management.



49                              Anna 2
Table A2.1: LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR ADMINISTRATION OF
PUBLIC SECONDARY EDUCATION SERVICES
(By Department or Special District Participating in the Project)
Depa m          ToW  N  m#          Municpal         DepelmeW                toa
or SOd               Of            Control of         Cotrl ot        ::O:rd f.t
:                                                   )'- .',:   ;. :    . ,,, ,,. ............... ' .... : '':. : ...... ,'.,,,>.,::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   ... . . . .   . .
Antioquia              124                49                 75                 0
Atlantico              23                 23                 0                  0
Bolivar                 32                32                 0                  0
Caldas                  25                25                 0                  0
Cundinamarca           114                89                 0                 25
Magdalena              21                 20                 1                  0
Narifto                59                 57                 2                  0
Norte de
Santander              38                 6                  32                 0
Risaralda               14                2                  12                 0
Santafd de
Bogotga                 1                  1                 0                  0
Santander              86                 47                 0                 39
Valle                   42               0                  0                 42
TOTALS              _579                 351                122                106
a.   Within SantafM de Bogotd, 20 Juntas Administradoras Locales control education funds and administer vablic
primary and secondary education services within their jurisdictions, with the full autonomy provided
by Laws 24 and 29.



-50 -                           Annex 2
Tabl A2.2: NUMBER OF MUNICEPAL SECRETARAS, SUPERVISORES,
AND NUCLEOS DE EDUCACI6N
(By Department or Speal Distuict Particpating in the Project)
Nam  of          No. of          No. of        No. of        No. of         No. of
Department    Municipalities     Planned         Acive       Muniipal    Supervisores
or Special                       Nuckos        Nudeos       Secctasw           de
District                          de             de            de         Educacicn
Educacln      Educ        ad6n    _d_ac_
Antioquia            124             243            243           20             81
Atlantico             23             42             37             5             49
Bolivar               32             64             65           N.A.           N.A.
Caldas                25             71             45           N.A.            49
Cundinamarca         114             123             0             3             85
Magdalena             21             51             46             0             39
Narifio               59             117            94             7             49
Norte de
Santander             38             67             59             1             48
Risaralda             14             48             15           N.A.           N. A.
Santafe de
BogotA '              I               1              0             1            N. A.
Santander             86             102            88             1             43
Valle                 42             141            123          N.A.           N A.
TOTALS               579            1,070           815    T      38      T      443
a.    Within Santafe de Bogoti, 20 Juntas Admini.tradoras Locales control education funds and
administer public primary and secondary education services within their jurisdictions, with
the full autonomy provided by Laws 24 and 29.



- 51 -
Annex 2
Table A2.3: LOCAL ADMNMATION OF PUBliC EDUCATION
(By Municipalty Participating In the Project)
Net of                 No                    NO.o             N&                N .of              DouWe
M1 dgd                Dep_zl.    r          Fvka  Mi          NIe  *             DIMwb.            Muankidp
SpeCa D ;tzict        Sacom             X&wdim           Deeu  NW           Have Its OWN
Sth& Schek                                              Secr.a,b d.
hr pryas            EWwwc"?
ad Scadary
PA& .ho,                      _ _S
Medellin               Antioquia              493               23                451                 Yes
| atboa               Anioqubs                41                2                 47                 Yes
Bello                Antioquia               73                3                71                  Yes
Caldas                Antioquia               30                2                36                  No
Copacabana              Antioquis               40                1                 28                 No
Envigado               Antioquis               59                2                39                  Y
Girardota              Antioquia               24                1                 24                 No
Itagui               Antioquib               65                2                 44                 Yes
La Estella              Antioquia              22                 1                15                  Yes
Sabaneta               Anlioquis               19                1                11                  Yes
Gu*me                 Antioquia               33                2                33                  No
El Retiro              Antioquis               24                1                22                  No
Amagd                 Antioquis               25                1                26                  No
La Ceje               Antioquis               34                1                 8                  No
Rionegro               Antioquis               68                3                55                  Ye6
San Pedro              Antioquia               3.                1                 31                 No
Marinilla              Antioquis               42                2                40                  Yes
San Vicente             Antioquba               49                1                45                  No
Carmen de Viboral          Antioquis               49                2                 49                 No
Barranquilla             Atlantico              195               16               250                 Yes
Malmbo                 Atantico                9                 2                 12                 Yes
Polonuem                Atlantico               7                1                 9                  No
Aaeeto _olombia            Atbantico               7                1                 7                  Yes
Soledad                Atlantico              30                3                 56                 No
Sabanagrand.             Atlantico               8                 1                 8                  No



- 52 -
Annu 2
Kin.af.     Nbht             ?4VRW:*           ata a.dw,         DOkegatb
-..~    Cep~mdwwf.    wre lta Ome
1t0i&: Sebeeb                     P dr . ; t ti::. At w1e00.  SWWA I.
M& kboI.         diwacM.?
AusD.  DAlsgaO         31                1                27                 Yes
SAao TomS               Adsiaco                 14               1                 16                 No
S c_bAku                AiIco                 30                2                32                 Yes
CazaeSOM                DlVaz                 251              12                291                N.A.
Azxio                 Boliva                 24                1                26                N.A.
Mahae                  Boiivot               29                1                20                 N.A.
San EBanislso             Bolivnr               25                1                11                 N.A.
Soplaviento              Boler                 0                 1                0                 N.A.
Tutbaco                Bolivar                25               1                 22                NA.
Marh la Raja              Boliwr                66                1                46                N.A.
Manizules               Caldas                328               10               240                N.A.
Chinchind               Calda                 39                2                24                 N.A.
Piladelphia             CaIdi                  46               2                 IS                N.A.
Neis                  Calda                 69                3                25                 N.A.
Paklsinc                Caldas                23               2                 13                N.A.
Vailamara               Ccas                  47                2                31                 N.A.
Setf6 de Bogot          SanA de Bogod            1,109              0               1,328               Yes
Cjici              Cundinaumuca             IS                I                 S                  Yes
Facuttivvi           CundifmnUAn               9                1                14                  No
Madnd               Cundinsmarca              9                1                 3                 No
Mosquers             Cundinuacm                9                1                 4                 No
Sibsd              Cundinurca                1s               I                 3                  No
Sowche              Cundinunrc,              23                1                10                 No
zipaquird            Cuindmuma                12                1                20                 Yes
Subchocque            Cunindmar                23                I                 4                  No



Annex 2
- 53 -
No".. of .                   of             wet No.o                                o             DM do
. mieIpaIty           . .Dqua.    V_"uq am    Nm                                MU                M=k**
SPea Dkmsc            Sd5               Momma           leeebawi           Hat" lb 0,.
NWW  Sbwob                         C Wdlu.desW          &     r g
hr ?rbaay           Edwuc.a?
.d S-oW
PA& Sab"
Chia               Cd i25                                   -                   10                 No
Cdqua          | Cwundu                       30           - - 1                 2                  Yes
Sua" Mans              Magdal.n                236               6                289        |        Ye        l
CinNAp                MgSdainc               161               7                162                N.A.
Puto                  NacnAo                320               17               361                 Yes
Tanpga                 Nariho                40                1                40                  Yes
Buesco                 NariAo                 72               4                 79                 Yes
El Taibo                Nariio                61                2                61                  Yes
Sandonr                NeriAo                 47                I                42                 Yes
Cucuta                Norte de              251                U                279                 Yes
Santander
Vill de Rou              Noii de                29                1                29                  No
Santander
Pereira               Riurlda               182              11                160                N.A.
Dosquebradcs             Risaraida              79                4                58                 NA.
La Virgina              Riceralds             N.A.               4               NA.                 N.A.
Sanu Rosa de Cabal          Risaralda              58                5                66                 N.A.
MarelLa               Risamrlds               40                3                42                 N.A.
Bucaramanga             Santander              150                4                186                 No
Floridablance           Santander               66                2                62                  No
airdn                Santander              50                 1                10                 No
Piedecuest             Santander               86                1                27                  No
Rionegro              Santander               91                1                 8                  No
Sabana de Torres          Santander              62                2                 6                  No
Cali                  Valle                430               25               374                 N A
El Carito                Vale.                32                3                 39                N.A.
Ginebra                 Valle                 4                1               N.A.                N A
Guacari                 Valle                29                2                 28                N.A.



-54 -                                        Ane2
IP~o              PNed               NWO o    NPOwd    Nuobw o                                Dow h.
Da~adm    at   Phaiy adn           Nudm de           "d                m.aicizasB
=q~IsI :det           SKs~y          ~ diwaDU                      S        Maw. It OWN
for Primaaq         Edu-c cia?
mij Sdioo
~~IIuMI 
JaiMani                  Vail.                82                4                 53                 N.A.
hha.                    Val                   148               10                92                N.A.
hag.                   VanU                  41                5                 70                N.A.
Yumbo                   Val.                 NA.              N.A.              NA.                 NA.
Candlana                 Vail                  40                2                 43                 N.A.
La Cumbe                  Valle                 6                 1                 18                NA.
Florida                 va                    60                3                29                 N.A.
Praders                 Vane                  41                2                 29                N.A.
Yoteeo                  Val.                  3                 1                 0                 N.A.
Reetsepo                 Val.e                 33                2                31                 N.A.
Daga                    Valle                 82                4                71                 N.A.
TO TALS                     __               6,990    _   8                      6,606                 39
a.      Within Santaf dte Bogoti, 20 Jwua Mmtissradoras Locaks control education funds and admninister pubiic prinary and
acondary education serviccs within their jurisdictionc, with the full autonomy provided by Laws 24 and 20.



COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 1: National Enrollment Projections by Grades for 1991-1997
1991      1992     1993      1994      1995      1996      1997
1 Grade        1,151,966 1,124,464 1,106,634 1,088,250 1,058,353 1,043,383 1,015,996
2 Grade         877,510   898,153   895,690   898,394   900,387   892,559   910,636
3 Grade         859,298   865,537   886,697   889,344   894,526   899,339   897,666
4 Grade         743,930   755,620   770,200   797,656   811,147   825,482   848,463
5 Grade         669,267   678,333   695,148   715,384   747,106   768,310   796,144
6 Grade         631,267   650,235   678,036   714,554   756,724   810,900   878,805
7 Grade         494,345   498,410   513,211   535,978   566,139   601,685   648,981
8 Grade         406,248   411,489   416,400   429,051   448,726   474,969   508,250
9 Grade         333, 289   335,955   339,909   345,258   356,476   373,672   398,088  -
10 Grade         305,543   307,812   311,249   315,898   321,861   332,785   350,452
11 Grade         240,826   242,798   245,582   249,310   254,034   259,846   270,667
Total Primary Enrollments   4,302,021  4,321,926 4,354,369 4,389,028 4,411,519 4,429,073 4,468,905
Total Secondary Enrollments 2,413,518  2,446,700 2,504,386 2,590,048 2,703,961  2,853,858 3,055,242
Source: MEN Statistical Department October 1992



Annex 3
- 56-
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 2 Edimated Actual and Projected Progressions
of EMciency Rates for Secondary Education
(Grades 6 to 11)
Figures per Year (S)
Grade     Rate    _,
1991   1992   1993  1994  1995    1996   1997
6    Promotion     62.2  62.6  63.1  63.5  63.9    64.3   65.2
Dropout      13.7  13.4  13.1  12.8  12.6   12.3   11.7
.!___ IRepetition     24.1  24.0  23.8  23.7  23.5    23.4   23.1
7    Promotion     67.8  68.2   68.7  69.1  69.5   69.9   70.8
Dropout      11.2  10.9  10.6  10.3  10.1    9.8    9.2
Repetition   21.0  20.9  20.7  20.6  20.4   20.3   20.0
8    Promotion     71.5   71.9  72.4  72.8  73.2    73.7   74.5
Dropout      10.2   9.9   9.6   9.3   9.0    8.7    8.2
l_____ Repetition    18.3  18.2  18.0  17.9  17.8    17.6   17.3
9    Promotion     78.7  79.1   79.5  80.0  80.4   80.8   81.7
Dropout       8.5   8.2   7.9   7.6   7.4    7.1    6.5
Repetition   12.8  12.7  12.6  12.4  12.2   12.1   11.8
10   Promotion     75.5  76.0  76.4  76.8  77.2    77,7   78.5
Dropout       9.9   9.6   9.3   9.0   8.7    8.5    7.9
Repetition   14.6  14.4  14.3  14.2  14.1    13.8   13.6
11   Promotion     91.3  91.7  92.2  92.6  93.0   93.4   94.3
Dropout       4.1   3.8   3.5   3.2   3.0    2.7    2.1
Repetition    4.6   4.5   4.3   4.2   4.0    3.9    3.6
Source: Statistics Division - Ministry of Education



- 57.                                    An   3
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 3: Total Enrollment in the Colombian Educational
System (in '000) and Annual Growth Rates (in percent)
Primary                       Secondary
Public          Private          Public          Private
Year    No.      %       No.      %       No.     %       No.       %
1960    1,432            258              132             156
6.4             4.3              9.1             9.2
1965    1,956            318             204              242
7.8             6.8             16.7              11
1970    2,845            441             411              408
3.5             5.5              9.5             8.4
1975    3,380            573             694              612
0.9               0              7.5             3.7
1980    3,528            574              998             735
-0.5            -0.1             5.6              2.1
1984    3,460            540              1,253           800
0.59            3.05             2.72             1.22
1989    3,563            638              1,433           850
Source: Ministry of Education, DANE, ICFES
Plan de Apertura Educativa DNP-UDS-DEC-2518
March 19, 1991



- 58 -                                   An= 3
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 4: Cohort of Projected Progression and EfficiencY
(Based on Improving Secondary Rates at 3% for Promotion,
and 2% for Dropout for the Ful Period, 1991-97)
GRADES
6      7      8      9      10   11  TOTAL   GRADUATES
1991        1,000                                       1,000
1992         241    622                                   863           -
1993          58    281    424                            763
1994          14    95    269    307                      685
1995           3     28    114    234    246              625
1996           1      8      40    112    223   190       574
1997                  2      14    43    124   180        363             177
1998                          5     15    52   103        175            170
1999                          1      6     19   45         71             97
2000                                 2      8    17        27              42
2001                                        3    7         10              16
2002                                         1    2         3               7
2003                                               1        1               2
2004                                                                        I
(1) Student-years  1,317  1,036    867    719    676   545    5,160            512
(2) Dropouts       178    112      80     52     53    13       468
(3) Promotions     822    710    630    578    525  512       3,777        -
(4) Repetitions    317    214    157      89     98   20        915
(5) % Repeated    24.1   20.7   18.1   12.4   14.5  3.7        17.7 _
(6) School year     1.6    1.5    1.4    1.2    1.3  1.1        1.4
per promoted         - _                                        j_- 
School years graduated: 177 x 6 +170 x7 +97xS +42 x9 +16 x10+7xII +2xl2 +1:13 -3,680 manycars
Efficiency : JIZxL- 0.3 (1.2   y  pe S.dpua.s)
3650



COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 5: Adult Illiteracy Rate                                Table 6: Years of Schooling of the
Labor Force
Countries
Colombia                 i                Countries
Colcombia ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ Coomi
Arg ntin  1                                   ~~~~~~~~~Colomblai 
Argentina
Brazil ////f.2W.ffi' m~  gm                               Argentina
Chile  -               I .                                   Brazil
Costa Rica                                                          Chile
\0
Ecuador                           i                            Mexico
Mexico  WmXXi/XffiXl   li  I      \        ~Pataguay    //////i/,                        |
P      yParaguay i
l  8  .                            ~~~~~~~~~Perug///////i,z//
Peru                                                          Peru
VenezueCla
Venezuela                                                                                           --- 510 52   e5 Nmer e _y
___0   2        4       6        8       10
0       5       10      15      20       25
Source. Coyuntura Social. Programas
Source: UNDP Human Development                                 Soclales y Situaclon del Madio Amblents
Report 1992                                                    Number 2, May 1990



- fO -                            Annex 4
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
School Renovation and Construction:
Role of FINDETER
1.    FINDETER's role in the Secondary Education Project is to serve as FIS fiduciary
agent for grant funding for schooi rehabilitation and basic equipment sub-projects and to
administer the credit line for new construction of schools. It would also provide technical
assistance to departments and municipalities for the preparation of Municipal Educational
Plans (MEP), and the design of sub-projects for co-financing. FINDETER would also assist
the PCU in conducting training for municipal and departmental technicians in planning, sub-
project preparation and project execution.
Background
2.     FINDETER is a state-owned stock corporation which was created by law 57 of
1989. Its stock holders are the National Government (86%) and the Departments (14%).
FINDETER is a corporation affiliated to the Ministry of Finance and supervised by the
Superintendency of Banks (Superintendencia Bancaria). FINTDETER's initial capital
resources came from the capital investment of its stockholders, the transfer of assets from the
National Urban Development Fund (Fondo Financiero de Desarrollo Urbano) of the BCH
(Banco Central Hipotecario), the institution from which FINDETER inherited its functions,
and from foreign resources, such as the World Bank and the Inter-American Development
Bank. FINDETER is administratively and financially autonomous.
3.    FINDETER's mandate is to assist the development of the departments and
municipalities, and to increase the quality of life of their inhabitants. To achieve this goal, it
offers financial assistance and advice in the execution of urban infrastructure projects.
Specifically, FINDETER's mandate entails that it aid departments and municipalities in the
efficient use of financial resources, build local institutional capability, and balance regional
economic inequalities throughout the country. Because of this last function, FINDETER is a
vital instrument for the execution of the national government's development strategy.
Organization and Management of FINDETER
4.    General Structure. The Board of Directors, chaired by the Minister of Finance,
comprises the Chict of DNP, the Minister of Development, a delegate from the Presidency
of the Republic and two governors in representation of the departments. FINDETER's
organization chart (Appendix 1) includes a presidency, and three vice-presidencies (VP) for:
(a) Credit, responsible for lending, and divided into three regional Divisions which in turn
coordinate and control ten Regional Units; (b) Development, responsible for policy
formulation; and (c) Finance and Administration, responsible for resource mobilization, cash
Trnafr=mPnt actfuIitna, i_rsol q,ene r  l .vis1    A so ;po.lng to th1e office of the
~~~IA             U3Vl                      h



- 61 -                             Annex 4
President is the General Secretary, responsible for legal affairs. Current FINDETER staff
includes 180 positions, of which 100 are in headquarters and 80 in the regional offices.
5.    Administratively, FINDETER operations are decentralized to regional offices which
operate within the guidelines and control of the national office. There are ten regional
offices in the country, which are responsible for particular regions and which operate with a
high level of autonomy, responding to the Vice President of Credit. Most credit applications
(those under an established autonomous limit) are, therefore, decided within FINDETER's
regional offices by a Departmental Credit Committee, composed of a mayor, the chief of the
departmental planning office, a delegate from the private sector, a delegate from the Regional
Planning Councils (Consejo Regional de Planificacidn-CORPES) and a delegate from
FINDETER's regional office. Loan approval requires a unanimous vote of committee
members. Regional officers are also responsible for technical assistance and supervision of
ongoing operations.
Financial Structure and Policy
6.    First-tier Intermediation. FINDETER operates as a financial rediscount entity,
which means that it does not provide credit directly, but rather provides funds through
financial institutions which have a valid operating license granted by the Superintendency of
Banks. Therefore, a commercial bank or financial corporation is always involved, as
intermediary, in the loan process. The intermediaries bear the credit risk. The spread these
intermediaries charge to each sub-borrowcr is determined competitively based on their own
assessment of this risk, up to an interest rate ceiling set by the Board of the Central Bank
(Banco de la Republica) at DTF' + 5 percentage points. FINDETER can also act as a
fiduciary agency to channel funds to departments and municipalities.
7.    FINDETER's Current Fmancial Situation. The financial condition of FINDETER
is solid. In 1992, FINDETER interest income of Col$ 36.3 billion covered 2.6 times its
interest expense of Co!$ 14.2 billion and the net financial margin of Col$ 22.1 billion
represented 16% of average earning assets (Col$136.3 billion). FINDETER after tax return
on average equity of 9.4% was good. Administrative costs of Col$ 3.1 billion represented
2% of average total assets (Col$ 144.2 billion), which is a relatively high mark but which is
justified by the project related works of FINDETER. At the end of 1992, FINDETER was
strongly capitalized with a debt/equity ratio of 52/48 and its liquidity was amply guaranteed
by short-term investment of Col$ 24.1 billion or 15% of total assets. As of December 31,
1992, FINDETER had undisbursed operations for US$150 million and unused external credit
for US$114 million. To keep up its level of approvals and boost disbursing rates as
budgeted for 1993, FINDETER is planning to issue bonds in the Colombian stock market to
capture small amounts of new money, as needed.
8.    FINDETER's loan portfolio is composed mainly of commercial banks whose loans
FINDETER has discounted. Its portfolio is, therefore, subject to commercial risk. This risk
is mitigated by the enforcement of prudential regulations of the Superintendency of Banks.
FINDETER has now requested its external auditors to carry out a complete analysis of the
1. DTF is Colombia's market fixed-term deposit rate



- 62 -                              Annex 4
quality of its loan portfolio. The Secondary Education Project would represent no financial
risk, as no additional debt would be absorbed by FINDETER. Moreover, acting as
administrator of funds, FINDETER would receive a fee for the management of the loan
operations of the Secondary Education Project as well as an administration fee as fiduciary
agency of grant funds channeled through FIS.
9.    Previous Bank Loans to FINDETER. FINDETER is presently involved in
managing two Bank loans: the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector Project (Ln. 2961-CO,
US$150 million) and the Municipal Development Project (Ln. 3336-CO, US$60 million).
Both loans support credit lines to municipalities and regional entities. Bank's. experience
with FINDETER has been sufficiently successful to warrant continued coopeiation and
reliance on this agency.
10.   Education Loans made by FINDETER. FINDETER's credit operations have
focused on urban infrastructure such as roads, water supply, and sanitation. However, more
recently it has begun to make loans in the education sector, and specifically, for secondary
education construction and rehabilitation projects. Currently, through a fiduciary agreement
with MEN, FINDETER is managing 16 loans to 33 municipalities, and has identified 94 sub-
projects that amount to more than US$30 million. These secondary education projects are
cofinranced through a combination of grants and loans.
FINDETER's Role in the Secondary Education Project
11. FINDETER would serve as FIS fiduciary agent for grant funding for school
rehabilitation and basic equipment sub-projects, and would administer the credit line for new
construction of schools. FINDETER would be involved in all stages of the project cycle
from identification to approval and supervision, as well as participate in the initial promotion
of the project among participating departments and municipalities. FINDETER's role in
each of these stages is discussed below and summarized in Table A4.2.
12.   Promotion of MEP. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), with the assistance of
FINDETER regional offices, would coordinate this initial phase of the project. One of the
main objectives of the promotion scheme would be to publicize the program in the
departments and municipalities and attract the interest and willingness of the respective
government officials to participate in it.
13.   Assistance in preparation of the MEP. The preparation of the MEP is the
responsibility of the Municipality. However, since some municipalities do not have a strong
institutional planning capacity, the MEN would provide training seminars in education
planning for the Secretaries of Education staff in the departments and municipalities as a
prelude to the preparation of municipal plans and sub-projects. FINDETER would
participate in these seminars as trainers on financial aspects of the project, making sure that
the MEP is compatible with the requisites of FINDETER, and that the MEP includes a
coherent analysis of the municipality's overall financial viability. The seminars would train
the Secretaries of Education staff in the departments and municipalities on how to use the
manual required for the preparation of the MEP. Departmental Secretaries of Education
would establish a technical support group that would work side by side with the municipal
technical support group during the preparation of the MEP.



- 63 -                            ADm= 4
14.   The technical support group in each department would assist the municipal technical
suppo.t group in the process of identifying and formulating the MEP. The goal of the
technical support groups is to help establish an integral and comprehensive investment plan
for secondary education for, at least, the next two years, which would be technically
justifiable and financially and institutionally viable. For the preparation of the MEP, the
municipality and/or the department may request the advice of FINDEtER on the financial
aspects of the MEP. It would be desirable for this to take place after the initial draft of the
MEP has been developed and an approximate cost of the project is known. For this
component, FINDETER would send promoters and technical staff from the regional office to
the municipalities to assess its creditworthiness and financial capability that the municipality
could undertake for the proposed project.
15. Assistance In Sub-project Preparation. The identification process begins with the
general analysis of the MEP, and with a visit to the municipality that is requesting the loan
and/or grant. A task manager from FINDETER would lead an identification mission in
order to define the arrangements for preparing and financing the project. The purpose of the
identification mission is to establish, together with the municipality, an investment plan that
the municipality would undertake with the financial contribution of the program.
16.   The preparation and identification of the project would follow the guidelines set up in
the preparation and presentation manuals of FINDETER, which are available in each regional
office. Specific guidelines for new constructions as well as for rehabilitation sub-projects are
already available and have been reviewed and accepted by the Bank.
17. Grants for pre-investment funding for architectural fees and other preparation needs
for sub-projects would be provided within the framework of MEP and managed by
FINDETER as part of the sub-project. Tshis would significantly speed up project
preparation.
Management of Financial Transfers for Sub-projects
18.   The project provides two separate sources of funding to municipalities for school
construction sub-projects: (a) grant channelled through the Social Investment Fund (FIS) for
the rehabilitation and remodeling of schools, including furnishings and equipment; and (b)
loans at market rates for new school construction. Both would be administered by
FINDETER. Table A4. 1. below summarizes the financial transfers for sub-projects.



- 64 -                              Annex 4
Table A4.1: Flnancial Transfers for Sub-projects
Financial ines     New Construction and Rehabiitation/Remodeling
by Source       Expansion of Schools    School Equipment
National Governnent          50%
Loans_                ____
Grant National            30%                  80%
Government
Local Counterpart     Minimum 20%           Minimum 20%
Funding
19.   FINDETER will use two somewhat different procedures for processing financial
transfers for sub-projects depending on if they are school constructions or school
rehabilitation and basic equipment. For school constructions sub-projects, FINDETER would
follow the same prc,edures it currently uses for other operations by which a project has to
demonstrate it is justifiable and feasible in its technical, financial, institutional and
environmental aspects. For school rehabilitation and basic equipment sub-projects,
FINDETER would establish a network of consulting construction experts to help it assess in
detail the rehabilitation requirements and the precise budget required. On the basis of the
existing MEP, the construction budgets, and some financial guarantees, procurement plan and
execution specifics would be sufficient for FINDETER take a decision on the allocation of
resources. The experts would be paid by the municipalities, who could make use of the
funding for architectural fees and other preparation needs mentioned above. This double
step process, rather than a direct relation FINDETER-consultant, is considered necessary to
preserve municipalities's responsibility towards the project preparation.
20. Local Counterpart Funding. Local counterpart funding must include a minimum of
20 percent of the total cost of the project from funds of the municipality or department.
These funds may include inter-governmental transfers or municipal income from its own
sources.
Evaluation and Approval of Sub-projects
21.   School Constriction. The evaluation and approval process of educational financing
(loans and grants) for school construction would be similar to those that FINDETER
presently follows for other sectors. This process involves a comprehensive review of
technical, institutional, financial aspects, as well as determining eventual financial and
effectiveness conditions. This evaluation process is FINDETER's entire responsibility and
would be completed by the regional offices of FINDETER.
22.   For the technical analyses of projects, FINDETER would acquire limited capacity
through the use of consultants to judge current cases, or it could receive, upon request,
support from the MEN and Departmental Education Secretariats. Moreover, FINDETER



- 65 -An= 4
and MEN would work together to create an evaluation manual in which critical points to be
supervised and reference guidelines would be highlighted.
23. School Rehabilitation and Basic Equipment. The procedure for project presentation
for non-credit financiable sub-projects is designed to quicken the process The financing
requests would be presented by the municipality to FINDETER. The evaluation procedure
would be simpler, based primarily on short checklists and on the municipality feasible
budget.
24.   Loan and Grants applications above Col$ 650 million (US$929 thousand) are
approved by a national credit committee; below this amount, and up to ColS 200 million
(US$286 thousand), they are approved by regional committees; below this amount, they can
be approved by internal administration. These thresholds can be periodically adjusted by the
Board of Directors of FINDETER. This same process would be used for the Secondary
Education Project, with the exception that a delegate from MEN or from the Departmental
Secretaries of Education would be invited to participate in the committees whenever sector
loan proposal is being considered. The first three projects of each regional office, regardless
of their cost, would be reviewed by the national office in Santaf6 de Bogota before approval
is granted. Subsequent sub-projects would be approved entirely by the regional offices, but
with periodic reviews performed by the national office. The World Bank would review sub-
projects that exceed the autonomous limit threshold, set at US$1 million for the combined
resource application of loans and grant from one beneficiary, before they are approved by
FINDETER.
Execution and Supervision of Sub-projects
25.   General Aspects. Once sub-projects are approved, the municipalities would sign
different agreements for loans and grants. Current FINDETER execution and supervision
procedures, including field visits and disbursements based on progress reports, would be
followed for both loans and grants; however, procedures for grant disbursement would be
faster since no financial intermediary would be involved. The main areas of monitoring
performed by FINDETER would be the following: (a) the procurement process, and (b) the
nitial phase of preparing the administration and execution of the project. Promoters are
expected to contribute in this initial phase. Coordination with MEN's PCU is expected to be
carried out on a permanent basis.
26.   Procurement Process. The procurement process involving components managed by
FINDETER through loans and grant would be executed by the borrowers, according with the
agreements set by the World Bank and supervised by FINDETER. The arrangements for
this process include the review, and possible adjustment, of present standard biding
documents as well as the incorporation of some specialized ones (for furniture, for example)
and of training manuals, which would serve as guidelines to the borrowers. FINDETER
would provide direct assistance to its clients and would monitor key events of the hiring
process (approval of the bidding documents, review of proposals for contract awards, and
oversee of corresponding contracts) for LCB. It would send cases over an agreed threshold
to the Bank.



-66-                               Annex 4
27.   For rehabilitation and equipment sub-projects, a simple process that does not need
FINDETER nor World Bank approval would be implemented; however, ex-post monitoring
would be done.
28.   Disbursements. The disbursement procedures, both for loans and grants, would be
the same as those currently followed by FINDETER. Sub-loan and grant effectiveness
would be preceded by legal signature of the respective agreements and compliance of the
effectiveness conditions (among which are establishments of special accounts, conditions
eventually set for financing approval and agreement with financial intermediary in the case of
sub-loans). In the case of loans, each payment would include a proportion of both the grant
and the sub-loan as agreed in the financial plan. The disbursing scheme for this case would
involve FINDETER anticipating funds to the borrower for the first three months of expected
expenditures. Subsequent disbursements would depend on the physical and the financial
advance of the project and would also count on local counterpart funds becoming available.
In the case of school rehabilitation or equipment, a first tranche of 60% would be advanced
when complying with effectiveness, and the remaining as soon as the beneficiary
demonstrates the investment of agreed counterpart funding and meets physical targets. In
both cases, the disbursement of all the counterpart finances, as agreed in the financial plan,
would be a condition for disbursements of the final tranche of FINDETER funds.
Organization and Management of FINDETER for the Secondary Education Project
29.   National Office. The main responsibility of FINDETER's National Office for the
Secondary Education project is to coordinate and control operations and administer the
financing lines. The present capacity at the national level should bc able to overcome the
increased administrative demands with the current structure and staff. However, upgrading
or adjusting existing instruments would be needed for control systems and disbursements of
new operations. At the national level, the Vice President of Credit, responsible of lending,
would manage the project.
30.   Regional Offices. For the implementation of the proposed project, FINDETER
would use its present organization structure and operational capacity in seven of its regional
offices which correspond to the 87 selected municipalities. These offices have the technical
and administrative capacity to carry out a range of tasks from project identification and
preparation to appraisal, approval and supervision, including reviewing procurement and
approving disbursement requests. FINDETER's field staff is usually reinforced by
consultants that are specialized in particular areas.
31.   The Secondary Education project would require regional offices to handle a significant
increase in the number of operations in the education sector, where they have had limited
experience. This implies the need to upgrade its operational capacity to manage sub-projects
operations. This would be met by: (i) strengthening the regional offices, including personnel
training on the education sector, (ii) preparation of various sector materials, including sample
documents to be used in the preparation of the project and sample terms of reference, and
(iii) hiring consultants for each intervening regional office, to serve as project promoter and
to provide operational sector support. The promoter's responsibilities would be, inter alfa,
the following:



- 67 -                             Annex 4
(a) participate in the development of the Municipal Education Plan (MEP), assessing
primarily its financial viability;
(b) help in project identification process;
(c) ensure that projects presented meet technical, economic, financial and institutional
requirements, established previously by FINDETER;
(d) aid municipalities through the application process up to, and including,
implementation of the project; and
(e) ensure adequate coordination with MEN.



COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table A4.2: Roles & Responsibilities of FINDETER & Other Institutions Involved in the Preparation and Execution of the MEP & Sub-projects
..PHASE                  FINDETER                           MEN                    DEPARTMENT                  MUNIC[PALITY               RESULT
Paricipates in the promotion of the Responsible for this phase                           Signs agreement with Depatmcnt Get departments and
PRObM(MlON AND MEP with MEN. Trains regional   Promotes the MEP at departmental                             o prepare MEP. Receives       municipalities to
COMMITMENT TO  fficc promoters.                    & municipal levels. Signs                                raining. Prepues MEP with the  xpress commitmwt
PARTICIPATE IN                                    agreemnents with departments to                           Mistance dhettechnical support  to participate in the
ME0                                         prepar MEP.                                               roup from Deparmenal          MEP.
_______________ -_-_____________i____-_Secretary_of  Education.
Administers technical assistance    Trains Deputmental technical  Departmental Secretary of  Resvonsu,i for this Mhse   EP prepared.
--M2P 0 - -  funds for project preparation. If   support group in charge of  Education appoints technical  ppoints technical support group
PREPARATION  requested by the municipality or    preparing MEP. If requested   support group in charge of  n charge of prepaing MEP.
department, gives advice on     participates in the training of the  supervising MEP      repares MEP.
financial aspects of the MEP, for   municipal technical support group  preparation. Trains
Civil Works component.          in charge of preparing MEP.    municipal technical support
--_____________ -_________________________                                   group  in  preparing  MEP.eparing_MEP_
Responsible w/ the municipality                              Not involved.               Responsible with FINDETER  MEP is eligible to
Visits the municipality tbat is                                                          nvites FINDETER to the        e financd,loan
SUB4PROJECT    equesting the loan and/or grant.                                                            unicipality to assess fuiancial  and/or grant    oc
IDENTIFICATION   valuates creditworhiness and                                                               nes for the MEP civil woirks   application made by
-             tablishes investment plan for the                                                       malponent.                   the muaicipality to
.            municipality.                                                                                                          FINDETER.
R  _esonsible for this phase                                                        1 he Municipal Council appnwes loan and/or gmant
Once MEP is approved, it is                                    Endorses the MEPr.           MEP following endorsemint  pproved for the
layed to the Regional office of                                                        from the Department Secrary of MEP.
MEP LOAN        INDETER. Depending on cost,                                                              Education. Relays MEP civil
ANDIOR Grant   ational office or regional office                                                          works component to FINDETER.
APPROVAL        eviews loan and/or grant
0           ~~~~pplications for approval.
Supervises the project execution.   Monitors execution of the MEP                           Responsible for this Phase    roject implemented
PROJECT       Provides Monitoring dat to PCU   through the Monitoinn and                               Administers the finances of the
KX ICUTION    according to established agrements. Evaluation Division of the PCU.                        Project.



69 -                                       ~~~~~~~Annue 4
- 69 -                                                         Appendlx 1
COLOMBA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FINDETER
GENERAL ORGANIZAlIONAL STRUCTURE
ASSENVILY OF             EXTERNAL
SHAREHOLDERS             AUDIT
CREI|     OD Of                               N  ATIONAL CREDIT1
|COMMITTEE                IRD FCTOR            c |CNITTEE
IPRESIDENCY
INTERNAL                    PLANNING
CONTROL OFFICE              OFFICE
COMMUNICA- ONS
E-PRESIDENCYVCYP|    I                                       VICE-PRESIDENCY                          OFFICE  C!
0EVELOPME4T          |       VI CEREDIT   E        ! '       ADMINISTRATION    FINANCE                SECRETARY GENERAL
CREDIT DIV..
TECHNICAL                   EAST              i                  ANCAl    JUOICIA
ECONOMIC DIV.  |j                       _               ,         S,CN,
REGIONAL
OFFICES
ATLANTIC COAST
CREDIT DIVISIOW
REGIONAL
OFFICES
Approvd by the Boaud of Directrs Octobe 15, 1992



-70-                             Annex 5
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Vouchers for Private Secondary Sehools
A. Introduction
1.    One of the major goals of the Secondary Education Project is to increase the coverage
and improve the quality of secondary education. Given that the project hopes to enhance
municipalities' ability to plan secondary education, the voucher program is a short-term
solution to some of the problems encountered by secondary education at the local level.
There is a shortage in public school capacity for grade 6, while there is idle capacity in
private schools. However, the poorest children that attend public primary school cannot
usually pay for private education. Therefore, their alternative is to stay out of the
educational system. The principal benefit expected from the voucher program is to expand
enrollment of low-income students in private secondary schools.
2.    The Government of Colombia has accepted that vouchers are a desirable short-term
solution and has, therefore, promoted a voucher program for the past two years. The aim of
the government is to increase the enrollments of secondary education from 46 percent to 70
percent by creating 546,000 new positions during the tenure of President Gaviria, from 1991
to 1994. The voucher program is a component of this strategy to increase secondary
enrollments. MEN had initially decided that 25,000 new students should enroll in the
education system, at grade 6, through the voucher program each year. However, since the
program started in 1992 and not in 1991 as planned, two unique measures were taken for the
1992 school year only: distribution of 72,000 vouchers, and enrollment in grades 6 and 7.
Students that participate in the program would be guaranteed the financing of their entire
secondary education on condition that they do not fail a grade.
3.    The agency mainly responsible for ad.ninistenng the program would be the
Colombian Institute of Educational Credit and Training Abroad (ICETEX). ICETEX is a
public institution with close ties to MEN, but maintmins legal and administrative autonomy as
well as it own financial and capital base. An important characteristic of ICETEX for the
implementation of the voucher program is its decentralized structure. Currently, 22 Regional
Offices administer all services for in-country studies, as well as most procedures for overseas
candidates.
B. Size of Program and Criteria for Distributior. of Vouchers
4.    The Government's program aims to distribute up to 412,000 vouchers over the 1991-
95 period. In 1992, 72,000 vouchers were distributed. The Government hopes to distribute
nationally 25,000 vouchers annually over the 1993-95 period. The Secondary Education
Project would supplement the Government's 25,000 vouchers--which are for the country as a
whole--by funding not more than 5,500 for the 87 municipalities in the project. With this



- 71 -                           Ann5
total number of vouchers, local governments could make good inroads on reducing dropoutL
This amount is equivalent to some 55,000 vouchers during the period 1994-97, based on a
projected 5 percent average dropout rate among voucher recipients.
Table AS.1: Distribution of Vouchers Per Year
Year      1st Year  2nd Year  3rd Year  4th Year    Vouchers
I ______     ______    ______    ______    ______       Accumulated
1994      5,5001                                      5,500
1995      5,500     5,2252                           10,725
1996      5,500      5,225     4,964                 15,689
1997      5,500      5,225     4,964      4,716      20,405
Total     22,000       =         _                    52,319
5.    All 5,500 vouchers would be distributed among the 87 pilot municipalities according
to demand, with an upper limit determined for each municipality according to the total
number of vouchers available annually. Under the project, each municipality would be
required to program its requirements for vouchers within the framework of their secondary
education plans and to verify both the demand and the availability of places in private
secondary schools. Municipalities will be encouraged to develop strategies to target the
vouchers, particularly those funded by the project, to those 5th grade students in public
schools, expected to drop out of the system. By keeping any portion of these students in
school, the voucher program will have a significant impact on increasing access and
enrollments at the secondary level.
6.     Municipalities would determine the total number of vouchers needed in accordance
with their own repayment capability. However, every municipality must contribute 20
percent of the cost of the voucher. The remaining 80 percent would be paid by the national
government. The MEN would sign agreements with each participating municip?lity setting
forth the terms and conditions of the fellowships and the financial and administ-ative
arrangements. Municipalities would determine the number of vouchers required, certify that
private schools meet the requirements for participation, and jointly monitor the progress of
the prograam with ICETEX. Upon approval of the MEP, municipalities would work out
execution arrangements for the voucher sub-project with ICETEX.
Yearly reduction of dropout in public schools  5,500.
It was estimated that about 5% of the beneficiaries vuld leave the educational system, therefore,
renouncing the voucher program.



- 72 -                           Annex 5
7.    If the demand for vouchers exceeds supply, a raffle would take place, with ICETEX
in charge. The raffle would be done electronically in the presence of the students selected to
participate in the program.
C. Criteria for Selecting Students
8.    To decide which students would be awarded a voucher, ICETEX would call a student
meeting at least six months before the end of the school calendar year.
9.    ICETEX and MEN would work together in the design of a student registration form,
to be distributed free of charge. The student must present this registration form to enroll in
the program. The registration form would be obtained at the regional offices of ICETEX, at
primary public schools, or secured from an official advertisement in a national newspaper.
10.   Students eligible for the vouchers would have to comply with the following
requirements:
(a) to come from the poorest socioeconomic strata (strata I and 2). To certify this,
students would present their household's public service receipts and/or the certificate
of residency issued by the police station, Center of Immediate Assistance (CAI), or
parish;
(b) to be a candidate for grade 6;
(c) to present the certificate of completion of fifth grade at an official school or non-profit
private school located in the poorest socioeconomic strata;
(d) to be not more than 15 years old when enroHling in grade 6, with proof of a photo
I.D. (preferably, the tarieta de identidad or birth certificate);
(e) to fill out a registration form;
(f) to present a certificate of acceptance to grade 6 at a private school; and
(g)  to maintain a minimum grade point average of 6 over 10 throughout the program.
11.   The voucher would automatically be renewed if an academic certification is presented
to ICETEX demonstrating achievement of the required average. The voucher would be
cancelled if the student fails a grade or leaves the educational system.
D. Criieria for Selection of Schools
12.  ICETEX would process the application of the private schools interested in
partcipating in the program. Private schools that operate in public schools facilities can not
receive funds from the project. The private schools should present ICETEX with the
following information:



- 73 -                          Annex 5
(a) the number of students enrolled in grade 6 and student-teacher ratio for this grade for
the last two years;
(b)  the student capacity of the school for the grade 6 level;
(c)  current number and total capacity of classrooms and any other space used for
educational purposes; and
(d)  cost of tuition and monthly fee.
13.   Private schools that offer complete secondary education must meet the following
criteria:
(a)  to have a abachillerato' degree granting license (Licencia de Aprobaci6n de Estudios)
for at least five years;
(b)  to cerfify that the school has not been sanctioned by the Regulatory Tuition and Fees
Board (Junta Reguladora de Matrfculas y Pensiones); and
(c)  t present tae ICFES exa-i-uon: xr o'e u , thr past Curee years.
14.   Private schools that offer partial secondary education and new schools must meet the
following criteria:
(a)  they must have an operating license (Licencia de Iniciaci6n de Labores) and guarantee
that it will obtain, from the respective Secretary of Education, the "bachillerato'
degree granting license (Licencia de Aprobaci6n de Esnudios) within two years;
(1)  the status governing the school should be legalized according to the legal regulations
established for this purpose;
(c)  they must present cash flow statements guaranteeing sufficient funds for the
functioning of the school;
(d)  they must have curriculum vitae (C.V.) of the Director and the legal representative )f
the school;
(e)  teachers employed by the school must hold a minimum standard of 7 according to the
wescak4fdn docente" and/or have a university degree in Educational Science; and
(f)  new schools cannot enroll more than 5% of the total voucher awarded to the
municipality if the municipality has other schools that offer complete secondary
education.
15.  ICETEX would require private wchools participating in the p mrogm  to provide the
following quality indicators, to meet ninimum eligibility criteria:



- 74 -                         Anne 5
(a) ICFES would provide the classification of schools according to the state examinations
score by municipality, excluding the score of 'elite schools. " The schools that
participate in the program must have a score equal to or better than the public schoo's
in the municipality to participate in the program;
(b) the school should meet minimum facility requirements such as laboratories, library,
halth, and playgrounds determined by the local Secretary of Education; and
(c) the Secretaries of Education of each department, with the municipal supervisor and
the regional offices of ICETEX, would inspect the schools to verify their
infrastructure conditions, capacity to enroll new students, and student-teacher ratio.
16.   Schools participating in the program would partLvipate in a sample survey evaluation
measuri,g the quality of education in the private schools. Students would be tested on
language and math skills at the beginning and end of their school years to measure value-
added. The Bank would insist on the improve*ent of quality indicators as a condition for
disbursement.
E. Implementation Arrangements
17.   The current voucher program is being administered by ICETEX under an agreement
signed with the MEN. ICETEX in turn has signed an agreement for the management of the
funds fr vouchers with the Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH). A National Coordinating
Committee, under the chairmanship of the MEN's Vice Minister, and consisting of
representatives of the above mentioned agencies will provide overall guidance to the voucher
program. Under thc proposed project these arrangements will remain in place with the
exception of the management of funds. The Social Investment Fund (FIS) will take over for
MCEN responsibilities for the channelling of funds for vouchers to departments and
municipalities. To this end, it will sign agreements with ICETEX, BCH's fiduciary agent,
and departments and municipalities participating in the project. The responsibilities of each
of the institutions involved irn the program are described below.
Ministry of Education
18.   The functions of the Ministry of Education are the following:
(a) to coordinate the activities of all participating entities at the Central Level;
(b) to sign an agreement with municipallties that want to participate in the program and
express their willingness by making available matching funds for the program life;
(c) to convene meetings for the National Coordination Committee for Vouchers;
(d)  to design a methodology to consolidate statistical information from departments and
municipalities regarding S and 6 grade enrollments to determine the capacity in
private schools;



- 75-                           Annex -
(e) to give ICETEX, departmental Secretaries of Education, and municipalities a schedule
for implementation of the program;
(f)  to review the manual produced by ICETEX describing the program to enable
ICETEX to train its personnel;
(g)  to sign an agreement with ICETEX for the administration and monituring of the
program;
(h)  to sign an agreement with BCH for the management of program funds;
(i) to provide ICETEX and BCH with information needed to implement the program;
(j)  to transfer funds to BCH; and
Ok)  to pay ICENDX for services rcndered.
FIS
19.   The functions of the FIS are the following:
(a)  to sign an agreement with ICETEX, BCH's fiduciary agent and departments and
municipalities for the management of program funds; and
(b)  to transfer funds to dtiartments and municipalities.
National Coordination Committee for Vouchers
20.   All entities involved in the program would be represented on the Committee. The
Committee would meet once a month. Its functions would be the following:
(a) to serve as a convening body for the entities involved in the voucher program;
(b) to program the financial resources of the program;
(c) to design and elaborate policies for the voucher program;
(d)  to stipulate criteria for the promotion of the program;
(e)  to define criteria for voucher raffles;
(f)  to monitor the program; and
(g)  to study and recommend appropriate measures or sanctions to departments and
municipalities receiving funds from the program when the agreements are not
complied with.



- 76 -                          Annex 5
F. Monitoring and Evaluation
ICETEX
21.   The functions of ICETEX are the following:
(a)  to promote the program;
(b) to guarantee that enough personnel is available to work on the program, both at the
national headquarters and at each regional office;
(c)  to train personnel at the national headquarters and at each regional office in the
management of the program;
(d)  to call a school meeting six months before the end of the school calendar so schools
can enroll in the program;
(e)  to call a student meeting at least four months before the end of the school calendar so
students can enroll in the program;
(f)  to register schools that want to participate in the program and guarantee that the
schools meet the program's required standards for participation;
(g)  to process registration forms of both schools and students;
(h)  to publish the list of students and schools selected to participate in the program in
local newspapers, post them at regional offices, and send notices to the schools and
students who are selected to participate in the program;
(i)  to design, print and distribute the voucher;
(j)  to coordinate a raffle if the number of students exceeds the available vouchers;
(k)  to request that schools issue a certificate stating that students have completed the
grade;
(1) to monitor the program throughout its implementation;
(m) to periodically issue information reports to MEN; and
(n)  to inform MEN and BCH of the name of beneficiary, school attended, and
municipality.
Department  Secretaries of Education
22.   The functions of the Departmental Secretaries of Education would be the following:



- 77 -                          Annex S
(a) to arrange for municipalities to sign agreements with MEN to participate in the
program;
(b) to promote the program in conjunction with ICETEX;
(c) to consolidate information send from the Municipal Secretaries of Education; and
(d)  to monitnr the pgm,   conjunctiot w4h IICIE-X.
Municipal Secretaries of Education
23.   The functions of the Municipal Sccretaries of Education would be the following:
(a) to sign agreements with departments;
(b) to compile information concerning idle capacity in private secondary schools for 6th
grade and send it to the Departmental Secretaries of Education;
(c) to compromise municipal authorities to provide matching funds worth 20 percent of
total cost of vouchers distributed;
(d) to collaborate with ICETEX in compiling data about participating schools and
students; and
(e) to oversee and guarantee the efficient functioning of the program by inspecting
schools, supervising recipients and reporting irregularities to MEN, ICETEX,
Department Secretaries of Education, and BCH.
Primary School Directors
24.   The functions of the Primary Public School Directors are the following:
(a) to promote the program;
(b) to nominate students of socioeconomic strata 1 and 2; and
(c) to facilitate information about students to ICETEX, municipalities, and Secretaries of
Education.
Banco Central Hipotecario (BCH)
25.   The functions of the BCH would be the following:
(a) to administrate program finances;
(b) to manage accounts of participating schools, with vouchers paid to these schools
within the timeframe stipulated in the program;



- 78 -                         Annex S
(c) to receive the voucher from the beneficiaries, and within 20 days send a report to
ICETEX for verification; and
(d)  to inform and train ponnel about the program.
26.   For the program to meet its objectives, a monitoring system would be needed. The
system must ensure that the beneficiarie of the progrw  are the correct ones. The Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) would contract a private consulting firm that would be responsible
for continued monitoring of students and for supervising schools involved. This firm should
evaluate the impact of the project by systematic sampling of program participants and
institutions.
27.   To monitor the schools, visits should be made to verify that they have increased their
enrollments and installed capacity, that the quality of education is sufficient, and that the
information about the tuition and monthly fees is correct. The information needed for
monitoring would be data on the increase in secondary education enrollment, increase in
installed capacity, and budgetary strengthening, among others. For this task the PCU should
coordinate a national evaluation with MEN Planning Department.
28.   Similarly, the program itself would have its own monitoring mechanism. The
municipality, along with the departmental secretaries of education, would also be responsible
for program monitoring. Both would enter into a contract with MEN, in which, in exchange
for 80 percent financing of vouchers, they would guarantee that the targets and goals are
met. The municipality through the supervisor and/or jefe de nucleo would perform on-site
inspections every three months to ensure progress of the program. It would relay progress
reports _very three months to the departmental secretaries of education, whose funct'von is tu
guarantee the smooth implementation of the program. The departmental secretaries of
education would also provide progress reports every three months to MEN.
29.   Parallel to this, the regional offices of ICETEX and BCH should provide progress
reports every three months to MEN on the implementation status of enrollments and
financing, respectively. The ICETEX and BCH national offices would relay these reports to
MEN. It is MEN's responsibility to verify that the above reports do not contain
contradictory information.
30.   A sample evaluation survey measuring the quality of education would be conducted
for Calendar B schools in 1993. To compare the quality of education received by a student
with a voucher going to private school and one going to a public school, students would be
tested for improvement in language and math skills. The results of the exams would be
compared to each other to see if there are significant differences in levels and quality of
learning.
G. Procedure for Payment of Voucher
31.   The procedure for the payment of vouchers is the following: first, MEN would
deposit the money allocated for the voucher program at the national branch of BCH, this
money being equal to the 80 percent of the total cost of the whole program, while the
municipalities participating would contribute the remaining 20 percent of the cost of the



- 79 -                         Anne 
voucher, with this money being deposited at the same time. Second, the national branch of
ICETEX would infor. the national branch of BCH of what cti and schools have been
awaded vouchers so the regional branches of BCH can arrange to open accounts for private
schools involved in the program. ICETEX would then distribute a list of all schools in the
city involved in the program. Finally, the shools in the program would open an account at
the regional office of BCH.
32. The payment procedure of the voucher to the schools would be as follows. The
stdent would receive three receipts from ICETEX. The student then gives the receipts
periodically to the school directors to be cashed at BCH. The first receipt would be given to
the school at the beginning of the school year to cover tuition and three monthly paymnelts;
the second receipt would cover four monthly payments; and the final receipt three monthly
payments. The student is able to transfer schools at any of the payment intervals.
H. Costs
33.   The exact cost of the program depends on the cost of the tuition and monthly payment
fee and the number of vouchers distributed. The approximate cost of the program from 1994
to 1997 is US$ 7.865 million, of which the national government would contribute 80 percent
and the municipalities the remaining 20 percent. During the 1993 school year, the average
price of the voucher was approximately 100,000 pesos (US$143). The secondary schools
participating in the program would be paid the exact amount registered with the departmental
Secretaries of Education.
Table AS.2: Voucher Program Cost for the 87 Pilot Municipa!ities
Vouchers          Cost of Voucher Program
Year           Accumulated         (in US$) '
%994                    5,500          786,500
1995                    11,000       1,573,000
1996                    16,500       2,359,500
1997                    22,000       3,146,000
IDW                   550 7.865,00
a One dollar = 700 pewos.
I. Administrative Costs
34. The administrative costs correspond to those incurred by ICETEX by: (a) calling a
meeting of students and schools to participate in the program; (b) publicity efforts; (c)
implementing the voucher system; and (d) monitoring the program. According to the
agreement signed between the MEN and ICETEX, the services to be paid to ICETEX
coesond to 2.5 percent of the value of the vouchers awarded. For 1992, the first phase of
the program, this amounted to 121.7 million pesos.



- 80 -                          Annex S
J. Flnanca Inplication for Local Government
35.   There is no guarawtee that the mayors or the next national administration would
assume responsibility for the program. Therefore, municipalities should accept the pr%ram
to ensure continuity. A mechanism to ensure municipal compliance with the program is
through the new laws for government spending. The new constitution and supporting laws
have established that any spending decisions by local or national governments must be
preceded by the enactment of a law mandating these expendi-ures. Therefore, muiicipalitiC3
that wish to participate in this program should enact municipal laws (ordinanzas municipaks)
that establish funding requirements. This would make the municipality bear both civil and
criminal responsibility if it fails to execute the voucher program in its jurisdiction as agreed.
36.   A second way of increasing incentives for performance by municipalities is by
imposing conditions stating that to receive additional vouchers the municipality must have
paid the previous year's vouchers. The municipality that does not pay the required 20
percent for the previoinq vear woiiid ne sanctisnedJ lv nnt ra^  the gemcnt's 0o
percent for the next fiscal year. However, the municipality must continue to pay for the
education of the students already enrollea in the program.



- 81 -
Annex 6
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Educational Quality Enhancement
Introduction and Conceptual Framework for Project Design
1.    Colombia has schools that are recognized as offering good instruction and schools
where educational achievements are low because instruction is inadequate. During
preparation of this project an ethnographic study was carried out to identify the
characteristics of those schools that are recognized as offering good instruction (which also
have high achievement in the ICFES national exams), and schools where achievement is low.
Principals in eight cities were interviewed and asked to explain why their schools were
connidered either good--or not so good--and several meetings of principals were organized to
prou-c a iist of tne characteristics of the "good" schools. Results of these meetings showed
that the good schools had the following characteristics: (a) a vision of the goals and
objectives they wanted to achieve which was well developed, had been thoroughly thought
and was shared by the teachers, parents and staff; (b) a principal who provided strong
leadership; (c) well defined internal organizationi and a disciplined environment conductive to
learning; (d) a staff development program and procedures for providing feedback to teachers
on their nerffrmance; (e) clear standards fAr the su-denA   ad pro--uAres fo. providing 'Lhm
with feedback that they could use to improve their performance; and (f) a school managed
budget that allowed the school principal to procure essential instructional and managerial
resources.
2.    The study led to the conclusion that to improve instruction and educational
achievement it would be necessary to guarantee that schools could develop as institutions and
could meet the characteristics mentioned above. It was also recognized that schools, and not
simply teacher training, textbook provision or the management system should be the key unit
of analysis and of project intervention. The analysis and conclusions of the study carried out
in Colombia were backed-up by the extensive literature on organizational development that
has been recently emerging as well by research on school effectiveness and school
improvement carried out in industrialized countries, as by the few studies on effective
schools that have been carried out in developing countries.2
Objectives and Strategy
3.    The Educational Quality Enhancement Component has three main objectives: (a) to
improve internal and external efficiency of secondary education; (b) improve the educational
achievement levels of secondary school students in mathematics, Spanish, social and natural
1. See Project Files, particularly Jesus Mejia's study.
2. Soo Marbine E. Lockheed and Henry M. Levin (eds.): Effective Schools in Develoggin Countris,
World Bank. Jue. 1991



- 82-                               Annex
sciaces; and (c) provide minimum necessary conditions in schools to optimize the personal
and social development of students.
4.    The strategy adopted to achieve these objectives consists of the following
interventions: (a) support for School Improvement Plans (SIP); (b) in-service training for
techs and school administrators; (c) funding for textbooks; and (d) funding for other
instuctional materials and equipment.
5. The strategy utilizes two major planning and delivery systems for these interventions:
(a) School Improvement Plans which provide direct assistance to each public secondary
school; and (b) Municipal Education Plans (MEP) which provide assistance to each school,
but collectively through the preparation and execution of MEPs.
School Improvement Plan (SIP)
6.    SIPs will be the principal vehicle for quality enhancement. A model for uie SIP to be
prepared by each school has been developed by the ML and piloted in several schools in
Medelin and other municipalities. The model has been incorporated into an SIP Manual
which was reviewed in draft during appraisal and would be prepared in final form for project
implementation. School principals and teachers would be responsible for preparing an SIP
for their school which would consist of the following elements:
(a)   diagnosis of the quality of education provided by the school and an analysis of the
fators cotr.ibuting to Mu lity. Quality would beea..sured in termrs of internal
efficiency (i.e. repetition, promotion and dropout indices); achievement (average
grades per grade level and average scores of the school on bi-annual national
assessments and ICFES national examination), and personal and social development of
students (i.e. levels of violence, drug addiction and other measures, including
"positive" indicators);
(b)   improvement objectives for each quality indicator expressed in measurable terms that
will show cognitive achievement goals (for example average scores in national
assessments and the ICFES national examinations), institutional goals (for example
number of teachers with credentials, or activities to define the internal organization of
the school), and other targets (for example actions to integrate the school and
community);
(c)   intervention strategies to deal with the problems identified in the institutional
diagnosis;
(d)   budget for proposed interventions and complementary resources to be provided to the
school by the MEP, such as textbooks and equipment;
(e)   staff development plans consisting of seminars workshops and formal courses that the
staff would attend to help the institution meet the proposed objectives; and
(f)   evaluation procedures to be used internally in the schools to evaluate the proposed
plans.



- 83 -                            Annex 6
7.    The MEN will encourage all secondary schools to prepare SIPs, but deing so would
be strictly voluntary and depend upon the motivation of school directors and faculty to devote
the time and effort required. MEN would help train regional officials in the use of the
manual so they can advise and assist schools in preparing their SIP. The regional officials to
be trained would be identified by the departmental Secretaries of Education. The training
course would be developed during project implementation.
8.    The SIP wGuld require the approval of the school Principal, the head of the Parent
Association, and a representative of the teachers. Once officially approved, it would be
eligible for funding. Funding would be provided by a fiduciary agent/s through the FIS.
Each SIP would be funded for e maximum of US$6.00 per enrolled student annually for an
initial two-year period. Disbursements would be made by the fiduciary agent/s on a
reimbursable basis following submission of approved expenditures by the school.
9.    Each SIP will be evaluated annually by the school itself and towards the end of the
second year by a regional committee. The committee's assessment will determine which
schools receive two-year renewals of their SIPs.
la-Service Teacher and Principal Training
10.   The Ministry of Education is in the process of developing a catalogue with training
opportunities. It will describe courses for teachers offered at present by universities and
other recognized institutions and guidelines for the preparation of staff development plans at
the institutional level. The catalogue is based on a study that the Ministry has been carrying
out which shows that there are more than 100 institutions offering teac&-r training courses in
a diversity of areas. Schools would be encouraged to select courses that would help their
staff achieve the institutional objectives.
11.   School principals are key in any quality improvement project, and in this project they
are key for to the development and implementation of the institutional plans. Their training
needs and their qualifications are very varied and cannot be met through standard "supply"
driven courses--but through courses that they themselves help to design and deliver.
CORODEA, the Antioquia School Principal Association has already been designing and
delivering courses specially designed by school princip31s for school principals and has been
successful in getting principals to participate and be interested in the courses offered.
CORODEA has also been assisting other associations of school principals around the
country. The project would support CORODEA's efforts to join the International
Association of Principal Centers, which has members from about 20 countries and will help
CORODEA and other associations of principals in Colombia to identify their training needs,
training procedures, mechanisms to evaluate school improvement efforts and state of the art
views on school improvement processes.
12.   The costs of teacher and principal training would be covered under the SIP of each
school.



-894 -                             Annex 6
Textbooks
13.   Another major project intervention to enhance the quality of education will be funding
for textbooks. As a condition of participation in the project, municipalities would be
required to purchase a basic set of textbooks for use in their schools. Textbooks and other
instrucdonal materials would be funded as sub-projects of Municipal Education Plans (MEP).
As municipalities complete the preparation of their MEPs and textbook sub-projects, they
will be able to obtain co-financing from the project for textbook purchases.
14.   The funding of textbooks would be for loan schemes, only. Schools would lend the
books to students for use during the school year so they can be reissued the following year.
MEN would encourage municipalities, if affordable, to purchase four textbooks per student
in each grade, out of the average of eight required. The recommended texts would cover
mathematics, language, science and social studies. Teachers manuals might also be funded.
The project would also encourage municipalities to adopt a cost-recovery scheme for
textbook rentals to cover the costs of replacements, which are estimated to be every three
years.
15.   The project budget provides funds for the purchase of about 4.2 million textbooks by
a total of 87 municipalities over the seven-year period of implementation. The total
quantities required to enable schools to achieve a ratio of 4 textbooks to 1 student (including
replacements due to deterioriation and loss) and to purchase new text.book after three years,
were roughly calculated as follows:
Grades 6 to 9 ......... 3.3 million textbooks
Grades 10 to 11 ......... 0.9 million textbooks
Although these quantities are large in the aggregate, the amount purchased from year to year
would very depending upon the municipalities which are ready to purchase Lextbooks. In
some years quantities might be large, in others, very limited. Overall, the requirements of
all but few municipalities are relatively small and fragmented by grade level and subject.
While municipalities like Bogota, Medellin, and Cali have secondary school enrollments of
from over 200,000 to 46,000, the majority of municipalities have public school secondary
enrollments below 4,000 students. Moreover, these enrollments by grade level (6th through
11th) range on average from 26% to 10% of the total. This implies that for most
municipalities, the number of textbooks required by subject and grade would be in the range
of 1,040 to 400 for the majority of municipalities and would be quite varied. Public
secondary school enrollments (1991) by municipality and grade level are provided in
Appendix 1.
16.   The procuremert procedures for textbooks have been designed on the basis of
information and recommendations provided in an in depth study carried out during project
preparation by Econometria, on textbook use and textbook manufacturing in Colombia.3
The proposed procedures consist of. (a) a two-step process of procurement; (b) selection and
3. Analysis y Perspecivws del Mercado de Textos y Materiales Educauivos Para la Educacidn
Secundaria, Informe Final (Econometria, May 1993).



- 85 -                             Annex 6
purchase of textbooks by municipalities; and, (c) distribution of textbooks by publishers or
their distributors. The procurement process would be administered by the FIS with technical
inputs provided by MEN in (a). The responsibilities for managing the selection and
purchasing of textbooks would be contacted to a fiduciary agent by FIS.
17.   Two-step Procurement Process. The procurement of textbooks would be carried out
in two steps. In the frst step, MEN's procurement/fiduciary agent would prequalify
suppliers on the basis of a technical evaluation of sample textbooks. All publishers, both
within and outside of Colombia would be invited to submit secondary school textbooks for
evaluation. The textbooks would be in four subject areas: mathematics, language, social
studies and science and each for grades 6 to 11. The evaluation would be carried out by an
independent committee appointed by MEN. The books approved by the committee would
make them eligible for purchase under the project.
18.   The technical evaluation would consist of two kinds of assessments: (a) substantive,
and (b) technical and financial: the substantive a_s.sement which would focus on the quality
of the textbook and its pedagogic aspects, relevance to the curricula, language use, and
overall appropriateness for the nation's public schools; the technical and financial assessment
would include an evaluation of the printing characteristics (compliance with physical
standards), printiag fitdlities, and the financial situation of the publisher.
19.   T he first step process would allow prospective bidders who are classified as
"marginally acceptable' to make adjustments to comply with the physical standards and/or
improve the substantive educational, presentational, curricula, and pedagogic aspects of the
offered textbooks. Once a textbook is approved, suppliers would not need to re-submit it for
evaluation. However, new textbooks for project financing would require evaluation and
approval before being included in the solicitation of prices in the second step.
20.   The second step would involve soliciting prices from suppliers selected in the first
step. Bids would be sought from suppliers annually or semi-annually for different levels of
quantites f.o.b. each municipality or on a 'natioral price basis." MEN's procurement/
fiduciary agent would evaluate bids and select suppliers within a price range of up to 20%
above the price of the lowest evaluated bidder. MEN would then inform the municipalities
and procurement/fiduciary agents of the list of approved textbooks and selected suppliers
whose bids had been accepted. This would be done in the form of a catalogue with c.i.f.
prices offered by suppliers.
21.   Selection and Purchase of Textbooks. The selection and purchase of textbooks
would be done annually by the municipalities as they complete the preparation of their MEPs
and textbook sub-projects (para. 13). Municipal officials and public school directors would
compile a list of their textbook requirements for each course and grade level utilizing the
catalogue distributed by MEN. The MEN would encourage municipalities to standardize the
textbooic selections for all public schools to help them obtain better prices through bulk
purchases, order replacements, and distribute books among schools. Mandatory
standardization of textbooks at the school level should also be promoted by MEN. In order
to achieve maximum bulk purchse price advantages offered by publishers, a fiduciary
agent/agents would compile the lists of textbook requirements from the municipalities and
arrange the purchases on their behalf.



- 86 -
Annex 6
22.   Textbook Distribution. Textbook distribution would be the responsibility of the
publishers or their designated distributors, or independent contractors hired by the
municipalitieL The cost of distribution of textbooks f.o.b. each municipality with
appropriate packaging, would be incorporated in the prices offered by publishers at the time
of bid submission. Payment of suppliers would be made conditional upon confirmation of
satisfactory delivery to each municipality.
23.   Municipalities would be responsible for the redistribution of textbooks to schools.
This would involve receiving boxes from different publishers, checking for adequate packing
and quantities, and repackaging books per school. The procurement/fiduciary agent would
be asked to assist the municipalities in organizing themselves for this task, which must be
performed satisfactorily, if textbooks are to reach the schools.
24.   Rationale for Proposed Procedures. The rationale for these proposed procedures
derives from the following considerations:
(a)   the proposed two-step process would enable the municipalities to obtain
maximum advantages in the procurement of their textbooks. It opens the
textbook market to all qualified suppliers and creates the possibilities of
improving the pedagogical and physical qualities of textbooks offei-d in the
marketplace. Provided the bidding by suppliers is well within the 20% of the
lowest bid range, municipalities/schools would have a wide selection of books
to choose from f r purchase. Further, while centralized procurement of
textbooks has been unsatisfactory in the past--madnly due to poor distribution
of textbooks--the proposal to obtain bids for c.i.f. each municipality should
solve this problem.
(b)   The procedure to permit secondary school teachers or schools to choose their
textbooks is consistent with current practice in Colombia. MEN dues not
dictate which textbooks should be used in the schools, although it does
collaborate with publishers to ensure that the subject matter and learning
objectives in their textbooks are consistent with the curriculum. According to
the Econometria study, an estimated 48% of teachers and 39% of school
directors select textbooks, and 76% of teachers choose workbooks. MEN also
recognizes the reality that most teachers have strong preferences for some
textbooks and would not readily use new textbooks with which they are not
familiar. It is therefore essential that the procedures offer real choices of
textbooks for purchase.
(c)   The procedure to require all municipalities to purchase their textbooks through
a fiduciary agent is necessary, if the national and local governments are to
maximize their bulk purchasing possibilities.
(d)   Distribution must be made the responsibility of publishers or their distributors,
since they already have distribution channels to most of the municipalities.
Unless the publishers can guarantee delivery, there would be great uncertainty
as to whether or not textbooks would every reach the municipality or school.



-   -                              Annex 6
hstructlonal Materials and Equipment
25.   The project would provide cofinancing to municipalitia for the purchase of
instructional materials and equipment identified in ther MEP. The matals and equipment
to be financed by the project would be specified by the MEN in an Instructional Materials
and Equipment Catalogue. This Catalogue would be finized in the first year of project
mccutiou and distributed to municipalities along with the textbook catalogue. The
instructional mateals and equipment are intended to be supplementary to or replacements
for the basic materials and equipment in each school. Consequently, each municipality
would have to careflly assess their needs in the light of their existing and planned facilities.
26. The MEN proposes to fund the materials and equipment requirements of two different
kinds of education center: Educational Resource Centers (CREP) in each secondary school;
and Municipal Education Resource Centers (CREM) which would serve a group of schools
(teachers and students) collectively.
27.   The CREP would contain a basic minimum collection of instructional materials and
equipment consisting of educational aids such as dictionaries, atlases, maps, slides aiA
printed materials such as basic curricula documents, prcduced by the MEN.
28.   The CREM would contain the following elements: (a) a reference library, youth
literature, documentaries, etc.; (b) educational aids such as maps, slides and graphs, models,
cassette and video recorders, transparencies; (c/ equipment such as TV, Betamax or VHS,
recorders, projectors, photocopiers, etc.; (d) music equipment; and (e) integrated laboratories
of natural sciences, mathematics and technology.
29.   Each municipality would need to determine how best X organize its instructional
programs in a cost-efficient and effective manner. Consequently, they would need to
determine whether to equip fully each and every secondary school or to establish CREMs.
The MEN would develop criteria for determining whether a CREM or individual CREPs are
the best alternative for meeting each municipality's educational materials and equipment
requirements.
30.   The procurement procedures for materials and equipment will essentially follow those
for textbooks.



- 88 -                      Ann= 7
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Management and Institutional Strengthening
1.    Objctives. The management and institudonal strengthening component of t.he
proposed project is designed to: (a) improve the management and institutional capabilities of
the departments and municipalities and in MEN, through the acoption of a prognam prepared
by MEN, for implementing the decentralization of education; (b) improve quality and
reliability of educational statistics; (c) assist MEN in conducting national assessments of
student achievement in math and reading at the secondary school level; and (d) conduct
policy and evaluation research.
Management and Institutional Strengthening for the Design of the Municipal Education
Plans (MEP)
2.    Training and orientation in education planning focusing on the use of the MEP
manuals would be provided to: six permanent staff from the MEN's Planning Department,
which would provide support to the PCU Promotion Programming and Operational Support
Division (PPOD); five permanent staff from Credit Vice Presidency of FINDETER national
office and at least two employees from each regional office; five permanent staff from the
National Planning Department; and five staff from the PPOD, who v'ould also receive
training on how to become trainers of trainers. The PPOD staff members are responsible for
maintaining the cohesion of the working groups, integrated by one representative from the
above organizations. Table A. 1 shows the number of employees trained at different
government levels.
Table A.1 Number of Employees Trained at Different Government Levels
Government             Institu :             Number of    Total
Level                                     Employees
Trained
National             Planning Department        6           6
MEN       PCU - PPOD                5           5
DNP                                 5           5
FINDETER  Headquarters              5           5
Regional Offices        14          14
Departmental Secretary of Education               5          55
Municipal  Secretary of Education               4          348
Total                                                    438



- 89 -                       A_x 7
3.    The MEP Manuals are designed to guide municipalities in the elaboration of
educational plans. These manuals are hands-on-oriented, rather than theoretical, and
incorporate the local realities of the Colombian municipalities. This pedagogical training is
crucial to ensure effective implementation of the project and to guarantee a 'multiplier'
effect in taining efforts in this area.
4.    The staff trained in the preparation of the MEP would be divided into four technical
worling groups of three to four members, corresponding to geographical regions. The first
group would cover Antioquia, Caldas and Risaralda, representing the northwest; the second
group would cover Atlantico, Bolivar and Magdalena, representing the Atlantic Regior.; the
third group would cover Cundinamarca, Santander and Norte de Santander, representing the
central ,.gion; and the fourth group would cover Narihio and Valle, representing the south.
Each working group would be responsible for the preparation of an average of 22 MEP.
5.    The technical working groups would organize at least three training workshops to
train staff from the Departmental and Municipal Secretaries of Education. From each
Departmental Secretaries of Education the technical vorking group would train at least 5
staff members, for a total of at least 55 staff members throughout the eleven departments
involved in the project. Each Municipal Secretary of Education should send four or at
minimum two employees to be trained along their Departmental-level colleagues. A otal of
348 employees from the 87 municipalities involved in the project would be trained through
this process. The departmental and municipal employees attending these training workshops
would constitute the educational technical support groups, at their level of government, and
would be responsible for preparing the MEP.
6.    Strengthening of Departmental Secretaries of Education. Each Departmental
Secretary of Education would create a technical support group of the five members who
attended the training workshop to prepare the MEP. The Staff from the PCU and the
technical working groups would organize three workshops for this purpose.
7.    Fwst Workshop. Staff from the technical working groups, led by the PPOD
member, would visit each Departmental Secretary of Education for at least two ddys to
promote, provide guidelines, and attract the interest of local government officials to
participate in the preparation of the MEP. These workshops would be based on presentations
by the PPOD stiff of three topics: (a) the Secondary Education Project; (b) responsibilities of
each level of government; and (c) statistical data required for the elaboration of the MEP.
Those presentations would be followed by a plenary discussion intended to answer any
doubts participants may have. If the Secretary of Education is committed to participate in
the program, it must sign an agreement with MEN for this purpose, create a departmental
technical support group to work on the MEP, and collect relevant education data based on
what was said in tne workshop, from at least one pilot municipality prior to the second
workshop to be conducted by the PCU.
8.    Second Workshop. The staff from the technical working groups would tiain the
departmental technical support group on how to use the MEP manual, using a pilot
municipality as an example, and on how to train municipal technical support groups to
produce their own MEP. This workshop would cover two topics: (a) how to diagnose the
needs of the local education sector; and (b) how to determine local priorities. Given the



- 90 -                      Annx 7
nature of this workshop, the methodology would be much more interactive and would make
extensive use of woridng group discussions, role playing simulations.
9.    Third Workop. The workshop would be much more practical and would make ue
of available educational statistics. Its goal is to evaluate initial results of the project. It
would evaluate three topics: (a) goals and priorities decided upon; (b) financial constmints
facing the municipality; and (c) other priorities facing the municipalities. The result of this
worlshop should be used as blueprint of the MEP of the pilot municipality.
10.   StrnthenIng of Municipal Secretaries of Education. The departmental tehnical
support group would train the municipal technical support group of the municipalities which
could not send representatives to the MEN workshops, or which require further institutional
assistance, with the PPOD providing this further assistance. The municipal technical support
groups would be responsible for gathering the relevant data and for preparing the MEP.
11.   Once completed the MEP is presented to the Municipal Council for approval, and to
the Secretary of Education of the department for endorsement. Once approved, the Mayor
would contact the different implementing fiduciaries participating in the Secondary Education
Project, according to the needs of the MEP.
Quality Improvement of Education Statistics
12.   MEN Statistics Division. The project would help improve the quality and reliability
of education statistics. This would be achieved through hiring of technical advisors who
would provide on-the-job training to permanent staff responsible for gathering information
and performing analyses related to education statistics. The technical advisors would assist
the permanent staff to design a decentralized information system which would help in
planning, administration and evaluation of education statistics throughout the 87
municipalities participating in the project. A manual and computer package describing the
standardized procedures for data collection would be made available to the Secretaries of
Education in the Department and Municipalities.
13.   Departmental and Municipal Secretaries of Education. The technical advisors and
the trained MEN permanent staff would organize workshops to train departmental and
municipal planning staff at Secretaries of Education to demonstrate how the decentralized
information system works.
14.   Computer Hardware and Software. The projc zt would fund small amounts of
computer hardware and software in both MEN and in the departments and municipalities to
improve administrative efficiency. Computer training would also be provided for relevant
staff members. These inputs will be defined by the PCU in technical assistance missions and
training workshops.



COLOMBIA
Secondary Education Project
Table 1: Ppulation of the 87 Paricipatip Pilot Municpalities_
MUNICIPALITIES    POPULATION-        MWNlCiPAMSLITE   POPULATION  J   MUNICIPALITIE    VULATIO1
Over 500 thousand 6Municipalitiesl  20 to 49 thousand 33 Municipalitie5  Below 20 thousand 24 Municipalities
Bogota             3,974,741 |    Piedecuesta            48,2861   Sabana de Torres          19,956
Medellin            1,468,089!     Candelaria             44,4001      San Vicente            19,643
Cali              1,350,565       Cinchina              43 684 !      Marsella              19,6141
Barranquilla           899,781      Florida                42,8431    Puerto Colombia          18,994'
Cartagena             531,426         Caldas               42,158        Mahates               18,931
Jamundi              42,158i       ElTambo               18,282!
1 00 to 499 thousand 14 Municipalities  Copacabana             40,309        Buesaco               18,248'
Cucuta               379,478 j     El Cerrito            40,188        Palestina             16,738
Bucaramanga            352,326|        Arjona               37.533        Caqueza               16,486
Manizales             299,352 1       Chia                36,956       Santo Tomas            16.206
Pereira              287,999        Turbaco              34,205        Filadelfia            14,905
Pasto               244,7001       Pradera               34,117        Ginebra              14,209
Santa Marta            218,205        Baranoa              33,647       Subachoque             14,180
Palmira              214,395        Marinilla            31,310      Sabanagrande            13,719
Bello               212,861      Maria La Baja          30,849        San Pedro             13,430
Soledad              165,791         Dagua                30,646     San Estanislao           12,350
Floridablanca          143,824        La Estrella           29,918       Mosquera               12.344
Itagui              137,623    Carmen de Viboral         29,132        Yotoco               12,183           %o
Cienega              120,253         La Ceja              28,766        Restrepo              12,031
Soacha               109,051        Barbosa               28,623      Soplaviento            11,365
Dos Quebradas           101,480        Villamaria            28,426        El Retiro            11,126
Rionegro             27,488f      La Cumhre              10,875
50 to 99 thousand  11 Municipalities      Madrid               27,0471       Tangua               10,295
Buga                 94,753        Sandona               26,7081      Polonuevo              9,874
Envigado               91,391       La Virginia           24,558         Total            12,501,574
Villa del Rosario        63,615         Guacari              24,285
Rio Negro              56,195       Girrardota            293,684
Zipaquira              55,370        Guame                23,269
Malambo               52 5841        Amaga                21,054
Facatativa             51,639         Ca,ica              20,749
Sabanalarga             50,925        Sabaneta             20,491
Giron                50,5701        Sibate               20,049
Yumbo                 502631     = = __
tal Population of the 87 Pilot Municipalites 12,656,58
. tal Population of Colombia 29,879,000
44.5% of total country population is going to participate in the project
SOURCE: Census 1985



COLOMBIA
Secondary Education Project
Table 2: Population by Department of the 87 PartiScatingPilot Municipalities
ANTIOGUIA                                  MAGDALENA                                NORTE SANTANDER
19 Municipalities    Population              2 Municipalities    Population             2 Municipalities     Popuiation
Medellin                   1,468,089        Santa Marta                  218.205        Cucuta                       379.478
Bello                       212,861         Cienega                      120,253        Villa del Rosario             63,615
Itagui                       137,623        TOTAL                        338.458        TOTAL                        443,093
Envigado                      91 391       TOTAL DEPARTMENT              773,479        TOTAL DEPARTMENT             883.884
Rio Negro                     56.195        43.7% of Dept. pop. included in the project  66.6% of Dept. pop. Included in the project
Caldas                        42,158
Copacabana                    40,309              CALDAS                                    RISARALDA
Marinilla                     31t310          6 Municipalities     Population             5 Municipa-ities     Popuiation
La Estrella                   29.918        Manizales                    299,352        Pereira                      287,999
Carmen de Viboral             29,132        Cinchina                      43,684        Dos Quebradas                101.480
La Ceja                       28,766        Villamaria                    28,426        Santa Rosa d Cabal            60,696
Barbosa                       28,623        Neira                         24,895        La Virginia                   24.558
Girrardota                    23,684        Palestina                     16,738        Marsella                      19.614
Guarne                        23,269        Filadelfia                    14,9t0        TOTAL                        494,347
Amaga                         21,054       TOTAL                         428,000        TOTAL DEPARTMENT             625,451
Sabaneta                      20,491       TOTAL DEPARTMENT              838,094        62.8%b of Dept. pop. included In the project
San Vicente                   19.643        51% of Dept. pc'. included in the project
San Pedro                     13,430                                                       SANTANDER
El Retiro                    11,126          CUNDINAMARCA                                 6 Municipalities    Popd-ation
TOTAL                      2,329,072          11 Municipalities    Population           Bucaramanga                  352,326
TOTAL DEPARTMENT           3,888,067        Bogota                     3,974,741        Floridablanca                143,824
59% of Dept. pop. included in the project   Soacha                       109.051        Giron                         50,570
Zipaquira                     55,370        Pledecuesta                   48,286
ATLANTICO                               Facstativa                   51,639         Rlonegro                     27.488
9 Municipalities    Population           Chia                          36.956        Sabana de Torres              19,956
Barranquilla                899,781         Madrid                       27,047        TOTAL                         642,450
Soleded                      165.791        Cajica                        20,749       TOTAL DEPARTMENT            1,438,226
Malambo                       52,584        Sibate                        20,049        44.6% of Dept. pop. Included In te  project
Sabanalarga                   50,925        Caqueza                       16.486
Baranoa                       33,647        Subachoque                    14,180              VALLE
Puerto Colombia               18,994        Mosque.a                      12,344          15 Municiapitlies    Population
Santo Tomas                   16,206       TOTAL                       4,338,612        Cali                       1.350,565
Sabanagrande                  13,719       TOTAL DEPARTMENT            5,356,779        Palmira                      214,395
Polonuevo                      9,874        80.9% o1 Dept. pop. included in the project  Buga                         94,753
TOTAL                      1,261,521                                                    Yumbo                         50,263
OTAL DEPARTMENT           1,428.601              NARINO                                Candelaria                    44,400
88.3% of Dept. pop. included in the project   5 Municipalities     Population           Flor dq                       42,843
Pasto                       244.700         Jamundi                       42.158
BOLIVAR                               Sandona                       26,708        El Cerrito                    40,188
7 Municipalities    Population           El Tambo                      18,282        Pradera                       34.117
Cartagena                    531,426        iuesaco                       18,248        Dagua                         308646
Arjona                        37,033       Tongua                         10,295        Guacari                       24,285
urbaco                       34,205       TOTAL                         318.233        Ginebra                       14.209
Marle La Baja                 30,849       TOTAL DEPARTMENT            1,019.233        Yotoco                        12,183
Mahates                       18,931        31.2% of Dept. pop. includ3d in the project  Restrepo                     12,031
San Estanislao                12,350                                                    La Cumbre                     10,875
Soplaviento                   11,365                                                   TOTAL                       2,017,911
TOTAL                        676,159                                                    TOTAL DEPARTMENT           2.847,087
TOTAL DEPARTMENT           1.197.623                                                    70.8% of Dept. pop. included in the project         00
56% of De     gopjncluded in heprojot    =_                                       _____ _______ _ _
Source: Census 1985



- 93 -
COLOMBIA                                          Annex 8
Secondary Education Project
Tabe 3: BasicEducationDalator87Pa  ldsinaPiot              ltles
r~~~~~~~~~rvt IX Toao-                 uieF.otw iate Toa1 ulcToa rvu
Seoonda     Sondary  Secondary  Seoondary  Secondary  Secondary
Enrollments Enrollment   Schools    Schools    Teachers   Teachers
INTOQUIA
Medellin-             86,751      60,893         127         142       3,334       2
Sel!o                 12,693      10,096          19          17         468         360
Itagui                 8,188       4,014          12          10         296
EnV;CadO               5,185       607            7           12         228
R;O O                  5,069       1,220          l            3         204
o                              70           4! ____3_83__   2     118           7
3- 22       1,244          8           2          1    3      42
Mar;n;lla              2,857        3             7            2         131          431
La EsaS                            1,645          4            5          55          68
Cw en detl Viboral     2,17           0           5            0          90            I
La Ce;a                1812         9             3            2          59 1
Barbosa                1,844        300           4            1          71;         1 3
_Girrard_ta            1,738        884           3            3          611         57
Guame                  1,103        411           4            1 1        39          191
Amagag                 1,5-80 __ __       _ 0     474                             ---  oIl
Sabaneta               1,284       1,588           2           31         46     _   78
SanVicente              803           0           5            0          49           0
San Pedro               930         492           2            2          39          2
EjRet;ro                746L          0            3           0          31           0
Subtotal             143,560      90,174        234          207       5,525;      4,115
LT1ATW 1CO                _    ____ I_        __      I__    _     _  __  _  _  _
!BarranMuilIa         21,696      77,516          40         289        1,019_      3682
Soledad               14,2841      8,998          13T         121        498_        3131
,Malambo               1,1301      2,045          31 43                   42_        1194
Sabanaarga            3,3541      2,545           5           81        142-        121
Iaranoa                3,0901       755           7            5         133          37!
Puerto Colombia  I     1,065        252           3            4          45          28
jo Tomas    1      2 4621        499           3           5         102          25
e               1,331        101           2           2          55           10
l.onuevo               887      -                2           0           32           0
IISubtot        I     492991      92,711         781         329       2,068       4,335
BOU VAR____
Cartagena             27,138      33,720         32          109       1,184       1,307
Ar;Ona          I      2,1161       8291          6            5          84          52II
Turbaco                1,803'      21813          71           8          70         129
Maria La Bala           14951                     51           ol         581 
Mahates                1,223      -     I                      01         51          011
SanEstanislao         _1,226      -                 I s                   52           0
Laviento        I      1,089     -__L        _   5 I           01         53           0'
Subtotal              360901      37,362         651         1221      1,552       1,4381
|CALDAS         I  _ __  _   I _ __  _   I _ _    _  - _1- _-- _  1-_I             _    II
IIManiZaleS     I     26,697      10,0501        106          51       1,557         625
Crhinchina _    |      3,740          51 i        10           1         180          10
|ilCa;~ar     |  _   2,248         298           4            1         118          18
INera           I      1,678      -               8            0         112           01
Pealstina              1,139 |2                                0          48 02
Filadelfia              914             I         41           0          52           01
Subtotal              36,416      10,399        1341          53       2,067         6S3
I8 NU                                             I. 1
ILPasto        I      21,142      13,847         35           23       1,265         733
901      -                3           O          8            0
|____Tambo   _         618      -                2 __         0 j        39           0
___________            5701     -                2            0 ° l      39 1         ° 
232      -                2           0          211          0
23,463      13,847         441                   1,4S          7331



- 94 -
COLOMBIA                                        Annex 8
Secondary Education Project
Tab's 3: Basic E ation D   for 87 Particll tina Pilot M ciDaities
.UIr        F          ob vateP         i    TtlDl Total Prlc 05wu
Secondary  Secondary  aeoonfay  Secondary  Secondary  Secondary
Enrollments Enrollments  Schools    Schools    Teachers   Teacheu
CUND ltW  
Bogota               212,787     286.669         199 .a6Z               9,073      13,087
_oacha              5,018        7673           8          23          241         333
'lpaquira             5,206        1,894          4           7          239          98
F acataiva             4,104       2769            4          18         184         101
th_11661       17605                              125         1o8
nMadrid              677       2,962           2          12          29         147
ajica          __1,607             754           2__ 5_ _                46          62
Sibaie    __           1,011         683           2           3           6  _        37
C-aueza                 817         699           2            2          46          21
SubacPoque              816         225            1           21         441         13
Mosquera               1,538       2,058          2            3i         71          75
Subtotal             235,242     308,146        229          703      10,124       14,082
_G_DAE          _NA
Marta            16,072      11,326         52           70         761         598
Ci0  a                 6,161       1,367          19          141        251_         68
Subtotal              22,233      12,693         71           84       1,012j        66
N. SANTANDER                             _                        _    _ I_ _
Cucuta                27,692      17,967          46          87        1,151         73
Villa del Rosario      2,493    _ 53              8            31         97          36
Subtotal              30,185      18,520         54           901      1,248        l1og
RISARAL-DA      E1
Pereira         1     24,436       6,28           55          27        1,223        358
Dos Quebradas          4 4,887     1,272           9           21        176          52i
StaRosadelCabal|       3,745         576           7           3         195          46
|La Virginia    |      2,205      -                  _                    851          0
Marselia               1,190      -4 3                         o 7
,3ubtotal             36,46        8,676         79           32       17S4
BucarT!a2a      I     27,071      27,7741         42          981       1,265       12
iFloidablanca          3,744       4,2751         17          151        151         17717
tlGiron       I      3,266         9701         12           41         143         35il
lPiedeCuesta           4,027         428          14           31        153i         32_ _
RionroI                 877          116          5            1          371          7
de Torres         8741 r                    31          01         37           01
Subtotal              39,859      33,5631                    121        1,786       1,520
VALLE           I                                    _ I        I_I               _     II
Cali                  46,885     101,452          76         280        2,051       4,464
Paimira               13,980       9,615         35           39         42          5271
Buga                   6,592       4,502           9          14         2841        230
Yumbo                  4,471         994           4           4         1661         77
Candelaria             2,215         507           41          3          9_41__      35
PFlorida               1,925       1,594           4 1         7i         891         92_1
Jamundi                2,520       1,9j            7           4          891 _       69
ElCerrito              3,425         809           7           1         1221         41,
Pradera                1,848         901'  2_                  2i         86_         37ii
Dagua                  1,226         169           31 1_                  8919glj
Guacarn                1,731         355 i   _     4           21 _1
Ginebra                1,185                       5           °          61 __o_
Yotooo                  903           55           2           11         45 
Restrepo                399          558           2           2i         14i         291
LaCumbre                650i      -     I         3O                      33 
Sulbtotal             89,955i    122,5401        167         360i       3,753       5,650
TOT-AL               742,765     7486311       1,2481      2124       32.333       33,807
source: Ministry ot toucaon StaUsics uivision. .irto wn ca cuXed trom ff  ctoa oiectrom m  600,3 fo m; I 91.



95                             Annia 8
COLO1MBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJL%T
Departmuat Pmrtiipatidg La the Secondary Educaion Projec
Tabie4: Net Primary Education Enrollment Ratio
1990
Departments
Antioqula
Atlantico
Bogota (D.C.)
Sollvar
Caldas
Cundinamarca
Magdalena
NariAo                                          i
Norte Sandander
Risaralda
Santander r      -
Valle                                          i
0      20       40      60      80      100     120
Tabses: Net Secondary Education Enrollment Ratio
1990
Departments
Antloqula           _
Atlantico
ogot&i (D.C.) C )
solivar             _                        I.
Caldas
Cundinamarca                i
Magdalena                                       I
NarlfAoc                
Norte Sandander
Risaralda         1      1
Santander
Valle
0    10    20    30    40    60    60    70    80
*euvt0v PISA de Aertlu,a ducative
US"I-t94 Stalletteal Anae,
ONMP-US"-Sl 201I .ar.n tmr. 1et9



- 96 -
Annex 8
COLOMB1A
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Depirtmbets Partkipating in the Seoodary Educato Proet
Tabe6:  Primary Pupil Teacher Ratio
1990
Departments
Antloquia
Atlantico
Bolivar
Caldas
Cundinamarca
Magdalena
Nari,o
Norte Sandander
Risaralda
Santander
Valle
a     10    20    30       40      50     60     70
Table 7:   Secondary Pupil Teacher Ratio
1990
Departments
Antioqu ia
Atlantico
Bolivar
Caldas
Cundinamarca
Magdalena
NariAo
Norte Sandander
Risaralda
Santander
Valle
0     5    10    15    20    25    30    35    40
Source: Plan de Aperturs Educa'va
s91-:194 Stati2tical Annex
ONP-UDS-DiC 2818 March 19, 1991



-97-                             Annex9
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ProJect Coordination Unit
Structure and Functions
A. Role
1.    A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) is going to be created within the MEN to provide
coordination and support for project promotion, planning, financing, procurement,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation. The PCU would be directed by a Project
Director/Coordinator, reporting to the Vice-Minister of Education. The PCU would consist
of three divisions: (a) Promotion, Programming and Operational Support; (b) Technical
Support and Institutional Development; and (c) Monitoring and Evaluation. The PCU would
be an integral part of the MEN and to the extent feasible would draw upon MEN's
technical and administrative staff and resources to implement the proposed project.
B. Functions and Responsibilities
2.    The functions and responsibilities of the three divisions of the PCU are the following:
(a)  Promotion Programming and Operational Support: (i) to design, prepare,
coordinate and implement the promotion of the project at all levels; (ii) to inform the
departments and municipalities of the project objectives and procedures for
participation; (iii) to prepare, distribute and procure agreements to participate in the
program from the departments and municipalities; (iv) to prepare and inform the
annual work plans to all entities involved in the program; and (v) to identify and
resolve programming and operational problems.
(t)  Technical Support and Institutional Development: (i) to provide technical assistance
in preparing municipal plans in the areas of planning, educational quality enhancement
and civil works; (ii) to respond to institutional strengthening necessities that appear
during the lifetime of the project; (iii) to procure educational materials and equipment
and provide training on procurement to departments and municipalities; and (iv) to
provide orientation and training for department officials in preparing municipal plans.
(c)  Monitoring and Evaluation: (i) to compile, analyze and maintain all information
required for project monitoring and evaluation; (ii) to establish and maintain the
project's management information system; (iii) to handle all administrative aspects of
the project, including the elaboration of guidelines for the project participants; (iv)
review investment plans and proposals approved at the departmental level; (v) to
establish and maintain project accounts; (vi) to monitor project implementation by the
implementing agencies; (vii) to conduct monitoring and evaluation studies; and (viii)
prepare reports on expenditures and arrange annual external audits.



-98 -                              Annex 9
C. Staffing Requirements
3.    The PCU would be staffed by current MEN staff and external professionals. The
proposed staffing would consist of: (a) a full-time senior Director/Coordinator; (b) 3 full-
time professionals with experience in their rspective professional fields, preferably with
background in project implementadon, as Heads of the three divisions; and (c) a total of 13
full-time profesionals would be made available to work in the PCU, and 28 part-time
professional staff from the two directorates of the MEN would support the three divisions of
the PCU as needed.
UNnTs             Unit    Professionals    Support   Total
Heads | PCU (full-time)    Staff            l
Promotkon, Programming      1             5             2        8
and Operational Support
Technical Support and       1             4             1        6
Institutional Development
Monitoring and Evaluation   1            4              1        6
Total                       3            13             4        20
4.    The PCU would use the Ministry's existing infrastructure to implement project
activities. However, to facilitate project administrative and financial management by the
PCU, MEN would recruit a fiduciary agent. Provisions are made in the project for
purchasing the furniture and equipment for the PCU as well as for covering its stafI:ng
requirements and operating costs, through this fiduciary agent.
5.    The PCU Director would closely coordinate project management with the Director of
Educational Planning and the Director of General Education to: (a) prepare the project's
annual workplan; (b) assign responsibilities for project implementation; (c) agree on the
allocation of MEN staff resources; and, (d) collectively monitor project implementation. The
Vice Minister of Education would also chair regular meetings of the project's senior
management.
D. Procurement Advisor: Services
6.    Procurement advisor/s in the Technical Support and Institutional Development
Division would provide participating municipalities technical and administrative assistance in
organizing tendering, based on standard bidding documents developed for the project. They
would also offer training to municipalities in procurement to expedite project implementation
and build local capacity.



-99 -
COLOM A                                                                         ABMex 10
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
TABLE 1: COS-I BY CATEGORIES OF KPENDrrURES
Sunmary Accounts  Cost  Surwary
Peso                                            USS                                       X  Total
..............................                   ..........................                 X  Foreign            Bast
Local      Foreign          Total             Local   Foreign           Total          Exchange           Coasta
..............................                   ............................................. ........................ .......................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. Civil Works
1.  Rehabilitation  Existing                  4701.1        2014.7         6715.8                6.7          2.9          9.6              30.0            7.2
2.  New  Constr.Existing  Fac.               10120.9         4337.5       14458.5               14.5          6.2         20.7               30.0          15.4
3.  New  Constr,Addit.Enrotl.                 7644.7        3276.3        10921.0               10.9          4.7         15.6               30.0          11.7
4.  ArchitecturaL  Fees                       1729.3             0.0       1729.3                2.5          0.0          2.5                0.0            1.8
................................... ...... ............. ..................  ................................    ....................
Sub-Total                                        24196.1         9628.6       33824.7               34.6         13.8         48.3               28.5          36.1
B. Furniture
1.  Repairs                                   1512.0         1008.0        2520.0                2.2          1.4          3.6              40.0             2.7
2.  ExparJ.ion  (New Units)                     504.6         336.4         841.0                0.7          0.5          1.2               40.0            0.9
..............................                   ...........................              . ................. ..................................................... ..........
Sub-Total                                          2016.6        1344.4        3361.0                2.9           1.9         4.8               40.0            3.6
C. Equipment
1.  Electronie Equipment                       217.0         1953.3        2170.3                0.3          2.8          3.1              90.0            2.3
2.  Science  Laboratories                     3188.4         1366.5        4554.9                4.6          2.0          6.5              30.0            4.9
3. Technology  Laboratories                       0.0            0.0           0.0               0.0          0.0          0.0                0.0            0.0
..............................                   ...........................              . ................. ........................ .......................................
Sub-Total                                         3405.5         3319.8        6725.2                4.9          4.7           9.6              49.4            7.2
D. Educational Mater;als
1.  Teaching Aids                              207.4        1866.4         2073.7                0.3          2.7          3.0              90.0            2.2
2.  Textbooks                                13099.8        3274.9        16374.7               18.7          4.7         23.4               20.0          17.5
3.  Library Books/Refer.Texts                 5014.8         1253.7        6268.5                7.2          1.6          9.0               20.0            6.7
............... ..............................................  ...........................  .................................................
Sub-Total                                        18322.0         6395.0       24717.0               26.2          9.1         35.3               25.9           26.4
E.  Studies                                       2688.0          672.0        3360.0                3.8           1.0          4.8              20.0            3.6
F. Technical Assistance
1. Expatriate  Consultants                        0.0         840.0         840.0                0.0          1.2          1.2             100.0            0.9
2.  Locat Consultants                          630.0             0.0        630.0                0.9          0.0          0.9                0.0            0.7
..............................                   ...........................              . .................. ........................ .......................................
Sub-Total                                           630.0         840.0         1470.0               0.9           1.2          2.1              57.1            1.6
G.  Vouchers  (Fellowships)                       5239.5             0.0       5239.5                7.5           0.0          7.5                0.0           5.6
H. School  Improvement  PLans                     8169.0         2042.2       10211.2               11.7           2.9        14.6               20.0           10.9
I. Project  Management                              953.4         238.3        1191.7                1.4          C.3           1.7              20.0            1.3
J.  Project  Administration                       2290.4             0.0       2290.4                3.3          O.C           3.3                0.0           2.4
..............................                   ............................................. ..................................................... ..........
Total  INVESTMENT  COSTS                         67910.5       24480.4        92390.9               97.0         35.0        132.0               26.5           98.7
..............................                   ...........................              . ................. ..................................................... ..........
II. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Operation & Maintenance
1.  Equipment                                    56.7         510.3         567.0                0.1          0.7          0.8               90.0            0.6
2.  Furniture                                    56.7           37.8          94.5               0.1          0.1          0.1               40.0            0.1
3. Buildings                                    374.8         160.6          535.5               0.5          0.2          0.8               30.0            0.6
Sub-Total                                           488.2          708.7        1197.0                0.7          1.0          1.7              59.2            1.3
..............................                   ............................................. ..................................................... ..........
..............................                   ...........................              . ................. ..................................................... ..........
Totat BASELINE  COSTS                            68398.7    25189.2           93587.9               97.7         36.0        133.7               26.9          100.0
Physical  Contingencies                       1332.2          558.6         1890.8                1.9         0.8           2.7              29.5            2.0
Price Contingencies                           8180.9         3052.5       11233.4               11.7          4.4         16.0               27.2           12.0
.............................   ............................... ...........................  ....................................... ..........
Total  PROJECTS  COSTS                           77911.8    28800.3    106712.1                    111.3         41.1        152.4               27.0         114.0
VausScldb.....   ....... .... ....../ .1.1..................................................................
Values  Scaled by  1000000.0  -    4/13/1993    11:59



Annex 10
-100-
COLOAMIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJEr
TABLE 2: PROJECT COMPONINS BY YEAR
Totals Including Contirjencies
Peso
1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   1997/98   1998/99   1999/00          Total
A. INCREASINS COVERAGE                  793.0    4157.2    6393.4    8837.9    9111.9    9394.3    6352.1   45039.7
B. EXPANDING ACCESS                     798.1      822.8      848.4      874.7     901.8      929.7      639.0    5814.5
C. EDUC.QUALITY ENHANCEMENT            2346.2    4658.8    9053.1   20647.1    5432.1    3471.3    1038.8   46648.0
D. MGT & INSTIT. STRENGTHEN.            598.9    1206.5    1953.2    2598.0    1237.8         896.4      719.2    9209.9
.................................................................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    4536.2   10845.4   18248.6   329`7.6   16683.5   14691.7    8749.1  106712.1
..................................... ...............................................................................,,,,__
Totals Including Conti,ogencies
usS
................................ ....................................................................................... ..............
1993/94   1994/95   1995/96   1996/97   19"W7/98   1998/99   1999/00         Total
=========:====a===s=========:=:===:===s:==as========:::::: =:z= -a== =2==t=
A. INCREASING COVERAGE                     1.1       5.9        9.1       12.6       13.0      13-4        9.1       64.3
S. EXPANDING ACCESS                        1.1       1.2        1.2        1.2        1.3       1.3        0.9        8.3
C. EDUC.QUALITY ENHANCEMENT               3.4        6.7       12.9       29.5        7.8       5.0        1.5       66.6
D. MGT 8 ".'ST!'. STRENGTHEN.             0.9        1.7        2.8        3.7        1.8       1.3        1.0       13.2
....... ..........  -.................................. ... .... .... ..... ............... . . ... ......  ...  ...
Total PROJECTS COSTS                       6.5       15.5       26.1       47.1       23.8      21.0       12.5      152.4
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 4/13/1993 11:59



- 101 -
COLOM3L1A                                                           Annex 10
SECONDARY imuCAnOm Pmoncr
TABLE 3: SUMMARY ACCOU.5 BY EAR
Peso
Sluamry Aceounts by Year
lose Costs                                             Foreign Exchange
193/94   19"4195   1995/90   1996/97   1997/96   19W/99   199/00           Totat         X    Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...................
A. Civil Works
1. tehabltation Existirn          134.3     671.6    1007.4    1343.2    1343.2    1343.2       873.1    6711.3         30.0    2014.7
2. New Constr.Exlsting Fec.       289.2    1445.8    2168.8    25W1.'   2891.7    2891.7    1879.6  14458.5              30.0   4337.5
3. New Constr.AddIt.Enroll.       218.4    1092.1    1638.2    2164.2    2184.2    2184.2    1419.7   10921.0            30.0    3276.3
4. ArchitecturaL Foos              34.6     172.9      259.4     345.9     345.9    345.9       224.8    1729.3           0.0       0.0
Sub-total                            676.5    3382.5    5073.7    6764.9    6764.9    6764.9   4397.2  33824.7              28.5   9628.6
B. Furniture
1. Repairs                         50.4     252.0     378.0      504.0     504.0      504.0     327.6    2520.0         40.0    1008.0
2. Expansion (New Lnits)           16.8      84.1      126.2     168.2      168.2     168.2     109.3      641.0        40.0      336.4
Sub-total                             67.2     336.1      504.2     672.2      672.2     672.2    436.9    3361.0           40.0    1344.4
C. Equipment
1. ELectronic Equip tnt           108.5     217.0     434.1    1085.2      217.0      10t.5       0.0    2170.3         90.0    1953.3
2. Science Laboratories           455.5     683.2      911.0     911.0      911.0     455.5     227.7    4554.9          30.0   13e6.5
3. Techno&ogy Laboratories          0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0
Sub-total                            564.0     900.3    1345.0    1996.2    1128.0       564.0      227.7    6725.2         49.4    3319.8
0. Educational Moterials
1. Teaching Aids                  103.7     207.4     414.7    1036.9      207.4      103.7       0.0    2073.7         90.0    1866.4
2. textbooks                      818.7    1657.5    3274.9    8197.4    1637.5       618.7       0.0   16374.7          20.0    3274.9
3. Library Books/Rafer.Texts      313.4     626.8    1253.7    3134.2       626.8     313.4       0.0    6268.5          20.0    1253.7
Sub-total                           1235.8    2471.7   4943.4   12358.5    2471.7    1235.8           0.0   24717.0         25.9   6395.0
E.  Studies                          168.0     336.0      672.0    1344.0      336.0     336.0      168.0    3360.0         20.0     672.0
F. Technical Assistance
1. Expatriate ConsuLtants          42.0     168.0      252.0     168.0      126.0      42.0      42.0      840.0        100.0     840.0
2. Local Consultants               31.5     126.0      189.0     126.0       94.5      31.5      31.5      630.0          0.0       0.0
Sub-total                             73.5     294.0      441.0     294.0      220.5      73.5       73.5    1470.0         57.1     840.0
0.  Vouchers (FeLlowthips)           785.9     785.9      785.9     785.9      785.9     785.9      523.9    5239.5          0.0       0.0
M. School Improvement Plans          510.6    1021.1    2042.2    4084.5    1021.1    1021.1        510.6   10211.2         20.0    2042.2
i.  Project Management               119.2     178.8    238.3       238.3      178.8     119.2     119.2    1191.7          20.0     238.3
J.  Project Acisinistration          229.0     343.6      458.1     458.1      343.6     229.0      229.0    2290.4          0.0       0.0
Total INVESTMEWT COSTS              4429.8   10049.9   16503.9   28e96.7   139Z2.7   11801.8    6686.1   92390.9            26.5  24480.4
ll. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
K. Operation & Maintenance
1. Equlpment                        0.0      56.7       56.7     113.4      113.4     113.4     113.4      567.0        90.0      510.3
2. Furniture                        0.0       9.4        9.4      18.9       18.9      18.9       18.9      94.5        40.0       37.8
3. Buildings                        0.0      53.5       53.5     107.1      107.1     107.1      107.1     535.5         30.0     160.6
Sub-total                              0.0      119.7     119.7     239.4      239.4     239.4      239.4    1197.0         59.2     708.7
Total BASELINE COSTS                4429.8   10169.6   16623.6  29236.1   14162.1   12041.2    6925.5   93s57.9             26.9  25189.2
PhysicaL Contingencies             37.2     189.1      282.0     378.2      378.2     378.2      248.0    1890.8         29.5     558.6
Price Contingencies                69.2     486.7    1342.9   3343.4    2143.2    2272.3    1575,6   11233.4             27.2    3052.5
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4536.2   10845.4   18248.6   32957.6   16683.5   14691.7    8749.1  106712.1            27.0   28800.3
Taxes                               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0
Foreign Exchange                 1001.3    2567.7   4949.9    9122.3    4577.4    3950.4   2331.2   28800.3             100.0  28800.3
..................................................................................... ..........................................................................................



- 102 -
Annex 10
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECI
TABLE 4: SU?UMARY ACCOUNT! BY PROJECr COMPONENT
Paso
EDUC,QUA    MGT &                       PhysicaL            Price
INCREASI                LITY      INSTIT.                   Contingencies       Contingecies
NG     EXPANOIN  ENHANCEM  STRENGTH    ---------------............._.
COVERAGE  G ACCESS       ENT        EN.        Total         X      Amount   X       Amount
*uuuuuuuuuuuua:aUuauuuusutau.UUSUEUUUUUUUUUEUUEUUUUUUUUUUU8UUUUOUAUUSUUsss-ws--wsslsslts aSs
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Works
1. RehabiLitation Existing            6715.8        0.0        0.0        0.0    6715.8         5.0      335.8    14.1       945.8
2. New Constr.Existing Fac.          14458.5        0.0        0.0        0.0   14458.5          5.0     722.9    14.1    2036.3
3. New Constr.Addit.Enroll.          10921.0        0.0        0.0         0.0   10921.0         5.0     546.1      14.1    1538.1
4. Architectural Fees                 1729.3        0.0         0.0        0.0    1729.3         5.0      86.5    14.1        243.6
............................................................................................
Sub-total                            33824.7        0.0        0.0        0.0   33824.7          5.0    1691.2    14.1    4763.8
B. Furniture
1. Repairs                            2520.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    2520.0         5.s      126.0    14.1       354.9
2. Expansion (New Units)               841.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      841.0         5.0      42.1    14.1        118.5
sub-total                             3361.0        0.0        0.0        0.0    3361.0         5.0      168.1    14.1       473.4
C. Equipment
1. Electronic Equipment                  0.0        0.0    2170.3         0.0    2170.3         0.0        0.0    10.2       220.7
2. Science Laboratories                  0.0        0.0    4554.9         0.0    4554.9         0.0        0.0    10.6       482.0
3. TechnoLogy Laboratories               0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0     0.0         0.0
............................................................................................
Sub-total                                0.0        0.0    6725.2         0.0    6725.2          0.0        0.0    10.4      702.7
D. Educational Materials
1. Teaching Aids                         0.0        0.0    2073.7         0.0    2073.7         0.0        0.0    10.2       210.9
2. Textbooks                             0.0        0.0   16374.7          0.0   16374.7         0.0       0.0    10.2    1665.3
3. Library Books/Refer.Texts             0.0        0.0    6268.5         0.0    6268.5          0.0       0.0    10.2       637.5
............................................................................................
Sub-total                                0.0        0.0   24717.0          0.0   24717.0         0.0        0.0    10.2    2513.7
E. Studies                                 0.0        0.0        0.0    3360.0    3360.0          0.0        0.0    11.1       371.4
F. Technical Assistance
1. Expatriate Consultants                0.0        0.0        0.0      840.0      840.0        0.0        0.0      9.9       83.0
2. Locat ConsuLtants                     0.0        0.0        0.0      630.0      630.0         0.0       0.0      9.9       62.3
Sub-total                                0.0        0.0        0.0    1470.0    1470.0           0.0        0.0     9.9       145.3
G. Vouchers (FeLlowships)                  J.0    5239.5         0.0        0.0    5239.5         0.0        0.0    11.0       575.0
H. School Improvement Plans                ".0       0.0   10211.2          0.0   10211.2         0.0        0.0    11.1      1128.7
1. Project Management                     0.0        0.0        0.0    1191.7    1191.7           0.0       0.0    10.9        130.4
J. Project Administration                 0.0         0.0        0.0    2290.4    2290.4          0.0        0.0    10.9       250.7
............................................................................................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                37185.7    5239.5   41653.5    8312.1   92390.9             2.0    1859.3    12.0   11055.0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Operation & Maintenance
1. Equipment                             0.0        0.0      567.0        0.0      567.0        0.0        0.0    14.5        82.3
2. Furniture                            94.5        0.0         0.0        0.0       94.5        5.0        4.7    15.2        14.4
3. BuiLdings                           535.5         0.0        0.0        0.0      535.5        5.0       26.8    15.2        81.7
Sub-total                              630.0        0.0      567.0         0.0    1197.0         2.6       31.5    14.9       178.4
............................................................................................
Total BASELINE COSTS                  37815.7    5239.5   42220.5    8312.1   93587.9           2.0    1890.8    12.0   11233.4
Physical Contingencies               1890.8        0.0        0.0       0.0    1890.8
Price Contingencies                  5333.2     575.0    4427.5       897.7   11233.4         2.3      254.0
............................................................................................
Totat PROJECT COSTS                   45039.7    5814.5   46648.0    9209.9  106712.1           2.0    2144.7    10.5   11233.4
*X::::=: s=2-                                ----------------- =::a-:=:::r:.us.usu
Taxes                                   0.°0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0         0.
Foreign Exchange                    13305.7        0.0   13560.8    1933.7   28800.3          2.2      633.6
..........................................................................................................................
Vatues Scated by 1000000.0 4/13/1993 11:58



A      1
- 103-
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROD=CT
Tabeb 5: IS_hI Stble o  Dof
(US$
Ancuided              Uad&bwan
Bank FY                     Dibu                                          llme
Somoeer Ending             Amount               Amommt                Amuat        I
FY94
Decomber 31                0.0          0       0.0         0       90.0        100
June 30                    1.8          2       1.8         2        U.2         93
EX2s
Dcember 31                 4.5          S       6.3         7       83.7         93
June 30                    4.5          S      10.8        12       79.2         I8
EY96
December 31                6.3          7      17.1        19       72.9         11
June 30                    7.2          8      24.3        27       65.7         73
E12
December 31                9.0         10      33.3        37       56.7         63
June 30                    9.0         10      42.3        47       47.7         53
EY8
December 31                9.0         10      S1.3        S7       38.7         43
June 30                    9.0         10      60.3        67       29.7         33
EFY9
December 31                9.0         10     69.3         77       20.7         23
June 30                    9.0         10      78.3        87        11.7        13
EXM
December 31                4.S          S      82.8        92        7.2          8
June 30                    4.S          5      87.3        97         2.7         3
EFYI
December 31                2.7          3      90.0       100        0.0        0.0
Eaimta m                iim    -
IBRD FY            l9               §   197fl " QQ2IU
Annual                         1.8    9.0   13.5   18.0   18.0   18.0   9.0        2.7
Cumulative                     1.8   10.8   24.3   42.3   60.3   78.3   87.3   90.0
Note:  Project CompWta Dab: Jhu  30, 2000
Project Closing Ddeo: Decembe 31, 2000



Annex 10
- 104-
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Table 6: Allocatlon of Loan Proceeds
Category                   Loan           Disbursement (%)
Amount(US$
million)
1.    Civil Works &              15.0      100% of amounts disbursed by
Associated Furniture                        FINDETER
(oans)
2.    Civil Works (Grants)        13.0      100% of arounts disbursed by
FINDETER under Cooperation
Agreements
3.    Civil Works &               9.0       100% of amounts disbursed by
Associated Furniture                    FINDETER under the
(Grants)                               applicable FIS Subproject
Agreement
4.    Architectural fees,        33.0       100% of amounts disbursed by
Textbooks, Equipment,                    Fiduciaries under the
and SIP Projects                       applicable FIS Subproject
Agreement
5.    Technical Assistance,       6.0      100% of amounts disbursed for
Studies and Operational             consulting services and 80% of
Expenditures of the                   amounts ditaursed by MEN
Project Unit                            Financial L-termediary
6.    Supplemental Vouchers       4.0       100% of amounts disbursed by
a Fiduciary
7.    Unallocated
I                       2LQ



- 105 -
COLOMBIA                                           Annex 11
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS
Flow of funds through FIS
Oranization                                            Functions
IBRD     .               Provides funds to Ministry of Finance based on loan agreement
Miaistry of Finance (MHCP)          Channels funds through FIS for cofinancing
FIS                     Contracts with fiduciary/ies and channels funds through them for
corinancing for the following sub-projects:
(School Construction and Rehabilitation,
Voucbers,
School Improvement Plans (SIP),
Textbooks,
Other Instructional Material and Equipment.)
Reconciles sub-projer. ac"ounts and annual financial reports and
arranges dnnual audits
Enter into contract with FIS, municipalities and schools for SIP sub-
.iduci.ry/.cs              projects. Arrange cofu ancing support from the municipalities (and
Fiduciary/ies               schools, parent associations and alike, for SIP sub-project) to finance
the sub-projects.
Pay suppliers for project inputs, monitors expenditures and produces
fnancial reports for FIS. municipalities and MEN. Reconcile sub-
project accounts and prepares annual financial reports and arranges
annual audits
Transfer cc- nterpart funds assigned for sub-projects to fiduciary/ies
Municipal / Departmental Governments    selected by FIS
Flow of Funds through MIEN
Organization                                           Functions
IBRD                      Provides funds to MHCP based on loan agreement
MHCP                      Channels funds through MEN
Contractually agrees with, and channels tasks and perhaps funds
MEN                      through, management service agents to manage funds designated for
the following components:
Educational Statistics
National Achievement Assessments
Studies and Evaluation Research
Projec:t Management
Reconciles all project accounts and prepares annual financial reports
and arranges annual audits
Contractually agrees with MEN to manage components. Pay
managemen Servic Companiconsultant agencies for project inputs, monitors expenditures and
Management Service Companies         produces financial reports for MEN. Reconcile project accounts
and prepares annual financial reports and arranges annual audits



- 106-
COLOMBIA                                          Annex 11
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS
Flow of Funds through FINDETER for New Constructions and Rehabilitation of Schools
Or =anizatlon               (                          Functions
IBRD                      Provides funds to MHCP based on loan agreement
MHCP                      Channels funds through FINDETER
Contractually agrees with MHCP to manage loan funds for schools
FINDETER *                   construction . Is involved in all stages of the project cycle from
identification to approval and supervision. Pays suppliers for
project inputs.
Prepares annual financial reports and arranges annual audits.
Financial Intermediaries        Contractually agree with FINDETER to manage loan funds.
Prepares annual financial reports and arranges annual audits.
Municipal .     Departmental Govemments   Contractually agree with FINDETER and the financial
Mintermediaries to receive loan funds.
* It is to be noted that in zertain cases loans by
FINDETER will be supplemented with funds
channeled through FIS, see Annex 10 Table 6
category 2.



- 107 -
Annex 12
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators, Supervision Plan, and Evaluation Studies
Monitoring Indicators
1.    The monitoring indicators devised for planning and supervision of project
implementation appear in Appendix 1. These indicators cover the period from 1993 to 1997
at the end of which there would be a mid-term review of project implementation. These
monitoring indicators would be reviewed annually and revised in accordance with
implementation experience, as required. A new set of monitoring indicators covering the
period beyond 1997 would be prepared following the mid-term review.
Supervision Plan
2.   In order to supervise this operation properly, the Bank would have to rely heavily on
information obtained from four major sources: (a) physical and financial delivery
information from the PCU's Project Monitoring System; (b) supplementary progress reports
from implementing fiduciary agents such as FINDETER, BCH, and others which summarize
achievements, propose plans for the ensuing period of implementation, and identify issues in
need of MEN's attention; (c) nlission reports of PCU staff on project operations at the
departmental and municipal levels; and (d) field visits by Bank staff and consultants to
selected departments and municipalities to assess project implementation first hand.
3.    Supervision missions would be carried out annually in November and June. The
November missions would review MEN's annual progress report on implementation, with
year-end projections and examine the updated implementation schedule and expenditure plan
for the subsequent year. The June mission would assess mid-year project implementation and
identify issues for the year-end review. Both missions would selectively review contracts
awarded without prior review by the Bank. Supervision missions would be supplemented by
others focusing on specific sub-components of a more technical nature such as evaluation
research. A full-time consultant working out of the Resident Mission would also carry out
supervision tasks for the project along with other responsibilities.
4.    The estimated annual number of staff/consultant weeks required for supervision
missions are the following:
Bank Supervision Missions in November and June by Task Manager,
Architect, and Education or Institutional Development/Training Specialist: 12
staffweeks.
Periodic visits for monitoring of evaluation research for example by staff of the
Bank's 7;luman Resources Development & Operations Policy Vice Presidency
(HROV1P): 4 staffweeks.



- 108 -                     Annex 12
In-country supervision and support for implementation from the Human Resource
Specialist based in the World Bank Resident Mission: 15 staffweeks.
5.    The Bank would assist MEN with project start-up, jointly discussing with senior
managers and staff, the suitability of proposed strategies and work plans for project
implementation. It would also familiarize MEN staff with Bank policies and operating
procedures, as required to implement the project efficiently and effectively.
Mid-Term Review
6.    A Mid-term Review of the project would be conducted in mid-1996. The review
would comprise a comprehensive assessment of the project as designed and reflected in this
Staff Appraisal Report against actual progress to date. It would also take into account issues
arising for supervision during the first half of the project. This review would give the
opportunity to incorporate lessons learned and if required to alter or redesign the project so
that it will strengthen its success and limit its weakness.
7.    A special study would be conducted for the voucher component in order to determine
if the vouchers are reaching the students deserting the sy~ ~m. If not, the voucher
component would have to be redesigned or cancelled.
Project Evaluation
8.    The proposed project includes funding in the amount of US$5.3 million with
contingencies for policy research and evaluation. The evaluation sub-component, which is by
far the largest, would examine three main aspects of project impact: (a) the effect of the
School Improvement Plans on efficiency and achievement; (b) the impact of improvemen:s in
school inputs on student achievement, attendance, retention, and promotion; and (c) the
effectiveness of the voucher program in increasing secondary school enrollments for lower-
income students. Three critical aspects of the evaluation will be measuring education
indicators prior to the intervention, determining the state of the world withou the
intervention, and identifying the key measures of success. It will be necessary to obtain
baseline information on education outcomes and background characteristics of the
beneficiaries of the project before any intervention is implemented, and to identify an
appropriate control group wilh which to compare the education indicators after the
intervention.
9.    School Improvement Plans (SIPs). The new national strategy of decentralization is
built on the belief that schools know best their specific needs and how to meet them. To
encourage decentralization this project will provide incentives for schools and municipalities
to develop SIPs. The key questions to be addressed are: Which municipalities and schools
are more likely to participate in decentralized management and funding of schools? Do the
SIPs alter the mix of school inputs? The answers to these questions will help define
strategies for expanding the program nationally and for insuring the success of that
expansion. A key issue in the evaluation is to establish whether the plaining process, not
just more school inputs, matters. A 'good' plan, one that improves the morale of teachers,
increases parental inputs in their children's education, and raises the level of student interest,
are likely to improve student achievement, attendance, and promotions. But testing this



- 109 -                    Ane 12
hypothesis means decomposing the responses to the reforms into the portion attributable to
improved resources and the portion attributable to planning and innovative use of resources.
Disentangling these effects will require that schools which receive resources but are not
required to develop SIPs be compared with those schools which receive resources as a result
of their development of a SIP. If planning matters, there should be observable differences in
resource allocation between the schools with SIPs and those without. This comparison
between planning and nonplanning schools can only be made if some schools without SIPs
also receive the additional resources of $6.00 per student.
10.  Increases in School Inputs. The research questions for policy evaluation are: Have
schools participating in the project raised student achievement, attendance, promotions, and
retentions? Which improvements in pedagogical inputs in the participant schools raise
student outputs? Does the planning process add to the productivity of the school? These
questions can be addressed by using a value-added educational production function. The
analysis must be able to compare the performance of students in project schools with a
control group of students in nonparticipant schools.
11.   The value-added approach requires that student achievement be measured twice,
before and after the intervention. Prior student ability can be measured by the language and
mathematics tests regularly given to fifth-graders by the National Assessment of Education
Quality. During these tests, data are also collected on the characteristics of students, their
family background, and characteristics of teachers and school principals. This information
can identify the factors that determine educational achievement in the secondary schools.
After the fifth-graders have spent one year in the secondary schools, their educational outputs
would be measured once again. Two output measures can be used. One is a score on a
standardized test of student achievement. A comparison of test scores in the fifth grade and
in the sixth grade for each student provides an absolute measure of knowledge resulting from
the educational process. A second measure of output is whether or not the student is
promoted to the seventh grade. Because standards may vary across schools, this will require
some control for differential promotion standards.
12.   School Vouchers. Public secondary schools in some areas cannot accommodate all
the students who would like to attend, whereas private schools are believed to have some
excess capacity. Vouchers are expected to increase private school enrollments both because
they would ease the supply constraint and because they would lower the price of attending
private schools for children of poor families. The questions for evaluation are: What is the
distribution of vouchers by socio-economic group, student achievement, and residence? Do
vouchers increase enrollment rates, especially of poor youths? Do vouchers improve student
achievement?
13.   The ideal method for the evaluation would be to observe the schooling choices and
educational achievements of two comparable samples of children, only one of which received
vouchers. Such a pure matched comparison experiment will not be possible in the
Colombian program because the vouchers are not randomly distributed in the population. To
receive a voucher a student must live in a qualified neighborhood within a qualified
municipality since qualifications are based on neighborhood poverty status. In addition, the
student must apply for the voucher and already be accepted into a qualified private school.
Targeting is not likely to be perfect. There will be households in the eligible poor



- 110-                     Ann12
neighborhoods whose incomes are higher than the targeted group's; similarly, there will be
poor households in wealthier neighborhoods which will be exempted from the voucher
program. This allows a comparison of schooling choices made by families in qualified
neighborhoods with those made by families with similar socioeconomic backgrounds but
which do nit qualify for vouchers because of the neighborhoods they reside in. It is
important to compare the characteristics of those who receive the benefits of the program
with the attributes of the population eligible for the program in order to determine how the
targeting mechanism may be improved in the future.
14.   The evaluation study would employ the following indicators to measure the impact of
project inputs at municipal and school levels:
School Improvement Plans (SlPs)
(a)  Greater value-added as measured by achievement growth of individual students in SIP
schools than non-SIP schools, controlling for differences between these two sets of
schools in school size, socioeconomic background of students, and so on.
Achievement growth is defined as the difference in the achievement scores of
individual students measured in grade five and in grade six.
(b)  Higher retention rates (or lower dropout rates) in SIP schools than in comparable non-
SIP schools. Here, ensuring comparability means that other school characteristics
besides those related to planning should be controlled for within a multivariate
framework in order to undertake the evaluation properly.
(c)  Higher school attendance (or lower absenteeism) by students and teachers in SIP
schools than in comparable non-SIP schools.
(d)  Greater participation of parents and the community in school activities in SIP schools
than in comparable non-SIP schools.
(e)  Increased local funding in SIP schools than in comparable non-SIP schools.
School Vouchers
(a)  Increased enrollment of eligible students in public and private secondary schools due
to voucher system. The enroilment status of eligible students who received vouchers
must be compared with the enrollment status of eligible students who did not receive
vouchers. Eligibility has been defined in the voucher program as students who
complete grade five with the required grade point average and maintains the required
grade point average throughout the cycle, reside in municipalities that belong to the
poorest two income strata in the country, and apply for a voucher. Poor students who
would have qualified for the voucher program had they been residing in the eligible
municipalities are also termed as eligible and belong to the control or comparator
group.
(b)  Higher achievement growth for voucher students than comparable non-vo'-her
students between grades five and six and between grades six and the ensuing years.



- 111-                      A_  12
Ensuring comparability among students means controlling for eligibility for receiving
a voucher.
(c) Higher grade point averages for voucher students than for comparable non-voucher
sudents.
(d) Better school attendance by voucher students than by comparable non-voucher
students.
(e) Reduced juvenile delinquency in communities with more voucher students, controlling
for incidence of youth-related crimes prior to adoption of voucher system.
(f) Higher transition rates to the tertiary education level for baeeficiary graduates than for
non-beneficiaries.
(g) Higher employment rates and higher future earnings for voucher students than for
comparable non-voucher students. A follow-up survey of graduates should reveal the
returns for them in the labor market.
cresen in School Inputs
(a)   Greater value added as measured by higher achievement growth for students in
beneficiary schools than for those in comparable non-beneficiary schools.
(b)  Better school attendance (or lower absenteeism) by students and teachers in
beneficiary schools than in comparable non-beneficiary schools.
(c)   Higher retention rates (or lower dropout rates) in beneficiary schools than in
comparable non-beneficiary schools.
(d) Greater access to learning inputs by poorer students in beneficiary schools than in
comparable non-beneficiary schools.
(e) Reduced juvenile delinquency in beneficiary municipalities than in comparable non-
beneficiary municipalities.
(f)   Higher transition rates to the tertiary level for graduates of beneficiary schools than
those of non-beneficiary schools.
(g)  Higher employment rates and higher future earnings for graduates of beneficiary
schools than those of non-beneficiary schools.



- 112 -                             Annex 12
Appendix 1
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Monitoring Indicators 1994-97 J
(cumulative)
Monitoring Indicators                            1994      1995      1996      1997
Municipal Education Plans (MEP)
-Number of plans prepared                        8        20        32        40
Increasing Coverage
-Number of new schools                                     42        48        60
-Number of schools rehabilitated                          105        120      150
-Number of schools rermodeled                              84        96        120
Expanding Access
-Number of vouchers distributed                 5,500    11,000     16,500    22,000
Educational Quality Enhancement
-Number of School Improvement Plans prepared              420       480       600
-Number of schools benefitting from Quality               420       480       600
Enhancement Component
Institutional Strengthening
-Number of achievement tests administered        1                   2
-Central Govemment officials trained             12        30        48   |   60
*The fol.iwing indicators cover the period from project implementation to mid-term review.



-  3 -                     Annel 13
COLOMBIA
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Fdle
A.   Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A. l. Que es el Sistema de Nuclearizaci6n Educativa. Ministerio de
Educaci6n Nacional, June, 1992.
A.2.  Proceso de Descentralizaci6n Educativa en Colombia. Alfredo
Sarmiento G6mez, June, 1991.
A.3.  Descentralizaci6n Administrativa de la Educaci6n . Ministerio de
Educaci6n Nacional, July, 1992.
A.4.  La Descentralitaci6n: Competencias y Recursos. Departamento
Nacional de Planeaci6n, December, 1991.
B.    Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B. 1.  Manual para Alcaldes: Sobre Descentralizaci6n Educativa. Manuel
G. Salazar and Juan Carlos Salazar, Instituto SER de Investigaci6n,
January, 1992.
B.2.  Anilisis de las Inversiones y Gastos Educativos en los Once
Municigios mas Grandes de Colombia en el Marco de la Nueva
Constituci6n. Stephen A. Hoenack, August, 1992
B.3.  Plan-  Apertura Educativa 1991-1994. Departamento Nacional de
Planeaci6n, March, 1991.
B.4.  Manual para le Preparaci6n del Plan Municipal de Educaci6n
Secundaria. Cartillas 1 al 3. Clemencia Chiappe (Consultora), MEN,
DNP, and FINDETER, September 1992
C.    Selected Laws that Relate to the Project
C. 1.  Proyecto de Ley General de la Educaci6n. Minister-o de Educaci6n
Nacional, September, 1992
C.2. Proyecto de Ley: Por la Cual se Dictan Normas Sobre Distribuci6n de
Competencia y Recursos Confonne a los Articulos 356 y 357 da
Constituci6n Politica y se Dictan Otras DisMosiciones. August, 1992



MAP SECTION



IBRO 24 9i
COLOMBIA                         A4.CUB  .,A OOCAN 
SECONDARY EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                            NICAl A                                " "
aaPANAMA~                 0         GUOL4AN
Va  Pmp,&;                                               _        (AN 
FX,-s,  q.'   Z  ~~~~~KUO&\  Sts<S 
N            I~~~RAZPL
91   8   'M>'-F- ';  J                                  t#*~~~~~~~~~PIU  N E   
\,7\:   \  l   /                                              i *O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%LIV,   t  
L
PANAMA                                                                                                                    A IGNTINA  P  /
C0 7eie)        ,,,\ r,.op ; o, P'" ,W, prrp4,.d by rh world 8-4n , rn/f O0rrr.n.Py f.
A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i.oomro.o .d.n, cr4 ,sfo -m- -naro i, oP . Wordd
I                  Ba ^!)<SLX   ,   J  SrACk G-p rh# d .o-rrol,r ..Id grd Pt. bot,do.,- ho.- o- tPh
"op do -, rply -   Pt F r.. W.,d 6,4 0-p. o, _0.,n
r<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h /*" PN|
VENEZUELA
4-f    -4- 4-                                                                                                                             )
La                                                                                                                                4 J-1 /   <   G   U  A  V  T A  R  E _s_;)  i  t  A
0'E c  u  A  D) O  R                         ,7_     
I 9*<   ~ '   ~   \         C       50
URBAN POPULATION OF CENTER TOWNS '                                                                                                    'P r               j
- 5,00,000 -, so'-Ss  o,0   50  100   50  200  250
2,000,000             PROJECT DEPAR'MENTS  -     \                   A      r                       ) 
* -     000NUIMBER OF MUNICIPALITIES
500,000              NVOLVEiD iN PROJECT                                                              B  R  A   Z    I  L
-110)0000NVLE
*  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                         /
o    CITIES AND TOWNS WITH POPULATION OVER 0,JQ00
MAIN HGiHWAYS                                  pERU                                    i
RIVERS
-   DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                      '/                                      |
'CENSUS. 1985                                                                                                              4
7eU 74'                                                                                                                                  1993
JUNE 1993



