Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3683 CO
Project Agreement
(Secondary Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FONDO DE COFINANCIACION PARA LA INVERSION SOCIAL-FIS
Dated August 9, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3683 CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FONDO DE COFINANCIACION PARA LA INVERSION SOCIAL-FIS 
(FIS).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million dollars 
($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that FIS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement and that Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A. (FINDETER) 
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in the Project 
Agreement between the Bank and FINDETER of even date herewith (the FINDETER Project 
Agreement);
(B)
a portion of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be made available to FIS on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS FIS, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Page  2
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term "Territorial 
Authority" means, with regard to each FIS Subproject, the Territorial Authority of the 
Territorial Entity that has undertaken the responsibility, vis-a-vis FIS and the 
applicable Fiduciary or Fiduciaries of carrying out the FIS Subproject in question.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FIS declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A.2, B and C of the Project and assist FINDETER in the carrying out of Part A.1 
of the Project, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, educational and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A.2, B and C of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and for purposes of the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project, FIS shall enter, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of the Loan Agreement, with FINDETER 
into contractual arrangements on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the 
FIS-FINDETER Agreement) which shall ensure the cofinancing by FIS of each FINDETER 
Subproject and of each Part A.2 FIS Subproject by providing, inter alia, for 
mechanisms ensuring that: (i) proceeds of Part A.1 Grants are made available to 
FINDETER for the exclusive purpose of enabling it to defray, in a timely fashion,  
Eligible Expenditures under each FINDETER Subproject and consequently to comply with 
FINDETER's obligations under Section 2.03 of the FINDETER Project Agreement and under 
the applicable Cooperation Agreement; and (ii) proceeds of Part A.2 Grants are made 
available by FIS (A) to a Fiduciary and, subject to the decision to be made by the 
Borrower and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement 
on whether FINDETER's assistance to FIS should cease, by such Fiduciary to the 
applicable Territorial Entity or Entities when and as requested by FINDETER from FIS 
and following the instructions of FINDETER, so as to (B) enable prompt reimbursement 
of payments made for Eligible Expenditures under each FIS Civil Works or Civil Works 
Pre-investment Subproject as a complement of the funds contributed to such Subproject 
by the Territorial Entity in question, all of the above for the purposes of enabling 
FIS and other parties involved to comply with their respective obligations under the 
applicable FIS Subproject Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) (ii) of 
this Section, and for purposes of being assisted in the carrying out of Parts A.2, B, 
and C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project, FIS shall enter with one or more Fiduciaries into 
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank (Fiduciary Agreement), which 
contractual arrangements shall set forth the terms and conditions under which the 
Fiduciary in question shall: (i) manage the resources advanced to it by FIS (other 
than Loan proceeds which shall be used only to reimburse payments already made for 
Eligible Expenditures or to make direct payments therefor) and, if so required, for 
the execution of a specific FIS Subproject by the applicable Territorial Authority; 
(ii) facilitate the financing by FIS of FIS Subprojects consistent with the 
corresponding Territorial Plan by entering with the Territorial Authority in question, 
such other parties as shall be required by FIS Operational Manual, or in FIS opinion, 
if such Manual does not have provisions applicable to the case in question, and FIS, 
into contractual arrangements for the execution of the FIS Subproject in question (FIS 
Subproject Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (including 
those set forth in Schedule 1 to this Project Agreement) for the execution of each of 
such Subprojects; (iii) authorize Eligible Expenditures under each FIS Subproject in 
respect of which the Fiduciary has entered into the arrangements referred to in (ii) 
Page  3
above; and (iv) take all such action on its part as shall be necessary or convenient 
to enable FIS to discharge its obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.07 and 4.01 of this 
Project Agreement.
(d)
The provisions of this Project Agreement shall, in case of conflict, 
prevail over the provisions of the FIS Operational Manual.
Section 2.02. FIS shall not: (a) approve any Subproject for FIS financing 
unless: (i) the Territorial Entity in question shall have entered into the 
corresponding FIS Subproject Agreement; (ii) the corresponding Territorial Authority 
has provided the necessary assurances, under the applicable FIS Subproject Agreement 
or under further agreements supplemental thereto, in respect of the provision by such 
Authority of the necessary resources, including funds, for the execution of the 
Territorial Plan in question; and (iii) the following: (A) the Territorial Plan; (B) 
the
Subproject in question; (C) the approval thereof; and (D) the Eligible Expenditures 
thereunder, are all fully consistent with the applicable terms and conditions of the 
FIS Operational Manual effective at the time such approval takes place, particularly 
in respect of cost recovery provisions;
(b)
disburse funds in respect of any FIS Subproject unless the Territorial 
Authority in question shall have entered into the corresponding FIS Subproject 
Agreement; and
(c)
terminate, or permit any change or waiver to, a FIS Subproject Agreement 
unless FIS and the applicable Fiduciary or Fiduciaries shall have given their 
non-objection thereto.
Section. 2.03. For purposes of the carrying out of Part B of the Project, FIS 
shall enter into the necessary contractual arrangements supplemental to the applicable 
FIS Subproject Agreement or Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank with ICETEX, one or 
more Fiduciaries, each applicable Territorial Entity, in respect of FIS Voucher 
Subprojects under Part B of the Project, to establish effective mechanisms for the 
issuance, and payment of Supplemental Vouchers and for supervision of such mechanisms 
to secure, inter alia, that the proportion of cofinancing by the corresponding 
Territorial Entity (not less than 20%) is maintained at all times during the execution 
of each FIS Voucher Subproject.
Section 2.04. (a) FIS shall select and approve each FIS Subproject, supervise 
the execution thereof and the performance of each Fiduciary and Territorial Authority 
in respect of each FIS Subproject Agreement in accordance with, and maintaining at all 
times the full application of, the
FIS Operational Manual.
(b)
FIS shall duly perform all of its obligations under the FIS Subsidiary 
Agreement, the Trust Agreement, each Participation Agreement and FIS Subproject 
Agreement, and each of the supplemental contractual arrangements entered into pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Project Agreement. Except as the Bank and 
FIS shall otherwise agree, FIS shall not take or concur in any action which would have 
the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Credit Regulations, the 
Lending Operating Manual, the FIS Subsidiary Agreement, the Trust Agreement, a 
Participation Agreement, a FIS Subproject Agreement, or any of the aforesaid 
supplemental agreements, or any provision thereof; and
(c)
FIS shall exercise its rights in relation to each FIS Subproject in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and FIS; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 2.05. Without prejudice to the provisions of Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 5 
to the Loan Agreement, in the procurement of goods and services to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in respect of Parts B and C of the Project, FIS shall utilize 
each Fiduciary and the applicable
District, and shall cause the Eligible Project Entities to utilize, standard bidding 
documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.06.(a) FIS shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Page  4
Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, the FIS Subsidiary Agreement, the Trust Agreement, each Fiduciary 
Agreement, FIS Subproject Agreement and supplemental contractual arrangements entered 
into pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.03 of this Project Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
FIS shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by FIS of its obligations under this Agreement, 
the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement, the
Trust Agreement, and the other agreements mentioned in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.07. FIS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in
respect of this Project Agreement, Parts B and C of the Project and, subject to the 
provisions of Section 2.09 of the FINDETER Project Agreement, Part A.2 of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FIS
Section 3.01. FIS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, educational and financial practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FIS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and  separate accounts to reflect the resources and expenditures in 
respect of Part A.1 Grants and Parts A.2, B and C of the Project.
(b)
FIS shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect to Parts A.2, B and C of the Project were made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure, FIS shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
Page  5
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FIS 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FIS thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making  such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For FIS:
Fondo de Cofinanciacion para la
   Inversion Social - FIS
Calle 55 No. 10-32
Santa Fe de Bogota,
Colombia
Telex:
DNP 8045634
Page  6
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FIS, or by FIS 
on behalf of the  Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by FIS's 
General Director or such other person or persons as said General Director shall 
designate in writing, and FIS shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FONDO DE CONFINANCIACION PARA LA INVERSION
   SOCIAL-FIS
By /s/ Enrique Umana
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Obligations of each of the Territorial
Authorities, Fiduciaries and Other FIS Subproject
executing parties under the corresponding
FIS Subproject Agreement
A.
Obligations of each Territorial Authority
 
1.
Each Territorial Authority shall covenant and warrant that the FIS Subproject to 
be carried out under the Project in its jurisdiction is of importance to its education 
development and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and that it will fully support 
the implementation of the Project by cooperating with the respective Fiduciary or 
Fiduciaries in the execution of such FIS Subproject by providing, promptly as needed, 
the funds required to make possible the carrying out of the FIS Subproject and for the 
operation and maintenance of the facilities, goods and equipment included in such 
Subproject as provided in the Sponsor Agreement.
2.
Each Territorial Authority shall execute the FIS Subproject all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial 
and education practices and abiding by the provisions of the FIS Operational Manual, 
and unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower or FIS, and the Bank, shall 
contribute with its own resources to a portion of the cost of the Subproject in 
question not lower than 20%.
3.
In order to assist in the carrying out of a FIS Subproject, if warranted, each 
Territorial Authority or the Fiduciary shall employ qualified and experienced 
consultants; whenever the procurement of such consultants, or of the works and goods 
for the FIS Subproject in question is carried out by said Territorial Authority or 
Fiduciary, such consultants shall be selected, and the goods and works shall be 
Page  7
procured, all in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank, 
as provided in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement and in the FIS Operational Manual; the 
terms and conditions of each contract with any such consultants, which is to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and FIS.
4.
(a)
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall, with respect to each FIS 
Subproject to be carried out by such Entity, undertake to insure, or make adequate 
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan against hazards incident to
the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or 
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency 
freely usable by such Entity to replace or repair such goods.
(b)
Except as FIS and the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Territorial 
Authority and Fiduciary shall cause all goods and services financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for FIS Subprojects executed out by such 
Territorial Authority or Fiduciary.
5.
(a)
With respect to each FIS Subproject being executed by a Territorial 
Authority or a Fiduciary, any such entity shall furnish to FIS and, if so requested, 
make available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, 
specifications, reports, contracts documents and construction and procurement 
schedules for each such FIS Subproject, and any material modifications thereof or 
additions thereto.
(b)
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall, with respect to each FIS 
Subproject being executed out by any such entity, maintain separate records and 
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of each such FIS Subproject 
(including the cost and the benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to 
identify the financial resources and the goods and services included in the 
Subproject, and to disclose their use in each Subproject.
(c)
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall enable the authorized 
representatives of the Bank and FIS to visit the facilities and construction sites 
included in each FIS Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and any relevant records and
documents in respect of each FIS Subproject.
6.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall maintain a system of monitoring 
indicators satisfactory to FIS and the Bank. 
7.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall furnish to FIS, two months after 
each semester, a progress report containing all such information as the Bank shall 
reasonably request concerning each Subproject carried out or being carried out by it, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from it, the 
expenditures of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out of such 
proceeds, the monitoring indicators and the status of compliance with the provisions 
of the FIS Subproject Agreement.
8.
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between FIS and the Bank, each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall prepare a 
report satisfactory to the Bank and FIS on the execution of the FIS Subproject in 
question.
9.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall at all times manage its affairs, 
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and conduct its business 
and undertaking, all in accordance with appropriate administrative, financial and 
education practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent management 
assisted by adequate and competent staff and shall carry out all financial, 
institutional, management and other obligations set forth or referred to in the FIS 
Subproject Agreement in a timely manner.
10.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall: (a) at all times take the 
necessary steps to maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to 
acquire and retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary 
or useful for the purposes of complying with
Page  8
its obligations under this Schedule or for the efficient conduct of its business and 
undertaking;
(b)
each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall at all times operate and 
maintain the facilities, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by 
it and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance 
with appropriate engineering and public utility practices; and
(c)
each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall not sell, lease, transfer 
or otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets owned or operated by it, if such 
sale, lease, transfer or disposition would materially and adversely affect the 
efficient carrying out of the FIS Subproject.
11.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall make provisions satisfactory to 
the Bank and FIS for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be 
consistent with sound public utility practices.
12.
Each Territorial Authority and Fiduciary shall maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices consistently 
applied, its operations and financial condition, including records and separate 
accounts to reflect all resources and
expenditures with respect to the FIS Subproject. Such accounts shall be audited for 
each fiscal year in accordance with procedures and by auditors all acceptable to the 
Bank and FIS and the report of said audit shall be available within five months of the 
end of the respective fiscal year. Each Project Entity shall furnish to FIS all 
information concerning its accounts and financial statements and the audits thereof as 
the Bank or FIS shall from time to time reasonably request.
13.
FIS and the Fiduciary shall have the right to suspend disbursements under any or 
all FIS Subprojects if the Territorial Authority fails to comply with any of its 
obligations under a FIS Subproject Agreement.
