Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3683 CO
Project Agreement
(Secondary Education Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA
Dated August 9, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3683 CO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 9, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL SA (FINDETER).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Republic of 
Colombia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety million dollars 
($90,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that FINDETER agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are 
set forth in this Agreement and that Fondo de Cofinanciacion para la Inversion 
Social-FIS (FIS) agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth 
in the Project Agreement between the Bank and FIS of even date herewith (the FIS 
Project Agreement);
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
FINDETER, and by contractual arrangements to be entered into between FIS and FINDETER 
pursuant to the provisions of the FIS Project Agreement, two separate portions of the 
proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to 
FINDETER on the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary agreement and 
contractual arrangements; and
Page  2
WHEREAS FINDETER, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) FINDETER declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A.1 of the Project and, subject to the decision to be made by the 
Borrower and the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Loan 
Agreement, assist FIS in the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project in the manner 
provided for in the FIS Operational Manual, all with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and for purposes of the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, FINDETER shall: (i) 
select each FINDETER Eligible Entity and approve each FINDETER Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of the FINDETER Operational Manual; and (ii) enter into 
each of the Participation Agreements provided for in Section 2.02 of this Project 
Agreement and, under each such Agreement, on-lend, to the corresponding Financial 
Intermediary, for the exclusive purpose of financing FINDETER Subprojects and in 
accordance with the provisions of the Credit Regulations, a portion or all of the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1 of the Table to be made 
available by the Borrower to FINDETER under the Subsidiary Agreement as provided for 
in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and for the purposes of carrying out Part A.1 of the Project, FINDETER shall: (i) take 
all such action on its part as shall be necessary or convenient (including entering 
into the Cooperation Agreements stipulated under Section 2.03 (a) (ii) of this Project 
Agreement) to ensure that the proceeds of the Part A.1 Grants to be made available by 
FIS to FINDETER under the contractual arrangements denominated FIS-FINDETER Agreement 
(as provided for in Section 2.01 (b) of the FIS Project Agreement), are used by 
FINDETER, in a timely fashion and in accordance with the provisions of the FINDETER 
Operational Manual, to pay 30% of the Eligible Expenditures under each FINDETER 
Subproject; and (ii) cause each of the Financial Intermediaries under the 
corresponding Participation Agreement and the FINDETER Eligible Entity under the 
corresponding Subproject Agreement provided for under Section 2.03 of this Project 
Agreement, through adequate mechanisms, to take all such action on their respective 
part as shall be necessary to enable FINDETER to comply with its obligations under (i) 
above.
(d)
The provisions of this Project Agreement shall, in case of conflict, 
prevail over the provisions of the Credit Regulations and the FINDETER Operational 
Manual.
Section 2.02. (a) FINDETER shall enter into contractual arrangements with each 
Financial Intermediary (Intermediary Agreement) participating in the financing of 
FINDETER Subprojects, each such Intermediary Agreement to be entered into on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank which, inter alia, shall include provisions to the 
effect of causing each Financial Intermediary to maintain separate records and 
accounts and to audit such records and accounts so as to enable FINDETER to comply 
with its obligations under Section 4.01 of this Project Agreement.
Page  3
(b)
FINDETER undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, each 
Participation Loan made under the corresponding Intermediary Agreement, will be made 
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in the Credit Regulations and in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) With regard to each FINDETER Subproject, FINDETER shall enter: 
(i) into contractual arrangements (FINDETER Subproject Agreement) with each FINDETER 
Eligible Entity and the corresponding Sponsor Agency (except in respect of FINDETER 
Subprojects for which no Subloan is
made to a Sponsor Agency), which Subproject Agreement shall provide for the execution 
of the  applicable FINDETER Subproject, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank and consistent with the Corresponding Territorial Plan and the FINDETER 
Operational Manual; and (ii) enter with each such FINDETER Eligible Entity into 
contractual arrangements (Cooperation Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including mechanisms for making available to such Eligible Entity as and 
when required for the financing of the corresponding FINDETER Subproject the proceeds 
of the Part A.1 Grant for that Subproject which Grant is to be made with the 
corresponding portion of the funds to be made available through FINDETER for the 
purposes of Part A.1 of the Project under the FIS-FINDETER Agreement, provided, 
however, that, when the Subloan is made to a Sponsor Agency, the Subproject Agreement 
and the Cooperation Agreement shall be one and the same Agreement providing for all 
matters referred to in this Section. 
(b)
FINDETER undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, each 
FINDETER Subproject Agreement shall include terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including those set forth in paragraph II B of Schedule 1 to this Project 
Agreement and provisions to the effect that: (i) the works, goods and services for the 
Subproject in question to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; and 
(ii) the FINDETER Eligible Project Entity in question shall maintain records and 
separate accounts to reflect adequately the resources and expenditures in respect of 
such Subproject and to enable FINDETER to comply with its obligations under Section 
4.01 of this Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) FINDETER shall duly perform all of its obligations under the 
FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement, the FIS-FINDETER Agreement, and each Intermediary, 
Cooperation and FINDETER Subproject Agreement. Except as the Bank and FINDETER shall 
otherwise agree, FINDETER shall not take or concur in any action which would have the 
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Credit Regulations, the 
Lending Operating Manual, the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement, the FIS-FINDETER 
Agreement, an Intermediary Agreement or a Cooperation Agreement or a FINDETER 
Subproject Agreement, or any provision thereof; and
(b)
FINDETER shall exercise its rights in relation to each FIS Subproject in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and FINDETER; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
Section 2.05. Without prejudice to the provisions of Part A.1 (b) of Schedule 5 
to the Loan Agreement, in the procurement of works, goods and services to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan under FINDETER Subprojects and Part A.2 FIS 
Subprojects, FINDETER shall utilize, and shall
cause each of the FINDETER Eligible Entities and the applicable Participating 
Municipalities and Districts to utilize, standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Section 2.06. FINDETER shall ensure that, unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, 
each Subloan made by a Financial Intermediary shall be made in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) FINDETER shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement, the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement, the FIS-FINDETER 
Agreement, each FINDETER Subproject and each Cooperation Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
Page  4
(b)
FINDETER shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by FINDETER of its obligations under this 
Agreement and the FINDETER Subsidiary Agreement and the FIS-FINDETER Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall not 
provide any financing for any investment or activity unless such investment or 
activity meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations.
(b)
FINDETER shall carry out all lending operations, including lending 
operations utilizing funds from third parties administered by FINDETER in any 
capacity, such as those under fiduciary arrangements (administracion fiduciaria) and 
those collected under Participating Loans,
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
(c)
FINDETER shall monitor the participation of the financial intermediaries 
in its operations and shall exchange views about their performance with the Borrower's 
Superintendency of Banks.
Section 2.09. FINDETER shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement 
and Parts A.1 and, subject to the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement, 
A.2 of the Project.
Section 2.10. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 
2.01 of this Project Agreement, FINDETER shall, for purposes of assisting FIS in the 
carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project and subject to the decision referred to in 
paragraph (b) of Section 2.01 of the FIS Project Agreement: (a) enter with FIS into 
contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, as provided for in said Section 
2.01 of the FIS Project Agreement; (b) enter, with each applicable Territorial 
Authority, into a FIS Subproject Agreement, as provided for in Section 2.01 (c) (ii) 
of the FIS Project Agreement; and (c) exercise its rights under the Agreements 
referred to in this Section in such manner as to protect the interest of the Bank and 
duly perform its obligations thereunder, and shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any of such 
Agreements or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FINDETER
Section 3.01. FINDETER shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) FINDETER shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including records and separate accounts to reflect all resources and 
expenditures in respect of Part A of the
Project.
(b)
FINDETER shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts, including the Treasury/FINDETER 
Special Account, 
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
Page  5
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account in respect to Part A of the Project were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, FINDETER shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, FINDETER shall earn, 
for each of its fiscal years, an annual return on its equity, such return to be in 
accordance with the minimum ratios agreed between the Bank and FINDETER under the 
letter from FINDETER dated November 8, 1991, countersigned by the Bank and related to 
the Project Agreement of even date between the Bank and FINDETER for the Municipal 
Development Project. 
(b)
By March 30 and by September 30 of each fiscal year, FINDETER shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by FINDETER and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the following fiscal year and
shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that FINDETER would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for FINDETER's fiscal years covered by such review, 
FINDETER shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, 
changes in its lending or financing policies) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purpose of this Section and unless the Bank and FINDETER shall 
agree on a different calculation method, the return on FINDETER's equity for any given 
fiscal year shall be calculated as the difference between: (i) FINDETER's net income 
before income tax for the fiscal year in question, (as such net income is shown in the 
audited financial statements of FINDETER) divided by one half of the sum of the value 
of FINDETER's equity at the beginning and at the end of the same fiscal year; and (ii) 
the percentage variation of the Borrower's consumer price index during the fiscal year 
in question, as such index is calculated by the Borrower's Departamento Administrativo 
Nacional de Estadistica.
(e)
For the purpose of this Section, the term "equity" means the sum of the 
total unimpaired paid-up capital, retained earnings and reserves of FINDETER not 
allocated to cover specific liabilities.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Page  6
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of FINDETER 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify FINDETER thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered
by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter 
specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice to 
the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For FINDETER:
Financiera de Desarrollo Territorial S.A.
Calle 72 No. 10-07, Piso 4
Santa Fe de Bogota,
Colombia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FINDETER, or 
by FINDETER on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by FINDETER's President or such other person or persons as said President 
shall designate in writing, and FINDETER shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
FINANCIERA DE DESARROLLO TERRITORIAL - SA
By /s/ Enrique Umana
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
I. Procedures for Approval of
Subloans; Other Provisions
1.
No expenditures for goods or services required for a FINDETER Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such FINDETER Subproject shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and 
eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application 
and information required under paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such FINDETER Subproject shall have been a free-limit 
Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty days prior 
to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information required 
under paragraph 2 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. For the 
purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan for a Subproject 
which estimated total cost shall not exceed $1,000,000 equivalent.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, FINDETER shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory 
to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the FINDETER Eligible Entity or 
Sponsor Agency and an appraisal of the FINDETER Subproject, including description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization 
of the Subloan; and (iii) such other technical, financial, institutional and economic 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request to ascertain if the Subproject and 
the FINDETER Eligible Entity or Sponsor Agency meet the FINDETER Subproject selection 
criteria set forth in the FINDETER Operational Manual and Credit Regulations, such 
application shall be presented to the Bank before FINDETER's Board of Directors, or 
any other of its authorized bodies, shall have formally approved such Subloans.
(b)
Each request by FINDETER for authorization to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the FINDETER Eligible Entity or Sponsor Agency and the FINDETER 
Subproject, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan and sufficient information for the Bank to ascertain if the 
FINDETER Subproject and the FINDETER Eligible Entity and Sponsor Agency meet the 
selection criteria set forth in the Credit Regulations; (ii) the terms and conditions 
of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor; and (iii) such other 
information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank on or 
before December 31, 1998.
3.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby FINDETER shall obtain, by written 
contract with the FINDETER Eligible Entity or Sponsor Agency or by other appropriate 
legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and FINDETER.
Page  8
4.
Disbursements under a Subloan shall be made to each FINDETER Eligible Entity or 
Sponsor Agency to finance specific expenditures incurred during the execution of the 
Subproject.
II.   Obligations of each of the Sponsor Agencies under
the Corresponding Sponsor Agreements and
Subproject Agreements and of each of the FINDETER
Eligible Project Entities under the Corresponding
Subproject Agreement
A.
Obligations of each of the Sponsor Agencies
 
1.
Each Sponsor Agency shall covenant and warrant that the FINDETER Subproject to 
be carried out under the Project in a Participating District or Municipality is of 
importance to its economic development and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and 
that it will fully support the implementation of the Project by cooperating with the 
respective FINDETER Eligible Entity in the execution of such FINDETER Subproject by 
providing, promptly as needed, the funds required to enable such Entity to carry out 
the FINDETER Subproject and the operation and maintenance of the facilities and 
services included in such FINDETER Subproject as provided in the Sponsor Agreement.
2.
Each Sponsor Agency shall take, or cause its agencies and instrumentalities to 
take, all such action as shall be required to assist the FINDETER Eligible Entity in 
the performance of the obligations of such Entity set forth in this Schedule.
3.
FINDETER shall have the right to suspend disbursements under any or all Subloans 
made to a Sponsor Agency if such Agency fails to comply with any of its obligations 
under a FINDETER Subproject Agreement.
B.
Obligations of each of the FINDETER Eligible Entities 
 
1.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall carry out the FINDETER Subproject all with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering and educational practices and unless otherwise agreed between 
the Borrower and the Bank, shall contribute with its own resources to a portion of the 
cost of the Subproject in question not lower than 20%.
2.
In order to assist in the carrying out of a FINDETER Subproject, each FINDETER 
Eligible Entity shall employ qualified and experienced consultants, if the procurement 
of such consultants, or of the works and goods for the FINDETER Subproject in question 
is carried out by said Entity, such consultants shall be selected, and the goods and 
works shall be procured, all in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory 
to the Bank, as provided in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement; the terms and conditions 
of each contract with any such consultants, which is to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, shall be satisfactory to the Bank and FINDETER.
3.
(a)
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall, with respect to each FINDETER 
Subproject to be carried out by such Entity, undertake to insure, or make adequate 
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery 
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity 
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Entity to replace or repair such 
goods.
(b)
Except as FINDETER and the Bank shall otherwise agree, each FINDETER 
Eligible Entity shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan to be used exclusively for FINDETER Subprojects being carried out by such Entity.
4.
(a)
With respect to each FINDETER Subproject being carried out by a FINDETER 
Eligible Entity, each such Entity shall furnish to FINDETER and, if so requested, make 
available to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contracts documents and
construction and procurement schedules for each such FINDETER Subproject, and any 
material modifications thereof or additions thereto.
(b)
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall, with respect to each FINDETER 
Page  9
Subproject being carried out by such Entity, maintain separate records and procedures 
adequate to record and monitor the progress of each such FINDETER Subproject 
(including the cost and the benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to 
identify the financial resources and the goods and services included in the 
Subproject, and to disclose their use in each Subproject.
(c)
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall enable the authorized representatives 
of the Bank and FINDETER to visit the facilities and construction sites included in 
each FINDETER Subproject and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and any relevant records and documents in respect of each FINDETER Subproject.
5.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall maintain a system of monitoring indicators 
satisfactory to FINDETER and the Bank.
6.
Each FINDETER Eligible Project Entity shall furnish to FINDETER, two months 
after each semester, a progress report containing all such information as the Bank 
shall reasonably request concerning each Subproject carried out or being carried out 
by it, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits and results to be derived from 
it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Loan, the goods and services financed out 
of such proceeds, the monitoring indicators and the status of compliance with the 
provisions of the Subloan Agreement and FINDETER Subproject Agreement.
7.
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than three 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between FINDETER and the Bank, each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall prepare a report 
satisfactory to the Bank and FINDETER on the execution of the FINDETER Subproject 
carried out by each such Entity.
8.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain 
its financial position, plan its future expansion and conduct its business and 
undertaking, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and educational 
practices, and under the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted 
by adequate and competent staff and shall carry out all financial, institutional, 
management and other obligations set forth or referred to in the FINDETER Subproject 
Agreement in a timely manner.
9.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall: (a) at all times take the necessary steps 
to maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and to acquire and 
retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful for 
the purposes of complying with its obligations under this Schedule or for the 
efficient conduct of its business and undertaking;
(b)
each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall at all times operate and maintain the 
plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated by it and promptly 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with appropriate 
engineering and public utility practices; and
(c)
each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall not sell, lease, transfer or 
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets owned or operated by it, if such 
sale, lease, transfer or disposition would materially and adversely affect the 
efficient carrying out of the FINDETER Subproject.
10.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and 
FINDETER for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent 
with sound public utility practices.
11.
Each FINDETER Eligible Entity shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices consistently applied, its 
operations and financial condition, including records and separate accounts to reflect 
all resources and expenditures with respect to the FINDETER Subproject. Such accounts 
shall be audited for each fiscal year in accordance with procedures and by auditors 
all acceptable to the Bank and FINDETER and the report of said audit shall be 
available within five months from the end of the respective fiscal year. Each FINDETER 
Eligible Entity shall furnish to FINDETER all information concerning its accounts and 
financial statements and the audits thereof as the Bank or FINDETER shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
Page  10
12.
FINDETER and the Financial Intermediary shall have the right to suspend 
disbursements under any or all Subloans made to a FINDETER Eligible Entity if such 
Entity fails to comply with any of its obligations under a FINDETER Subproject 
Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Terms and Conditions of FINDETER's Lending Operations
(a)
FINDETER shall only lend to financial institutions which meet the 
following requirements: (i) receive and lend or otherwise invest, on a customary 
basis, voluntary savings from the general public; (ii) are subject to supervision by, 
and in good standing with, the Borrower's Superintendency of Banks; (iii) are able to 
assess the credit risk associated with lending to each FINDETER Eligible Entity; and 
(iv) have been satisfactorily accepted by FINDETER in terms of their financial 
soundness and appropriate management control especially with regard to portfolio 
performance.
(b)
FINDETER's rediscount rate shall be the higher of DTF plus one and a half 
(1 1/2) percentage points or, three and one-half (3-1/2) percentage points less than 
the rate charged on the applicable Subloans by the Financial Intermediary in question.
(c)
(i) The interest rate charged by intermediaries to beneficiaries on funds 
onlent by FINDETER shall be freely agreed between such intermediaries and 
beneficiaries; and (ii) the interest rate referred to in (c) (i) above shall not be 
subject to any interest rate ceiling.
