Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19468
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3043 - BR)
June 24, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Departnent
Country Management Unit: Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =     Cruzeiro until July 31, 1993
Cruzeiro Real August 1, 1993 to June 30, 1994
Real from July 1, 1994
Average Exchange Rates
Real/US$
1990   1991   1992      1993     1994    1995   1996   1997   1998  April 1999
154    939   11,151   279,382    0.85    0.97   1.04    1.11   1.21      1.66
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
CM                  cubic meter ( = 35.31 cubic feet)
MMCMD               million cubic meter per day
BTU                 British thermal unit
MMBTU               million BTU
kcal                kilocalorie ( = 3.968 BTU)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDS                National Bank of Economic and Social Development
COMGAS              Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo
CSPE                Comission of Public Energy Services of Sao Paulo
ELETROBRAS  =    Centrais El6tricas Brasileiras S.A.
IERR                Internal Economic Rate of Return
GNP                 Gross National Product
NG                  Natural Gas
NGE                 Natural Gas Equivalent
PETROBRAS           Petr6leo Brasileiro S.A.
HSFO                High Sulfur Fuel Oil
LSFO                Low Sulfur Fuel Oil
ICB                 International Competitive Bidding
SCADA               Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Vice President:  Shahid J. Burki, LCRVP
Country Director:   Gobind T. Nankani, LCC5F
Sector Director:   Danny Leipziger, LCSFP
Task Manager:   Luis M. Vaca-Soto, LCSFP



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...................................................................I
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ....................................................................II
PART I PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND ....................................................................1
B. STATEMENT AND  EVALUATION  OF OBJECTIVES ..................................................................2
THE PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................................2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES ....................................................................3
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...........7
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ....................................................................9
F. BANK  PERFORMANCE ....................................................................9
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER ...................................................................                               10
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................... 11
I. FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION  ................................................................... I I
J. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED ...................................................................                                      12
PART II:  STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1:  SUMMARY  OF ASSESMENTS .......................................13...................                                      3
TABLE 2:  RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS ..........................................................                                14
TABLE 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ..........................................................                                           14
TABLE 4:   LOAN  DISBURSEMENTS ..........................................................                                        15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................... 16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATIONS ........................................... 17
TABLE 7:  STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  THE PROJECT ..........................................................                           18
TABLE  8A: PROJECT COST ..........................................................                                               19
TABLE  8B: PROJECT FINANCING ..........................................................                                         20
TABLE  9:   ECONOMIC  EVALUATION ..........................................................                                      21
TABLE  10:  STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..........................................................                                 22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS    ..  24
TABLE  12:  BANK  RESOURCES: MISSIONS                                      ................................................. 25
TABLE  13:  BANK  RESOURCES - STAFF INPUT ..........................................................                            26
APPENDIX A: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
APPENDIX B: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR AND ITS EXECUTIVE
SUMMARY IN ENGLISH
MAPS - IBRD 20809 - 20810
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



i
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3043 - BR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Brazil Sao Paulo Natural
Gas Distribution Project (Loan No. 3043-BR, US$94 million equivalent) approved on April 25,
1989. The Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo (COMGAS) was the Borrower and the Federal
Republic of Brazil was the Guarantor.
The IBRD loan will close on August 31, 1999, four years behind the original schedule.
The last disbursement for the loan took place on January 12, 1999. From the original amount of
US$94 million, US$41,058.26 remained undisbursed. They are expected to be fully disbursed by
the loan closing date.
The ICR was prepared by Luis M. Vaca-Soto (Task Manager-LCSFP) with the assistance
of Marcelo Osorio (Consultant), Peter Law (EMTOG), and Sati Achath (LCSFP). It is based on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, a visit to
Brazil in May 1999 and the Borrowers contribution report prepared by COMGAS (Appendix B).
The ICR was reviewed by Mr. N. de Franco (Energy Team Leader for Brazil, LCSFP), and Ms.
Maria Victoria Lister (Quality Assurance Officer, LCSFP) and cleared by Mr. J. A. Carvalho
(LEGLA).



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3043 - BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
i.    The Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution project was part of the Brazilian Government's
strategy for the energy sector developed in co-operation with the World Bank. The key elements
of this strategy focussed on the rationalization of energy prices, energy conservation,
environment protection, and institutional restructuring. It was consistent with Bank's strategy to
encourage economic growth and social development by promoting efficient energy resource
allocation, ameliorating atmospheric pollution by substituting clean burning natural gas by high
polluting fuels, and increasing efficiency in the public sector. The project aimed at utilizing
natural gas available from newly discovered offshore fields in the Santos and Campos basins.
The Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project was IBRD's first project to support the Brazilian
natural gas sector. The project was executed by the Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo
(COMGAS).
Project Objectives
ii.   The objectives of the project were to: (a) extend and convert the existing network for the
supply of natural gas to industrial, commercial and residential consumers to enable, after Project
completion, daily distribution of about 3 million cubic meters per day (MMCMD) from Campos
and 0.4 MMCMD of refinery gas; (b) strengthen the management and organization of
COMGAS, its project implementation capacity, and the efficiency and safety of its gas
distribution; (c) assure COMGAS' financial viability and cash generation capacity for further
expansion; (d) help COMGAS to mobilize capital, including private capital, to reduce demand
for public funds; (e) enhance the regulatory framework of Brazil's gas industry; (f) reduce
environmental pollution in Sao Paulo, and (g) develop and implement a gas utilization strategy
for the State of Sao Paulo, including economically efficient gas pricing policies.
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   The project was approved in April 1989 and became effective in June 1990. It was
restructured after the December 1993 Mid-Term Review in response to the changing
requirements of the potential gas market in Sao Paulo, and the scope of the project components
was adjusted accordingly. COMGAS was the Borrower of the US$94 million Bank loan, and the
Federal Republic of Brazil was the Guarantor.



iii
iv.   The project has substantially achieved its key physical and institutional objectives,
although at a slower pace than originally envisaged. As a highly-complex urbane infrastructure
project requiring close involvement and co-operation of the civil society, particularly the Sao
Paulo municipal authorities and the many thousands of residential consumers whose dwellings
needed to be entered, the project succeeded in achieving its physical objectives without a single
major gas escape or hazard-related incident. The project has made a major contribution to the
expansion of natural gas use in Sao Paulo, to the implementation of institutional reforms in the
energy sector, and to the mobilization of private capital. Consumption of natural gas in Sao
Paulo achieved the appraisal target of 3.4 MMCMD and the project was highly successful in
introducing modem gas distribution technology to COMGAS. New national and state legislation
has been approved introducing substantive institutional reforms and creating regulatory agencies
for the energy sector at national and state levels. The State Assembly of Sao Paulo approved a
constitutional amendment to terminate the State monopoly in the distribution of natural gas. The
project helped COMGAS to mobilize private capital through the issuance of convertible bonds
and the privatization of the company was successfully completed following a transparent and
competitive bidding process.
v.    The financial project objectives were partially achieved.  Although the financial
covenants had not been met during project implementation, COMGAS obtained positive rates of
return on net assets, achieved a net profit in each year except 1995 and its net internal cash
generation was sufficient each year to cover a substantial portion of the investment program.
Moreover, the key financial objective - to assure COMGAS' financial viability and cash
generation for further expansion - was achieved by mobilizing private capital through its
privatization. During project implementation, COMGAS' financial performance was impaired by
the macroeconomic problems that affected Brazil in 1990 and 1994 and the subsequent freezing
of gas tariffs by the Federal Government.
vi.   Final project cost was US$270.8 million equivalent compared to US$285.0 million
estimated at appraisal. The loan amount of US$94.0 million was fully disbursed, except for
some $40,000 that COMGAS expects to disburse by closing date. BNDES, Sao Paulo State and
end-use consumers cofinanced the project in the amounts of US$48.9, US$30.5 and US$59.3
million respectively. COMGAS' own funds were used to finance the balance of US$38.1
million. The loan was extended to August 31, 1999, four years behind the original schedule.
vii.  The major factors that affected project implementation were: (i) delays in meeting
conditions for loan effectiveness; (ii) weak project management, poor project organization and
cumbersome and overly-complex procurement procedures of the Borrower during the first four
years of project implementation; (iii) frequent changes in the senior management of COMGAS
during the first four years causing a "temporary ownership" mindset toward the project; (iv)
macro economic problems that affected COMGAS' financial conditions; (v) unforeseen technical
problems in the upgrading of existing cast iron gas distribution network and in the conversion of
residential consumers from manufactured to natural gas; and (vi) more than expected time
required for the approval of legislative changes and institutional reforms.



iv
viii.  Without the project's incremental natural gas expansion, most industrial consumers
would have needed to use high sulfur fuel oil (HSFO) instead of natural gas. On the basis of
replacement of HSFO by natural gas, the project is credited with an annual emissions reduction
from HSFO burning of about: (a) 208,000 tons of sulfur dioxide; (b) 26,140 tons of nitrogen
oxide; (d) 110,200 tons of carbon monoxide; and (e) 989,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
ix.   The Bank's performance is considered to have been mostly satisfactory when viewed over
the whole eight years of project implementation. This recognizes that up to the Mid-Term
Review in 1994, the project implementation would have benefited from a more pro-active role by
the Bank in reviewing procurement documents prepared by COMGAS, and after 1994 the Bank
maintained a very close supervision for the remaining period of project implementation. The
Bank maintained a substantive dialogue with both the State and Federal government authorities
to promote improvements in legislation and institutional reforms. After an initial four-year
period of very slow progress on project implementation, the Bank took a strong position that was
instrumental for fundamental changes in the performance of the management contractor and the
project management within COMGAS', and for actions to enhance the safety of the project and
reduce the likelihood of gas escapes, and improve the company's efficiency and productivity.
The performance of the Borrower was also satisfactory overall. Although the Borrower was
mainly responsible for the delays, which occurred during the first years of project
implementation, from 1994 on, when the Borrower took strong ownership on all matters related
to the project, implementation improved resulting in satisfactory project completion.
x.    The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved its major
objectives. Furthermore, these objectives appear to have a high likelihood of being sustainable.
The project, however, is expected to generate an internal economic rate of return (IERR) and net
present value (NPV) lower than the ones estimated at project appraisal. The project ex-post
IERR and NPV (discounted at 11%) are estimated at 25.7 % and US$501.0 million respectively.
The main reasons for these reductions are less than expected (a) total sales as a consequence of
reduced amounts of natural gas available from PETROBRAS and reduced demand; (b) less than
expected sales to the commercial and residential consumers, which are the market segments that
produce the highest economic returns.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xi.   During project implementation, the Bank's dialogue with the State Government directly
contributed to the formulation of a new energy sector strategy for the State of Sao Paulo, the
enactment of new legislation for the energy sector, and the establishment of a modem regulatory
framework for the State of Sao Paulo which is now helping attract private investments to the
energy sector.
xii.  The project has been instrunental in transforming COMGAS from a State-owned,
medium-sized gas-manufacturing company into a bigger privately-owned natural gas distribution
company ready for further expansion. During 1999, COMGAS was listed in the local stock
market, issued convertible bonds to finance its expansion, and was ultimately entirely privatized
with majority ownership taken by international oil and gas companies of high repute. Thanks to



v
the conversion of the manufactured-gas distribution network and final consumers to natural gas
achieved under the project, consumption of natural gas in Sao Paulo is increasing substantially.
This allows COMGAS to play a key role in regional natural gas trade, to be further enhanced by
its planned service coverage expansion using natural gas imported from Bolivia.
xiii. The key lessons learned from the project are:
(a)    The good response obtained from private companies to COMGAS privatization process
confirmed the importance of having in place a satisfactory regulatory framework and adopting a
transparent privatization process.
(b)    National energy strategies should take into account the environmental advantages of gas
with respect to other fuels. One option could be the application of differentiated tax rates to fuels
in accordance with their respective impact on the environment.
(c)    Implementation of institutional reforms in a sector like the energy sector is a complex
and often time-consuming process. Changes of legislation and implementation of measures
aimed at the restructuring of large state companies have in general to be gradually introduced.
(d)    Use of project management contracts requires a careful design to make the contractor
accountable for the risks that it could manage, define responsibility lines, and provide an
adequate interface with the owner, taking into consideration its managerial capacity. In the
project, the consulting firm appointed to manage the project did not feel accountable ifor timely
results because some of the tasks were out of its control.
(e)    The design of complex projects that include several components should take into
consideration the constraints of management capacity of the executing agency. In the case of the
project, implementation of the diverse project components in parallel, as originally planned,
would have obliged COMGAS to increase management staff.  Considering its overall
institutional objective of reducing staff, COMGAS preferred to implement some project
components in stages.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(LOAN 3043 - BR)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The Sao Paulo Gas Distribution Project was the Bank's first lending operation in Brazil's
hydrocarbon subsector, although several pieces of sector work had been conducted previously,
including the Oil and Gas Sector Review in 1983 and the Public Sector Investment Review in
1985. The Project was intended to support Federal Government's policies that encouraged
economic growth and social development in a context of macroeconomic stability. These
policies emphasized efficient resource allocation and increased efficiency in the public sector.
The energy sector was a key element in the Government's policies: on one side, capital intensity
and high foreign exchange requirements had had a significant impact on public investment, the
balance of payments and the external debt. On the other side, a secure supply of energy at the
lowest cost was considered indispensable to economic growth and the improvement of social
welfare.
2.    The resources needed to increase the domestic supply of petroleum, hydroelectricity and
alcohol had contributed significantly to the country's macroeconomic problems, particularly in
terms of the fiscal deficit and inflation. During the period 1984-86, Brazil's energy sector
absorbed almost half of all Federal and Federally funded investment in the country. The bulk of
this investment was undertaken by two of Brazil's parastatals: the national oil company Petr6leo
Brasileiro, S.A. (PETROBRAS), which was responsible for about 18%; and the national
electricity holding company Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. (ELETROBRAS), for about 22%.
3.    The high level of world oil prices in the 1970's and early 1980's had led to a national
energy strategy that emphasized increased energy self-sufficiency and the development of
domestic energy sources, particularly petroleum, alcohol, and hydropower. The pricing of coal,
alcohol and biomass had been heavily influenced by Brazil's efforts to reduce its dependence on
imported oil and oil products. However, differing views among various government agencies



2
regarding the priorities for the development of natural gas resources contributed to the scarce
utilization of natural gas, despite its large proven reserves (93 billion cubic meters).
4.   In the last 1980's, the expectation of lower world oil prices called into question the past
energy strategy. To design a new energy sector strategy, the Government started the Integrated
Energy Strategy Study (IESS) under terms of reference agreed with the Bank. The aims of this
study were to asses the macroeconomic impact of past and proposed energy sector strategies,
analyze and recommend policies for energy pricing, energy conservation, environment
protection, and institutional restructuring, and asses investment planning and related policies
regarding major supply subsectors such as power, petroleum, gas, alcohol, coal and biomass.
The project was intended to be a vehicle to make progress on three important issues in the gas
subsector, namely pricing, utilization and institutions.
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
The Project Objectives
5.    The objectives of the project were to: (a) extend and convert the existing network for the
supply of natural gas to industrial, commercial and residential consumers to enable, after Project
completion, daily distribution of about 3 MMCMD from Campos and 0.4 MMCMD of refinery
gas; (b) strengthen the management and organization of COMGAS, its project implementation
capacity, and the efficiency and safety of its gas distribution; (c) assure COMGAS' financial
viability and cash generation capacity for further expansion; (d) help COMGAS to mobilize
capital, including private capital, to reduce demand for public funds; (e) enhance the regulatory
framework of Brazil's gas industry; (f) reduce environmental pollution in Sao Paulo; and (g)
develop and implement a gas utilization strategy, for the State of Sao Paulo, including
economically efficient gas pricing policies.
6.    To meet these objectives, the project comprised three parts: Part I was cofinanced by
BNDES (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social); Part II was partially
financed by the World Bank loan, and natural gas customers financed Part III.
7.    Part I included: (i) the Suzano-Sao Paulo gas pipeline connecting the PETROBRAS
pipeline to the distribution ring around Sao Paulo; (ii) a southern cross-connection from the
northeast to the southwest section of the Sao Paulo ring; and (iii) distribution network expansion
to supply about 7,000 new residential customers and for 200 new industrial consumers in 14
areas of greater Sao Paulo.
8.    Part II included: (i) distribution network expansion to supply about 31 industrial
consumers in two areas of the city; (ii) upgrading of part of the existing cast iron networks and
connections for about 205,000 new residential consumers; (iii) conversion of the existing
networks and 201,000 residential consumers to natural gas; (iv) a telemetering and supervisory
control and data acquisition (SCADA) system for remote control of the network; and (v)
laboratory and pipeline repair equipment for four maintenance and repair centers.



3
9.    Also under Part II, the loan provided partial financing for the following technical
assistance, training, and studies: (i) technical assistance to strengthen COMGAS' capabilities for
carrying out the Project and enlarging its role to include testing and certification of industrial and
commercial appliances; (ii) training of COMGAS' managerial and operational staff locally and
abroad; (iii) a study to improve COMGAS' organization and information system; (iv) a study on
the possible forms of private participation in COMGAS; (v) a gas utilization study and a tariff
study for the State of Sao Paulo; and (vi) assistance in the creation of a gas technology institute.
10.   Part III included: (i) conversion of 455 industries and 4,800 commercial consumers to
natural gas; (ii) installation within consumer premises to connect 231 new industrial consumers;
and (iii) internal installation to connect 212,000 new residential consumers.
Evaluation of Objectives
11.   The project objectives are considered to have been well designed and similarly
interpreted by the Borrower and the Bank. They were consistent with the Government's policies
to enhance efficient resource allocation and increased efficiency in the public sector. They
supported the Government's efforts to formulate a new rational energy strategy based on
essential infornation on the economics of alternative patterns of gas supply and demand. They
were consistent with the Government's need to resolve the contradictions in natural gas
utilization priorities, which were apparent among different agencies of Government. They
stimulated economic utilization of Brazil's natural gas resources that had been limited by
distortions affecting the natural gas subsector and that would help to reduce environmental
pollution. Finally, the project objective to help COMGAS to mobilize private capital was
appropriate to reduce the demand for public funds. The objectives were also well aligned with
the Bank strategies for sector reforms, pricing policies and reduction of environmental pollution.
However, the timescale envisaged for the implementation of institutional reforms required for
enhancing the regulatory framework of Brazil's gas industry proved too short.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overview
12.   Although there was a delay of four years, the project substantially achieved its objectives.
The project has made a significant contribution to the expansion of natural gas use in Sao Paulo,
the implementation of institutional reforms and mobilization of private capital. Consumption of
natural gas in Sao Paulo increased to the appraisal targets and the project was highly successful
in introducing modern gas distribution technology to COMGAS. New national and state
legislation has been approved and substantive institutional reforms implemented. COMGAS has
been reorganized, its efficiency improved to satisfactory levels (as shown by its performance
indicators), and fully privatized. New independent energy regulatory commissions at the
national and state level have been established and a new strategy for the energy sector has been
developed and is being implemented.



4
13.   The financial objectives of the project were partially achieved, COMGAS obtained
positive rates of return on net assets but these were below its covenanted obligations.  The
project has been very successful in helping COMGAS to mobilize private capital. The
privatization of COMGAS was successfully completed in April 1999 following a transparent and
highly competitive process. The shares of the company were sold for about 117% above the base
price, which indicates the high valuation the bidder assigned to the overall conditions and
prospects for COMGAS.
Sector Policies
14.   The Bank's dialogue with the Federal and State Governments, enhanced by the
preparation of the Gas Sector Development Project (Bolivia-Brazil Gas Pipeline), directly
contributed to the formulation of new legislation and regulations for the gas industry. On August
1997, the National Parliament approved Law No.9.478 that defined the objectives of the national
energy policy and created a National Energy Policy Council (Conselho Nacional de Politica
Energetica) and the regulatory agency for the energy sector (Agencia Nacional de Petroleo,
ANP). The Law mandates that the national energy policy should seek to promote competition
for the development and use of energy sources. At state level, the Government of Sao Paulo
enacted, in October 1997, the Complementary Law No. 833, creating the Commission of Energy
Public Services as the regulatory agency for the energy sector. In addition, on December 1998,
the State Assembly of Sao Paulo approved a constitutional amendment to abolish the State
monopoly in the distribution of natural gas.
15.   The objective of developing a gas utilization strategy for the State of Sdo Paulo was
achieved although with delays. The project assisted the State Government in the design of a new
energy sector strategy for the State of Sao Paulo by providing it with fundamental analysis of
energy and investment policies, practices in the public sector, existing legislation and contractual
practices on private participation and natural gas regulation. The Natural Gas Tariff Study
provided the State Government with substantive analysis for the efficient pricing of natural gas in
the state of Sao Paulo and with recommendations on the structure, level and rates for the sale of
natural gas. Based on the recommendation of this study, the Government of Sao Paulo
implemented a new tariff system that enhanced interfuel competition, and improved COMGAS'
financial health. However, due to the macroeconomic problems Brazil faced during 1994-98, the
Government applied a stabilization program (Plano Real) which temporarily froze natural gas
tariffs so they were temporarily underpriced and did not cover increases in costs of raw materials,
salaries, goods and services. In 1999, the adequate level of natural gas tariffs compared with
other fuels, the adjustments mechanisms included in the new concession contract, the increased
efficiency of COMGAS, the availability of natural gas from foreign sources, and the existence of
a new regulatory framework for the energy sector, consolidated a global strategy that allowed for
the successful privatization of the company and is expected to attract new private concessionaires
to enhance natural gas utilization in Sao Paulo.



5
Physical Objectives
16.   The physical objectives of the project were achieved although with a delay of four years.
The objective of substantially increasing the supply of natural gas to industrial, commercial and
residential consumers was fully achieved. Natural gas sales in 1997 and 1998 reached to the
appraisal target of 3.4 MMCMD. Under Part II of the Project, about 40 industrial customers,
278,000 residential customers and 290 network sectors were converted from manufactured
naphtha gas to natural gas, and the existing cast iron network was upgraded to connect about
205,000 new residential consumers. Upgrade of the cast iron network comprised the insertion of
polyethylene pipes into the medium-pressure system and the treatment of cast iron joints using a
range of modem technologies. Project components under Part I and Part III, financed by
resources other than the loan, have been fully implemented.
17.   The Government now considers natural gas as an important energy alternative for
industrial consumption. On October 1996, COMGAS signed an agreement with PETROBRAS
to receive 4 million cubic meters per day (MMCMD) of imported natural gas starting in
December 1998, to be increased gradually to 8.1 MMCMD during a period of eight years. To
meet this demand, PETROBRAS signed a contract for the purchase of natural gas from Bolivia
through the new gas pipeline between Bolivia and Sao Paulo, for which construction was
completed in December 1998. The total supply of natural gas (domestic plus imported)
distributed by COMGAS is expected to increase to about 7 MMCMD in 1999 and to 11
MMCMD in 2004. The gas pipeline connection with Bolivia has a capacity to transport up 30
MMCMD and the Federal Government's expectation is that participation of natural gas within
the total energy consumption of Brazil will increase from 2% at present to 10% in year 2010,
with most of the increase being taken up in the State of Sao Paulo.
18.   A modem telemetering/SCADA system in line with current international gas industry
practices as well as equipment to improve COMGAS' information system were procured and
implemented under the project.
Environmental Objectives
19.   The objective of reducing environmentally polluting emissions in Sdo Paulo has also
been achieved. Without the project's incremental gas distribution, most industrial consumers
would have needed to use HSFO instead. Based on such replacement (assuming 3.5% sulfur
content in fuel oil), the project is credited with an annual emissions reduction of about: (a)
208,000 tons of sulfur dioxide; (b) 26,140 tons of nitrogen oxide; (c) 110,200 tons of carbon
monoxide; and (d) 989,000 tons of carbon dioxide.
20.   During project execution, COMGAS implemented a program to reduce gas leakage
propensity after the conversion of the network, and to improve its operational capability to deal
with potential gas leakage incidents in the future. In addition, the bidding documents for the sale
of COMGAS included safety regulations for gas distribution that must be observed by the new
owners of the company.



6
Financial Objectives
21.   The objective of assuring COMGAS'financial viability and cash generation capacity for
further expansion has been partially achieved. COMGAS obtained positive rates of return on net
assets, achieved a net profit in each year except 1995 and its net internal cash generation was
sufficient each year to cover a substantial portion of the COMGAS' investment program.
Moreover, the final objective - to assure COMGAS' financial viability and cash generation for
further expansion - has been achieved by mobilizing private capital through COMGAS'
privatization.  However, financial covenants were not fully met. COMGAS' financial
performance was impaired by the macroeconomic problems that affected the country in 1990 and
1994. Following the 1994 crisis, the Government froze gas tariffs under the stabilization policy
of Plano Real. In addition, COMGAS' financial performance was negatively affected by the
reduction in the provision of natural gas supplied by PETROBRAS during some periods.
However, as COMGAS implemented a rigorous set of measures to increase its productivity and
efficiency, reduce costs and increase sales, its financial situation improved. The company
achieved a net profit in each year except 1995 and its net internal cash generation was sufficient
each year to cover a substantial portion of the COMGAS investment program. The rate of return
on net fixed assets improved from -2.4% in 1990 to 5.5% in 1996 and to 3.6% in 1997.
However, in 1998, due to the economic and financial crisis in Brazil, this rate of return was of
only about 1%.
22.   The objective of helping COMGAS to mobilize private capital to reduce demand for
public funds has been successfully achieved. First, COMGAS was listed in the local stock
market and the utility issued convertible bonds to finance its expansion.  Second, the
Municipality of Sao Paulo sold its COMGAS shares to Shell, a major oil international private
company. Third, the city of Sao Paulo was divided in three areas to be concessioned to different
companies for the distribution of gas. COMGAS provides gas service on only one of the three
areas. Finally, the COMGAS shares owned by the Government of Sao Paulo were sold to
international private investors through a competitive process. The other two areas of Sao Paulo
will be concessioned in the near future.
Institutional Developments
23.   The institutional objective of enhancing the technical andfinancial regulatoryframework
of Brazil's gas industry has been substantially achieved. Following the approval of the
Complementary Law No. 833 in 1997, the Government of Sao Paulo structured an energy
regulatory commission, the Commission of Energy Public Services, as the regulatory agency for
the energy sector at state level. The Commission has the authority to regulate, control and
supervise (i) the quality of the public energy services; and (ii) the prices, tariffs and other
conditions for the supply of these services. Comprehensive technical and financial regulations
were included in the Concession Contract, which was part of the documents for the selling of
COMGAS' shares. These regulations include indicators on among others producit quality,
service quality, losses, odor concentration, duration of outages, and time of reconnections.



7
24.   The objective of strengthening the management and organization of COMGAS, its
project implementation capacity, and the efficiency and safety of its gas distribution has been
satisfactorily achieved. COMGAS's productivity and efficiency substantially increased as
shown per the following perfornance indicators: (i) number of customers per employee was 289
in 1998 compared with 168 in 1993; (ii) number of cubic meters of natural gas sold per employee
was 1.2 million in 1998 compared with 0.3 million in 1993; and (iii) present level of safety of
gas distribution is satisfactory.
25.   The study of gas pricing and gas utilization was fundamental in assisting COMGAS to
devise and implement a modem gas tariff policy. The study on the restructuring of COMGAS
shareholdings has been instrumental for the mobilization of private capital and the final
privatization of COMGAS. The project has provided technical assistance to COMGAS for the
creation of a technology institute for research and training in gas-related matters.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
26.   The project was originally expected to be completed by December 31, 1994 and the loan
to be closed on June 30, 1995. The closing date was extended four times, the last one to August
31, 1999. Final project cost was US$270.8 million equivalent, compared to US$285.0 million
estimated at appraisal. Total loan disbursements amounted to US$94.0 million. BNDES, Sao
Paulo State and consumers cofinanced the project with the amounts of US$48.9, US$30.5 and
US$59.3 million respectively. COMGAS' own funds financed the balance, US$38.1 million.
27.   Project implementation progressed very slowly during the first four years but
substantially improved after that. Poor progress during the initial years was due mainly to
inadequate project organization, poor project management and procurement problems within
COMGAS. By end of 1993, none of the bidding process under Part II of the project, except for
consultant services, had concluded, the Bank had objected the proposed bidding documents and
the project staff was unable to reconcile the Bank's comments with COMGAS' internal position.
As a result of the Mid-term Review carried out jointly by the Bank and COMGAS in December
1993, COMGAS' management took decisive and effective actions. It reorganized the project
implementation unit, appointed qualified staff to project management positions, agreed to rewrite
the bidding documents to conform to the new Bank Sample Bidding Documents, and agreed on
specific targets for project implementation. With these actions, project implementation improved
substantially. However, conversion of household appliances to gas and institutional reforms
demanded considerable more time than expected. The Sao Paulo Municipal authorities did not
allow the contractor to perform works for the upgrading of the existing cast iron networks during
daylight hours because of the interruption to traffic. The authorities permitted work to proceed
only for a few hours during the night and imposed severe noise limitations. At the beginning of
the conversion process, COMGAS received an order of magnitude increase in the number of
complaints from consumers reporting an odor usually associated with leakage of natural gas.
This caused concern by COMGAS management and the Bank that the displacement of



8
manufactured gas by natural gas could be resulting in unacceptable leakage and safety hazards.
The Bank acted quickly to arrange a review of the system leakage situation by an experienced
consultant, which resulted in a comprehensive report and recommendations to improve the safety
aspects of the conversion through improved natural gas odorization procedures, cast iron joint-
strengthening technologies, and management of possible future leakage incidents. This provided
COMGAS management a deeper understanding of the safety issues of the conversion process
and was invaluable in enabling the project to proceed with strengthened safety procedures and
technologies in place. Changes of legislation required for institutional reforms and privatization
of COMGAS proved to require much more time than scheduled at appraisal.
28.   The extensions of the closing date were linked to specific implementation progress
targets. Although the targets were not met after the successive extensions, improvements in
project implementation were notable. Further extensions were granted in view of these
implementation improvements and considering that some delays in project implementation were
outside the control of COMGAS. In addition, the extensions permnitted the Bank to support the
entire process for the privatization of COMGAS until the transaction was successfully
completed.
Major Factors Affecting Implementation
29.   Factors outside the control of the Borrower.  The key factors that affected
implementation of the project were: (i) initial delays in completing negotiations and loan
effectiveness, which meant that the loan did not become effective until 14 months after approval;
(ii) the macroeconomic instability and slackening of Brazil's economic activity in 1990 which in
turn reduced demand for gas and negatively affected the financial situation of COMGAS; (iii)
the 1994 financial crisis that affected Brazil, which prompted the Government to apply
macroeconomic stabilization measures through the Plano Real. The tariffs for natural gas were
frozen in June 1994 between annual adjustments by the Plano Real, while the raw materials,
salaries, services and other costs continued to increase; (iv) strikes by PETROBRAS' workers
that affected the supply of gas to COMGAS, which in turn affected its sales and its financial
condition; (v) delays in the enactment of new legislation for the Sao Paulo gas industry by the
State Legislative body; (vi) unforeseen problems in the execution of works, mainly in the
insertion of polyethylene pipes. A four-year old bidding process for polyethylene insertion had
been canceled by COMGAS to introduce changes in technical scope; and (vii) the Municipality
of Sao Paulo did not authorized working seven days a week in the upgrading of the existing
network during day time to avoid interruption of traffic. Instead, it extended an authorization for
only a few hours at night. As the works involved numerous residential customers living in
apartments, and public works at night were restricted in many areas to reduce noise,
implementation became more difficult and polyethylene insertion progress was slowed down
significantly.
30.   Factors subject to Government control. These factors included, at Federal level: (i) the
freezing of gas tariffs in 1990 with no compensatory measures; and (ii) the implementation of
the Plano Real in 1994 which froze the tariffs between annual adjustments, while the cost of raw
materials, salaries and services continued to increase. In the State of Sao Paulo, there were



9
delays in the approval of legislation for the gas industry in spite of the efforts of the executive
branch. A law that includes the creation of a regulatory energy commission and regulations for
the gas industry was enacted only in October 1997.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
31.   The achievements of the project are sustainable. The physical components have been
built using modem gas distribution technology introduced under the project. To ensure proper
operations and maintenance of project financed equipment, the project provided technical
assistance and training to COMGAS' staff in modem gas distribution technologies, thus
improving their technical competence and field operating skills. It is highly likely that the
increase of natural gas consumption achieved under the project will not only be sustained, but
will be substantially increased as more Bolivian gas becomes available. The new concession
contract includes the obligation of the company to expand the service area and specifies the
minimum number of new customers that must be served annually. The contract also specifies
penalties if these numbers are not achieved. In addition, since the profitability of the utility is
highly dependent on the volume of sales, the newly -privatized COMGAS will have a very
strong commercial incentive to increase gas sales.
32.   Privatization of COMGAS is irreversible. COMGAS' majority shares are now owned by
private investors who will aim to build on and increase the efficiency and productivity gains
obtained with the project. Also, the Government of Sao Paulo is committed to preserving and
enhancing the modem regulatory framework introduced for the gas industry.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
33.   Over the eight years of project implementation, Bank's performance is considered
satisfactory. Since this was the first lending operation to Brazil's hydrocarbon subsector, project
identification required a substantive dialogue with government authorities to stimulate their
interest in a relatively small but important subsector. At preparation, the Bank accompanied the
studies and engineering work carried out by COMGAS for the project. It also contributed to the
preparation of the terms of reference for the Integrated Energy Strategy Study (IESS) as basis for
the design of a new energy sector strategy, which was indispensable for the success of the
proposed project. At appraisal, the Bank obtained Government's commitment for the design of a
new sector strategy and the enactment of financial, technical and safety regulations for the
natural gas industry, and assisted COMGAS in the definition of the project components. The
appraisal rightly identified most of the main issues for project implementation and the actions to
be taken by Government and COMGAS. At implementation, Bank's performance was mostly
satisfactory. Based on the conclusions of the Mid-tern Review of the project, the Bank took a
strong position that was instrumental for fundamental changes in project management,
COMGAS' organization and actions to improve the utility's efficiency and productivity. The
Bank exercised a close monitoring of the benchmarks agreed with the Borrower at the Mid-term
Review but was flexible enough to accept delays for causes outside of the Borrower's control.



10
The decision of extending the closing date four times is considered to have been fully justified.
It permitted the Bank to accompany the process of COMGAS' privatization until its conclusion
and permitted COMGAS to conclude the works that improved the safety operation of the
distribution network.
34.   However, Bank's performance could have been better in some specific areas. The first
relates to the organization for project implementation. The project was very complex and its
implementation required a very well organized executing unit with strong management. It
appears that, during appraisal, the Bank did not pay enough attention to examine in detail the
proposed organization for project implementation. Project organization needed to define the
authority lines between the project unit and other COMGAS' departments that vvere to be
involved in project execution. It also needed to define the coordination between the consultants
to be appointed to supervise the project and the departments responsible for the procurement. As
a result of this weakness, the project suffered many problems during the first four years of
implementation. The second performance area that deserves comment refers to procurement.
Although the appraisal specifically mentions that COMGAS had already prepared sample
bidding documents for Bank review, final agreement on the bidding documents between the
Bank and COMGAS occurred only in 1994 as a consequence of changes in the procurement
national legislation and agreements between the national government and the Bank on standard
documents for local bidding. Although much of the blame for the preparation of inadequate
bidding documents could be on COMGAS side, the Bank could have taken a more proactive role
to help find a solution earlier. It appears that the Bank played a passive role in this respect,
limiting itself to providing comments on the bidding documents prepared by COMGAS and
waiting for their response.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
35..  Despite the poor performance during the first four years of project implementation,
overall, the performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.  At preparation, COMGAS
satisfactorily carried out the basic and detailed design of the project part in-house and part with
the support of local engineering firms. Preparation of all information required for appraisal was
carried out very professionally by COMGAS.
36.   Although the Borrower was mainly responsible for the delays occurred during the first
years of project implementation, from 1994 on the Borrower's new management took strong
ownership on all matters related to the project. The delays in project implementation occurred
during the 1990-94 period were mainly due to lack of adequate organization for project
implementation, poor project management and COMGAS' inadequate organizational capacity
for procurement. The lines of responsibility between COMGAS and the engineering firm that
was appointed to manage the project were unclearly defined. In theory, the engineering firm was
responsible for the management of the entire project but, in practice, the engineering firm did not
have authority over the COMGAS' departments that were involved in project execution. Project
management was poor because the project unit lacked the skills and authority to coordinate the
services provided by the consulting firm with the participation of COMGAS departments. The



11
procurement for the project experienced substantial delays because responsibilities for the
compliance of procurement schedules were widely diluted among several departments.
37.   In 1994 and at the insistence of the Bank, COMGAS appointed a qualified Project
Director responsible for the entire project execution, introduced changes in COMGAS'
organization to improve project implementation and set up a permanent procurement committee
for the project.  With these changes and COMGAS' top management support, project
implementation improved substantially. The benchmarks agreed with the Bank after project
restructuring were achieved (although with delays) and the process for the privatization of
COMGAS was carried out with transparency and efficiency.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved its major
objectives and is highly likely that they will be sustainable. During project implementation, the
Bank's dialogue with the Government directly contributed to the formulation of a new energy
sector strategy, to new legislation for the energy sector and to the establishment of an adequate
and clear regulatory framework in the State of Sao Paulo.
39.   The project has been instrumental in transformning COMGAS from a State-owned,
medium-size, gas-manufacturing company into a bigger natural gas distribution company ready
for further expansion. COMGAS was listed in the local stock market, issued convertible bonds
to finance its expansion, and at last, was entirely privatized. Thanks to the works made by
COMGAS under the project to convert its network and consumers from naphtha gas to natural
gas, consumption of natural gas is increasing substantially and COMGAS is now playing a
critical role in regional natural gas trade. The process for the privatization of COMGAS was
transparent and highly competitive. It constituted a model process for future privatization of
government owned energy enterprises.
40.   The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project has achieved its major
objectives and is highly likely that they will be sustainable. The project is expected to generate
an IERR lower to that estimated at project appraisal. The project ex-post IERR and NPV
discounted at 11% are estimated at 25.7 % and US$ 501.0 million respectively.
I. FUTURE PROJECT OPERATION
41.   Future project operation will be monitored by the Comissao de Servi,os Puiblicos de
Energia (CSPE) of the State of Sao Paulo. It will monitor COMGAS' compliance with the
service coverage and technical, financial and safe regulations specified in the Concession
Agreement between the Government of Sao Paulo and COMGAS. The main indicators to
monitor are included in Annex 6: Performance Indicators for Project Operation. A summary of
the service coverage targets are as follows:



12
(a)   COMGAS will extend its service to at least 10,000 new customers per year but
totaling not less than 70,000 new customers during the next five years and no less
than 200,000 new customers during the next ten years;
(b)   The distribution network would be expanded by at least 400 km of additional
pipeline;
(c)   COMGAS will replace the customers' meters as follows: 20% of the meters
during the next two years; and 65% of the meters during the next ten years;
(d)   The cast iron network will be renewed as follows: 25% of the total network during
the first five years; and from year six to ten, 3% per year; and
(e)   COMGAS will install, during the first five years, pressure and temperature meters
for all consumers with consumption above 50,000 cubic meters per month.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The key lessons learned from the project are:
(a) The good response obtained from private companies to COMGAS privatization process
confirmed the importance of having in place a satisfactory regulatory framework and
adopting a transparent bidding process for the concession of public services.
(b) National energy strategies should take into account the environmental advantages of gas
with respect to other fuels. One option could be the application of differentiated tax
rates to fuels in accordance with their respective impact on the environment.
(c) Implementation of institutional reforms in a sector like the energy sector is a complex
and often time-consuming process. Changes of legislation and implementation of
measures aimed at the restructuring of large state companies have in general to be
gradually introduced.
(d) Use of project management contracts requires a careful design to make the contractor
accountable for the risks that it could manage, define responsibility lines, and provide
an adequate interface with the owner, taking into consideration its managerial capacity.
In the project, the consulting firm appointed to manage the project did not feel
accountable for timely results because some of the tasks, to be performed by COMGAS,
were out of its control.
(e) The design of complex projects that include several components should take into
consideration the constraints of management capacity of the executing agency. In the
case of the project, implementation of the diverse project components in parallel, as
originally planned, would have obliged COMGAS to increase management staff.
Considering its overall institutional objective of reducing staff, COMGAS preferred to
implement some project components in stages.



13
PART II- STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial       Partial         Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      EE ]                                                El
Sector Policies                     iCi               =               i                  D
Financial Objectives                0                Z                 0                 [l
Institutional Development                            El3  a            al
Physical Objectives                                    l              E                  E l
Poverty Reduction                                    El               El
Gender Issues                       El                                                  E 0 
Other Social Objectives              5               El               E                 t>
Environmental Objectives                             E                El                 El
Public Sector Management            nl                                El                 El
Private Sector Development           El                               E                  El
B. Project Sustainability              ikel                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
[El                El                         El1
C. Bank Performance                    Highly
Satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                     [3                        E                          E
Preparation Assistance                                         l                        E l
Appraisal                          El nE
Supervision                         D                         3                          D
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                                                  El                         u
Implementation                      al                       Ixl                        El
Covenant Compliance                 al                       E 
Operation (if applicable)            l                       E                          E
E. Assessment of Outcome               Highly                                              Higly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
El                                  l               E l



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Preceding operations       Nil. This Project is thel
Bank's first lendingl
operation in Brazil's
hydrocarbon sector
Following operations
1. BR-PE-6492- Hydrocarbon  To enhance natural' gas          1991           Ongoing
Transport and Processing   utilization as a substitute
Project                     for other sources of energy
3. BR-PE-6549 - Bolivia-   To transport natural gas           1997           Ongoing
Brazil gas Pipeline        produced in central Bolivia
to major industrial centers
in Brazil
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Identifiscation                                       _____12/ 19/86
Preparation                                                                       3/14/87      =
Appraisal                                                 5/87                    12/18/87
Negotiations                                              8/87                    5/27/88
Board Presentation                                        10/87                   4/25/89
Signing                                                                           2/16/90
Effectiveness                                                                     6/12/90
Project Completion                                        1/95                    2/28/99
Loan Closing                                              6/95                    8/31/99



15
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
(CUMULATIVE - US MILLION)
FY 90                            17                             0                              0
FY 91                           43                              12                            28
FY 92                            70                             20                            29
FY 93                           84                              26                            31
FY 94                           90                              35                            39
FY 95                            94                             5154
FY 96                                                           63                            67
FY 97                                                           79                            84
FY 98                                                           92                            98
FY 99                                                           94                            10o
FY 2000                                                          94                            100



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Increase the supply of natural gas to industrial,          3.4                     3.4
commercial and residential consumers, in million of
cubic meters per day
Rate of Retum                                           1990: 8%                  -2.4%
1991: 10%                 2.3%
1992:11%                  3.5%
1993: 12%                 7.7%
1994: 12%                 2.8%
1995: 12%                 0.7%
1996: 12%                 5.5%
1997: 12%                 3.6%
1998: 12%                 0.8%
Ratio of current assets to current liabilities           1991: 1.0              1991: 0.9
1992: 1.1              1992:0.7
1993: 1.2              1993: 1.1
1994: 1.2              1994: 0.7
1995: 1.2              1995: 0.3
1996: 1.2              1996: 0.3
1997: 1.2              1997: 1.14
1998:1.15              1998: 1.15
Strengthening of COMGAS management/
organization:
(a) Number of employees:                            1991: 1,343             1998: 1,028
(b) Number of customers (Thousand)                  1991: 235               1998: 300
(c) Number of customers per employee:               1991:  175              1998: 292
(d) Number of million of cubic meters of natural    1991: 0.3               1998:  1.2
gas sold per employee:
Helping COMGAS to mobilize capital:               No figure was         (a) COMGAS issued
estimated                 convertible bonds
(b) COMGAS was
privatized
Enhancing technical and financial regulatory      New regulatory         New independent
framework                                         framework in place     regulatory commissions at
the national and state
level has been established
Reducing Environmental pollution in Sao Paulo     No figure was          Qualitative analysis
estimated             indicates that pollution
has been reduced
Developing a gas utilization strategy             (a) New Strategy       (a) New gas strategy
(b) New gas pricing       implemented
policy            (b) New gas pricing
policy is in place



17
TABLE 6: KEY 1INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Number of new customers connected                   1999: 10,000
2000:10,000
2001: 10,000
2002: 10,000
1999-2004: 70,000
1999-2009: 200,000
Expansion of the distribution network in              400 km
1999-2003 period
Substitution of meters                             1999-2001: 20%
2002-2004: 50%
2005-2009: 65%
Renewal of the cast iron network                   1999-2004: 25%
Pressure at the distribution system in k PA:
High                                             1700-3500
Mid                                               400-700
Low                                               220-400
Distribution Losses (O)                            To be defned
Commercial Losses
Technical Losses
Total Losses
Gas odor concentration in mglm3                        15-25
Duration equivalent of service interruptions        To be defined
in hours
Emergency response time                             To be defined
Frequency of emergency calls                        To be defined



18
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
1. Study of        To study the             The study was completed and  Efficiency and productivity
Organization and   organizational and       its recommendations have   improved. Sales per employee
Administration     administrative process of   been imnplemented.      increased from 226 Thousand
COMGAS                  COMGAS was restructured    M3/employee in 1991 to 240 in
and privatized.            1997. Productivity increased from
543 Thousand M3/employee in
production to 786 in 1998.
2. Study of natural   To support the State of    Studies completed by two  The new expansion plan of
gas utilization in  Sao Paulo's use of      consultants.               COMGAS was based on the market
Sao Paulo and tariffs  simulation tools to                             evaluation studies that assessed the
identify and encourage                             potential demand of natural gas in
changes in the supply and                          new regions in the State of Sao
demand of natural gas                              Paulo.
3. Study for the   To diversify shareholders' The operation to open the  Convertible debentures were sold in
shareholding       participation in COMGAS  company to the participation   the local stock market. The
structure of       and increase its equity  of new shareholders        debentures were converted to shares
COMGAS                                      happened in July 1997      worth 50 million Reais



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COST
(US$ million)
COSTS
Part I
A. Materials                        10.0     4.4     14.4       5.0       2.2      7.2
B. Works/Construction              37.2      9.7     46.9      38.7       10.1     48.8
C. Engineering Services             3.7      0.9      4.6       3.8       0.9      4.7
D. Metering & Regulation Stations  21.7      12.5    34.2       16.7      9.6      26.3
Subtotal Part I                    72.6     27.5    100.1      63.2      23.8      87.0
Physical Contingencies              7.3      2.7     10.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                 1.3      0.5      1.8       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Part I                       81.2      30.7    111.9     63.2       23.8     87.0
Part II
A. Materials                        7.2      10.5    17.7       5.7       8.4      14.1
B. Works/Construction              21.8      5.6     27.4      45.3       11.6    56.9
C. Engineering Services             4.0      1.0      5.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
ID. Metering & Regulation Stations  2.0      2.2      4.2       0.5       0.7      1.2
E. Special Equipment                2.0      8.0     10.0       0.3       1.1      1.4
F. Tech. Assistance, Training, &    2.8      6.1      8.9      10.6       23.0     33.6
Studies
Subtotal Part II                   39.8     33.4    73.2       62.4      44.8    107.2
Physical Contingencies              4.7      3.6      8.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                 3.8      3.2      7.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Part II                      48.3      40.2    88.5      62.4       44.8    107.2
Part III
A. Materials                        8.1      2.0     10.1      10.1       2.5      12.6
B. Works/Construction              27.7      7.0     34.7      32.1       8.1      40.2
C. Engineering Services             4.9      1.0      5.9       5.4       1.1      6.5
Subtotal Part III                  40.7     10.0    50.7       47.6       11.7    59.3
Physical Contingencies              4.0      1.0      5.0       0.0       0.0      0.0
Price Contingencies                 2.0      0.5      2.5       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Part III                     46.7      11.5    58.2      47.6       11.7    59.3
Total Base Cost                    153.1    70.9    224.0      173.2      80.3    253.5
Total Physical Contingencies        16.0     7.3     23.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Price Contingencies           7.1      4.2     11.3       0.0       0.0      0.0
Total Project Cost                 176.2    82.4    258.6      173.2      80.3    253.5
Interest During Construction        6.5      20.1    26.6       0.0       17.3     17.3
NANCNG -                                                                  
IREQUIREEM[ENT                                            : M.



20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Estimate at appraisal    Actual
Total           Total
Part I                                111.8            87.0
BNDES                                  60.0            48.9
Sao Paulo State                       30.0             30.5
COMGAS                                21.8             7.6
Part II                                88.4           107.2
World Bank                             67.4            76.7
COMGAS                                 21.0            30.5
Part III                               58.2            59.3
Consumers                              58.2            59.3
Total Project Cost                    258.4           253.5
Interest During Construction          26.6             17.3
World Bank                            26.6             17.3
_                        ~~~~~~~~~~.~ 



21
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Year                         ~~~~~~1987 .1988 .1989  1990  1991 1992  1993  1994  19   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000 2001  2002 2003
Base Case (Staff Appraisal Report, Annex 3.13)
A    Economic Costs
PETROBRAS                     ~~~170.0  33.1   6.2   6.4   78    7.8   78   7.8~
~COMGAS   -                                833.    57343931.9: 25,8  25.8'58   25.8
Inus-trial                                     10.01 30.0:
ToaCapital Costs                    I208.3  78.7  71.9  42.8  44.7: 397  33    336  25.8  25.8
b   :Recurrng O&M Costs                         6.27  2.4   2.2   1.3   1.3   1.2   1.0   1.0   0,8   0.8
c=b4c  Toa  ot    U$mlin                        214.5  81.1  74.1  441  46    4094  34.6  34.6  26.6  26.6
B --Economic Benefits
d   'otal Volumne(MM3d0.0   0,6   1.4   2.4   3.0   3.7   4.7   5.7   60   6.0   60W   6.0   6.0   6.0   60   6
e    Benefits (US$MM) from substituting NG for:
F.O                                        0.0   0.5  14.9  33.3  53.4 +65.7+ 79.0: 97.814..  116.8 116.8 116.8 1 16.8 116.8.116.8 116.8 116.8
LPG                            ~~~~~~~~0.0:  0.0:  1.2.  4.1;  9.0  14-5  21.5: 27.3' 38.6; 46.4: 46.4: 46.4  46.4 i46.4  46,4  46.4  46.4
~Naphta Gas                                00O   00   3.1   8.9  17.0  23.0  28.3  42.0  58.2  61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2
,Power                                     0.0   0.0   4.1  19.3' 48.6: 82.9; 115.0 162.31 216.5 248.8 248.8: 248.8: 248.8 288  4.. 4.   4.
!Total Benefits (US$MM)                  0.0   0.5  23.3  65.61 128.0 161  2.43'.8, 329. 427343.1  7.   7.   7.   7.   7.   7. 7.
g 'Annual Replaced million MMBTU                    0.2.  7.7: 18.0: 30.3~ 38.7:.47.7  6061 73.6  77.3  77.3:.7.177 ;7737.:7.
h=f-c  TotalBenefits-TotalCosts-(US$ million)  .-1..-80.6: -50.8  21.5: 82.0: 145.2:0.92 294.8!400.7: 446.5. 473.1 473.1 473.1 473.1 43471 71
I    Net Present Val~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue (discounted at 1 1%) is:   1172.41 millionUS
.Intmal Economic Rate of Return is:        :33.8.%
Actual Case (At Conclusion)-
A   ' Economic Costs
a    Capital
-  PETROBRAS                    ~~~1600  170.  6.0   7.0   7.0   6.2:  6.4   7.8   7.8   7.8   7.8        i
.COMGAS                                   38.3  14.0  1406  147    6      662716             9    21.1  46     4
Industrial                     ~~0.1 ~0.1   0.1.  0.1   7.0  100  20       8.0   6.0   4.5   3.5   0.6
.Total Capital Costs                     198.4. 31.1  20.121    30.0  42.8  47.1  31.9  43.0  33.4  549  45.2
b   'RecutTin O&M                               6.0   0.9   0.6   0.7   0.9   1.0   10   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   1.0   10   1.0   10   1
c--aTh-  Total Costs                            204.4  32.0' 20.7  22.5  30.9  43.8  48.1  32.9  44034    5    46             0;  1.0   1.0   1.Oi  1.0
B   +Economic Benefits
d   'Total Volumne(MM3d)                              0.0   0.3   0.7   0.8  1~0   1.3   1        2     3.0   3.4   3.3   3.6   4.3   5.7   6.0   6.0
e  Benefits (US$MM  from subsbtitlinq.NG for:
~F.O                                       0.0   00O   2.7   6.9   9.0  13.2  18.1  27.5  38.849    58.6  60.3  69.3'87.7 ilso0 120.6117.9
LPG                             00   00~~~~~.O   2.8   6.3   7.5  10.0  124  17   24.3  29.0  32.7  31.8  34.7  41.6  542.  57.7.  58.0
Naphita Gas                                0.0   0.0  20.4  41.8  44.3  53.8  61.2  80.0  94.5  95~8  89.5  71.5  62.9  52.8  62.7i 71.1i  80.1
Power                          ~~~~~0.0   0,0   0.5   2.0   3.5   6.3   94  19    34.0  46.9  57.3  60.5  72.7  91.0 120.6 13423 142.4
f    Total Benefits (US$MM)                  0.0   0.0  26.3  57.0  64.2  83-3 101.2 144.4 191.5 220.8 238.1 224.1 239.6 271352.5 383.6'3984
g -Annual Replaced million MMBTU              0.0   0.0   3.7   8.4   9.9  13.3  16.8  24.3  32.5  38.7 i43.5  42.5  46.7  56.1  72.91  77.4: 77.4
h=f-c  .TotalBenefits-TotalCosts-(US$ million)  1-204.4-3.0   5.    453.3  39.5  53.1: 1 11.5 147.5 186.4 182.2:177.91238,6 2721: 351.5 382-6 397.4
-I Ne  rsnaue (discounted at 1 1%) is:    501.0. million US$ 
j Intemal Economic Rate of Retum is:        25.7i%



22
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGA-L COVENANTS
systems                ~~~~~on information system
improvement
3.05           1 1       NC      04/30//93               The Borrower shall, not later    Clause was deleted. Asth
than April 30, 1993, enter into  original potential consumers
financial arrangements with      lost interest, Bank financing
industrial consumers to finance    was reinstated
part of the Project
4.04  09    C                             ~~~~~~~~~~~The Borrower shall: (i) present    Studies carried out regularly 
every six months to the          and furnished to the Bank.
Guarantor, through CNP and the
State, as necessary, studies
showing whether the distribution
margin available to the
Borrower from its estimated gas
sales for the period will enable
the Borrower to comply with its
obligations under Section 5.02;
and (ii) fumnish to the Bank,
_____                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~copies of such reports
4.07           09        CD       10/31/94               The Borrower shall furnish the
Bank an investment budget for
the next following year and
financial projections for the
following three years, not later
than October 31 of each year
5.02           02        NC                              The Borrower shall earn, for     The actual levels were
each of its fiscal years 1990,   -2.4% in 1990,
1991, 1992,1993 and each FY      2.3% in 199 1,
thereafter, an annual return of  3.5% in 1992,
not less than 8%/,lI0O/o,l 1I% and    7.7% in 1993,
12%, respectively, of the        2.8% in 1994,
average current net value of the    0.7% in 1995,
Borrower's fixed assets in       5.5% in 1996,
operation                        3.6% in 1997,
_____  ___                                     _____                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.8%   in  1998
5.02(e)  09  CP  08/31/94           The Borrower shall complete      The study was performed------as
every fourth year a study on the    part of the preparatory work
evaluation and useful life of    for COMGAS' privatization
fixed assets (deadline: August
___                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31, 1994)
5.03           02        NC                              The Borrower shall maintain a    The actual levels were 0.9%
ratio of current assets to current   in 1991, 0.7% in 1992, 1.1I%
liabilities for FY's 1990119911  in 1993, 0.7% in 1994, 0.3%
1992/1993 and each FY            in 1995, 0.3 %in 1996,
thereafter, of not less than 1.0,I.lI 1. 14% in 1997, 1.15% in
and 1.2, respectively            1998.



23
5.04           02         C                               The Borrower shall not incur
any debt: (i) unless the net
revenues for FY immediately
preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later 12
month period, whichever is the
greater, shall be at least 1.5
times the estimated maximum
debt service requirements of the
Borrower for any succeeding FY
or (ii) if after the incurrence of
such debt the debt ratio to equity
shall be greater than 60:40
2.01(b)        12       SOON    12/30/90                  The state shall: (i) test in 1990 a   The Govemment of Sio
periodic adjustment mechanism    Paulo enacted new
for distribution margins; and (ii)  legislation creating the
enact by December 30, 1993,      energy regulatory
financial regulations for the gas   commission
sector, including periodic
adjustment mechanism based on
experience gained while testing
during 1990, mechanism
referred in (i) above
2.01(c)        04         C       12/31/90                The State shall take all such
action on its part as shall be
necessary to increase the State
contributions to the Borrower's
equity directly or indirectly
through increases in CESP's
capital specifically destined to
result in equivalent increases in
the Borrower's capital by an
amount of US$30 million. The
proceeds of such contribution
shall be fully paid-in no later
than 12/3 1/90
l   2.04       10         CD      07/31/93                The State shall complete a study   The study was completed in
about gas utilization and tariff in   November 1993 and training
the State, by July 31, 1993       was provided in March_1994
l2.05(b)       1 2      SOON                              The State needs to make the       Technical and safety
necessary administrative         regulations were included in
arrangements to enact the        the Concession Agreement
technical and safety norms and    to COMGAS.
standards currently applied by
Borrower throughout the State
Covenant Class:                                             Status:
1. Accounts/audit                                           C= Complied with
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  CD= Complied after delay
3. Flow and utilization of Project funds                    NC= Not complied with
4. Counterpart funding                                      SOON= Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time
5. Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency  CP= Complied with parttially
6. Environmental convenants                                 NYD= Not Yet Due
7. Involuntary resettlement
S. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional actions
13. Other



24
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
/  //                        /
The Project complied with the Bank's Operational Manual
Statements



25
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
1     Prearatr woks0 ctviis n
Tprough appraisal                                                                                                                   l
Identification       12/86         7            11tE,S,FaN  NA
Pre-Appraisal       2-3/S7         4           25                                                                 NA
Appraisal           12/8<7    _   7            16          E,S,F,N      XN-
Appraisal-Boar       Nii
Su  ervision_                   _____I
Supervision I        3/90                                   F                              1          Preparatory works, activities and
_  _   _                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~procurement are proceeding with delays
Initial delay in loan signing &l
Supervision VI       8/90          3            5          F,EN              I             I       effectiveness. Implementing schedule is
also delayedl
Supervision III      3/91          2            3F,N                         II                    Project is expected to be completed witl
.                  .                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~delays (up to one year)
Supervision IV       12/91         2            8           F,N              I             I                No major problemsl
Supervision V        4/92          2            12F,N                       32No major problems
Supervision VI       12/93         4           13         F,N,E,P                          S        Delays in project execution and cost
over runs
Delays in procurement.
Supervision VII      8/94          3            8           F,S             U              S          No compliance with rate of return
covenant
Supervision VIII     12/94         4            5         F,N,S,P           U              S               Delays in procurement
Delays in implementation physical
Supervision IX       3/95          4            5        FN, P,PA           U              S          components, and deterioration in
financial situation caused beyond the
control of COMGAS
Delays in implementation of physical
Supervision X        10/95         2            8           F,S             U              S          components, and deterioration in
financial situation beyond the control of
_______ _   _____ _   ____ ____   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _CO M GiAS
Implementation delays due to
Supervision XI       5/96          2            4           F,S             U              S       procurement problems and deterioration
in financial situation due to Piano Real
Supervision XII      3/97          1            4            F              S              S               Delays in procurement
The macroeconomic crisis affected the
Supervision XIII     10/98         1            4            F              S              S        performance of COMGAS in 1998 and
continued to affect its financial results
Supervision XIV      5/99          1            1            F              S              S          Issues related to the polyethylene
insertion contract need to be addressed
Implementation       5199   1                   2F                          S              S
Completion       |          I 5/9                        .                  S_S                   |
1) - Specialization                        2) - Performance Rating              3) - Type of Problems
E = Economist                               I = Minor or No Problems            F = Financial
F = Financial Analyst                       2 = Moderate Problems               P = Procurement
N = Engineer                                3 = Major Problems                  T = Technical
S = Energy Specialist                      U = Unsatisfactory                   M = Managerial
ENV = Environmental Specialist              S = Satisfactory
P = Procurement Specialist
PA= Project Advisor



26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUT
(Weeks; US$ thousand)
Preparation to Appraisal    125.6        194.9
Appraisal to Board       71.6            125
Negotiations to Effective    110.7       195.5
Supervision              242            727.8
Completion                5*            15.0*
TOTAL                    554.8          1258.2
* Estimated



27
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE
PROJETO DE DISTRIBUIC,AO DE GAS NATURAL
EM SAO PAULO
(CONTRATO N 3043-BR)
MISSAO DE SUPERVISAO DO BIRD
MAIO DE 1999
INTRODUICAO
Este "Aide Memoire" registra os principais assuntos tratados e os acordos alcan,ados
entre os representantes da COMGAS e do BIRD, no periodo de 27 a 29 de maio de 1999, durante
a Missao da Supervisao do BIRD, para a Conclusao do Contrato de Emprestimo n 3043-BR.
Foram tratados nesta missao os seguintes aspectos:
i. Preparac,ao do Relat6rio de Conclusao da Implementa,ao do Projeto - ICR
ii. Privatizacao da COMGAS. Participagao acionaria dos novos donos. Reorganizacao.
Planos de investimento e expansao. Contrato de Concessao - principais obriga,ces.
Regulav6es sectoriais e venda das novas areas de concessao.
iii. Situa,co da COMGAS. Resultados operativos e financeiros de 1998. Relat6rios da
Auditoria Extema. Bug do milnio.
iv. Situacao do projeto. Contrato para inser,co de polietileno.
v. Principais conclusoes e acordos
PREPARA(AO DO RELATORIO DE CONCLUSAO DA IMPLEMENTACAO DO
PROJETO-- ICR
A Missao entregou o rascunho do relat6rio preparado pelo Banco e recebeu o relat6rio
preliminar preparado pela COMGAS. 0 Banco concordou com o escopo do relat6rio
proposto pela COMGAS. A COMGAS concordou com as conclusoes do relat6rio do
Banco e entregara as informa,ces requeridas para suo completamento ate 10 de junho de
1999 e completara e enviara seu pr6prio relat6rio ate o 17 de junho de 1999.
PRIVATIZA,AO DA COMGAS
i. Privatizaqao de COMGAS.
O processo de privatizacao da COMGAS foi concluido de forma satisfat6ria com a
reafizaJcao do leilao na Bolsa de Valores de Sao Paulo - BOVESPA, em 14 de abril de
1999, sendo vendidas pela Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo - CESP, 52% das a,6es
ordinarias nominativas ao Cons6rcio British Gas e Shell, pelo valor de R$  1.



28
APPENDIX A
652.579.242,00 ( Um bilhao, seiscentos e cinquienta e dois milhoes, duzentos e quarenta e
dois mil reais)., aproximadamente U$ 1 bilhao ( Um bilhao de d6lares americanos).
ii. Participa,co acionaria dos novos donos.
Os novos controladores da COMGAS, British Gas Intemacional e Shell detem,
respectivarnente 72,74% e 23,22% do bloco de controle da Companhia.
iii. Reorganiza,ao.
A reorganiza,ao da COMGAS, proposta pelos novos controladores e com um periodo
estimado de 6 meses para ser totalmente implementada, preve uma acao completamente
integrada de todas as areas da Companhia, focada no atendimento aos clientes e aos
Agentes Reguladores, com qualidade e seguran,a na prestacao do servi,o de distribuig-ao
de gas canalizado.
A estrutura proposta contempla um Presidente e sete diretorias assim distribuidas:
a) Diretoria para Assuntos Corporativos.
b) Diretoria Financeira e de Rela,ao com o Mercado.
c) Diretoria Administrativa.
d) Diretoria de Marketing Industriais.
e) Diretoria de Marketing Residencial e Comercial.
f) Diretoria de Operacao.
g) Diretoria de Suprimento e Marketing de Energia.
iv. Planos de investimento e expansao.
A COMGAS tera como meta de expansao triplicar, o tamanho do seu mercado em tres anos
e multiplicar este mercado em dez vezes nos pr6ximos dez anos.
Para tanto ira investir aproximadamente US$ 300 milhoes objetivando a distribuicao de 30
milhoes de m3/dia em 2009.
v. Contrato de Concessao - principais obrigac6es.
0 Contrato de Concessao, a ser assinado entre British Gas e Shell e o Governo do Estado
de "ao Paulo, preve varias de expansao de redes para atendimento de novos consumidores
em varios segmentos de mercado, metas de seguranca da rede existente e metas de
Qualidade na presta,cao do servico de distribui9ao do g6s aos municipios que integram sua
area de concessao, definida pelas Regioes Administrativas de Sao Paulo, Sao Jose dos
Campos, Santos e Campinas.
A responsabilidade de fiscalizar o cumprimento das metas previstas no Contrato de
Concessao sera da Comissao de Servicos Puiblicos de Energia - CSPE, que e a Agencia
Reguladora legalmente constituida para regular e fiscalizar os servicos de distribuicao de
gas canalizado em Sao Paulo.



29
APPENDIX A
vi. Regulaq6es sectoriais e venda das novas areas de concessao
A missao se reuniu com o Comissario Geral, Dr. Zevi Kann, para discutir as regras que se
aplicarao no futuro para regular a presta,ao do servi,o de gas natural canalizado a cargo da
COMGAS e das concessionarias das novas areas. Em 31 de maio de 1999, a COMGAS
assinara um novo contrato de concessao, como previsto na estrategia de privatiza,ao, que
determina os direitos e obriga,ces do concessionario em termos de fixa,ao de tarifas,
exclusividade de comercializa,ao limitada no tempo continuada com o sistema de livre
acesso de terceiros a rede de distribui,ao mediante pagamento de uma tarifa, normas
operacionais e de seguran,a, metas fisicas de investimento, qualidade do servi,o, etc. Em
termos de seguran,a do servi,o, a COMGAS estarA obrigada a continuar com a substitui,ao
da rede de ferro ftndido, a substitui,ao de rarnais de servi,o e com as metas fisicas
estabelecidas no contrato.
O controle de qualidade tecnica dos trabalhos nas redes da COMGAS continuara a cargo do
Conselho Regional de Engenharia e Arquitetura, e a avalia,ao ambiental e analises de
riscos a cargo da CETESB. A CSPE monitorara os aspetos da seguran,a do servi,o como
indicados no contrato de concessao, incluindo a aplica,cao das normas ANSI 31.8 para
opera,ao e manuten,ao de redes de gas durante o primeiro ano de servi,o, e as que venham
a ser negociadas com a COMGAS para serem aplicadas posteriormente. Adicionalmente, a
COMGAS estarf obrigada a submeter relat6rios peri6dicos sobre a seguran,a da opera,Ao,
inclusive planos para situa,ces de emergencia, e ocorrencia de vazamentos. Em termos de
qualidade do servi,o, a COMGAS operara de acordo com patamares monitorados pela
CSPE quanto A pressao e perdas; prazos maximos de atendimento de liga9ao, religac,es, e
interrup,co de fornecimento; e prazos minimos de pre-aviso de interrup,ces por servi,o de
manuten9ao programada, entre outros.
A licita,ao das novas areas de concessao no estado do Sao Paulo acontecera ao fine de
1999.
SITUACAO DA COMGAS
i. Resultados operativos e financeiros de 1998.
O resultado do exercicio de 1998 foi menor do que o de 1997. 0 principal motivo foi o
efeito financeiro do plano de aposentadoria incentivada. Alem disso, nao conseguiu colocar
os volumes de gas natural previstos em fun,ao de nao haver ocorrido a recupera,co da
economia e da atividade industrial.
O volume distribuido no ano 1998 foi de 1.206,05 milhoes de m3, 3,70% inferior ao do ano
anterior, 1.252,3 milhoes m3. A receita de venda de gas, diminuiu em 1,1%, atingindo o
montante de R$ 328 milh6es 0 nu:mero de consumidores atingiu a 306.900 consumidores,
com acrescimo de 10.951 consumidores, representando aumento de 3,79% em rela,ao a
1997.



30
APPENDIX A
Os custos e despesas operacionais, exceto gastos com materia prima, apresentaram
aumento em rela,ao a 1997, principalmente gastos com pessoal, em fun,co do programa de
incentivo A aposentadoria, que teve neste ano custo de R$ 17,4 milhoes, com efeito liquido
no resultado de R$ 7,2 milhoes.
O prograina de incentivo A aposentadoria, que foi prorrogado ate 31/05/2000, vem ao
encontro do objetivo da empresa em ter um menor quadro de pessoal, tendo ate o presente
recebido a adesao de 270 empregados; mantido o nivel atual de adesao, no final do
programa a empresa estima ter um quadro total de 900 empregados. A adocao desta e de
outras medidas reduziram o quadro total de empregados significativamente conforme
demonstrado na tabela abaixo.
Evolusao do Nuimero de Empregados
Ano                    1993    1994 1 1995    1996 1 1997   1998  6/05/99
Niunero de empregados    1.443   1.472   1.242   1.190   1.188   1.030   984
A estabilizacao dos precos dos combustiveis - principalmente dos 6leos, seu maior
concorrente no setor industrial - decorrente da reduc ao dos precos do petr6leo no mercado
internacional, causou dificuldades para colocacao pela COMGAS do gAs natural,
reduzindo o crescimento das vendas e das margens,  com repercussao no resultado.
Recentes medidas do Govemo mudararn a forma de estabelecer os pre,os dos combustiveis
no mercado intemo, em base as modificacoes mensais nos pre,os em Nova York e a
varia,ao cambial.
A crise do setor financeiro no Brasil comeco a afetar a capacidade da COMGAS em obter
recursos financeiros necessarios para expandir e melhorar a rede de distribuicao de gas
natural. A prorroga,co do "closing date" do contrato contribuiu para melhorar essa
situacao. A  negociacao de emprestimo junto ao BNDES (R$ 53 milhoes) foram
interrompidas e serao retomadas tao logo seja redefinido o plano de investimento da
Companhia.
A taxa de retorno para 1998 foi de 0,75%, inferior a originalmente estimada de 4%. Os
valores e taxas para os anos seguintes estao sendo revistos. A seguir apresenta-se a
evolucao dos indices econ6micos acordados.
Indices Economicos
Descricao                               1995   1996   1997   1998   1999(1)
Retomo Anual Acumulado                 0,71%  5,49%  3,63%  0,75%   6,14%
Liquidez Corrente                      0,33   0,33   1,14   1,15    0,95
Rela,cao entre Capital pr6prio e de Terceiros  2,18   1,72   2,54   2,52    2 2,56
(1) Estimativa, estes indices serao revistos.



31
APPENDIX A
ii. Relat6rio da Auditoria Externa
Foi apresentado a missao o Relat6rio da Administracao, Demonstracoes ContAbeis
1998/1997 e o Parecer dos Auditores Independentes, sem ressalvas. 0 Relat6rio da
Auditoria do Projeto, Conta Especial, e SOE estao em fase de conclusao e serao
encaminhados ate o dia 07/06/1999.
iii. Bug do milenio.
A COMGAS continua implementando o programa para reduzir ao minimo possivel os
riscos resultantes do denominado o Bug do Milenio - Ano 2000. 0 hardware do
mainframe da Companhia e os microcomputadores estao sendo substituidos por
equipamentos sem o problema.
Os sofiwares estao sendo atualizados. Os sistemas considerados criticos: atendimento ao
pulblico, faturamento e materiais ja foram ajustados pelas mesmas equipes que atuaram
nasua concepcao, e estao programados testes de envelhecimento da data para completar e
analisar a adequacao dos sistemas. Os sistemas financeiro, de pessoal e de contabilidade
estao sendo substituidos por sistemas de novo desenho sem o problema.
Os principais meios e interfaces de comunicacao eletr6nica com clientes, fomecedores,
parceiros, govemos, entidades publicas, servicos puiblicos estao sendo verificados e
analisados. Os principais fornecedores, parceiros e clientes, incluindo PETROBRAS, estao
sendo contatados para verificacao dos eventuais problemas ligados ao BUG 2000, bem
como sobre seus respectivos Planos de Contingencia. Se estao testando os processos
referentes A recepcao e envio de dados relativos a recebimento de Notas Fiscais e Contas de
GAs junto A rede bancaria.
O inventArio e a Avaliacao de Riscos dos possiveis problemas estao 95% realizados, e
todas as areas da COMGAS estao elaborando Planos de Contingencia, prevendo possiveis
impedimentos de fincionamento e as respectivas correcoes, incluindo o Plano de
Emergencia para Situacoes Anormais de Funcionamento (vazamentos, incendios, greves,
etc.).
Se espera que todos os testes e verificacoes possam ocorrer ate julho de 1999.
SITUACAO DO PROJETO
i. Situacao e estAgio geral do projeto. A Missao do Banco Mundial revisou o andamento do
projeto que se encontra concluido com a excepcao do contrato de inser,co de polietileno.
ii. Contrato para insercao de polietileno. Seu andamento esta aquem do previsto em contrato,
o qual previa a conclusao dos trabalhos em 15 meses, sendo posteriormente estendido a 27
meses a pedidos do consorcio Henisa/ CGE e COMGAS. Hoje a condicao tecnica dos
trabalhos de insercao ja realizados esta sendc) analisada pelos novos controladores da
COMGAS, que enviarao ao Banco relat6rio sobre o tema ate meados de junho/99.



32
APPENDIX A
O lider do consorcio, Henisa, e COMGAS nao resolveram o problema da falta de
participacAo do parceiro tecnico no contrato, Consumer Gas/Enridge (CGE), para assegurar
o desenvolvimento dos trabalhos dentro dos padroes de seguranca e qualidade requeridos,
conforme se acordara durante a ultima missfo de Banco. A missfo do Banco reconhece
tres assuntos principais pendentes a serem resolvidos, a seguir relacionados: (a) A
necessidade de continuar desenvolvendo empreiteiros qualificados para atender os
programas de expansao da COMGAS. (b) A necessidade de assegurar que no futuro os
trabalhos de inser,ao atendam aos padroes requeridos, e (c) Verificar de forma urgente que
os trabalhos feitos durante o periodo em que CGE nao participou das atividades de insercao
programadas pelo cons6rcio e COMGAS, os padroes requeridos neste tipo de obras foram
respeitados.
A Missao anterior do Banco considerou satisfat6rias as medidas tomadas pela COMGAS a
fim de definir precos unitarios para trabalhos parciais que nao eram previstos, sem
modificacao do valor total do contrato.
A COMGAS ainda nAo informou ao Banco sobre esses precos e os aditivos do contrato,
como tampouco sobre a proposta de mudan,a na forma de pagamento. Hoje paga-se 100%
dos servicos A Lider do Cons6rcio, Henisa; nao havendo recebimento algum por parte da
CGE. Foi solicitado o pagamento de 12% do valor liquido a receber das medicoes mensais,
diretamente a CGE, o que acabou por nfo se concretizar pela nao alteracfo do contrato .
Para atender a estes problemas, a nova administra,co da COMGAS, alem das providencias
que estao sendo tomadas, conforme relatado anteriormente,, concorda em buscar
urgentemente uma solucao para a situa,ao comercial do contrato com Henisa/CGE, criada
ap6s o pedido de concordata da Henisa.
PRINCIPAIS CONCLUSOES E ACORDOS
*  A COMGAS comunicara ao Banco ate 15/06/99: (a) as medidas tomadas para acelerar o
termino do contrato de insercao, e (b) o resultado da revisao dos trabalhos feitos no
periodo em que CGE nao trabalhou no contrato de insercao e as medidas corretivas
adotadas, se for necessario.
* A COMGAS mandara ao Banco ate 15/06/99, o relat6rio de progresso correspondente a
marco de 1999; e ate o 31/07/99, o relat6rio de progresso de junho de 1999. Estes
relat6rios serao sinteticos e somente indicarao as novidades dos componentes do projeto
todavia em andamento e as novidades institucionais e setoriais.
*  A COMGAS mandara ao Banco minuta do ICR ate 10 de junho de 1999.
*  0 Banco remitira versao final do ICR ate 17 de Junho de 1999 para receber comentarios
finais de COMGAS ate 18 de Junho de 1999.
* A COMGAS encaminhara o Relat6rio da Auditoria do Projeto, Conta Especial, e SOE ate
o dia 07/06/1999.



33
APPENDIX A
SIGNATARIOS:
Pelo
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT - BIRD
Luis Maria Vaca-Soto
Project Manager
Pela
COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO - COMGAS
Fran,ois Moureau
Diretor de Assuntos Corporativos
LISTA DE PARTICIPANTES:
BIRD
Luis Maria Vaca-Soto
COMGAS
DIRETORIA:
Oscar Alfredo Prieto
Angus MacCallum
Fran9ois Moreau
Roberto Lage
Paul Trimmer
Mario Rosito
John Dewar
OUTROS:
Carlos Eduardo de Freitas Brescia
Luiz Augusto MichelinArnaldo Prestes de Oliveira
Anton Schwyter
Jose Carlos
John Fletcher
COMISSAO DE SERVICOS PUBLICOS DE ENERGIA:
Zevi Kann



34
APPENDIX B
Executive Summary in English
of Borrower's Contribution
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT - SUMMARY
BRAZIL SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
(Loan N 3043-BR)
JUNE 22, 1999
Introduction
The Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution project was part of the Government of
Brazil's strategy for the energy sector developed in co-operation with the World Bank.
The key elements of this strategy focused on the rationalization of energy prices, energy
conservation, the environment, and institutional restructuring. It was consistent with the
Bank's strategy to encourage economic growth and social development by promoting
efficient energy resource allocation, ameliorating atmospheric pollution by displacing
high polluting fuels by clean burning natural gas, and increasing efficiency in the public
sector. The project aimed at utilizing the gas resources that had become available from
newly discovered offshore gas fields in nearby Santos and Campos basins, in the nearby
urban areas of Sao Paulo. The Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project was IBRD's
first project to support the Brazilian natural gas sector.
I) Project Components
The project comprised three parts. Part I included the connection of two major
regional pipelines and distribution to new residential and industrial consumers in Sao
Paulo. Part II included further expansion of the distribution network, upgrading and
conversion of some existing networks, and modernization of network control and
maintenance. Part II also included technical assistance, training and studies. Part III
included conversion of industrial and commercial consumers to natural gas and
installation of new connections to consumers. A detailed description of project
components (the project comprised three parts) can be found in the Implementation
Completion Report.
II) Organization of Project Implementation
The beginning of the project dates back to April 1987, when COMGAS decided
to put gas into its operating system by initiating a program that would convert users of
other forms of energy into users of natural gas. On October 10, 1987, management
approved the "User and Network Conversion to Natural Gas Program - Pro-Consumer."
In February 1989 a Conversion Coordinator was established. At this point Program-
related activities commenced such as the acquisition of a line of credit from the World



35
APPENDIX B
Bank, creation of a Task Group with a central operational headquarters and hiring of
contractors.
The following activities were realized during the implementation of Phase 11 of the
project: development of engineering studies, planning of work needed to be done in the
gas fields, definition of the exact supply needs of the consumers, establishment of all
logistical needs, elaboration of various informational manuals, partial completion of a
consumer census, implantation of means of communication with the public, consumers
and the press, as well as the development of safety and security norms.
111) Major Studies, Recommendations and Actions Taken upon the
Recommendations
Three major studies were conducted for the project.
The first study had as an objective to suggest the most effective methods for attracting
investment and for strengthening the financial structure of COMGAS through
privatization. June of 1995 witnessed the approval and issuance of convertible debt
securities for COMGAS with a total value of R$50 million. By July 1998, all the debt
securities had already been converted into preferred stock.
The second study, finished in October of 1992 by the French consultant BEICIP, looked
at the natural gas market in Sao Paulo, which included the price of demand, viability of
extending pipelines into the interior of the state, regulations, etc.
The third study, finished in 1994 by the consultant TECHNOPLAN, proposed a new
tariff model for COMGAS, which was introduced in June 1994. The new model
consisted of tariffs calculated with both a fixed and variable base that moved in
conformance with the volume of gas consumed, therefore obtaining a reasonable and
equitable tariff level. The exceptions to this model were the cases in which the volumes
involved were very large and therefore tariffs would depend on direct negotiation.
IV) Major Factors Affecting Implementation
Factors affecting project implementation can be divided into factors subject to
Government control and factors outside the control of the Borrower.
Factors subject to Government control
* Freezing of gas tariffs in 1990 with no compensatory measures.
* Implementation of the Plano Real in 1994 that froze the tariffs between annual
adjustments, while the cost of raw material, salaries and services continued to
increase.



36
APPENDIX B
* Delays in the enactment of new legislation and regulations for the Sao Paulo gas
industry by the State Legislative body and the government.
Factors outside the control of the Borrower
* Initial delays in completing negotiations and loan effectiveness.
* Macroeconomic instability and slackening of Brazil's economic activity in 1990
which in turn reduced the demand for gas and weakened the financial position of
COMGAS.
* Financial crisis in 1994 that prompted the government to freeze tariffs for natural
gas.
* Strikes by PETROBRAS' workers that affected the supply of gas to COMGAS.
* Unforeseen problems in the execution of works.
The Municipality of Sao Paulo only gave contractors authorization to work a few
hours a night in the streets. This was in order to avoid interruption of traffic and
reduce noise in residential areas.
V) Performance of COMGAS and the World Bank in the Preparation and
Implementation of the Project
The performance of COMGAS was satisfactory considering the numerous
inconveniences brought about by changes in company management. Beginning in
1994, the direct involvement of one of the directors of COMGAS in project
coordination greatly improved implementation.
The Bank provided full support in project preparation, implementation and
coordination.
VI) Future Plans for Project Operation
Natural gas has shown itself to be an increasingly important energy alternative for
industry in Sao Paulo, helping to bring about the renowned agreement between Brazil
and Bolivia for the long-term supply of natural gas. Currently, natural gas provides
approximately 2 percent of Brazil's energy needs; this is expected to surpass 10 percent
in the year 2010.
COMGAS has signed contracts to distribute gas for new market segments, including
cogeneration and thermal electric plants, besides the traditional residential, commercial,
industrial and automotive sectors. This expansion is a direct result of the improvement
in the distribution system to reach new clients in and around the State of Sao Paulo.



37
APPENDIX B
VII) Lessons Learned
During project implementation it was learned that large differences exist between cities
with regard to the kind of difficulties that complex infrastructure projects must face. To
this end, the project implementers must take into account the unique situation of each
city to ensure timely and successful project completion. Problems may arise due the
different characteristics of each city in topics such as traffic patterns and rules,
operational capacity of contractors and service providers, street work norms, noise
regulations, and attitude of local authorities and population. Furthermore, careful
attention must be given to the project implementers' capacity to provide support
services to the contractors in each particular area, e.g., obtaining permits for working in
the street, and operation and complementary works in the areas of the gas network
where the contractors are working.



38
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRASIL
PROJETO DE DISTRIBUI(C:AO DE GAS NATURAL EM SAO PAULO
(Contrato N2 3043-BR)
Junho de 1999
1. OBJETIVOS DO PROJETO
Os principais objetivos estabelecidos quando do inicio do projeto foram os seguintes:
(a) Estudar e converter a rede de distribuigao da COMGAS, de forma a possibilitar ap6s
a conclusao do projeto, a distribui,ao de 3.000.000 m3/dia do gas natural de Campos
e 400.000m3/dia de gas da refinaria.
(b) Fortalecer a administragdo e organiza,ao da COMGAS, a capacidade de
implanta,ao de projetos (gerencial) e a eficiencia e seguran,a das operag6es de
distribui,ao de gas.
(c) Assegurar a viabilidade financeira da COMGAS e a capacidade de gera,ao de caixa
de distribui,co de gas.
(d) Auxiliar a COMGAS a mobilizar capital.
(e) Melhorar a estrutura regulamentadora tecnica e financeira da industria do gas no
Estado de Sao Paulo.
(f) Reduzir a poluigao ambiental no Estado de Sao Paulo.
(g) Desenvolver a implementar uma estrategia de utilizagao de gas para o Estado de Sao
Paulo.
A COMGAS considera que todos os objetivos do projeto foram atingidos com sucesso.
2. COMPONENTES DO PROJETO
0 projeto esta dividido nas seguintes partes:
Parte I
A. - Constru,co do "gasoduto" interligando o gasoduto da PETROBRAS ao RETA.P.
B. - Construcao e utiliza,co de uma ligag&o transversal no RETAP.



39
APPENDIX B
C. - Contrucao de redes de distribui9ao para liga,co de 7.000 novos consumidores
residenciais localizados em Jacarei e na cidade de Sao Paulo, alem de 200 novos
clientes industriais.
Parte II
(a) - Constru,ao e utiliza,ao da rede de distribui,ao para aproximadamente 11
consumidores industriais em Mogi das Cruzes e outros 20 consumidores ao longo da
Via Dutra.
(b) - Melhorar as redes de ferro fundido, inserindo aproximadamente de 84km a 240km
de tubula,ao de polietileno nas redes de media e baixa pressao.
(c) - Conversao de gas manufaturado nas redes existentes e das instala,ao de 201.000
consumidores residenciais, incluindo execu,ao de 20km de interligac,es, conversao de
297.000 aparelhos, instala,ao de aproximadamente 13 estac6es redutoras e recupera,ao
de aproximadamente 24.000 juntas feitas no sistema de ferro fundido.
(d) - Contrata,cao dos servi,os de engenharia, aquisic, o de materiais e estac6es de
regulagem e medi,ao para os itens (A), (B) e (C) acima.
(e) - Aquisi,ao, instala,ao e utiliza,ao de sistemas de telecomunica,oes, telemetria e
controle supressivo e de dados para valores de operac,ao e controle de rede.
(f) - Fortalecimento da capacidade da COMGAS no que diz respeito a: testes e
certificacao de aparelhos industriais e comerciais, verificacao de amostragem de
modelos de producao de aparelhos, programa de apoio a melhoria da finalidade dos
aparelhos fabricados no Brasil.
(g) - Estabelecimento de 4 estagoes adicionais de emergencia e aquisi;ao de
equipamento m6vel para bloquear fluxo de gas, seccionar tubula,6es e fazer reparos de
emergencia.
(h) - fortalecimento da capacidade de consultores para prestar assistencia conforme
requerido em diversos aspectos do projeto, tais como:
*  planejamento de sistema de distribui,co;
*  conversao da rede para gas natural;
*  conversao de clientes industriais e grande comercio para gas natural;
*  controle de corrosao;
*  mediqZo da vazao e pressao do gas;
*  telemetria, controle supervisivo e aquisi,ao de dados;
*  analise de demanda e tarifas e sistemas de informa,co.



40
APPENDIX B
(i) - Atualiza,co de conhecimento e habilidades das equipes de COMGAS.
Treinamentos.
() - Realiza,ao de estudos para:
*  melhoria da administra,co, organiza,co e sistema de informa,ao da
COMGAS;
*  op,ces e alternativas de restrutura,ao das participag6es acionarias da
COMGAS;
* utiliza,ao de gas no Estado de Sao Paulo, incluindo taxas e tarifas; e
* estabelecimento de um Instituto de Tecnologia do Gas.
Parte III
(a) - Conversao para gas natural de approximadente 455 consumidores industriais e.
4.800 comerciais existentes, bem como de 231 consumidores industriais, e
(b) - Ligar aprosximadamente 212.000 novos consumidores residenciais.
3. ORGANIZACAO PARA IMPLANTACAO DO PROJETO
o inicio do projeto remonta a 27/04/87, quando a Diretoria de Opera,ces da COMGAS
apresentou em reuniao da diretoria o relat6rio "Subsidios para definiao das diretrizes
da COMGAS, relativas a introdu,cao do gas natural em seu sistema operacional", alem
de subsidios de missoes tecnicas estrangeiras do Canada e da Fran9,a, bem como de
envio de tecnicos da COMGAS ao exterior.
A COMGAS optou entao em colocar o gas natural em seu sistema operacional, atraves
de um programna de conversao. Em 02/10/1987 foi aprovado em reuniao da Diretoria o
"Programa de Conversao de Usuarios e Redes para Gas Natural - Pr6-Consumidor". No
dia 17/10/1988, o gas natural come,ou a fluir pela nova rede da COMGAS implantada
na regiao de Suzano.
Em 01/02/1989, em cumprimento ao estabelecido na etapa 2 do "Pro-Consurnidor", foi
criada a Coordenadoria da Conversao. A partir dai se iniciaram os trabalhos relativos ao
Programa, quais sejarn: obten,co de linha de credito junto ao Banco Mundial,
montagem do Grupo Tarefa, montagem do escrit6rio especifico para coordenar a
opera,cao da conversao e contrata,co de empresas necessarias ao desenvolvimento dos
trabalhos.
No inicio da implanta,ao da Fase II do projeto foram realizados os estudos de
engenharia relativos a adequa,co da rede de distribui,ao, no que diz respeito as
interliga,coes necessarias para refor,ar as condi,ces de rede em ponto estrategicos,
evitando que durante a troca do gas os consumidores tivessem problemas de
suprimento. Tambem foram feitos estudos para a divisao da rede em setores com ate



41
APPENDIX B
1.000 consumidores, para definicao das areas cujas redes deveriam receber algum tipo
de tratamento e o  levantamento e estudo dos aparelhos a serem convertidos, para
posterior definicAo de componentes, procedimentos e criterios de informacao aos
consumidores, alem dos aspectos de seguranca, suprimentos, comunicacao.
Foram definidas as especificacoes tecnicas de componentes para sua aquisicao e
elaborados os editais de acordo com os "guide-lines". Foi desenvolvido um sistema de
informnaco com conexao eletr6nica entre a empresa gerenciadora e a COMGAS, para
que esta pudesse acessar o Sistema de Atendimento ao Consumidor - ATP e a partir
deste programa o Recenseamento de Aparelhos de Consumidores Residenciais.
Enfim, nesta fase foramn desenvolvidos os estudos de engenharia, o planejamento dos
trabalhos de campo, definidas as necessidades de suprimentos e suas especificac6es e
editais, estabelecida a logistica, elaborados os manuais, executado parte do trabalho de
recenseamento, estabelecidos os materiais de comunicacao com o puiblico, com os
consumidores e com a imprensa, assim como as normas de seguranca a serem adotadas.
Todo este trabalho foi executado sob supervisao da Coordenadoria de Conversao, com
participacao dos tecnicos das diversas areas da COMGAS, designados para trabalhar em
conjunto com as empresas de gerenciamento, engenharia e consultoria. Com a criacao
do Grupo Tarefa e com a contratacao das empresas de gerenciamento, engenharia e
consultoria internacional, a Coordenadoria da Conversao iniciou os trabalhos.



42
APPENDIX B
4. AQLJISIAO DE BENS E SERVICOS
Valor        Valor BIRD
CONTRATOS                                     Contratado      (US$ 1000)
(US$ 1000)
- C. 1157/90 - Consultoria em Marketing                                         33.0               30.0
- C. 1191/90 - Engenharia da Converso                                       3,049.6            2,326.3
- C. 1216/91 - Gerenciamento da ConversAo                                    11,827.9           5,703.4
- C. 1195/90 - Assistencia Tecnica Internacional                             6,834.9            4,794.5
- C. 1133/90 - Estudo de Utilizago do Gas                                      822.8              604.6
- AF. 4261/10/92 - Dispositivo para Reguladores                                 44.1               43.7
- C. 3414/10/91 - Tubos e Conex6es de Polietileno                              246.2              227.8
- C. 1447/92 - Servi,os de Bloqueio de Redes                                    51.8               51.8
- C. 3512/10/91 - Molas para Reguladores                                        19.6               10.9
- C. 3515110/91 - Fomecimento de Materiais                                     402.6              234.3
- C. 3863/10/91 - Sistema de Nebulizagco                                        30.7               30.5
- C. 1377/92 - Servicos de Interliga,co                                      2,098.9            2,098.9
- C. 1401/92 - Conversao de Aparelhos Domesticos                             10,194.2           10,194.2
- C. 4960/10/92 - Sistema de Nebuliza,ao                                       572.4              568.8
- C. 5355/10/92 - Fornec. de Injetores, Adapt. e Registros                    1,073.2             769.8
- AF. 3511/10/93 - Fornecimento de Manipulos                                    10.6                5.5
- AF. 5749/10/92 - Fornecimento de Injetores Estampados                          8.5                6.1
- C. 3731/10/91 - C. 3731/20/91 - C. 3731/30/91 - C. 3731/10/94                211.4              150.0
- C. 3731/20/94 - Fomec. de Tubos, VAIv. e Conex6es Aqo
- C. 4948/10/92 - Fomecim de Queimadores p/ Aquecedores                       1,000.2             813.1
- C. 1533/93 - Servigos de Setoriza,co da Etapa II                            6,987.7           6,987.7
- C. 1536/93-1 - Servi,os de Tratamen Definitivos de Juntas                   7,099.7           7,099.7
- C. 4953/10/93 - Fornecimento de VAlvulas de Bloqueio                         541.4              476.8
- C. 4957/10/93 - Fomecimento de Fios de Cobre                                  19.7               10.6
- C. 4950/10/93 - Fomec. de Conexoes e Acess. de FoFo                           36.4               29.7
- C. 4952/10/94 - Fomecimento de Conexoes de Ago Carb.                          50.0               46.4
- C. 4951/10/94 - Fomecimento de Tubos de Ago Carbono                          146.2              111.4
- C. 4954/10/94 - Fornecimento de Bloqueadores de Borr.                         87.9               74.2
- C. 4958/10/94 - Fomecimento de Tela de Protegao                               62.3               50.2
- C. 7768/10/94 - Fomecimento de Servigos de Bloqueio                        2,500.9            2,080.5
- C. 4959/10/94 - Fornecimento de Esta,oes Redutoras de PressAo                959.9              844.7
- C. 4961/10/94 - Fornecimento de Reguladores de Pressao                       130.6              130.6
- C. 4950/94 - I - Fomecimento de Tubos de FoFo                                 74.7               56.8
- C. 5563/10/93 - Fomecimento de Te em Ago Carbono                               0.8                0.8
- C. 2312/95   - Consultoria e Treinamento em GQT                               82.4               82.4
- AF. 5493/10/92 - Fornecimento de Molas p/ ERD's                                1.9                1.3
- AF. 5467/10/92 - Fornec. de Molas p/ Reguladores Resid.                        2.6                0.8
- AF. 7653/10/94 - Fomecimento de Fita Termoplastica                             8.0                5.7
- AF. 8266/10/94 - Fomecimento de Uniao de Ferro Maleavel                        8.8                7.6
- C. 2391/96 - Obras de Setorizaqao da Rede                                   2,945.3           2,945.3
- C. 2388/96 - Construiao de Rede - Gde. So Paulo                            2,904.5           2,904.5
- C. 2402/96 - Constru,co de Rede - Mogi das Cruzes                           2,802.4            2,802.4
- C. 2403/96 - Constru,ao de Rede - Vale do Paraiba                           2,606.1           2,606.1
- C. 2404/96 - Constru,co de Rede - Guarulhos                                 2,372.2            2,372.2
- C. 2491/96 - Corte e Renova,co de Ramais                                     800.9              800.9
- C. 5160/92- MAquina de furar tubula,ao em carga                              650,7              461,9
- C. 2568/97 B- Recuperaco de 2.000juntas Extemas                            1,270.7            1,270.7
- C. 2568/97 A- Recuperac,o de 7.350 Juntas Internas                          1,391.2            1,391.2



43
APPENDIX B
5. POSIC(AO FISICA REAL DO PROJETO
(a) Conversao de gas de nafta para gas natural das redes existentes e de cerca de 240 mil
consumidores residenciais (atende ao Objetivo (a) do Projeto).
A fase de campo iniciou-se em 15/09/93 e toda a conversao estava concluida em
07/02/97.0 resultado final da conversao de consumidores residenciais estA relacionado
abaixo:
N0 de consumidores                       240.037
N de aparelhos                          311.142
N de setores                                323
N de bloqueios na rede                    1.306
(b) Ampliacao da capacidade do Sistema de Distribui,cao (atende ao Objetivo (a) do
Projeto).
Este programa consistiu da melhoria das redes de ferro fundido existentes, media e
baixa pressao, utilizando tecnicas de inser9Ao de tubulag6es e recupera,cao de juntas,
que incluem os seguintes programas:
*  Setorizacao da Rede e Obras de Interliga,ao
* Programa de Inser,cao da Rede de Media B
* Programa de Recupera,co de Juntas (interno e externo)
* Programa de Renova,ao da Rede Baixa Pressao
(c) Expansao industrial (atende ao Objetivo (a) do Projeto).
Este programa consiste na constru,ao de 84,6 km de redes de distribui,ao, nas regi6es
Metropolitana de Sao Paulo, Mogi das Cruzes e Guarulhos, atendendo a 40 novos
consumidores industriais. 0 programa foi concluido em 1997.
(d) Expansao residencial (atende ao Objetivo (a) do Projeto).
Este programa consiste na constru,co de novas redes de distribui,ao para atender a
bols8es residenciais, que vem sendo construidas com recursos pr6prios.
(e) Aquisi,co e implanta,ao de Sistema de Seguran,a, Supervisao e Controle (atende ao
Objetivo (b) do Projeto).
A especificacao tecnica para compra do Sistema SCADA, Sistema de Aquisi,ao de
Dados Supervisao e Controle, foi elaborada pela COMGAS e revisada pela Consultoria



44
APPENDIX B
PLE. Durante a Missao de maio de 1994 os trabalhos foram suspensos, ate que
considera,ces adicionais relativas a escopo e custos fossem analisadas para atingir sua
otimiza,co, face as necessidades operativas da COMGAS.
Em agosto de 1994, a COMGAS apresentou ao Banco um estudo basico para a
implanta,ao de um Sistema de Leitura Automatica de Medidores para os grandes
consumidores, permitindo a monitora,co de cerca de 70% do volume de gas natural
distribuido. Em 1995 foratn elaboradas as especifica,oes tecnicas e a contratacao deu-se
no filtimo trimestre de 1996. Todos os softwares e equipamentos foram fomecidos e
instalados, estando o sistema operando, porem, em fase de aceitac,o final, o que devera
ocorrer ate marco de 1999. Foram constatados problemas na elabora,ao dos relat6rios, o
que vem sendo corrigido pela empresa americana METRETECK, sub-fomecedora do
software da Central de Operacao.
O sistema de SCADA - Sistema de Aquisi,co de Dados Supervisao e Controle, com
escopo reduzido incluindo somente a automa,co dos City-Gates, foi implementado com
recursos pr6prios da COMGAS, tendo sido concluido em dezembro de 1997. 0
Sistema encontra-se atualmente sendo ampliado, com a inclusao dos novos city-gates do
Vale do Paraiba e dos Sistemas do gasoduto Bolivia -Brasil.
(f) Centro de Tecnologia do Gas (atende ao Objetivos (b) e (f) do Projeto).
Este programa previa a meihoria do Laborat6rio de Combustao. 0 laborat6rio foi
reequipado, com novas bancadas e salas de testes e reforma total de sua area fisica. Foi
concluida no inicio de 1998 a implementa,cao do Sistema de Qualidade, sendo hoje o
i ico  laborat6rio no Brasil credenciado na Rede Nacional de Laborat6rios do
INMETRO para a realiza,co de testes em fog6es e aquecedores a gas para uso
domestico. Este trabalho foi desenvolvido com recursos pr6prios da COMGAS.
(g) Esta,ces de Emergencia Adicionais (atende ao Objetivo (b) do Projeto).
Ap6s andlise mais criteriosa, verificou-se a nao necessidade de constru,ao de esta,ces
de emergencia. Contudo, foi diagnosticado que era necessario manter a compra dos
equipamentos  inicialmente  previstos  para  utiliza,ao  nessas  estacoes. Esses
equipamentos foram comprados em 1997.
(h) Treinamento para pessoal pr6prio (atende ao Objetivo (b) do Projeto). Principais
realiza,ces:
* Seminario sobre licita,ao e desembolso envolvendo emprestimos do Banco Mundial
* Envio de funciondrio para treinamento no Japao em Gerenciamento de Qualidade
Total
* Ado,ao do Programa de Gestao pela Qualidade Total em 1995, que significou
educa,ao e treinamento dos empregados no conceito de Qualidade Total. Foram



45
APPENDIX B
realizados cursos, palestras, seminarios, reunidos grupos internos de discussao, com
o intuito de disseminar os conceitos da Qualidade Total dentro da COMGAS. Para
tanto, foi contratada consultoria extema, a Funda,co Christiano Ottoni. Cerca de
200 empregados, incluindo todos os gerentes participaram de diversos cursos
externos e seminarios para reorientar  suas a,ces na busca da satisfa,co do
consumidor. Como resultados gerais obteve-se: redu,ao do prazo de atendimento
do consumidor, criacao da area de Ouvidoria, implanta,ao de novo sistema de
cobran,a e moderniza,ao do sistema de comunica9,ao da empresa.
(i) Aquisi,ao de servi,os de consultoria e engenharia.
* Servi,os de Consultoria Internacional (atende ao Objetivos (a) e (b) do Projeto) -
Foi contratada a CONSULTORIA PLE - Servi,o de Assistencia Tecnica
Internacional, cujo contrato previa a transferencia de tecnologia e treinarnento, para
o programa de conversao.
*  Servi,os de Consultoria em Marketing (atende ao Objetivos (g) do Projeto). - Foi
contratado consultor para elabora,ao de trabalho de pesquisas e analises para cria,ao
de um modelo de planejamento de marketing para a COMGAS.
-  Servi,os de Engenharia (atende ao Objetivos (a) e (b) do Projeto).- COPLASA -
Estudo de Mercado e Plano Diretor do Sistema de Distribui,cao, Especificac6es
Thcnicas para Conversao de Aparelhos e Tecnicas para Adequa,co de Redes de
Ferro Fundido
Vale lembrar que a implantacao de todos os projetos contribuiram direta ou indiretamente aos
prop6sitos do objetivo [fl.
6. ESTUDOS ELABORADOS (recomenda,ces e implementa,ces feitas em fun9do
do estudo)
*  Estudo  Reestrutura,co  Acionaria da COMGAS (atende ao Objetivo (d) do
Projeto).- objetivando arrecadar fundos para expansao e fortalecer a estrutura de
financiamentos, atraves da abertura de capital. 0 estudo  permitiu definir a
percentagem de participa,ao de capital privado, identificar os investidores, avaliar
as implica,6es legais em rela,co ao estatuto e a organizavao e identificar os fatores
que poderiam dificultar a introdu,ao da participa,ao privada no setor. Em junho de
1995 foi realizada A.G.E aprovando a abertura de capital e a emissao de debentures
conversiveis em a,ces preferenciais. A coloca,ao das debentures se encerrou em
Julho de 1996, com valor de R$ 50 milhoes. Em julho de 1998, todas as debentures
ja haviam sido convertidas em a,6es preferenciais.
* Estudo de Utiliza,ao do Gas (atende ao Objetivos (e) e (g) do Projeto). - consultoria
francesa BEICIP, cujo trabalho foi concluido em outubro de 1992. Este trabalho



46
APPENDIX B
teve como finalidade estudar o mercado de gas natural em SAo Paulo, incluindo
pre,os de demanda, viabilidade de implantacao de redes no interior, regula,ao etc.
Estudo Tarifario (atende ao Objetivos (c) do Projeto).- Foi contratada empresa de
consultoria TECHNOPLAN. 0 estudo conclui por elaborar uma nova proposta de
modelo tarifario para a COMGAS, que foi introduzido a partir de junho de 1994. 0
novo modelo consiste de tarifas, calculadas com base em termo fixo e variAvel, que
mudam conforme o volume consumido, obtendo-se assim modicidade e equidade
em termos tarifarios, nao se aplicando porem em casos excepcionais, onde os
volumes envolvidos sao muito grandes e que dependem de negocia,ao.
7. ESTATISTICAS DO FINANCIAMENTO E DOS CUSTOS REAIS DO
PROJETO
As estatisticas de financiamento e dos custos reais do projeto se encontram inclufdas no
relat6rio do Banco e na pagina da WEB mantida pelo Banco.
8. DESEMBOLSOS DO EMPRiSTIMO DO BANCO
O desembolsos do projeto se encontram incluidas no relat6rio do Banco e na pagina da
WEB mantida pelo Banco.
9. FATORES QUE AFETARAM A IMPLANTAOAO DO PROJETO
*  Atrasos na assinatura e efetividade do Contrato de Emprestimo - por motivos
alheios A vontade do Banco Mundial e da COMGAS, fazendo com que a assinatura
do contrato de emprestimo sofresse atraso de um ano - repercutindo negativamente
no o inicio de implanta,ao do Projeto. Tal atraso se deveu A negociacao de dividas
entre o Governo do Estado de Sao Paulo e o Govemo Federal, que uma vez
equacionada, permitiu que a operacao fosse submetida a aprovacao do Senado
Federal, fator esse que esta fora de controle da COMGAS.
*  0 processo de conversao dos aparelhos para gas natural, dado seu pioneirismo no Pais,
apresentou abrangencia e complexidade maior do que a prevista.
*  0 grau de intervengcao na rede existente levou a necessidade de execu,ao de obras em via
puiblicas, por periodos prolongados de tempo e que, devido a restricao da autoridade do
transito e leis municipais que regulam execu,ao de obras noturnas, somente puderam ser
realizadas por prazos restritos. Tais fatos nao sAo tambem de responsabilidade da
COMGAS.



47
APPENDIX B
* Os processos de licita,ao de bens e servi,os sofreram sucessivas dilata,ces de prazo
em virtude de divergentes interpretag6es entre as leis brasileiras e as orienta,6es do
Banco.
*  Alterac,es no escopo do Projeto, para atender as condi,ces do mercado de gas
natural.
10. PERFORMANCE DA ORGANIZA,AO DA COMGAS
A performance da organiza,ao da COMGAS foi satisfat6ria dentro das limita,6es
ocorridas como consequencia das numerosas modifica,oes na Diretoria da empresa e
conseqtientes trocas na dire,cao do projeto. 0 envolvimento direto de um Diretor da
COMGAS na coordena9ao do projeto a partir de 1994 melhoro expressivamente sua
implementa,ao.
11. PLANOS FUTUROS PARA A OPERACAO DO PROJETO
O gas Natural tem-se se mostrado como importante energetico altemativo para a
industria de Sao Paulo, provocando a assinatura de contrato entre o Brasil e a Bolivia
para fomecimento de gas natural. A oferta de gas passara dos 3 milhoes de gas nacional
para 7 milhoes em 1999, com volumes crescentes ate atingir 11,1 milhoes por dia de
gas boliviano no ano de 2004. 0 Gasoduto Bolivia Brasil (GASBOL) tem capacidade
para transportar ate 30 milhoes de m3 por dia. A estimativa do Ministerio de Minas e
Energia e de que o gas natural passe dos atuais 1,9% de participa,ao na matriz
energetica brasileira para 10% ate 2010.
A COMGAS tem assinados contratos no sentido de distribuir gas natural para novos
segmento de mercado, como cogerac,o e termeldtricas, alem dos atuais segmentos
residencial, comercial, industrial e automotivo. Com isso, ampliara a participa,ao da
COMGAS no mercado de energia. Essa expansao e resultado da melhoria da rede de
distribui,ao e de sua capacidade, bem como da amplia,ao em termos de poder atender a
novos clientes e em novas regi6es, como no Interior do Estado de Sao Paulo.
12. PERFORMANCE DO BANCO NA PREPARAVAO E IMPLANTACAO DO
PROJETO
0 Banco deu todo o apoio na prepara,ao do projeto, na sua implementa,co e na
condu,cao do mesmo, procurando sempre orientar-nos para a procura da melhor e mais
exeqilivel solu,ao, quer administrativa ou tecnica.



48
APPENDIX B
13. LICOES APRENDIDAS
Durante a implementa,ao do projeto aprendemos que existem grandes diferen,as entre
as cidades com rela,ao ao tipo de dificuldades que projetos complexos de infraestrutura
devem enfrentar. Para este fun, os executores do projeto devem considerar a situai;ao
particular de cada cidade para assegurar a conclusao exitosa do projeto dentro do prazo
pre-estabelecido. Podem surgir problemas devido as caracteristicas de cada cidade em
quest6es tais como padroes de transito e regras, a capacidade operacional de
empreiteiros e de fornecedores de servi,os, normas de trabalho nas ruas, limites de
ruido, e atitudes das autoridades locais e da popula,ao. Alem disso, minuciosa aten,ao
deve ser prestada a capacidade dos executores do projeto de prestar servi,os de apoio
aos empreiteiros em cada area especifica, como, por exemplo obter licen,as para
trabalhos de rua, e realizar opera,ao e obras complementares nas areas da rede de gas
onde os empreiteiros estao trabalhando.



IRRD 20809
(       '   /   7Qtl                                    
lCU uOMBA.   C'>5          g                                                                                                                                                
A> JEALIJBRAZIL1
5K~ -URlUN61       L               o                                                           B R A Z I L                                                                                                                              /
CACHOEIRA                                  aA
SAO PAULO NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
VALE DO PARAIBA GAS TRANSMISSION SYSTEM AND DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
19                                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LORENA(,,
-u   j 30t V A  -)   IDBRAS1I- 
2DisBribAtln Netarhk                                                                                          GUARATINGUETA
W  d1   .-ir.                                              Pipl-Projecl.                                                                                                     ;
7~~~~~~~~.   - *stis t PanAU Ba g Mns.IYdrJnt . ,, NaBagal Gas Pipelnses r
')' City Gases SiBti-es
'302     ARCFNT NAEasig
|AIEANI`fC OC6'DB                                     PEBTROBRAS Gas T--n,Issslon Pipelines
BjURU5        .                                          --       NaTural Gas P pelies                                              PINDAMONHANGABA
wJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d R..d,..
InTeBnal Roundaries IdH
a           IA         20          32           40
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DS    Os                                                                                                                                             -om , ,/UBAR 
- PETROBRAS GAB TRATTSSOrI511 PIELINIE
RIC GE JANEIRG            -                 '-
2"   VOLTA REeDNDA             5s-                 CsAAW 
1GUAR%41}RQ$   7                                                                                                                          50504      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e8,  ~~~~~~~             I     GARGAP'>~~~~~~~~~~  GRO;
I_                                                                                                 .A!~9-  -                                                                                                              -             ,       /             _ I
MANI'A)  -  _    -/  0NITERG
`L                          AC                I
'-   -'  A  INSDMGNBrANCS54        a~~~~~~~~~~ B               - ~ARD TRIO             55*
SANTA R\G DE JANEIRO                            I         w0 4
D O S /~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C<KLOFFSZ
0 OGI DAS                                                                         SAG PAULG
|ACARTR  GAA TRAN5M                                                               -
/ NV                                                                                           @   OILR 0  STORAlE BINAS AERATS  /A
.Ao                                                    :.- .'                                                             . | -- R10DEJANIO  CamPAs field
0   25  50  75  lAO
.   f KUAVA                                                                                                                              a SANTOS                                          4 0042455                                                           Ba-
MARCH 198TE



_____________________________I IRRD 20810
- --  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~    V~~~~ENEZUELA.-
COLOMBIA            -
, -- '\  V ,<<  <   P, R A O  I .
'   K >    /                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PERU     ,      
b IF tS           f          ~~~~~GUARULHOS                   7
S. INES                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BOLIVIA  B. i
MOGO DAS -
ERMEL NO                                                                                           \X -\ -/   ,'';JAR
S-40 1IGUEL    -                                                                   \PARA .LA
PAM-t             -SA                                                                                                PALLO AS                                       DITIBTO PROJ E C T
DIA8ERO            9    E            >          '9zEBA     - -AL                                                                                                         /      ,.. SAURALO A        AITIBTOENONT WOA
R   /  g E  @5   yf'   .1.e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 19;\                              /                                                  GE     City gates stations~~~~~~121  S      ' /~  __ __ __ __
9   T ,,,   Js CAARIA                         \y                   \   '             /    P   CPU    A                                                                       ownga pTANAle
-   'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
TA A            ANDR
40'
BRAZIL
'sAO PAULO GAS DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
RR0'000N                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION NETWORK
IALOAO                   UQE    01
DASIERRA                                                                       CAMT                                                                                                                       Proj-ct.
SCLCRRO   \   SARGENFO      \   /                                       1<\                                                                     *       Manufec~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ttuno d gos   p yenet
-? City gates stotions
EoiBtie0
S.i  \   SAN iARN                                                                                                                                                Tow        AS p  p l ri nsp
E (to se convertd to notool gas pipelin)
Reiney go pipnine
CAPELA DO)ANR                                                                                                                                                                                    A      M-nofooo-d got ploitt
socOROn                          SARGENr 0A
SANTADO                                                                                                                                                               PETROBRAS gettvemsso  pipe ro
SA9NR0PODO
RpfNAPO                                               -. V 4 0$j je;  :;tRIBEIRAO P RES
SAARCH I 98-8



