Page  1
February 3, 1993
Mr. Luis Antonio Appolonio Neto
President
Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo - COMGAS
Rua Augusta No. 1600
01304 Sao Paulo, SP
Brazil
Re:
Loan No. 3043-BR (Sao Paulo Natural Gas
Distribution Project) Special Account - Amendment
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated February 16, 1990, entered into 
between International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Companhia 
de Gas de Sao Paulo - COMGAS for the above Project.
As a result of the decision of the Brazilian Government, approved by the Bank, 
to transfer to commercial banks the Special Account opened pursuant to the Loan 
Agreement, paragraph (b) of
Section 2.02 of such Agreement needs to be amended to read as follow:
"(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain if, 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment.  
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement."
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign the copy of this letter 
in the space provided below and return it to us.
The present amendment will become effective only after the Bank shall have 
received a certified statement of the Special Account fully reconciled to the 
satisfaction of the Bank, and the Bank shall be satisfied that the Borrower is in full 
compliance with the Special Account provisions of the Loan Agreement being amended 
hereby.
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Stephen J. Ettinger
Acting Director
Country Department I
America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO - COMGAS
By /s/ Luis Appolonio Neto
Authorized Representative
Page  2
cc: Mr. Paulo Haddad, Minister of Finance
