Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3043 BR
Guarantee Agreement
(Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated February 16, 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3043 BR
 GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1990, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo - COMGAS (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in 
the financing of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to Borrower a loan in various currencies 
equivalent to ninety million dollars ($94,000,000), on the terms and conditions forth 
i n the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to guarantee 
the obligations of the Borrower in respect of
such loan as provided in this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Guarantor in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower and into the Shareholder Agreement with the State of Sao 
Paulo and with CESP - Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo, has agreed so to guarantee 
such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the Preamble to 
and Section 1.02 of the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees,  as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest 
and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the 
Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all 
as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Guarantor acknowledges hereby the provisions of Sections 
2.06 and 2.07 of the Shareholder Agreement and accepts to include amongst the topics 
on which views may be exchanged pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.01 of the 
General Conditions, the performance by the State and CESP of their respective 
obligations under the Shareholder Agreement,  and the policies and decisions referred 
to in Section 2.07 (a) of the Shareholder Agreement, and also, undertakes to 
coordinate the participation of the relevant federal agencies and administrative 
subdivisions in any such exchange of views.
(b)
The Guarantor shall promptly inform the Bank, the State and the Borrower 
of any condition which interferes with or threatens to interfere with the matters 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, or in paragraph (a) of Sections 2.06 and 
2.07 of the Shareholder Agreement.
(c)
Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its obligations under 
this Agreement, the Guarantor shall not take, or permit to be taken, any action which 
would prevent or interfere with the performance by the State of its obligations under 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of the Shareholder Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Page  3
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Brasilia
MFA2 BR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Cid Heraclito de Queiroz
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
