Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3043 BR
Loan Agreement
(Sao Paulo Natural Gas Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO - COMGAS
Dated February 16. 1990
LOAN NUMBER 3043 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 16, 1990 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO - COMGAS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower,  
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
in a Shareholder Agreement of even date herewith (the Shareholder 
Agreement) among the Bank, the State of Sao Paulo, a political subdivision of the 
Guarantor (the State), and Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP), the State and 
CESP have agreed to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as therein set forth;
(D)
the Borrower represents and warrants that together with CESP they have 
entered into a contract with Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social 
(BNDES) dated June 10, 1987 (the BNDES Agreement),  under which: (i) BNDES has agreed 
to lend and the Borrower has agreed to borrow, thereunder, an amount or amounts 
equivalent to about $60,000,000 in the aggregate: (ii) BNDES and the Borrower have 
Page  2
agreed that the proceeds thereof shall be utilized for the financing of Part I of the 
Project; (iii) CESP (a majority shareholder of the Borrower) has undertaken certain 
specific commitments in respect of the Borrower and the funding thereof for purposes 
of the Project; and (iv) that the terms and conditions of the BNDES Agreement have not 
been changed and that the BNDES Agreement is in full force and effect; and
(E)
the Borrower represents and warrants that: (i) it has been granted the 
exclusive right to distribute gas in each Municipality (as the term is defined 
hereinafter in the State; and (ii) deliveries of gas under the terms of the Gas Supply 
Contract (as the term is defined hereinafter) will reach a level of not less than 
3,000,000 cubic meter starting on January 1, 1992.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 
deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(b)
"Municipality" means any of the Municipalities in which works related to 
the Project have been or will be made or which are going to be provided with gas by 
the Borrower as a result of the carrying out of the Project, and which are listed 
below: Sao Paulo, Guarulhos, Jacarei, Suzano, Moji tag Cruzes, Sao Jose dos Campos, 
Ca,capava, Taubate, Pindamonhangaba, Santo Andre, Sao Bernardo do Campo, Sao Caetano 
do Sul, Diadema, Itaquaquecetuba, Poa, Osasco, Riberao Pires, Rio Grande da Serra and 
Maua;
(c)
"COMGAS Statutes" means the Borrower's Estatuto Social approved by the 
Borrower's Shareholders General Assembly, as amended up to the Extraordinary Meeting 
of such Assembly dated November 9, 1987 and the term includes Law No. 7199 dated 
November 1, 1968 of the Municipality of Sao Paulo under which the Borrower was 
established and given a term between 15 and 30 years for the execution of its 
services, Decree No. 8977 of the Municipality of Sao Paulo, dated August 28, 1970 
under which the term in question was fixed in 20 years, Law No. 7987 dated December 
18, 1973 of the Municipality of Sao Paulo which amended the aforesaid Law No. 7199 and 
provided for other matters related to the Borrower's powers, Law No. 9767 of the 
Municipality of Sao Paulo dated November 27, 1984 under which the share holding 
control over the Borrower's stock was transferred to CESP and the term stipulated in 
Article 5 of the aforesaid Law No. 7199, as fixed by the aforesaid Decree No. 8977, 
was extended by 15 years, and Decree No. 20653 dated February 15, 1985 of the  
Municipality of Sao Paulo acknowledging that the State, through the Borrower, has been 
vested with the exclusive right, in the terms of said Decree, of supplying gas through 
pipelines within
the boundaries of the Municipality of Sao Paulo;
(d)
"CESP Statutes" means the Estatuto Social of CESP originally approved by 
CESP's Shareholders General Assembly in its Extraordinary Meeting of October 27, 1977, 
as amended by other Meetings of such Assembly up to the Extraordinary Meeting of 
October 30, 1987;
(e)
"PETROBRAS" means Petroleo Brasileiro S.A. - PETROBRAS, a mixed economy 
corporation owned and controlled by the Guarantor;
Page  3
(f)
"Campos" means the petroleum field offshore Rio de Janeiro owned by the 
Guarantor and operated by PETROBRAS;
(g)
"Gas Supply Contract" means the contract between "PETROBRAS" and the 
Borrower dated February 20, 1987 and the term includes the amendments  thereto 
pursuant to the exchange of letters between PETROBRAS (two) and the borrower (one) 
dated, respectively, May 19 and August 26, both of 1988, and June 24, 1988;
(h)
"FSRM" means Adicional ao Frete Para a Renovacao daMarinha Mercante - 
AFRMM, the Borrower's freight Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine 
established by Decree Law 1.142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, 
or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or part, after January 1, 1988: (i) "CNP" means Conselho 
Nacional do Petroleo (National Petroleum Councils created bv the Guarantor's decree 
Law No. 395 of April 29, 1938, made part of the Ministry of Mines and Energy of the 
Guarantor by its Law No. 3782 of July 22, 1960, and directly subordinated to the 
Guarantor's Minister of Energy and Mines by virtue of the Guarantor's Law No. 4904 of 
December 17, 1965;
(j)
"Banco Central" means the Guarantor's Central Bank;
 
(k)
"National Plan on Natural Gas" means the plan approved on May 25, 1987 by 
the Guarantor's President, including revision thereto, if any, in light of the review 
thereof that was being undertaken as of May 12, 1988 by the Guarantor's Ministries of 
Finance, Mines and Energy, Industry and Commerce and Transport and Urban Development, 
National Energy Council, CNP and Banco Central;
(l)
"ABNT" means Associacao Brasileira de Normas Tecnicas, the Guarantor's 
Brazilian Association of Technical Standards; and
(m)
"Criteria" means criteria for economic evaluation of investment projects 
set forth in the materials sent by the Bank to the Borrower on May 25, 1988.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to ninety four million dollars ($94,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and 
other charges on the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part II of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special account in Banco Central on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1995 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  4
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Guarantor and the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such 
Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as 
a percentage per annum, 
as reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and gas industry practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall, in 
the carrying out of Part II (J) (iii) of the Project, enable the State to discharge 
its obligations stipulated in respect of such Part of the Project in Section 2.04 of 
the Shareholder Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
The consultants that will assist the Borrower in the conversion of the 
Borrower's network and of the installations of the Borrower's customers under Parts II 
(H) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Project, respectively, shall be hired in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and not later than a 
date 3 months from the Effective Date.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall complete the study under Part II (J) (i) of 
the Project not later than a date 13 months from the Effective Date and furnish to the 
Bank, promptly after such completion, the findings and recommendations of such study.
(b)
The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to  comment 
on the aforesaid findings and recommendations before taking any action thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall not incur expenditures under Part II (J)  (iv) 
Page  5
of the Project unless a detailed plan for the carrying out thereof has been discussed 
and agreed with the Bank, particularly in respect of equipment there for in which 
case, additionally, the Borrower shall, before tendering for such equipment, enter 
into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the utilization thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,  engineering and gas 
industry practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b)
As part of the action required pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall: (i) continue the practice of carrying out a feasibility study, 
including, as of September l9, l990, an economic evaluation in accordance with the 
Criteria, of any investment project other than the Project to be undertaken by the 
Borrower and in respect of which the Borrower is expected to incur an estimated 
expenditure of more than $5,000,000 equivalent; and (ii) take all such steps as shall 
be necessary to ensure that, by not later than a date three months after the Effective 
Date, the Borrower shall have available engineer services, additional to engineer 
services available to the Borrower as of December 31, 1987, that will be adequate for 
the carrying out of the Project and to operate the facilities expanded thereunder, 
such steps to include, as and when feasible, the adequate retraining of as many 
members of the Borrower's staff as possible.
Section 4.02.  The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and gas industry practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice. 
Section 4.04. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
paragraphs (b) of Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of this Agreement, the Borrower  shall, with 
such frequency and anticipation as shall be reasonable under  the prevailing 
circumstances but not less frequently than every six months: (i) present to the 
appropriate authorities including the Guarantor, through CNP, and the State, as 
necessary, studies of such scope and in such detail as such authorities or the Bank 
may reasonably request showing whether any given distribution margin available to the 
Borrower from its estimated gas sales for the period in question will enable the 
Borrower to comply with its obligations under such Section 5.02; and (ii) furnish to 
the Bank, promptly upon submission to such authorities, copies of such reports.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such measures as shall be necessary or 
appropriate to ensure that the facilities constructed or installed under the Project 
are constructed, maintained and operated in a manner that shall comply with technical 
and safety standards and regulations and with pollution control procedures and 
environmental protection standards satisfactory to Companhia de Tecnologia e 
Saneamento Ambiental - CETESB and consistent with the applicable laws and regulations 
of the Guarantor and of the State. 
Section 4.06 The Borrower shall, in the absence of technical and safety norms 
and standards issued by ABNT, continue to apply to the gas industry norms and 
standards that the Borrower is currently applying, give the Bank a reasonable 
opportunity to comment on any change thereto or abrogation thereof, and make its best 
efforts, based on the Borrower's know-how and through its regular participation in the 
discussions within ABNT on the issuance of norms and standards, to influence ABNT's 
decisions on the matter. 
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, not later than October 31 in each of its 
fiscal years starting with the first fiscal year ending after December 31, 1989, 
furnish to the Bank, in addition to the information the Borrower is required to 
Page  6
furnish to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement, an 
investment budget for the next following fiscal year and financial projections for the 
next following three fiscal years.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than five 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited, and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested;
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank monthly certified statements of the Special 
Account: and
(iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the  Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall earn, for each of its fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and each 
fiscal year thereafter, an annual return of not less than 8%, 10%, 11% and 12%, 
respectively, of the average current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in 
operation.
(b)
Before October 31 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion.
Page  7
(c)
If any such review taking place during year 1990 or thereafter shows 
that. due Borrower would not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)  of this 
Section in the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall 
promptly take all necessary measures  (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices or requests for such adjustments, if warranted), 
in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The annual return shall be calculated by dividing the Borrower's 
net operating 
income for the fiscal year in question by one-half of 
the sum of the current 
net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at 
the end of that fiscal year.
 
(ii)
The term "net operating income means total operating revenues less 
total operating 
expenses.
 
(iii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to 
operations.
 
(iv)
The term "total operating expenses" means all expenses related to 
operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of 
taxes, and provision for depreciation on a 
straight-line basis at a rate set 
under methods of determining the 
useful life of assets satisfactory to the 
Bank but never lower 
than 4% per annum of the average current gross value of 
the 
Borrower's fixed assets in operation, or other basis acceptable to the 
Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(v)
The average current gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in 
operation 
shall be calculated as one-half of the sum of the gross 
value of the 
Borrower's fixed assets in operation at the beginning 
and at the end of the 
fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and 
consistently maintain methods of 
valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(vi)
The term "current net value of the Borrower's fixed assets in 
operation" means 
the gross value of the Borrower's fixed assets in 
operation less the amount of 
accumulated depreciation, as valued from 
time to time in accordance with sound 
and consistently maintained 
methods of valuation satisfactory to the Bank.
(e)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of  sub-paragraphs 
(v) and (vi) of the preceding paragraph (d), the Borrower shall by August 31, l990 and 
not less frequently than every fourth anniversary thereafter, complete a study on the 
valuation and useful life of fixed assets, on the basis of replacement cost and 
estimated realistic depreciation schedules based on current market values, of the then 
existing fixed assets in order to determine whether the conclusions of such study 
warrant further changes in the valuation of the Borrower's fixed assets
or in the rate of depreciation thereof.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities for fiscal 
years l990, 1991, 1992, and 1993 and each fiscal year thereafter, of not less than 
1.0, l.l and 1.2, respectively.
(b)
Before October 31, in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on 
the basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such 
year and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of 
such review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a)  for the Borrower's fiscal years covered by 
such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, 
without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its prices or requests 
Page  8
for such adjustments, if warranted), in order to meet such requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "current assets" means cash, all assets which could in 
the ordinary 
course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year.
(ii)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then existing be 
called for payment 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt 
service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(iii)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(iv)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not incur any debt: (i) unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the 
fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the 
greater, shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements 
of the Borrower for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including 
the debt to be incurred; or (ii) if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of 
debt to equity shall be greater than 60:40. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, 
Agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such 
guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
adjusted to 
take account of the Borrower's prices in effect at 
the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though they were 
not in effect during the 
twelve-month period to which such 
revenues relate and net non-operating 
income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on 
debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
Page  9
operations: and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in 
the generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any? of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vi)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, 
retained earnings and reserves of the Borrower not 
allocated to cover Specific 
liabilities.
 
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall| be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Guarantor, debt payable in 
another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange 
at which such other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for 
the purposes of servicing 
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the 
basic of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
COMGAS's Statutes or CESP's Statutes or the provisions of Portaria No. 
1061 of August 8, 1986 of the Guarantor's Minister of Mines and Energy or any other 
legal instruments issued by the Guarantor or the State in respect of the Borrower's 
ability to carry out the Project shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, or the corporate structure of the Borrower or CESP shall have been 
changed, so as to affect the ability of the Borrower or CESP to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement or the Shareholder Agreement, as the case may be, or 
to achieve the objectives of the Project;
(b)
the State or CESP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Shareholder Agreement; 
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
The borrower shall have failed to fulfill any of the 
disbursement 
conditions stipulated under the BNDES 
Agreement or the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of any loan made to the Borrower for 
the financing of the 
Project, including the loan committed under the 
BNDES 
Agreement, shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the contract or contracts 
providing there for, including the BNDES Agreement, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) (1) BNDES shall 
have waived its 
right of not making disbursements under the 
BNDES Agreement because of the 
aforesaid failure by the Borrower 
to meet the conditions for disbursement 
thereunder or (2) 
the aforesaid suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
respective obligations under such contract or contracts; and (B) adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations 
of the Borrower under 
this Agreement;
 
Page  10
(d)
the Gas Supply Contract shall have been terminated or the gas supply to 
the Borrower from PETROBRAS thereunder shall have been terminated or such gas supply 
shall have been suspended, reduced or interrupted during a period that is not 
reasonable under the circumstances and to the extent  that any such suspension, 
reduction or interruption shall have affected materially and adversely the financial 
condition of the Borrower or the carrying out of the Project; and
(e)
the exclusive right granted to the Borrower, or any other third party 
acceptable to the Bank and the State, to distribute gas, within the boundaries of the 
Municipality in question, shall have been terminated or revoked.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period of 60 days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 6.01 
shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provision of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the execution and delivery of the Shareholder Agreement on behalf of 
the State and CESP has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental 
and corporate action;
(b)
the Loan Agreement shall have been duly registered by the Central Bank; 
and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approval to be performed or given 
by the Guarantor, its agencies or political subdivisions, including the State, by any 
agency thereof, or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor, the State and CESP, and the 
Borrower to perform their obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreement, the 
Shareholder Agreement and this Agreement, respectively, together with all necessary 
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank.
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Shareholder Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
and executed and delivered on behalf of the State and CESP and is legally binding upon 
the State and CESP, respectively, in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
that all necessary acts, consents and approval to be performed or given 
by the Guarantor, the State, their political subdivisions or agencies, or by any 
agencies thereof or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize the 
carrying out of the Project and to enable the Guarantor, the Borrower and the State 
and CESP to perform their respective obligations pursuant to the Guarantee Agreements, 
this Agreement and the Shareholder Agreement, together will all necessary powers and 
rights in connection therewith, have been performed or given.
Section 7.03. The date of May 16, 1990 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Page  11
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The President of the Diretoria (Board of Directors) of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Companhia de Gas de
   Sao Paulo - COMGAS
Rua Augusta No. 1600
01304 Sao Paulo SP
Brasil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
COMGAS
21831
Sao Paulo
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shah id Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO - COMGAS
By /s/ Cassio P.F. Domingues
Authorized Representative
By /s/ Gastao Cesar Bierrenbach
Page  12
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
 
(1)  Works under
   26,500,000
100%
     Part II of
     the Project
(2)  Goods under
   14,400,000
100% of foreign
     Part II of the
expenditures and
     Project other
100% of local
     than those
expenditures
     included in
(ex-factory
     Categories (3)
cost)
     (4) and (5) of
     this table
(3)  Metering and
    4,200,000
100% of foreign
     regulating
expenditures and
     stations under
100% of local
     Part II (D) of
expenditures
     the Project
(ex-factory
cost)
(4)  Equipment for
    8,100,000
100% of foreign
     Parts II (E)
expenditures and
     (F) and (G) of
100% of local
     the Project
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(5)  Consultants'
    8,600,000
100% of foreign
     services for
expenditures
     Project imple-
for training,
     mentation and
100% of local
     training abroad
expenditures
     under Parts II (H),
for services of
     (I) and (J) of the
consultants
     Project, including
residing within
     equipment for 
the territory
     purposes of Part II
of the Guarantor
     (J) (iv) of the
and 100% of
     Project
foreign expendi-
tures for
services of
other
consultants
(6)  Interest and
   20,100,000
Amounts due pur-
     other charges
suant to Section
     on the Loan
2.02 (c) of this
     accrued on
Agreement
     or before
     April 14, 1994
Page  13
(7)  Unallocated
   12,100,000
 
   __________
           TOTAL     
   94,000,000
 
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor; and  
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$9,400,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) through (5) of the table set 
forth in such paragraph 1 an account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after February 16. 1989.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) extending and converting the Borrower's 
existing network for distribution to industrial, commercial and residential customers 
so as to enable, after Project completion, daily distribution to said customers of 
about 3,000,000 cubic meters of natural  gas produced in association with oil in 
Campos and 400,000 cubic meters of refinery gas; (b) strengthening of the Borrower's 
management and organization, and project implementation capacity, and of the 
efficiency and safety of its gas distribution operations; (c) assuring the Borrower's
financial viability and cash generation capacity with a view to further expansion of 
its operations; (d) helping the Borrower to mobilize capital so as to reduce the 
Borrower's demand for funds from the Guarantor and their agencies, the State and their 
agencies and the Municipalities and their agencies; (e) enhancing the technical and 
financial regulatory framework of the gas industry in the Guarantor's territories; (f) 
reducing environmental pollution in the State; and (g) developing and implementing a 
gas utilization strategy for the State of Sao Paulo and for the Guarantor, including 
economically efficient gas pricing.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part I:
(A)
Construction and utilization of the Suzano-Sao Paulo gas pipeline connecting the 
PETROBRAS existing pipeline between Rio de Janeiro and Suzano to the distribution ring 
currently existing around Sao Paulo.
(B)
Construction and utilization of a southern cross connection from the northeast 
to the southwest section of the said ring.
(C)
Construction and utilization of a distribution network for about 7,000 new 
residential customers located in Jacarei, Alca Norte, and Northeast and West areas of 
the city of Sao Paulo, and who are included as a portion of those included to in Part 
III (B) of the Project, and for 200 new industrial customers in areas other than those 
included under Part II (A) of the Project.
Part II:
(A)
Construction and utilization of a distribution network for about eleven 
industrial customers in Mogi tag Cruzes and about twenty more along the Via Dutra by 
Page  14
laying about 16 kilometers of 2, 4, 6 and lO inch laterals in the former case, and by 
closing a loop (secondary ring) in the latter case by installing about 12 kilometers 
of 6 and 8 inch lines and laying about 31 kilometers of 4 inch laterals and 2 inch 
service lines.
(B)
Upgrading the cast iron networks by inserting about 84 kilometers and 240 
kilometers of polyethylene pipe in the medium pressure and low pressure cast iron 
grids, respectively, the strengthening of about 20,000 cast iron system joints and the 
installation of about 18 pressure reducing stations and about l9,000 services lines 
and regulators connecting about 205,000 new residential consumers other than those 
referred to in Part I (C) of the Project but also included as the remaining portion of 
those in Part III (B) of the Project.
(C)
Conversion from manufactured gas  of the existing networks referred to in (B) 
above and of existing facilities for about 201,000 households, including installation 
of about 20 kilometers of interconnections, 13 pressure reducing stations and 8 
fogging units,  conversion of about 297,000 appliances and strengthening of about 
24,000 joints in the cast iron system.
(D)
Acquisition and utilization of engineering services (design and procurement and 
construction supervision) and acquisition, installation and utilization of materials, 
and metering and regulating stations, all for (A), (B) and (C) above. 
(E)
Acquisition, installation and utilization of telecommunications, telemetry and 
supervisory control and data acquisition systems for remote reading-out of operating 
values (pressure, flow and temperature) and control of the network.
(F)
Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities so as to enable it to enlarge its 
role to include: (i) testing and certification of industrial and commercial appliances 
and their control equipment; (ii) sample checking of production models of appliances; 
and (iii) a support program for quality improvement of appliances manufactured in 
Brazil, including acquisition and utilization of special equipment for all of the 
above.
(G)
Establishment of four additional emergency stations, and acquisition and 
utilization of special mobile equipment for blocking gas flow, sectioning pipelines 
and making emergency tie in and repairs, all to be located in the said stations.
(H)
Strengthening of the Borrower's capabilities for carrying out the Project 
through the acquisition and utilization of consultant services (other than those 
referred to in (D) above) to assist the Borrower as required in different aspects of 
the carrying out of the Project such as:  (i) distribution system planning; (ii) 
network conversion to natural gas; (iii) conversion of industrial and large commercial 
customers to natural gas; (iv) corrosion control; (v) gas pressure and flow 
measurement; (vi) telemetry, supervisory control and data acquisition;  and (vii) 
demand analysis and tariff, and information systems. 
(I)
Updating the knowledge and skills of the Borrower's staff, teaching new skills 
to Borrower's staff who will be transferred to new positions from positions that will 
become redundant (such as naphta plant operation), and on-the-job training of newly 
recruited professionals partly by means of utilizing some of the services to be 
acquired under (H) above and partly by up to six months-long training programs abroad 
for Borrower's junior staff, and shorter training information session for Borrower's 
senior executives.
(J)
Carrying out of studies for:
 
(i)
improvement of the Borrower's management organization and 
information systems;
(ii)
options and alternatives for restructuring of the Borrower's share 
holdings;
(iii)
gas utilization in the State, including tariff structures and 
rates; and
(iv)
establishing a Gas Technology Institute as a joint effort by the 
Page  15
Borrower and 
universities and other institutions in the State, as a focal 
point for 
teaching and researching on gas related matters and 
as a forum for gas 
technology exchanges, including, purchasing by 
the Borrower and utilization by 
the Institute, if warranted, of 
equipment for start-up operations of such 
Institute.
 
Part III:
(A)
Conversion to natural gas of about 455 existing industrial   customers and about 
4,800 existing commercial customers, including internal installations required 
therefor, and connection as well as conversion within consumer premises of about 231 
new industrial customers.
(B)
Internal installations to connect about 212,000 new residential customers 
including conversion or exchange or both, as the case may be, of appliances.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1994
4,700,000
through April 15, 2004
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Page  16
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:  
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable 
to the balance outstanding or the 
Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before
1.00
maturity
 SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
Civil works under Part II (A) of the Project shall be divided into 4 lots each 
estimated to cost approximately $4,500,000 equivalent and bidders shall be allowed to 
bid individually for one or more individual lots or for a group of two or more lots to 
be evaluated collectively. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest combination of 
lowest evaluated bidders for one or more lots.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that  such goods 
Page  17
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
 (2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determined the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated 
bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into 
account customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the 
importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or 
delivery of the goods pursuant to the bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be 
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A 
is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of:  (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other imported taxes, 
or (B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as result of this 
comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if 
not, the lowest  evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, 
shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or less or for 
civil works under Parts II (B) and II (C) of the Project estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $3,000,000 or less, may be awarded under competitive bidding procedures 
advertised only in Brazil to the extent that: (i) the procedures under which any such 
contract has been awarded are satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) the amount of the 
proceeds of the Loan to be disbursed against the aggregate of contracts so awarded 
under Categories (2) or (3) or (4) or (5), in respect of goods, and Category (1), in 
respect of works, all of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Loan 
Agreement, estimated as of the date of the tendering for each of the contracts in 
question, shall have not exceeded the aggregate of $4,000,000 equivalent inrespect of 
goods or $11,000,000 equivalent, in respect of works.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and civil works estimated to  
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and $2,000,000 or more, respectively, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall 
be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special 
Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in 
Page  18
accordance with Section 5.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Parts II (H) and (I) of 
the Project and the studies under (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Part II (J) of the 
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and 
terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with 
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency published by the Bank in August 1981.
Part E:
Other
 
For purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term "customs duties and 
other import taxes" includes the FSRMM.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
l.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special Account 
shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions 
of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the 
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. On the basis of such 
requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account with 
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such 
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such request, such 
documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, showing that such 
payment was made for eligible expenditures.
Page  19
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Bank when either of the 
following situations first arises:
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by 
the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance 
with the provisions 
of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories 
minus the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
 
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, deposit 
into the Special Account (or,  if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. No further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
