Page  1
September 18, 1992
Dr. Luiz Appolonio Neto
President
Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo - COMGAS
Rua Augusta No. 1600
01304 Sao Paulo, S.P.
Brazil
Re:
Loan 3043-BR (COMGAS - Sao Paulo Natural Gas
Distribution Project) Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sir:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Companhia de Gas de Sao Paulo - COMGAS 
(the Borrower), dated February 16, 1990, as amended for the above Project.
I am pleased to inform you that the Bank has agreed to the request, in your 
letter No. GCB-CT-010-92 dated June 2, 1992, to include as part of the Project 
financed by Loan 3043-BR the
construction of new residential network systems which will increase the number of new 
residential customers by about 54,565.
Therefore, we propose to amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
A new Section 3.05 should be included in Article III to read as follows:
 
"Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than April 30, 1993, enter. 
into 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with the industrial customers 
referred to in Part II 
(A) (i) of the Project, for the purpose of governing the 
financial assistance to be provided 
to the Borrower by such customers in the 
carrying out of such Part of the Project."
2.
Category (1) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as 
follows:
"Works under Part II of the Project (other than Part II (A) (i))"
3.
Part II (A) of the Project should become Part II (A) (i) and the following Part 
II (A) (ii) should be inserted therein:
"(ii)
Construction of a new distribution network system  required for 
the supply of 
natural gas to about 54,565 new residential 
consumers, consisting of twelve 
new networks and two penetration 
pipelines, covering a total of about 187,135 
meters of pipelines with 
varying diameters of 2, 4, 6 and 10 inches."
4.
Paragraph 2 of Part A of Section I of Schedule 4 should be deleted.
 
If you agree with the foregoing, please sign the attached copy of this letter 
and return it to us.
Because of their interest in this matter, we are sending copies of this letter 
to the Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning, the Secretary of Energy, the 
Secretary of Energy of the State of Sao Paulo, the Secretary of Finance of the State 
of Sao Paulo and the President of Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP).
Sincerely yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
Page  2
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Armeane M. Choksi
Director
Country Department I
Latin American & the Caribbean
Confirmed:
COMPANHIA DE GAS DE SAO PAULO
By /s/ Luiz Appolonio Neto
Date: 12/10/92
 
cc:  Messrs.:  Marcilio Marques Moreira
               Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning
               Luis Alqueres
               Secretary of Energy
               Jose Fernando da Costa Boucinhas
               Secretary of Energy, State of Sao Paulo
               Frederico Mathias Mazzucheli
               Secretary of Finance, State of Sao Paulo
               Saulo Krichana Rodrigues
               President
               Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP)
