                        Document of
                      The World Bank




                                             Report No: ICR000006




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-H0080)

                           ON A

                 GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF

     SDR 12.10 MILLION (US$17.39 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                            TO

                      AFGHANISTAN

                          FOR AN

       EMERGENCY EDUCATION REHABILITATION AND
                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                       March 23, 2007




South Asia Region
Human Development Unit

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                 (Exchange Rate: Effective February 1, 2007)

                   Currency Unit       =       Afghani (Af)
                         Af 1.00       =       US$0.01998
                        US$1.00        =       Afghani 50.05

                               FISCAL YEAR
                            March 21 ­ March 20

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AACA   Afghanistan Assistance Coordinating Authority
AFMIS  Afghanistan Financial Management Unit
AIA    Afghanistan Interim Authority
CGSDP  Community Grants to School Development Program
CNA    Comprehensive Needs Assessment
DLC    Distance Learning Center
ECD    Early Childhood Development
EERDP  Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project
EMIS   Education Management Improvement System
EQUIP  Education Quality Improvement Project
ERL    Emergency Reconstruction Loan
GDLN   Global Distance Learning Network
GIC    Girls' Internet Café
GMU    Grant Management Unit
HE     Higher Education
IP     Implementing Partner
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MOC    Ministry of Communications
MOE    Ministry of Education
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MOHE   Ministry of Higher Education
NFE    Nonformal Education
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization
O&M    Operations and Maintenance
PED    Provincial Education Department
PTA    Parent Teacher Association
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
SDU    Special Disbursement Unit
SHEP   Strengthening Higher Education Project
SMC    School Management Committee
SOE    Statement of Expenditure
TTA    Teacher Training Allowance


                      Vice President: Praful C. Patel
                    Country Director: Alastair J. McKechnie
                     Sector Manager: Michelle Riboud
               Project Team Leader: Habibullah Wajdi
                   ICR Team Leader: Susan E. Hirshberg




                                      ii

                                             AFGHANISTAN
           Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project


                                                CONTENTS

                                                                                                                           Page

A. Basic Information........................................................................................................i
B. Key Dates....................................................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes ...........................................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff...................................................................................................................ii.
F. Results Framework Analysis.....................................................................................iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ...................................................................vi
H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................vi
I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 7
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)............... 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 19
Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 20
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 24
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 26
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 28
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 29
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39




                                                         iii

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Emergency Education
Country:                Afghanistan             Project Name:          Rehabilitation &
                                                                       Development Project
Project ID:             P077896                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-H0080
ICR Date:               03/23/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       AFGHANISTAN
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:              INTERIM
                                                                       ADMINISTRATION
Original Total
                        XDR 12.1M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 12.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Communication
Ministry of Education
Ministry of Higher Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/03/2002    Effectiveness:         06/11/2002         06/11/2002
                                                                               11/19/2002
Appraisal:             02/22/2002    Restructuring(s):
                                                                               03/16/2003
Approval:              06/06/2002    Mid-term Review:                          02/25/2004
                                     Closing:               12/31/2004         06/30/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory



                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry
                                                                      None
at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                              33
General education sector                                         30                 79
General public administration sector                              6                  3
Other social services                                            31                 18


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                         Primary          Secondary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction            Primary           Primary
Gender                                                          Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                              Primary           Primary
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                         Primary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                           At Approval
Vice President:           Praful C. Patel                    Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:         Alastair J. McKechnie              Alastair J. McKechnie
Sector Manager:           Michelle Riboud                    Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:      Habibullah Wajdi                   William B. Herbert
ICR Team Leader:          Susan E. Hirshberg
ICR Primary Author:       Susan E. Hirshberg




                                               ii

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objectives were to selectively support the Transitional State of
Afghanistan (subsequently the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan) in its efforts to
reconstruct and develop the education sector to: (a) increase access to education
opportunities in the formal and non-formal systems for under-served groups, especially
women and girls; (b) support the development of a policy framework and the reform of
education management at all levels, in partnership with civil society, Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGO) and the private sector; and (c) introduce modern information
technologies for communications in and among the ministries, and distance learning for
capacity building of civil servants.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target   Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value        Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
                                            approval        Target        Completion or
                                           documents)       Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Improved access to education

                                                                        Primary
                                                                        Enrollment +35.5%
                                                                        M +16%

                                                        Increased       F +79.9%

                                                        enrollments     F = 39.3% of cohort

                                                        Increased
Value                                                   number of       Primary Schools

quantitative orEmergency situation: not Not quantified  schools         +20.7%

Qualitative)   available.                               Increased       Teachers +49.9%

                                                        teachers,       F +75.5%

                                                        especially      20% of cohort

                                                        females         HE
                                                                        M +27%
                                                                        F + 36%
                                                                        F profs +157%
Date achieved 06/11/2002                12/31/2005      11/06/2003      12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %       EERDP provinces only for primary/secondary levels based on EMIS data 2003-

achievement)   2005

Indicator 2 :  Improved education sector management
Value                                   Medium-term                     Technical
quantitative orNo policy framework in   policy framework                assistance provided
Qualitative)   the education sector.    agreed and                      to draft Medium



                                            iii

                                          implemented.                        Term Policy
                                                                              Framework. Policy
                                                                              not adopted or
                                                                              costed. EMIS
                                                                              developed. No out-
                                                                              of-school
                                                                              measurement, thus
                                                                              no accurate NER or
                                                                              GER data.
Date achieved 06/11/2002                  06/30/2006                          06/30/2006

Comments       TA provided for policy development, but not agreed or costed by government.

(incl. %       Analytical work to inform policy (baseline and household survey, accreditation

achievement)   of teachers, and regulatory guidelines for NGO/private sector provision of
               schools) not undertaken.
Indicator 3 :  Improved communication network in key government agencies

               No intra-ministerial       Eight government
Value                                     agencies
quantitative orcommunications or          connected to                        Completed within

Qualitative)   internet access in the                                         one year.
               country.                   internet. DLC
                                          operational
Date achieved 06/11/2002                  08/28/2005                          10/28/2004

Comments       Tech for network and internet upgraded. Tech used in proj sent to provinces to

(incl. %       create network/links to central govt. DLC moved to MOC 3/06. Now more

achievement)   accessible, thus more sustainable if govt allows retaining revenues for own use.
               100% achieved.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                               approval          Revised        Completion or
                                             documents)      Target Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  School places
Value
(quantitative  Emergency Project N/A                         100 schools to   84 schools built
or Qualitative)                                              be built

Date achieved 06/11/2002                                     11/06/2003       06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       84% achieved
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Appropriate institutional arrangements in place. Institutional capacity
               strengthened.
                                          Capacity to                         Capacity of line
                                          manage education   SMCs             ministries for
Value                                     project and                         project
(quantitative  N/A                        education          School/district  management, FM
or Qualitative)                           development in     /provincial      and procurement
                                          place              officials
                                                             trained          built over time. Still
                                                                              needs work.



                                               iv

                                           Capacity in line
                                           ministries                         SMCs established
                                           (financial                         in 100% schools in
                                           management,                        Bamiyan and
                                           procurement,                       Logar, 30% in
                                           project                            Kapisa and Parwan,
                                           management)                        10 schools in
                                                                              Badakshan.
Date achieved 06/11/2002                   12/31/2004         11/06/2003      06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %       Project used a GMU within ministries at first. Project offices established under

achievement)   follow-on projects, EQUIP and SHEP.

Indicator 3 :  Sub-grants have been used in accordance with plans (quality of proposal,
               timeliness of disbursement, and transparent utilization of funds).
                                                                              Higher education
                                                                              block and capitation

                                           100% of grants                     grants utilized

                                           disbursed on                       across 18

                                           schedule           All higher      institutions.
                                                              education
                                                              faculty         Girls' internet café
Value                                      Community          members have at Kabul
(quantitative  N/A                         college establishedreceived a      University.
or Qualitative)                            and running        training

                                           Female internet    allowance for Community college

                                           café established   six months      built, not

                                           and financially    each.           functional.

                                           viable                             2200 faculty given
                                                                              $50/mo x 8 mo
                                                                              'training allowance.'
Date achieved 06/11/2002                   12/31/2004         10/01/2005      06/30/2006
Comments       Grants 100% disbursed. Utilized for inputs to `jump start' the system. "Training
(incl. %       allowance" created confusion: some saw it as subsidy which raised expectations.
achievement)   MOHE used it to leverage from MOF higher salary scale to keep faculty.
               Strengthened capacity of the SMCs.

Indicator 4 :  Effective utilization of the grant. Improved quality of educational input at the
               school level.
                                                              NGOs            NGO 1 in Bamiyan
                                                              contracted in and Logar
                                                              EERDP           provinces: 100%
                                                              provinces for SMCs functional
Value                                                         establishing    and received grants,
(quantitative  N/A                         N/A                SMCs,           training provided to
or Qualitative)                                               community       provincial and
                                                              construction, district officials.
                                                              stimulating
                                                              girls           NGO 2 in Kapisa
                                                              enrollments.    and Parwan


                                                v

                                                                             provinces SMCs in
                                                                             30% of schools. No
                                                                             schools received
                                                                             direct funding.
Date achieved 06/11/2002                 12/31/2004          12/15/2003      06/30/2006
Comments       NGO 1 districts 100% achieved. NGO 2 districts 30% achieved. Badakshan
(incl. %       model first time in Afghanistan that a Provincial Education Department was
achievement)   provided non-salary development budget.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived                 DO                        IP                 Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     08/15/2002           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        0.00
  2     04/08/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        4.89
  3     10/31/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        5.65
  4     12/08/2003           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        5.65
  5     03/17/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        5.65
  6     09/16/2004           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                        8.04
  7     03/16/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      12.52
  8     09/13/2005   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      15.30
  9     03/10/2006           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       16.48
  10    08/08/2006   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                      17.39



H. Restructuring (if any)

                                ISR Ratings at      Amount

 Restructuring     Board        Restructuring Disbursed at       Reason for Restructuring &
     Date(s)     Approved                       Restructuring
                PDO Change                                            Key Changes Made
                                  DO     IP         in USD
                                                    millions
                                                                US$1.66 million reallocated to
   11/19/2002                      S      S             2.19    new Category C to finance the
                                                                equipment for the DLC.
                                                                Government decided NFE,
                                                                Literacy and ECD were not
   03/16/2003        N             S      S             4.89    priorities. Shifted to increasing
                                                                enrollments (especially girls)
                                                                and community participation.




                                              vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Afghanistan emerged from more than two decades of conflict in fall of 2001. Even before the conflict
began in 1979, Afghanistan was one of the least developed countries in the world. Occupation by the
Soviet Union and subsequent rule primarily by war lords (1989-1992) left the economic situation in even
worse condition. During the five years under Taliban rule (1996-2001), the country was plagued by
continuing conflict, international isolation and sanctions for the Taliban's treatment of women and
harboring of international terrorists, and severe drought.

Although the mid-1990s saw unprecedented growth in unofficial economic activity, most notably in
cross-border trade and opium poppy cultivation (which subsequently declined during the Taliban rule),
by 2002 when the project was prepared, most of the pre-1979 infrastructure had been destroyed, crop
production had been halved and livestock herds depleted, and the country had been experiencing a two
year drought. Large numbers of people had lost their livelihoods and become displaced internally or to
neighboring countries. The country was in arrears to international financial institutions with the total debt
amounting to US$51 million.

The education system was virtually dismantled: girls were officially excluded from the system and
boys in school were taught a curriculum limited, to a large extent, to religious content. The net
enrollment rate for boys was estimated at 43 percent and 3 percent for girls. There were approximately
21,000 largely under-educated teachers for a school age population estimated at 5 million, which proved
to be considerably higher during project implementation, although the exact number is still not
known. At that time, females had been forbidden to teach for five years.

Following the fall of the Taliban and the Bonn conference in 2001, a National Development Framework and
IDA's Transitional Support Strategy were developed. Donors and government identified education,
especially at the primary level, as one of the priorities for the country reconstruction. A joint
Comprehensive Needs Assessment (CNA) was carried out in February/March 2002 by the Afghan Interim
Authority (AIA) and several donors, including IDA. An estimated US$130 million was committed to
finance the education sector for the first two years. The primary education sub-sector was well subscribed
to by different donors and recurrent costs were to be financed by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust
Fund (ARTF) established in 2002. It was decided by the broader donor group that the World Bank would
assist the development of a medium-term policy framework, assisting the Higher Education sub-sector and
supporting female participation and enrollment through nonformal education mechanisms and Early
Childhood Development (ECD) activities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The project development objectives were to selectively support the Transitional State of Afghanistan
(subsequently the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan) in its efforts to reconstruct and develop the education
sector to: (a) increase access to education opportunities in the formal (Higher Education) and nonformal
systems for under-served groups, especially women and girls; (b) support the development of a policy
framework and the reform of education management at all levels, in partnership with civil society, NGOs
and the private sector; and (c) introduce modern information technologies for communications in and
among the ministries, and distance learning for capacity building of civil servants.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification Not applicable.



                                                       1

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The beneficiaries of the project were (a) disadvantaged children and young adults who had been denied
access to all levels of education, with particular emphasis on girls and women; (b) returning teachers and
faculty; and (c) parents and communities. At the institutional level the beneficiaries included: (i) the
Ministries of Education and Higher Education at the national and sub-national levels; (ii) tertiary
institutions and their returning faculty; (iii) primary and secondary schools; (iv) Non-Governmental
Organizations (NGO) and other civil society organizations; and (v) a network of eight Ministries.

1.5 Original Components
Component 1: Promoting Skills Development and Learning (US$5. 8 million). The aim of this
component was to support those who had not been able to access education.

Increasing the Number of Girls in School (US$3.7 million). A demand-side financing mechanism would
be developed for: (i) girls and young women to enroll in and complete a secondary and/or tertiary-level
institution course of study; and (ii) children, especially girls of disadvantaged women, to participate in
schooling through a stipend program.

Literacy Learning and Early Childhood Development (ECD) (US$1.1 million). To address the literacy
and basic education requirements of youth, particularly young women and adolescent girls. An
assessment of needs of young children, women and communities would be undertaken to develop an ECD
policy and a national program of NFE.

Skills Development for Underserved Groups (US$1.0 million). To provide demand-driven skills
development training to disadvantaged groups. It would support training instructors, provision of
materials, textbooks, training modules and learner stipends through to technical and vocational centers.

Component 2: Education Sector Management Reform (US$5.7 million). To develop capacities for
effective design and management of the primary, secondary and tertiary education sub-sectors.

Policy Development for the Education Sector (US$1.0 million). To support development of a new policy
based on principles of social and gender equity, access and quality, to include (i) the definition of
standards and qualifications of teachers; (ii) curriculum requirements; (iii) learning assessment; (iv)
accreditation; (v) and regulatory guidelines for NGOs and private providers. It was also intended to
support institutional analysis and AAA to gain indepth knowledge of the sector requirements, including a
baseline survey, which would allow measurement of the impact of sector investments.

Skills Development for Quality Schools and Institutions (US$4.7 million). To address the urgent skills
capacity building requirements at all levels of the education sector and provide material support for its
functioning. It would support most immediate needs to upgrade the quality of teaching and learning.
Activities to be funded would be designed and driven by the end users/institutions.

Component 3: Distance Learning and Communications (US$3.5 million). The aims were: (i) to
strengthen the capacity of the AIA and Afghanistan Assistance Coordinating Authority (AACA) through
information and communications technology for planning, implementation and monitoring of the
restructuring process; and (ii) to provide distance learning to support management reform and capacity
building through a Distance Learning Center (DLC) (US$1.7 million), and a Government Internet (US$1.8
million).




                                                        2

1.6 Revised Components

Shortly after project approval, the government determined that NFE, literacy and EDC programs were not
immediate priorities. These were dropped from the project, and it was restructured to focus on assistance
to communities for general education, especially for girls. The first component was restructured to
support a Community Grants for School Development Program (CGSDP) whereby NGOs were
contracted in four provinces to establish School Management Committees (SMC), give grants to
communities to improve the schooling environment through constructing buildings and other civil works
and promote girls education. The key indicators were increases in enrollments and female staffing at all
levels of the education sector.

1.7 Other significant changes

Due to delays in the early phase when the project was being restructured, the original closing date was
extended for one year. Later, it was extended for six additional months to allow the government to
address a financial management issue, which had caused the Bank to suspend processing of Statement of
Expenditures (SOE), that government resolved with Bank assistance. Appreciation of the SDR resulted
in an additional US$2.3 million, which the project extension allowed the government to fully utilize.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

There was no Quality at Entry Review by the Quality Assurance Group.

Since the project was prepared in a very challenging emergency environment and processed as an
Emergency Reconstruction Loan (ERL) under OP/BP 8.50, there was little analytical work available
during project preparation. Its design was based on the CNA carried out in February/March
2002. During the education donor/AIA round table donors agreed to finance, through separate projects,
the physical rehabilitation of schools, development of teaching and learning materials, teacher training,
capacity building of MOE and MOHE staff, monitoring and evaluation and more. A two-year financing
plan was agreed A specific request was made to provide communications technology for capacity
building of government officials. To be responsive to requests from the AIA and donors, the project was
prepared within two months and approved one month later.

Project Objectives: The project objectives of improving access to all levels of education, especially for
women and girls, developing a medium-term policy framework to promote quality, and strengthening
government's capacity through improved technology emerged from the National Development
Framework and the World Bank (WB) Transitional Support Strategy. The situation in Afghanistan was
fragile and fluid, so it was appropriate to have a project with broad objectives underpinned by principles
of participation, coordination among donors and with government agencies, and the focus on females.

Project Components: The outcomes of the CNA, donor dialogue and stated financial commitments were
the key factors influencing the components' selection and design, as was the government's decision
shortly after the project approval that literacy, ECD and NFE were not immediate priorities given the
status of general education in the country. The third component of building communications and civil
servants' capacity by introducing the intra-ministerial network, internet connectivity and a DLC was a
specific request, which fit more logically in EERDP than in any other project being developed at the time.
An Emergency Communication Development Project subsequently became effective in December 2003.




                                                       3

Donor and government dialogue immediately following the Bonn Conference and during project
preparation was the main factor affecting the preparation and design. The education donors preferred to
develop separately managed projects and adopt specific technical areas such as teacher training, textbook
development and curriculum development. As a participating donor partner and "lender of last resort,"
the Bank was requested to support specific activities such as NFE and literacy, which did not capitalize on
the Bank's comparative advantage in the sector. Issues in the design of EERDP resulted in the need for
significant restructuring and implementation delays.

2.2 Implementation

Factors outside the control of government: The two main factors not subject to government control that
influenced implementation of the project were: (i) the fragility of the implementation environment as a
post-conflict country coping with security risks, lack of infrastructure and capacity; and (ii) education
donor planning and financing mechanisms. The implementation environment created by Afghanistan's
post-conflict situation was, and continues to be, highly unstable. The number of displaced Afghans has
decreased since 2002, but still skills and capacity to establish systems and deliver services remain weak.
Hence, projects continue to be processed under OP/BP 8.50.

Some broad donor coordination was in place, and joint discussions took place with government and
improved over time. However, the modality of financing separate projects outside government's budget
has not allowed for an integrated approach to school development and improvement. Nor has it
contributed to building the capacity of government systems of management, planning and service delivery,
particularly at the local level. For example, textbooks may have been developed, but government lacked
the distribution systems. The result was delays in textbook delivery, inaccurate numbers of textbooks
delivered - or worse - no books delivered to schools, which the ICR mission often saw in the field. Each
donor originally had TA in the MOE's Grant Management Unit (GMU) assisting with their project inputs,
but when the GMU was dismantled in early 2005, donors established separate project offices inside the
MOE. At the provincial level, Provincial Education Departments (PED) have seldom known which
donors were working in their districts. This has resulted in lack of planning or equitable distribution of
resources ranging from physical infrastructure to teacher training opportunities. In the provinces/schools
of EERDP, the consequence has been less ability for the project to influence quality aspects of schooling.

A contributing factor to successful project implementation was the Bank's decision to provide ongoing,
indepth supervision and support to the MOE and MOHE to implement the project. Early on, supervision
missions would provide two to three months of support at a time. In 2004, the Bank placed a technical
specialist in the field, and subsequently hired more national staff. This resulted in helping build
government's capacity for and understanding of the day-to-day management of projects. Documentation
on file shows that processing time decreased over time. The Bank could have provided more guidance on
building the broader capacity and vision of government to manage the education process as envisioned in
Component 2 to inform longer-term policy and planning for the sector.

Factors within control of government:
A key factor of the project, which was in the purview of government, was the frequent changing of
ministers over the life of the project. There were six Ministers of Education between 2002 and project
closing. Each minister brought in a new team, which created setbacks and delays in implementation, as
well as the inability to establish clear management systems. In the MOHE, there were two ministers
during the project period.

Government also had a tendency to centralize decision making to Kabul, and within the national
government, to the MOF. Getting systems into place whereby the MOF was able to support the line
ministries and disburse funds efficiently took time to establish. The systems and capacity were developed


                                                       4

over time. One especially constructive occurrence under EERDP was the protocol established among the
MOF - MOE-Badakshan PED which allowed project/development funds to be released directly to the
provincial line department. This may have set the foundation for decentralization and community
management of school funds. The provinces and districts had little input or role in project activities
initially, except in Badakshan.

A third factor which will influence sustainability is the requirement that all revenues or funds generated
by any government entities must be given back to the MOF. This will influence three activities under the
project: (i) the DLC; (ii) institutions of higher education; and (iii) the girls' internet café (GIC). The DLC
will likely be generating enough money to cover its operating costs and required technology upgrades.
The more it generates the better services it would be able to provide. The same is true with any revenue
generation to be undertaken by HE institutions within legal boundaries. The GIC will not have the ability
to make direct budgetary requests to the MOF for its Operations and Maintenance or equipment, and
managing its own revenues is critical to its survival.

Factors subject to implementing agency control:
Like the broader government, the implementing agencies also tended to centralize decision making,
bypassing the provincial and district education authorities. This was less evident for disbursements of
Block and Capitation Grants at the HE level since the institutions themselves developed proposals which
were approved for financing. Discussions regarding sector policy making, planning and financing tend to
remain within the ministries with little consultation at the national level across ministries such as Finance
or Economics, or with provincial authorities. Such consultation is essential for both long-term planning
and project implementation.

Weak capacity to manage systems and coordinate donor inputs also influenced implementation. As stated
earlier, this led to activities becoming donor-driven, resulting in uneven development across provinces,
districts and schools. In the last 18 months after the GMU was abolished, the separate donor project offices
under one ministry fragmented the MOE's ability to manage education rather than building its capacity to
do so. At the EERDP level, this caused delays in contracting, FM and procurement issues, although this
improved over time. Frequent changes in leadership also contributed to too little coordination among
donors.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Given the emergency nature of the project, country and education system context at the time, the project
had very little data to be able to put M&E systems in place. It was envisaged in the original project
documents that during implementation sector M&E systems would be established and maintained. It was,
perhaps, too ambitious to assume that good M&E systems would be in place in two years, as four years
later the systems are just beginning to function. An Education Management Information System (EMIS)
was established by UNICEF with some help from EERDP, and began collecting school level data in 2003.
Issues remain with the system and data collection which the follow-on project, EQUIP, is addressing.
EMIS is able to collect school level data such as numbers of students, teachers, schools and other
facilities. It does not, however, provide a vehicle for understanding broader system issues such as out-of-
school children to calculate Gross or Net Enrollment Rates or teacher deployment. Higher quality
household surveys would be required to generate this information.

At the project level, some evaluations of project activities took place such as an independent evaluation of
the performance of the NGO partners implementing the CGSDP. Such M&E was not universally embedded
in the respective components' design. Third-party reports or spot supervision of use of Block and Capitation
Grants are available, but not systematic. The CGSDP evaluation could have helped the process renewing
contracts with the international NGOs and expanded under EQUIP. A similar exercise to monitor the


                                                       5

PED's implementation in Badakshan has not been conducted. The lack of M&E must be looked at in the
context of the overall complex implementation environment, but remained a weakness of EERDP.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

There was little or no capacity for financial management and procurement in 2002. Government
established the AACA which contracted out a specialized firm (Procurement Agent) to work with line
ministries. All procurement, financial management and audit functions for the project were undertaken
through the umbrella contract financed by the Emergency Public Administration Project (Grant H-006-
AF). EERDP made a deliberate decision to work with staff in the line ministries rather than creating a
project office. A Grant Management Unit (GMU) was established in the MOE, and the MOHE's Planning
Department managed project activities in the tertiary subsector.

Financial Management: Records of the project's funds receipts and disbursements from inception until
closure were maintained at the MOF, Special Disbursement Unit (SDU), as well as at the MOE & MOHE.
Due to lack of capacity and systems, in the early years of the project these records were not adequately
maintained, for example disbursements were not recorded on component-wise basis. Records under
EERDP, like other emergency projects in Afghanistan, were maintained manually at the SDU from
inception until March 2005 when the SDU started using the Afghanistan Financial Management
Information System (AFMIS). It was assumed that record keeping would have improved greatly with the
transition to AFMIS, but this has not been the case. Under AFMIS, there are still no component-wise
disbursements records. Improvement was evident in the area of internal controls. Supporting documents
were maintained, however, an SOE review conducted in August 2006 revealed that 17 percent of
expenditures under EERDP had inadequate supporting documentation.

Funds flow to all implementing agencies was controlled centrally by the SDU. An assessment of the
process reveals that this has been managed appropriately since the project began. Financial reporting was
poor throughout the project: monthly and quarterly financial reports ­ including the mandatory financial
monitoring reports to be submitted quarterly to the Bank ­ were not prepared regularly. Annual audited
financial statements were submitted regularly. The audit opinions of the Control and Audit Office of
Afghanistan were generally unqualified. Key points raised in the last audited financial statements and
management letter for the fiscal year ending March 20, 2005 (SY1383) were about the inability to
disclose component-wise disbursements as required in the Grant Agreement and the blanket payment of
US$494,470 on May 30, 2004 to an individual for a national school survey. After significant effort on the
part of the Bank and government, all funds have been accounted for.

Given that there were no financial management systems in place when the project became effective, one
could conclude that FM capacity has been built steadily over the life of the project. However, capacity
remains weak and much strengthening remains to be done.

Procurement: At the beginning of the project, the implementing ministries relied on the AACA's
Procurement Agent. Once this function moved to the ministries, the Bank and Grantee worked towards
improving the quality of documentation and evaluation reports, and on reducing documents processing
time. In four of the five project provinces, the project was implemented by two implementing partners.
These NGOs were responsible for procurement and implementation of civil works with contracts ranging
from US$32,000 - 60,000, as well as procurement of furniture. The MOE took the lead in implementing
the project in Badakshan province, where 38 schools were improved with the participation of newly
established SMCs. Each school was allocated US$10,000 as a subproject grant which was disbursed in
two tranches. In three provinces SMC receivables and expenditure were displayed on a notice board on
the school premises for the information of the communities. The MOE was assisted by the Afghan
Reconstruction Development Services for larger procurement contracts.


                                                      6

An ex-post review conducted near the end of the project highlighted areas in need of improvement in the
documentation, selection of contractors, and compliance with agreed procedures carried out by the NGOs.
The identified shortcomings were: (i) non disclosure of pre-qualification and evaluation criteria by one
NGO; (ii) failure to formulate the estimate and evaluation criteria before bid opening; and (iii) advising
SMCs to request interested contractors to provide services by disclosing the estimated price in an open
forum. Issues arose due to the lack of availability of qualified contractors in remote areas. Estimated at an
average of US$30,000, contracts did not attract bidders, even from nearby provinces. In Badakshan, delays
in disbursing the second tranche of US$5,000 to the SMCs resulted in postponing completion of the
activities. These shortcomings were addressed in the ongoing EQUIP. Considering the emergency situation,
the volatile environment and the security conditions and capacity of the Grantee, the overall procurement
actions under the project can be rated as satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Two operations, Education Quality Improvement Project (EQUIP, Grant H163-AF) and Strengthening
Higher Education Project (SHEP, Grant H1620-AF) were approved by the Board in July 2004 and May
2005 respectively. Both were processed under OP/BP 8.50 as emergency projects. Aspects of EERDP
have been included in the design of both projects as follows:

Appropriate technical and institutional provisions to ensure effective project operation
EQUIP: The project continues the use of: (i) the two community-based modalities to increase access
through NGOs and PEDs and has been expanded from five to ten provinces; (ii) social mobilization and
dissemination on the use of grants to schools, especially for attracting and retaining girls; and (iii)
introduction of a basic M&E system including teacher ID and registration, further development of EMIS,
and promoting the use of data to inform the budget process.
SHEP: In order to simplify disbursements to universities, SHEP continues the use of block grants with
well-defined criteria to support the six main universities based on their own strategic plans.

Adequate budget provision, staffing and management
EQUIP: A GMU was established to provide continued implementation support for management, FM and
procurement. The project also finances appropriate TA as required.
SHEP: A Steering Committee was established at the MOHE, as well as a program coordination unit, FM
and procurement officers in each of the six universities to support implementation.

Implementation of policies for effective operation and maintenance
EQUIP: The policy work that began under EERDP is being further developed, expanded and costed out
to become a National Education Strategy.
SHEP: The project is conducting a review to recommend changes for the draft National Higher Education
Law. It is also reviewing ways to improve the delivery and administration of the University Entrance
Examinations.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project objectives of increasing access to all levels of education and creation of an information base
for policy development are highly relevant in a post-conflict situation. The importance of education in
facilitating nation building and development is well documented. The education system had been
virtually dismantled and participation, particularly of females, was extremely low. According to an
Operational Policy & Country Services (OPCS) report on Fragile States (2005), flexibility in the design



                                                      7

of an emergency project in a post-conflict situation is essential. The restructured component which
created the CGSDP shortly after approval to pilot mechanisms for bringing funds to schools through
SMCs was responsive to the priorities of the country and the Afghan people, and remains so today. The
Afghan population has responded positively and more quickly than expected to reconstruction of the
education sector, especially at the school level.

Given the challenging implementation environment, the expected outputs/outcomes proved to be too
ambitious: the assumptions about the capacity of the implementing ministries to design and deliver grants
to institutions, conduct a baseline survey and develop a sector-wide policy within two years were overly
optimistic. There is a natural tension in an emergency situation between responding to the country's
immediate needs for service inputs (textbooks, schools and teachers) and setting up an institutional
framework and system. It would have been more relevant to build capacity of government to harmonize
inputs and plan for/finance education delivery at all levels.

During implementation, the relevance of the TA provided through the project was low. International
experts and firms were contracted for two flagship reports: (i) a six-week assignment to develop the mid-
term policy framework, and (ii) an American-based firm to prepare a report on "The Potential for Private
Sector Investment in the Higher Education Sector." The reports themselves are of appropriate quality, but
the process by which they were developed has not resulted in ownership by the MOE, MOHE, or other
stakeholders.

Through the third component, communication was facilitated within government, with donor partners and
internationally. The DLC and government intranet/internet connection helped government connect quickly
to the outside world after years of isolation. Given the nature of global communication, this was highly
relevant, although less obviously so to the direct benefit of the education sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Improved access to education, particularly for women and girls. Satisfactory. For the objective of
increasing access, Afghanistan witnessed larger than expected increases in enrollments and the number of
schools over the four years of the project. Between 2003 and 2005, across the country enrollment of
primary (grades 1-6), secondary (grades 7-9) and high school (grades 10-12) grew from 3.1 million to
over 5.5 million. For females, the increase was from just under 839,000 to 1.74 million, and for males,
from 2.27 million to 3.27 million.

In an emergency project the causal links between project interventions and system outcomes at the
primary and secondary levels cannot be readily assessed. Donors worked across different provinces and
resources were not mapped. If donor involvement had been distributed geographically and each donor
was responsible for all aspects of education development within a province (including quality inputs and
processes), stronger linkages between outputs and outcomes could have been analyzed. EERDP was able
to focus primarily on access interventions to improve the schooling environment, but had little or no
influence on improving the quality of teaching and learning.

Based on information available, Table 1 shows that the average gains in the five EERDP provinces
compared to all Afghanistan without Kabul (an extreme outlier) were close to the national average, and
slightly higher with regards to percent gains in female students and teachers.




                                                      8

            Table 1: Key Outcome/Output Indicators (Percent Change between 2003-2005)
             Indicator             All        Afghanistan      EERDP          Difference    Difference
                              Afghanistan     w/o Kabul       Provinces      Afghanistan Afghanistan
                                                                              vs. EERDP      w/o Kabul
                                                                                            vs. EERDP
      Overall Enrollments              60.7           39.4            35.5           25.2            3.9
         Male                          65.3           26.1            16.9           48.4            9.2
         Female                      105.5            76.3            79.9           25.6           -3.6
      Increase in Teachers            85.8            60.2            49.9           35.9          10.3
         Male                          69.1           59.7            45.2           23.9          14.5
         Female                      151.8            62.1            72.5           79.3          -10.4
      Increase in Number of           24.7            21.5            20.7            4.0            0.8
      Schools

A qualitative outcome was the active participation and enthusiasm for education on the part of
stakeholders. In communities, parents became actively engaged in their children's education, which
stimulated enrollments and generated additional resources. At the tertiary level, administrators and
faculty jointly developed improvement plans, fostering greater ownership of their institutional
development.

At the tertiary level, enrollment increased 29 percent from 30,112 to 38,861 between 2003 and 2005. In
2003, females were 21 percent of the tertiary students, with 23,913 males and 6,199 females. By 2005,
enrollments there were 30,437 males and 8,424 females, and females occupied 22 percent of places.
Although there was an upward trend, more will need to be done to attract female students. Faculty
members, on the other hand, increased by 100 percent in the same timeframe: from 1,959 in 2003 to 3,924
in 2005. However, the distribution of faculty across the different higher education institutions remains
uneven. Female teaching staff increased 157 percent, but they still only occupy 15 percent of overall
faculty positions.

Other donors were not as actively involved in the tertiary subsector, therefore one can say that the project,
specifically the use of Block and Capitation Grants, was able to "jump start" the system by providing
necessary resources. One could argue that the grants only supported procurement of inputs such as
buildings and furniture, but these essential inputs served as a catalyst to bring faculty and students back
into the system. The outcome of the development objective to increase access can be rated Satisfactory
(although it cannot be directly linked to EERDP at the school level).

Improved education sector management through policy development. Moderately Unsatisfactory. There
were no effective policies in place at preparation. The objective was to develop a medium-term policy
framework which would serve as the base for long-term system development. The key areas were: (i)
developing the medium-term policy framework at all levels for delivery of quality education, and (ii)
developing baseline information to track progress on basic human development indicators and measure
the impact of policy on sector outcomes.

Technical Assistance was provided through a consultancy to develop a sector-wide policy framework, but
it was not vetted by the MOE/MOHE, across ministries such as MOF, or with the provinces and other
stakeholders. An Education Management Information System (EMIS) was developed to measure school
factors such as enrollment, teachers and facilities. The expectation was that the Bank would measure out-
of-school children in order to allow assessment of enrollment data, budgeting and policy making. The
Bank deferred this to UNICEF, which developed a Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey Instrument
conducted in parts of the country. In the end, it captured some interesting trends in education, but was not
fully representative and could not be considered a baseline assessment.



                                                      9

Exogenous factors common in emergency post-conflict situations created obstacles to building ownership
of a policy framework and generating the information including the high turnover of ministers, and lack
of capacity within the ministries.

Improved communication network and distance learning capacity in key government agencies. Satisfactory.
The government installed a network linking eight ministries and providing internet access, and established a
DLC connected through the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN). With the assistance of the
World Bank's ISG, both systems were set up and running within the first year. The DLC was inactive for a
period of two years due to being housed in a building which was inaccessible for security reasons. This was
remedied by moving it to the MOC in February 2006. The internal government network was set up and
became operational within a year of project effectiveness. Officials use the internal network and internet
regularly for conducting government business.

3.3 Efficiency

A full-fledged efficiency analysis of the grants could not be carried out since (i) baseline costs are not
available in ERLs processed under OP/BP 8.50; and (ii) implementation progress had not been
systematically monitored or compared to other similar interventions in the country. Given the limitations,
analysis has been carried out to cull lessons on efficiency, focusing primarily on components that served
as pilots and have implications for future program and policy development.

CGSDP: EERDP made a decision to focus on five provinces that: (i) were accessible and afforded
operational feasibility for supervision; (ii) represented different ethnic groups; and (iii) were reasonably
secure. Through CGSDP, schools were provided cash grants through two mechanisms (three entities) to
test their effectiveness: two NGOs in four provinces and the PED in Badakshan. Grants were disbursed
on the basis of girls' enrollments, and civil works carried out on a needs-basis through SMCs.

(i) NGO Modality: One NGO disbursed quality enhancement grants and provided inputs to all schools in
its provinces. Support reached 160,549 students at a unit cost of about US$29. The total investment
financed by EERDP was $3.88 million and the overheads of the NGO were $0.84 million. The second
NGO disbursed grants to 30 percent of schools in two provinces. One hundred schools and 48,015
students received grant support against total enrollment of 303,003. The unit cost was approximately
US$47. The total investment cost was about $2 million and the NGO's overheads were $0.26 million.
The first NGO's implementation was considerably more cost-effective and efficient in that it reached
more beneficiaries and built a bit more capacity of provincial authorities. The second NGO's
methodology did not have adequate coverage or depth of impact for the amount spent.

(ii) Grant funding from the MOE/MOF to a PED: A unique protocol for providing PEDs with
development funds directly from MOF was developed and approved under EERDP. This allowed
Badakshan province's PED, for the first time in Afghanistan's history, use of development funds to
establish SMCs. The MOE built 38 schools at a significantly lower cost since communities contributed
between 20-60 percent in cash and in kind. A total of 39,534 students (approximately 18.3 percent of
2005 enrollments) and 1,611 teachers benefited at an approximate unit cost of US$10. The model was the
most cost efficient, but smallest in scale. More analysis of this model is required to understand the
resources required for scaling up.




                                                       10

                    Table 2. Community Grants for School Development Program (CGSDP)
                                     Investment   Overheads       EERDP         Unit Cost     Total 2005
                                         Costs       (US$)     Beneficiaries      (US$)      Primary and
                                         (US$)                   (students)                   Secondary
                                                                                              enrollments
    Department of Education          380,000     10,000        39,534           10           215,485
    (Badakshan Province)
    NGO 1                            3,884,566   842,893       160,549          29           160,549


    NGO 2                            1,996,017   264,200       48,015           47           303,003

  Source: NGO project reports, Kabul, July 2006

Skills Development for Quality Schools and Institutions. Block grants totaled $1.4 million and reached
38,978 beneficiaries for an estimated unit cost of $36. Institutions planned and prioritized expenditures,
and grant recipients were transparent about line item expenditures. The objectives of most proposals were
to improve quality, but at these early stages of being in an emergency, the funds went primarily to
essential inputs such as furniture and desks, blackboards, and in some rare cases, libraries.

                             Table 3. Grants to Tertiary Education Institutions
    Activity       Costs       Benefits/Beneficiaries Avg.          Average/Unit   Comments
                   (US$)                              Grant/        Cost (US$)
                                                      University
                                                      (US$)
    Block          1,383,742   38,978 students        345,946       36             To improve girls'
    grants                                                                         enrollment support for
                                                                                   7 higher education
                                                                                   institutions in Kabul
    Capitation     512,424     15,864 students        128,106       32             Grants to 18 HE
    grants                                                                         institutions on the
                                                                                   basis of size, number
                                                                                   of female students and
                                                                                   proposals
    Note: Costs from disbursement data

Capitation grants went to all Higher Education Institutions based on the size of the university and number
of female enrollments. These grants were used for constructing and rehabilitating university buildings
and providing transportation, especially for women. Some grants were used to help equip university
laboratories, thereby contributing to improving the quality of training for students.

The project attempted to increase post-secondary education opportunities by introducing the concept of a
two-year community college program. A building was constructed under the project, but consensus on the
intent or curriculum of a two-year degree was not reached, and the building remains uncommissioned.
Thus, the US$500,000 expenditure was neither efficient nor cost-effective. This is being addressed under
SHEP.

Improved education sector management through policy development: Technical assistance provided under
this component was, by and large, costly and had little impact. The lesson, which the 2005 Country
Portfolio Review highlighted, is that short-term, international technical assistance is not effective in the
Afghanistan context.




                                                      11

Overall, activities that proved cost-effective and efficient were the CGSDP as implemented by NGO 1,
grants to universities, which helped jumpstart the system, and the internal government communications
network. The Badakshan PED model requires more analysis before making conclusions. The performance
of NGO 2 was less efficient/cost-effective, and the management component, TA and community college
proved inefficient and not cost-effective.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The weaknesses of project and sector M&E systems do not allow
confirmation of the gains made or, since EERDP could have been seen as a pilot project, full analysis and
application of lessons learned. In the case of the CGSDP, an evaluation took place too late in the project
to inform follow-on projects how to scale up or improve implementation (e.g., performance-based
contracting of NGOs to improve the performance/outcomes). An evaluation of the Badakshan model has
not yet taken place, so there is little understanding of the resources and support it would take to build on
this potentially positive experience. At the tertiary level, there was little systematic validation of the use
of grants. Across the system, a comprehensive survey to measure the total population of school-aged
children would have allowed measurement of gross enrollment rates and net enrollment rates, which
would have provided a better understanding of the education system requirements.

Second, the institutional strengthening expected in project documents took place on a much smaller scale
than anticipated. The expectation itself may have been too overreaching, but some steps towards building
this capacity could have improved prospects for sustainability. Some involved in project implementation
suggest that the environment was too complex. This is counter balanced by the Country Portfolio
Reviews of 2004-2006, which point to the successes in these areas of a few other projects such as inter
alia, the National Solidarity Program and the Health Sector Emergency Reconstruction and Development
Project. All of these were seen to have produced more visible output/outcomes and built capacity of
government.

These drawbacks are mitigated by the fact that during the life of the project, the education sector witnessed
strong growth in participation during this early phase of the reconstruction period. Overall enrollments in
project provinces and HE Institutions increased by 35.5 percent and 29 percent, respectively. There is
evidence in the HE Institutions of ownership of improvement efforts. The NGO model used appears, when
done well such as by NGO 1, effective. However, it is not entirely possible to asses the impact of the
project's interventions on attaining these gains since resources and activities from other donors and NGO
efforts in education are not mapped. What can be said is that EERDP was able to help "jump start" the
system and develop a few models for bringing funds to beneficiaries for school reconstruction.

                                Table 4: Summary Justification of Overall Rating

         Objective              Relevance         Achievement of Objectives    Efficiency      Outcome
                                                           (Efficacy)
    Increased access        High                 Satisfactory/Substantial     Moderate*     Satisfactory
    Support for policy      High**               Moderately Unsatisfactory/   Low           Moderately
    reform and                                   Negligible                                 Unsatisfactory
    education
    management
    Introduce ICT &         High                 Satisfactory/Substantial     High          Satisfactory
    distance learning
    * To the extent that the different models have been and can be evaluated
    ** High relevance, overly ambitious targets

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                                             12

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Poverty impact of an education project cannot be measured after four years in a post-conflict emergency
situation. Gender and other social aspects of project interventions have been discussed.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
Institutional capacity of government and the project's input has been addressed above.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Government has indicated two outcomes of the project which were unanticipated: (i) over time, other
donors became more willing to finance projects through the government budget in the manner of the Bank;
and (ii) investments in the Higher Education subsector appear to have slowed the `brain drain' of academics
to NGOs.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Two separate workshops were held in Kabul with stakeholders of the education and higher education
components of the project. Details are contained in Annex 9. In summary, the main messages were:
· It is necessary to involve stakeholders at all levels in the policy and strategy formulation, and project
     preparation and design
· Provincial and district governments need to be more involved and have a clearer role
· Without a policy framework in place and strategic planning, it is difficult to prioritize the reform
     agenda, i.e., new teaching methods, curricula standards, how to produce graduates of quality
· More is needed to improve quality: make sure teachers get trained and students get books on time
· The project was too short to sustain the gains. Afghanistan is still in an `emergency' phase, and all
     HE Institutions need continued support
· Community participation was essential in increasing girls' enrollments and attracting more students,
     which has created a sense of responsibility and ownership
· Involvement of communities directly and through NGOs in educational activities is a sustainable
     approach
· The flexibility of the project has enabled the HE line institutions to build their basic operational
     capacities.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High
At the country level, the risk to development outcome is primarily driven by the complexity of the
security situation in Afghanistan, which has been further deteriorating since early 2006. This presents an
overall threat to the education system at all levels: primary schools are being closed or burned down, and
teachers and parents are rumored to be threatened for sending their children, especially girls, to schools.
It is highly likely that this could spill over to the higher education institutions in certain geographic areas,
as well. The second country-level and institutional factor affecting `risk to development' outcome
concerns national and provincial institutional capacity. The OPCS assessment of Fragile States
acknowledges that building systems and capacity for planning, management and service delivery takes at
least ten years. Therefore, one could not have expected the institutions to be fully functional in only four
years. Progress continues to move in the right direction, but remains fragile.




                                                        13

At the sector level, two factors could help mitigate and lower the high risk to development outcomes: (i)
evidence of government commitment by placing a strong, dynamic minister with a good track record into
the MOE (post project); and (ii) strong support from parents and communities for education of all
children and young adults, which could help sustain some of the gains in the current volatile environment.
EERDP was able to contribute to the latter at the school level, especially in Bamiyan and Logar provinces,
by establishing SMCs and providing them with training, funds and decision-making powers. Learning
from the success through indepth analysis in these two provinces, in particular, as well as Badakshan,
could facilitate government in scaling up the achievements in the CGSDP component of EERDP.

At the tertiary level, 12 of the 18 institutions which received grants are not receiving further financing
from SHEP or other programs. The capitation grant scheme provided them with once-off seed funds for
development and quality inputs, but most have indicated that resources are scarce and faculty are not
distributed well across institutions outside Kabul. There was a decision by the MOHE during the
preparation of SHEP to focus on the six larger universities, and perhaps make the smaller institutions
satellite campuses. Not providing them further funding could leave these institutions weak, especially
since their distance from Kabul makes it difficult to attract and retain good faculty. A decision regarding
their role (as satellite campuses or other) will need to be made soon.

Technically, much remains to be done to improve education at all levels in Afghanistan. EERDP could
only serve as a beginning. The country and its education system remain in an "emergency" phase, which
stakeholders in government, education institutions, and communities continually emphasize. A significant
influx of financial and technical support is still required for quality improvements in teaching, learning,
development of quality inputs, management capacity, deployment, attracting and retaining qualified
personnel, etc.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank responded quickly, as recommended in an emergency post-conflict situation, to the need for a
needs assessment, coordination among donors and the attempt to articulate and measure the country's
educational needs. The team was committed and balanced with an implementation specialist, economist,
an education specialist with experience in basic education, another education specialist focused on higher
education, and staff from the ISG and Global Development Learning Network. These proved to be the
strengths of the Bank during project preparation.

External pressures on the team to deliver a project were significant from outside governments, donors and
internally at the Bank ­ although not from the country management team itself. Despite the efforts of the
team, the overall project design was not of appropriate flexibility or quality. The design of the project
appeared relatively simple, but given the challenging implementation environment and fragility of the
system, the expected outputs/outcomes proved to be too ambitious for two years in an emergency post-
conflict situation. This resulted in less ownership from stakeholders and less understanding of the
implementation obstacles which were likely to emerge, evidenced by two restructurings in the first year and
implementation delays. In particular, the Bank might have done more to think through means of
strengthening government's role in better coordination of multi-donor financed inputs to ensure equitable
distribution of resources for physical infrastructure and quality inputs to schools.

(b) Quality of Supervision



                                                       14

Rating: Satisfactory
The complexity of the implementation environment in Afghanistan cannot be underestimated. The lack
of effective counterparts, weak skills, and an evolving system complicated every implementation decision
and action required. The continuous field presence of an education specialist with the addition of
qualified national staff allowed the Bank to provide intensive project implementation support to the line
ministries. Over time this built some capacity for day-to-day management of project activities in
procurement, disbursements, financial management, civil works, and the process of preparing grant
proposals. The intensity of this support was appreciated by all stakeholders.

The team encountered difficulties in finding people willing to travel to Afghanistan given the security
situation. The internal and official documentation reflect this through a lack of continuity and skills mix
in team composition during supervision. The task team leaders remained fairly consistent, but missions
were often comprised of too few people or people with similar skills. For the CGSDP, one would expect
a social development specialist or architect to be included to look at the social and construction aspects of
the community-based approach at some point during the supervision process.

The project files, aides-memoire and back-to-office reports reveal that due to weak capacity within the
ministries supervision focused largely on procurement and disbursements issues, and ongoing incremental
work required for implementation such as drafting contracts, pro forma for grant proposals, and
developing operational manuals for various activities. The team has suggested that policy dialogue took
place by helping government rethink its role in education delivery as financier of education rather than
direct suppliers of services. There are several aides-memoire which identify lack of adequate government
reporting and other shortcomings in implementation, but no subsequent discussions or actions were taken
by the implementing agencies or according to the PSR/ISRs, the Bank.

No mid-term review was conducted, which is reasonable for a two year emergency project. With the lack
of M&E, however, an indepth review of activities would have been desirable at some stage of project
implementation for guidance on redirecting resources, examining progress towards outcomes (not
outputs), and to provide some lessons for the two subsequent projects, EQUIP and SHEP. The project was
originally extended by a year from 2004 to the end of 2005, which could have provided an appropriate
opportunity for closer examination of the program.

Despite these shortcomings, the task team should be commended for their persistence in the difficult
environment fraught with security issues, uncertainty, and lack of capacity as Afghanistan sought to
establish its government and public administration. Particularly commendable were the support to the MOE
and MOF for developing the Badakshan protocol to provide PEDs with development funds which could be
transferred to schools, and in the last year, the role Bank staff played in helping recover misappropriated
funds by an individual in the MOE.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
In an emergency context, the uncertainty and pressures for results leave task teams little time for
reflection. The strengths of the teams' efforts lie in: (i) being responsive in a timely way to the urgent
requests for support; (ii) providing ongoing support in the field which became a form of TA to the
government; (iii) developing what appears to be a good model for NGO provision of school support; and
(iv) addressing two highly complex tasks of designing a means to get development funds to the provinces
and schools, and recovering over $400,000 in misplaced funds. The Bank's role in the education sector
grew over time to the point that, post project and with the minister installed after EERDP closed, EQUIP



                                                       15

is now seen as the government's own program. This was clearly a "learning-by-doing" environment in
many ways, and any weaknesses identified should be viewed in this context.

Preparation and supervision efforts assisted with designing and implementing specific project activities.
Overall, however, the Bank was less robust in setting the stage by which the government and the Bank
could focus on the `big picture' to ensure building better and sustainable capacity for service delivery, as
recommended by OPCS and other entities in the Bank looking at post-conflict and fragile states. At the
project level, more attention was required for basic M&E and third party validation of project inputs and
ongoing assessment of implementing partners' performance.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The government has gone through substantial transitions since first interacting with the Bank in late 2001.
The AIA made the successful transition to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, and it has been working
to create systems of public administration and finance to support service delivery. The changes are to be
commended, especially given the complete lack of systems beforehand. Overall capacity has been built
over time, but still remains weak. The following have been identified in Country Portfolio Reviews as
requiring attention by the Government of Afghanistan for better implementation:

Commitment and political will. There is recognition that lack of capacity is probably the greatest
constraint to achieving results in Afghanistan. In the education sector government changed ministers six
times in four years, sometimes for very short tenures. Sectors with strong leadership have seen strong
results on the ground. Government put its strongest education minister in place after the project closed.

Capacity to manage Technical Assistance and donor coordination. Issues with TA and donor
coordination have been discussed throughout this ICR. Experience indicates that ad hoc, project-based
and donor supply-driven approach; fragmented and uncoordinated provision of TA; absence of regular
M&E and reporting mechanisms and lack of skilled government counterparts impeded progress.
Counterparts are not always part of the TA or service delivery process, which demoralizes staff,
especially at the provincial and district levels. Coordination and capacity building TA must be anchored
within responsible line ministries and go hand in hand with ministry-wide reform.

Complexity of Internal Processes and Procedures. Streamlining internal processes and procedures
between the MOF and line ministries has taken time to establish and need continued strengthening,
especially in the areas of procurement and financial management. One of the program's strengths was
creation of the Badakshan protocol to finance activities through the PED.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
    Implementing Agency                     Performance
    Ministry of Education                   MS
    Ministry of Higher Education            MS
    Ministry of Communication               N/A ­ DLC transferred to MOC near project completion

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Grantee faced enormous challenges at all levels and implementation improved over time, as
described above. For EERDP specifically, overall performance was hindered by continued weak capacity,


                                                     16

frequent changes in ministers of the MOE, changes in direction of education development with the arrival
of new ministers, and a few decisions, which resulted in implementation delays or wasted expenditures.
For example, it took nearly a year to contract the NGOs for the CGSDP component, which left only one
and a half years of actual implementation on the ground, and the GMU never built enough capacity to
manage the different donor projects. The disappearance (and subsequent recovery) of nearly half a
million dollars resulted in six months of further delays in disbursements, followed by significant scrutiny
of minor expenditures by the MOF for fear of recurring. At the tertiary level, much was achieved by
allowing the HE institutions to determine the use of the Block and Capitation Grants, but nearly $500,000
was spent on the construction of a Community College which remains unused. Essential policy decisions
regarding the consolidation of the HE system (hence the decision to strengthen only six universities under
SHEP), as well as the intent and curriculum of a Community College system, were not taken. This raises
questions regarding sustainability of the HE subsector interventions.

Overall, EERDP provided a base from which the Grantee and Implementing Agencies could begin basic
development of the education system. Institutionalization of the systems improved, but significant
challenges remain which will require commitment and political will to overcome.

6. Lessons Learned

In an emergency situation, the long-term vision must be to build capacity of government's own structures
and ability to perform core functions. All activities should serve to support this vision. This is one of the
"Paris Principles for International Engagement in Fragile States," and is applicable to how donors and the
Bank approach economic and sector development in the context of Afghanistan. It is essential to work
within government systems and structures, including its budget. In education, the work must focus on
improving capacity and accountability in basic areas of service delivery. The Bank should encourage
donors to consider how they can streamline their respective projects' management from within the
ministries, and serve to strengthen the MOE and MOHE's own capacity to manage their budgetary,
planning, and delivery systems to ensure quality education.

In an emergency project, there is a need to prioritize and focus on a small set of realistic, yet meaningful
short-term measures which will achieve significant changes. The underlying principle should be that the
activities take incremental steps, building a platform from which the next set of actions would take off.
To this end, the scope of development objectives must be rooted in what can be achieved from the project
inputs and processes. The provision of block and cash grants to end users while building capacity of
government is a good example of this practice. The goal to develop a medium-term policy framework
without the appropriate inputs to do so could be seen as overly ambitious and a weakness in this project.

However, at the same time, it is essential to focus on generating the information required to inform policy
and build capacity for service delivery: budgeting, expenditure management, and management of
technical inputs/processes required to move from `emergency' to `development.' Technically sound
research informs better policies and facilitates measuring sector investment needs and outcomes. With
appropriate support to the government to improve M&E capacity, conduct comprehensive household
surveys, and engage in bottom-up consultations, it would have been possible to generate more valid and
reliable information to develop a medium-term policy framework. Such an approach to institution-
building and policy development would provide government the means to manage the political process of
decision-making and implementation. The project achieved much in terms of access and participation, but
the absence of information on teachers, school-age children in and out of school, and community decision
making processes is impeding progress in quality areas of teacher recruitment and development,
curriculum, setting standards, textbook availability, and providing appropriate incentives. The
Emergency Health Project could be seen as a model for embedding M&E and providing incentives for
quality improvement, especially performance-based monitoring of implementing agencies.


                                                     17

In preparing an emergency project, three issues arise: (i) donor commitment to finance separate,
specific investments does not provide an efficient mechanism for building capacity to deliver services; (ii)
a two-year timeline is insufficient for generating the information base and consensus for developing a
medium-term policy framework; and (iii) it takes time to develop the specifics of a project's activities
takes time to so that government, implementing agencies and donors can consider the potential
implications of the design and implementation. It could be beneficial to utilize preparation/Trust funds to
build consensus and capacity for project management. Implementation experience suggests that
coordinating ­ from different donors ­ required educational inputs to ensure smooth running of quality
institutions is complex and too demanding of government's time and capacity. It also indicates that the
expectation of being able to create an information base to inform a medium-term policy framework is
overly ambitious. With regard to the amount of time taken to develop a project, the initial delays and
need for two amendments to the Grant Agreement in the first eight months suggests that more attention to
design/preparation and building ownership has value.

In an emergency situation, the use of financing mechanisms which provide cash as close to the service
recipients as possible is an effective way to "jump start" the system. The cash grants to schools and
block grants to universities ­ and autonomy to define their use ­ generated ownership and improvements
of the recipient institutions in a timely and effective way. Piloting different delivery mechanisms
(through NGOs and government) also served to provide the MOE with lessons on the importance of
performance-based monitoring, and the requirements to make community support organizations
sustainable.

Clearly delineated roles and responsibilities among the national institutions, provinces and NGOs will
ensure better accountability. Private-public partnerships and decentralization of decision making,
financial and monitoring responsibility to provincial authorities and service delivery nodes (schools)
appear to serve best as quick responses to emergency situations. Resistance to public-private partnerships
by sub-national authorities could be overcome by engaging provincial and district education departments
earlier in the process participate. Their roles and accountabilities must be defined early to avoid
implementation delays.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The MOF Education Pillar, MOHE and MOC responded to a request for comments by stating they had no
comments except that the ICR was "well organized."

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders




                                                       18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

Promoting Skills Development
and Learning                             5.80               6.59            114

Education Sector Management
Reform                                   5.70               7.86            138

Distance Learning and
Communications                           3.50               2.94             84



            Total Baseline Cost        15.00               17.39            116

Physical Contingencies                   0.00               0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                      0.00               0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs       15.00               17.39            116
Project Preparation Fund                 0.00               0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00               0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required         15.00               17.39            116



(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Borrower                                        0.00         0.00         .00
IDA GRANT FOR POST-
CONFLICT                                        15.00        17.39        116




                                           19

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Improved access to education, especially for girls and women (US$5.8
million)

This component originally comprised three sub-components: (i) literacy learning and ECD; (ii)
increasing the number of girls and young women in schools through demand-side financing
schemes; and (iii) skills development for underserved groups (nonformal education). Within a
year of Board approval of the project, the government decided that literacy, ECD and skills
development programs were not priorities, and the project was restructured to adjust the first
component to a Community Grants for School Development Program. The grants were designed
to stimulate community participation in order to enhance access, particularly to girls' schools, and
improve teaching and learning processes. The restructured project was consistent with the
original project objectives.

CGSDP: The CGSDP was administered in five provinces with three entities: two NGOs in two
provinces each, and through the PED in the province of Badakshan. It aimed to establish SMC
and Parent Teacher Associations (PTA) for the purpose of improving school management,
facilitating construction, and increasing investment in teaching and learning materials. In
Bamiyan and Logar provinces where NGO1 facilitated the program, each of the 440 schools in
the provinces formed SMCs and PTAs and received a cash grant from $1,000 to $10,000. The
grants were used for inputs such as furniture, additional classrooms, toilet blocks, and boundary
walls. In rarer cases, SMCs used the cash grants to ensure teachers received subject training or
purchased books and/or libraries. The NGO also built 18 schools, and conducted teacher
trainings for 1850 teachers and management trainings for 542 head teachers and
provincial/district staff. NGO2 worked in Pawan and Kapisa provinces. They established SMCs
in 402 schools, but provided training and grants to only 15 percent of them. A total of 62 cash
grants were given out and 28 schools were built. Methodological training was conducted for 27
head teachers, and management training for 105 head teachers. The NGO completed 28 school
buildings across the two provinces in which it worked.

The role of the provincial education authorities was not clearly defined in the project documents,
and varied depending on the PED Director and provincial NGO representatives. The NGOs as
facilitating agencies were contracted directly by the MOE without consultation of the provinces.
This contributed to a slower start-up of activities on the ground. According to a third party
evaluation of the NGOs, Provincial and District officials in Bamiyan and Logar became interested
in the work when they saw that funds were flowing to all schools and SMCs were functioning. In
Parwan and Kapisa provinces, although district and provincial committees were established by
NGO2 with representation of officials, their interest in project activities were closely linked to
those schools where construction took place. In Badakshan, officials fully owned the need for
SMCs, the process for establishing them and working with communities, and built capacity for
managing school development.

In Badakshan the PED was able to provide $10,000 cash grants to 38 schools. Preliminary
reviews found that the SMCs were able to leverage the grants to generate enough money to build
an 8-10 room school building for considerably smaller unit cost than the other models. This
model was able to build the capacity and confidence of the PED officials in forming SMCs,
managing development funds, and monitoring progress. It was also the first time that a protocol
was developed to release development funds directly to a PED. For building capacity and
ensuring sustainability, this model should be carefully evaluated.



                                                 20

It is difficult to isolate the impact of this project on outcomes in the sector, particularly in the
primary and secondary sub-sectors. Every province had different interventions by various donors
and NGOs. The security, geographic, refugee returnee and cultural situations which would affect
access to education for all children, and especially girls, are different across provinces and
regions of the country. For example, Badakshan is as poor, mountainous and rural as Bamiyan,
but has higher than average participation of girls and female teachers. Based on the information
available from the 2003 and 2005 School Surveys, comparisons between all of Afghanistan and
the five project provinces reveal that the EERDP provinces did not fair as well as all of
Afghanistan. However, removing Kabul ­ an extreme outlier ­ from the calculation, the average
gains in the five provinces were more similar to the rest of the provinces. In fact, percent gains in
the number of female students and teachers are slightly higher than the rest of the country.

                         Key Outcome/Output Indicators (Percent Change)
  Indicator               All         Afghanistan         EERDP         Difference        Afghanistan
                     Afghanistan       w/o Kabul         Provinces     Afghanistan       w/o Kabul vs.
                                                                        vs. EERDP           EERDP
Overall                        60.7              39.4          35.5               25.2               3.9
Enrollments
Male                           65.3              26.1          16.9               48.4               9.2
Female                       105.5               76.3          79.9               25.6              -3.6
Increase in                    85.8              60.2          49.9               35.9              10.3
Teachers
Male                           69.1              59.7          45.2               23.9              14.5
Female                       151.8               62.1          72.5               79.3             -10.4
Increase                       24.7              21.5          20.7                4.0               0.8
in Schools

Component 2: Policy Development for the Sector (US$5.7 million)

As stated earlier, the group of education donors decided at the time of conducting the CNA that
the WB would take the lead on helping government develop the overall medium-term policy
framework and establish baseline data to form the platform for making medium-term policy
decisions. The policy framework was to include: (i) the definition of standards and qualifications
of teachers; (ii) curriculum requirements; (iii) assessment of learning outcomes; (iv)
accreditation; and (v) regulatory guidelines for functioning of NGOs and private providers. This
subcomponent was also intended to support institutional analysis and sector work to gain indepth
knowledge of the sector requirements, including a baseline survey to provide information, which
would allow measurement of the impact of sector investments.

The MOHE and MOE utilized project funds for a study on the potential for private sector
involvement in the higher education sector and an education management technical assistance to
develop the sector policy framework. The reports were completed and shared with government,
but there was little follow-up dissemination or consultation with stakeholders. EMIS was
established under the project with technical assistance from UNICEF. The surveys to date collect
information about the schools, students and teachers themselves. The baseline survey to capture
the broader condition for school-aged children outside the education system (out-of-school,
dropouts, repeaters, etc.) was not conducted. A few surveys have been conducted which generate
some information, but may be too small in scope to be reliable to inform policy decisions. The
conditions for conducting household surveys were extremely difficult in some provinces, but two
other Bank projects under implementation were able to generate such data of reasonable quality.


                                                    21

Skills Development for Quality Schools and Institutions: This subcomponent originally envisaged
capacity building at all levels of the education sector from primary through university. When the
project was restructured in March 2003, the quality aspects of primary and secondary schooling
were embedded in the Community Grants to Schools contracts with the facilitating NGOs, and
subsequently with the Badakshan PED. Therefore, this component focused on rehabilitation of
the tertiary sub-sector in an attempt to meet institutions' most urgent needs to upgrade the quality
of teaching and learning, as well as building infrastructure, establishing a community college
system and a girls' internet café.

(a) Block Grants: A total of US$1.4 million was disbursed as block grants to universities and
other higher education institutions to cover their urgent needs from basic furniture to office
supplies. The grant recipients included Kabul University ($450,000); universities of Balkh, Heart,
Nangarhar and Kabul Medical University and Kabul Polytechnic University ($100,000 each);
Kabul University of Education, Kandahar University, Takhar University, Albaroni University,
Khost University , Parwan Pedagogy Institute, Badakshan Higher Education Institute, Faryab
Higher Education Institute and Kunduz Pedagogy Institute ($50,000 each).

(b) Teacher Training Allowance (TTA): At the tertiary level, the MOHE was concerned that
low government salaries resulted in the inability to attract and retain qualified lecturers. They
requested that the project provide a six month 'allowance' (later expanded to eight months) to all
faculty members for the purposes of training. As a result, all 2,200 faculty received an additional
US$50.00 per month for eight months for teachers to purchase supplies and research materials to
assist them with their work. There has been little monitoring to understand the end use of these
funds. There are clear indications, however, that officials in the MOHE, the Chancellors of the
higher education institutions, and the faculty themselves all saw the $50.00 as part of their regular
salary package, rendering the TTA little more than a temporary subsidy. During the time the
TTA was provided, the MOHE was able to secure higher salaries for faculty members, but the
TTA itself raised expectations. The absence of a medium-term policy framework makes it
difficult for MOHE to negotiate with MOF for reasonable salaries for their staff.

(c) Girls' Internet Café: A girls' internet café was established on the Kabul University campus
to allow females access to the internet and computer time. It is managed by a group of students
who received training from the Kabul University IT Department, also established under EERDP.
An empty space was provided by the university, and a group contracted out by MOHE to procure
the equipment, fix the building, and furnish the center, all managed and supervised by female
members. Approximately 254 Kabul University female students use it regularly on a fee basis,
and visitors are allowed. It is entirely managed by the members, and most women who use it
would have no other place to go for computer learning or internet usage. The café has generated
approximately $6,880 in revenues. Maintenance costs have amounted to $1,013, resulting in a
profit of $5,867. However, the future of the café remains unsure: under the constitution, all
proceeds of an entity in government are required to be given to the MOF. Therefore, the profits
from the café cannot be retained by the management team. In order to ensure its continuation,
there would need to be either a line item in the Kabul University budget to support it, or the
MOHE would have to get an exemption from the MOF to allow the café to retain its earnings.

(d) Establishing a Community College: It was envisaged that the MOHE would promote
expansion of the post-secondary system through establishing the concept of "community
colleges." These colleges were to offer two year associates degrees in a few key areas which
would give graduates enough skills to enter the job market. A college campus was constructed on



                                                  22

the grounds of the MOHE, but at the time of drafting this report has yet to be commissioned. The
concept underpinning the two year degree has not been widely agreed or accepted, therefore
curricula and program design have not been developed and teachers not appointed.

Component 3: Distance Learning and Communications (US$ 3.5 million)

Distance Learning Center. The DLC was established in the Prime Minister's Compound shortly
after the project was approved. Initially, it was managed by the AACA. From late 2002 until
2004, it was able to provide public officials management training and computer courses, linked
countries to discuss development issues in post-conflict situations and more. In the early days, it
generated more than $43,000 in revenues, mostly from government (financed by donors and
embassies at standard GDLN and DLC rates). In 2004, access became more difficult because of
security issues when the Finance Minister moved his office to the compound and the DLC came
to a virtual halt. It was moved to the MOC Directorate of ICT in December 2005. It has been
offering courses since March 2006 during what the Director calls a "soft opening" at an average
of one Video Conference (VC) per day which easily covers its overheads. It will continue to
provide services to all government and international agencies on a fee basis, and the revenue
generated earlier was enough to update its computer learning center technology. The DLC will
likely be sustainable once the MOC and MOF come to an understanding of the financial flows.
Furthermore, unlike other DLCs established earlier in Bank-financed projects, it has IP
technology which allows it to link to other entities without going through the GDLN in
Washington. This has the potential to become a productive and efficient means of providing
educational and learning opportunities to a wide range of government employees if further
developed after the official opening.

Government Network and Intranet: An internal government network was established in the first
year of the project, initially linking seven ministries, which was increased to eight. With the
assistance of the Bank's Information Solutions Group, it was quickly equipped with microwave
technology. This technology was subsequently replaced under another Bank-financed emergency
communications project with fiber optic technology. However, the original equipment has been
used to set up the national-provincial VC and internet links. All 34 provincial governments are
linked through the MOC, managed by Afghan Telecom.




                                                  23

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

N/A under OP/BP 8.5. Economic and Financial Analysis is not feasible in an emergency
project. The ICR team has attempted, based on information available and expenditure
projections from government, to assess the fiscal impact and prospects for sustainability.

Assessment of education sector needs: In 2005/06 the Government of Afghanistan's education
expenditure was 2.2 percent of GDP and is projected to increase to 4.1 percent in 2006/07. The
core development budget is projected to increase from US$23.3 million in 2005/06 to about
US$216.7 million in 2010/11, and the operating budget from US$146.4 million to approximately
US$505.6 million in the same time period.




The current economic, political and institutional situation indicates that Afghanistan is still in a
state of emergency and unable to generate sufficient revenue. A projection of resource
availability indicates that the financing gap for education in the medium-term would be
significant (Figure 1). If the economy grows at an annual rate of 7.5 percent in real terms, and
government allocates approximately 25 percent of the total government expenditure (4 percent of
GDP) to education, by 2010-11, donors would need to meet a shortfall of 50 percent of total
education expenditure. Steps are being taken to mobilize internal resources, but donors would
need to continue financing education system requirements.

Fiscal Impact and Sustainability of EERDP: Figure 2 shows overall education expenditure,
including donor financing, during the project implementation period. Taking the EERDP
activities to scale on a country-wide basis would require a significant outlay. The core
development budget for education is estimated to require an annual increase of 20 percent. Over
the six-year period (2006-2011) donor assistance is estimated to reach 50 percent of total
education expenditures, and 28 percent of government spending to meet the financing gap. This
level of expenditure is required to sustain improvements in quality and access across the country.
Government and donors will have to take decisions to optimize strategies to improve outcomes,
factoring poverty and vulnerability into the development of optimization strategies.




                                                  24

In the medium-term, coordinating donor support and absorptive capacity of the system will
challenge MOE's capacity to shore up gains made in education to date. Sustainability of the
EERDP and follow-on projects (EQUIP and SHEP) is subject to country-wide (macro fiscal) and
capacity risks, requiring an emphasis on reforms in priority areas such as human development to
facilitate a more efficient allocation of fiscal resources. The Programmatic Support for Institution
Building (PSIB) already includes a number of measures to increase budget allocation for MOE,
reorient the role of MOE to focus on policymaking, providing guidelines, contracting out to the
private sector, and partnerships with NGOs. The reform program also includes the strengthening
capacity and developing MOE's financial management system.

Conclusion. EERDP has assisted in jump-starting, to some extent, the education system in
Afghanistan in its post-conflict state. Sustainability of EERDP depends on the development and
implementation of a policy framework to set priorities, maintaining investments through regular
operations and maintenance, and institutionalizing good practices through the sharing of
knowledge and information across provinces. It will be critical for the MOF to provide
institutions such as the DLC, higher education institutions, and the Girls' Internet Café the ability
to open bank accounts, subject to regular audits, and manage their own revenues.




                                                   25

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

             Names                          Title                  Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
William B. Herbert                                                SASHD Team Leader
Christine Allison           Lead Human Development Specialist     SASHD Economist
Rosita Van Meel             Senior Education Specialist           SASHD Higher Education
Mark LaPrairie              Education Specialist                  SASHD Education
Virginia Jackson            Operations Specialist                 ECSHD Operations/Costing
Julie-Anne Graitge          Program Assistant                     SASHD Operations/Admin




Supervision/ICR

Manoj Agrawal               Consultant                            SARFM   Financial
                                                                          Management
Irajen Appasamy             Sr Operations Officer                 SASHD Operations
Deepal Fernando             Sr Procurement Specialist             SARPS Procurement

Julie-Anne M. Graitge       Program Assistant                     SASHD   Administration/
                                                                          Operations
Shawkat Muhammad Quamrul
Hasan                       Procurement Specialist                SARPS Procurement

Susan E. Hirshberg          Sr Education Specialist               SASHD ICR Team Leader

Hasib Karimzada             Team Assistant                        SACAF   Administration/
                                                                          Operations
Laura M. Kiang              Operations Officer                    SASHD Operations
Dhirendra Kumar             Consultant                            SARPS Procurement

Scherezad Joya Monami Latif Education Specialist                  SASHD   Task Team Leader
                                                                          (II)

Keiko Miwa                  Sr Education Economist                ECSHD   Task Team Leader
                                                                          (I)
Hena G. Mukherjee           Consultant                            SASHD Higher Education

Kenneth O. Okpara           Sr Financial Management Specialist    SARFM   Financial
                                                                          Management
Shobhana Sosale             Operations Officer                    HDNED Operations
S. R. Tiwari                Consultant                            SASHD School Construction

Habibullah Wajdi            Education Specialist                  SASHD   Task Team Leader
                                                                          (III)



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                         No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
   FY02                                          33                          177.72
   FY03                                                                        -0.44
                            Total:               33                          177.28



                                             26

Supervision/ICR
  FY02                               0.29
  FY03                        29    255.92
  FY04                        47    102.01
  FY05                        63    104.06
  FY06                        21     45.06
  FY07                        21     81.58

                   Total:    181    588.92




                            27

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not applicable




                                    28

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Two day-long consultations took place in Kabul at the Ministry of Education and Ministry of
Higher Education respectively. The following summarize the findings of the meetings:

         Consultations with Stakeholders: Ministry of Education July 10, 2006

Attending the meeting were Ministry of Education (MOE) officials, provincial and district
authorities, partner NGOs and SMC members. The Deputy Minister opened and closed the
meeting. After the presentation by the Deputy Minister the participants broke into smaller groups
for guided discussions.

First breakout session: (i) Quality of Design, Appropriateness of Objectives,
Implementation Strengths and Weakness; and (ii) Key Factors Affecting Implementation,
(including the Bank Government, external and internal partners).

Strengths, Weakness and Issues:

    · Project objectives were clearly defined and most objectives were appropriate.
    · Community participation was essential to its success, including increases in girls'
        enrollments.
    · Performance is different across provinces because (i) different implementation
        environments, and (ii) the differences among the facilitating agencies (two different
        NGOs and PED Badakshan).
    · The funds were spent efficiently because of the SMC/PTA's involvement.
    · Time was too short to implement all activities. It was too small and under-funded to
        meet the educational needs, but it was a good start.
    · PEDs/DEDs have more capacity and should have been more involved.
    · Clearer guidelines should be provided for implementation and monitoring.
    · Much more monitoring is needed at all levels.
    · Budgets and cash grants should be needs-based (not norm-based) and have clearer criteria.
    · More attention should be paid to quality: teachers are too weak and books are not in
        schools.

Second breakout session: (i) Outputs, outcomes and indicators; and (ii) how to measure
(quantitatively and qualitatively)?

Outcomes, Outputs, and Issues:

    · Increasing girls' enrollment.
    · Improved quality of facilities that attracts more students.
    · Encouraged a sense of responsibility and ownership.
    · Constructing buildings, provision of equipment and, in some cases, teaching materials.
    · SMCs assisted with improved access, and also improving hygiene and sanitation at
        schools.
    · Established better coordination among MOE, PED, DED and schools.
    · Cost-effective schools built: many organizations spend up to $120,000 on an 8-10 class
        building. NGO1 and Badakshan PED did it for less than half that amount through
        community contributions.



                                                29

Third breakout session: (i) Sustainability and Lessons Leaned; (ii) What did the project
achieve in the short run? (iii) For the longer run in the context of the overall education
sector:

Short-term achievement and Sustainability

    · Provided more educational opportunities for both boys and girls.
    · Generated the knowledge of the importance of education.
    · Ownership by communities will sustain momentum.
    · Well built facilities attract students ­ but more are needed.

Lessons Learned

    · It is necessary to evolve all the stakeholders in the policy and strategy formulation and
        the project preparation/design.
    · Should be scaled up across all Afghanistan ­ not just 10 provinces like EQUIP.
    · Schools should be able to have bank accounts and manage their own finances.
    · All teachers with 6-9 grade passes should receive training and schooling as a matter of
        priority.
    · Every area has different challenges, and the project should be flexible to address these
        differences.
    · Provincial and District governments need to be more involved and have a clearer role.
    · Without a policy framework in place and strategic planning, it is difficult to prioritize the
        reform agenda, i.e., new teaching methods with standard curriculums and produce
        graduates of quality.
    · SMCs have the capacity to implement projects because they have a vested interest
        and sense of responsibility.
    · More is needed to improve quality: make sure teachers get trained and students get
        books on time.
    · Quality control should be the role of the PED and DEDs. Some SMCs purchased
        inferior furniture which has broken down quickly. Standards should be set and
        monitored.
    · A strategic plan should be made through consultations with stakeholders such as
        the one held for the ICR.

_______________________________________________________________________

        Consultation with Stakeholders: Ministry of Higher Education July 11, 2006

Attending the consultation were MOHE officials, higher education institution chancellors and
faculty members. The Acting Minister opened the meeting and it was chaired by the Deputy
Minister.

First breakout session: (i) Quality of Design, Appropriateness of Objectives,
Implementation Strengths and Weakness; and (ii) Key Factors Affecting Implementation,
(including the Bank Government, external and internal partners).




                                                30

Strengths, Weakness and Issues:

    · Project objectives are clearly defined and most of the objectives were achieved.
    · Female participation and enrollment has increased in many universities.
    · Establishment of the internet café for girls, buying equipment, and civil work was useful.
       The girls' internet café is financially viable but spending their revenue is a problem.
    · The Emergency Project design was flexible, and block grants have been very useful in
       building capacities and providing equipment for universities.
    · The World Bank was very responsive during the project implementation.
    · The training allowances for faculty helped teachers focus on research and academic work.
    · Financing the university entrance exam's and proper screening of qualify student raised
       the quality of the university student.
    · There were no clear guidelines or training for project processing.
    · The Emergency Project was under funded and should continue.

Lessons Learned

    · When the World Bank provided teachers with training allowance, it made the
       government realize that the university faculty needed a higher salary.
    · The amount of allowance should be based on academic qualifications of each faculty.
    · There is a need to have clear guidelines and training which will ensure the proper
       processes and procedures.

Second breakout session: (i) Outputs, outcomes and indicators; and (ii) how would you
measure quantitatively, qualitatively?

Outcomes, Outputs, and Issues:

    · Increasing girls' enrollment and improved quality of education that attracts more students.
    · Introducing the higher education institutions to new IT, equipping labs and creating more
       opportunities for female participation
    · Partnership/fellowship with universities abroad, increasing opportunities for research
       (students/faculty), and improved higher education institution management capacity.
    · Encouraged a sense of responsibility and ownership
    · Constructing buildings, and provision of equipment and teaching materials
    · Built a Community College.
    · Brought more credibility to Higher Education Institutions and opportunities for scientific
       research which resulted in faculty development.
    · Financing the university entrance examination which improved the screening process.

Lessons Learned
    · A policy framework and strategic plan are required to enable the institutions to
       progress, especially in areas of: (i) faculty development and recruitment; (ii)
       curriculum and standards; and (iii) accreditation.
    · Scholarships are required to retain students and give incentives to females and
       poorer students
    · There is a need for more autonomy of higher education institutions.




                                                 31

Third breakout session: (i) Sustainability and Lessons Leaned; (ii) What did the project
achieve in the short run? (iii) For the longer run in the context of the overall education
sector:

Short-term achievement and Sustainability

    · Provided more educational opportunities for both sexes.
    · Generated the importance of higher education and working capacity to start meeting the
        demand for the higher education.

Lessons learned

    · It is necessary to evolve all the stakeholders in the policy and strategy formulation and
        the project preparation/design.
    · It was suggested that a policy framework, which includes revenue generation
        capacity of the institutions, could help them resolve this issue over the longer term.
    · There have to be stronger links of the education provided to employment opportunities.
    · Without a policy framework in place and strategic planning, it is difficult to prioritize the
        reform agenda, i.e., new teaching methods with standard curriculums and produce
        graduates of quality.
    · In order to ensure funding for improvements, it should be needs-based and not a universal
        grant, and the capacity building should be given higher priority.
    · The project was too short to sustain the gains. Afghanistan is still in an 'emergency' phase,
        and all HE Institutions need continued support.
    · SHEP only supports six universities in Kabul and the rest do not have adequate budgets
        or faculty.




                                                  32

    Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

MINISTRY OF FINANCE

Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project was an appropriate project considering the
emergency situation in which it was initiated and implemented. After the fall of Taliban education had
unanticipated demand by Afghans who sent in big number their girls and boys to schools which inserted
enormous challenges on government of Afghanistan and International community to respond to these
demands. MoF especially was under focus to attract financial support to this sector. In 2002 in a very
right time MoF received first financial support in shape of EERDP for education sector from its key donor
and development partner, the World Bank. Below I will give a brief description of MoF role and its
involvement in this project.

EERDP (H-008) became part of MoF development budget for education sector after its approval in 2002.
The payment requests or any transaction took place with the process initiated by MoE based on the
approved project disbursement categories as outlined in the grant agreement. An approved payment
request had to be allotted a budget allotment and coding before the funds had to be released by SDU to
the client through special account operating under the Da Afghanistan Bank. As one of the first projects
approved by the WB, the EERDP also helped the newly recruited staff of budget and SDU departments to
understand the financial management aspects and process of both MoF and the WB. No doubt EERDP
has its role in building financial management capacity in MoF and at MoE and MoHE. The regular
presence of FM and Disbursement colleagues of the WB has always helped MoF staff to enhance their
capacity in FM procedures.

EERDP has disbursed all of the approved 15 million US $ in a time period of four years. Considering the
huge financial support education sector has been requiring, the overall disbursement of this project has
been slow. This project was able to disburse all funds with two project extensions. The slow disbursement
and extension of project is understandable because of lack of financial capacity existed in MoF and in
other line ministries. The FM system and FM capacity has developed extensively over the past few years
and MoF is able to attract and manage many contribution from the donor community for the education
sector. From the World Bank MoF is managing two main projects for MoE and MoHE by names of
EQUIP and SHEP for the long term development of education in Afghanistan.

No doubt that this project has an excellent impact on rehabilitation and development of the education
system all over the country. Specifically I would like to mention the noteworthy achievements from the
MoF's point of view:

· EERDP helped to strengthen and develop linkages between provincial education departments and
    provincial Mastufiats, a crucial achievement for the financial decentralization and accountability
· Close coordination among MoE, MoF, and MoHE developed on budgetery and disbursement issues
    of education sector. Provided opportunities to have shared plans and programs with each other.
· Before the launch of this project, very few donors were willing to channel their funds through
    Ministry of Finance. This project became a starting and encouraging point for other donors to put
    fund in a single treasury account.
· In one sense this project acted as a pilot project from which many lessons were learned of equal
    importance for Afghan government, WB and other development partners especially in education
    sector.




                                                    33

Lessons Learned

· The implementation of this project proved that Afghan government and WB can work together on
    agreed principles of financial management.
· Many important rules and regulations of WB such as disbursement and procurement procedures,
    which were not clear to the MoF, MoE, and MoHE are now very well understandable.
· Sense of close coordination developed among all stakeholders through this project
· Many lessons learned from this project helped both WB and Afghan government approved two more
    projects in education sector such as EQUIP and SHEP.
· For the first time through a disbursement protocol between MoF and MoE developed under this
    project development funds were released to provincial education offices and Mustofidats. This has
    become a very successful model and is followed in other projects as well.

Issues/Problems

· Not clear fund allocation between MoE and MoHE often confused both ministries and their financial
    staff
· Shift and changes in FM staff in MoE and MoHE often created problems such as : delays in payments
    to contractors, late and irregular submission of SoEs, lack of appropriated documentation, which
    caused at a times problems to MoF staff in submitting recovery and replenishment applications to WB
    disbursement Unit.
· The collapse of GMU in MoE especially created lots of problems in regard to FM issues. It took a
    while before MoE could submit financial documents which were required for the recovery of
    outstanding balance against MoE. With the support of WB, MoE and MoF relevant staff this problem
    was solved. This also made all three ministries very cautious of proper systems in place before bid
    payments were approved.

MINISTRY OF EDUCATION

The emergency Education Project was a successful project in Afghanistan. The MoE had full project
ownership and that contributed to the success of the project. We replicate the same model in the EQUIP
project and implement it through the SMCs, DEDs, and the community. Emergency project played a
fundamental role in an emergency situation of Afghanistan, in terms of technical, economical and social
support for the education sector. In education system strong relation and cooperation between the
administration and community is an important factor. This project for the first time attempted to establish
and strength that relation and this was a successful attempt with a good result.

Lessons Learned

· It was a good experience on involving community participation.
· Female participation and educational opportunities for female education have been increased.
· Increased accountability and transparency in each provincial education department.
· SMCs attained the capacity to implement projects because they have a sense of responsibility and
    ownership.
· Teachers are acquainted with new teaching methods, which add to the quality of education for
    students.
· Communities are more open to girls' education and not only accept but also encourage female
    participation and education.
· But in order to continue improving their capacity, there is need for more consultation and training for
    the SMCs followed by proper monitoring evaluation.


                                                     34

· Coordination between all stakeholders is very important; this project has helped increase community
     coordination and mobilization.
· Working strategies in each province resulted in a delay in project implementation.
· SMCs are involved in decision making, implementation, school administration, and planning
     activities of schools.
· Constructing schools have resulted in higher girls' enrollment up to 20% female participation in
     SMCs has enabled women to have a role in the education of their children.
· Establishment and development of the SMCs itself is improving civil society.
· community participation in controlling quality of education has increased the project effectiveness

Issues/Problems

· The problem was lack of enough time in some provinces (i.e. Bamyan) to implement the project
     according the project design and timeline.
· Another problem was budget allocation: if budget for all schools are the same in amount that creates a
     problem because of each province's geographic location and distance from center.
· This project could not meet all the needs of education in Afghanistan, but it was a good start.
· PEDs/DEDs were not involved in the beginning of the project.
· Construction problem occurred in Bamyan due to its geographic location.

MINISTRY OF HIGHER EDUCATION

Background

The two decade conflict had almost collapsed the education system and very little institutional operational
capacity at ministries level was in place to support the rehabilitation of education. There was an acute
shortage of qualified faculty members as many had left the country during the conflict years. Those who
stayed in the country have been isolated from the outside world and are out of touch with major
developments in teaching and research. To improve the level of higher education system in the country, in
year (2002) the Ministry of Higher Education (MoHE), Ministry of Education (MoE) and the World Bank
(WB) have agreed to launch a joint Emergency Education Rehabilitation and Development Project. This
project was started in 2002 to be implemented by the MoHE and MoE. Initially the project was designed
for tow years, but due to some obstacles in order to fulfill its objectives the project was extended for two
more years.

The project objective was to selectively support the Government Islamic Republic of Afghanistan in its
efforts to reconstruct and develop the education sector. The project aim were to: (a) increase access to
education opportunities in the formal and nonformal systems for under-served groups, especially women
and girls; (b) support the development of a policy framework and the reform of education management at
all levels; and (c) introduce modern information technologies for communications in the Ministries and
distance learning for capacity building of the civil servants.

Project Components

1. Policy Framework

Improved education sector management through policy development: After years of turmoil and the last
five years of the entire system being virtually dismantled, there were no effective policies in place. The
objective was to concentrate in a few key areas to develop a medium term policy framework which would
serve as a platform for long term education system development. For this purpose the Planning



                                                      35

Department of MoHE partially completed the draft medium-term policy framework and it has been also
translated into Dari to be utilized by the project university.

Regarding the policy framework member of group (3) in the workshop held on 11th July 2006, made the
following assessment:

''.... it was an excellent project, because there was no red tape; therefore, it was spent where it was needed.
It did prevent brain drain to NGOs and private sector. It also attracted brilliant educated people to join the
universities; so now we have better faculty to compete with other universities. There was no clear
guideline or preparatory session in this project. In some cases the allocated money was not enough for the
specified project. The budget was shared with two ministries with one account, so one ministry's problem
affected the other. The other achievement was the establishment of net café for girls, buying equipment,
and civil work. The emergency fund was also used for the university entrance exam's proper screening
that gave us brilliant students in each school. The problem was that some universities were not covered
under this project, i.e. Bamyan & Badakhshan. I think the project was a very useful one as a whole, but
we are still in emergency and we want this project to be continued. '' Due to lack of experience staff and
weak management the project was not completed within two years as it was originally designed.

Block Grants to universities

All public universities and higher education institution have been awarded Block Grants to address all
emergency needs essential for the basic day to day functioning universities. The project universities
prepared a preliminary list of items which was reviewed by the Ministry of Higher Education and the
International Development Association to insure the relevance of the proposal to the grant objectives.
Experience and lesson on use of Block Grant learned from Emergency Project could be applied for
Strengthening Higher Education Program. Block Grants disbursed to all 18 higher education institutions
and has helped start-up of basic operations for all these universities. Urgently needed basic equipment
was bought to facilitate day to day learning and administrative affaires of these institutions.

Teacher training allowance

Ministry of Higher Education used grant funds to provide training allowances for six months from
January to June 2005 to the professors and lecturers to all project universities. The purpose of the training
allowance was to motivate all professors and lecturers to get professional training and development to
maintain quality teaching in their subjects. The training allowances also supported university professors
and lecturers extra time for the development of quality teaching materials for their teaching sessions.
Professors with PH, D were awarded US$ 300 while lecturers with Master and Bachelor degree were
provided US$ 200 and US$ 100 per month respectively. In February 2006 IDA considered the very
unique circumstances in Afghanistan and approved MoHE's request for the extension of an additional two
months of training allowances.

Training allowances paid to university professors and lecturers has improved learning output and has
motivated teaching staff to regularly attend their classes.

Improved access to education

At the tertiary level, in year 2002 there were 23,418 male students but no females because of Taliban's
ban on female education in previous years. Enrollment increased 25% from 30,121 to 37,797 between
2003 and 2005. In 2003, females were 14% of the tertiary students, with 25,659 males and 4,462 females.
By 2005, enrollments were 29,235 males and 8,562 females, and females occupied 22 % of places.
Faculty members, on the other hand, increased by 25 % in the same timeframe: from 1,585 in 2002; to


                                                      36

1,978 in 2005. Female teaching staff has increased by 45% from 208 in 2002 tp 302 in 2005; meanwhile
male teaching staff has increased by 21% from 1,377 in 2002 to 1,676 in 2005.

Regarding the quality improvement of higher education, especially for girls, the first group of the
workshop made the following assessment:

· "Project objectives are clearly defined and the project achieved its objectives. One of the main points
    about this project has been its flexibility that gave us the opportunity of solving our problems without
    any time delay
· In the project implementation phase, the MoHE has worked very closely with the World Bank and we
    are satisfied with the World Bank representatives in implementing the project.
· This project helped avoid brain drain within the higher education institutions by paying training
    allowances for our faculty. This allowance has helped teachers focus on research and academic work
    such as writing journals and articles. Female participation and enrollment has been encouraged in
    many universities. In Balkh University, 39-40% of our students are female.
· This project had also helped improve English language among our faculty and staff by internet clubs
    and....??
· The World Bank's role was critical and the bank's staff has been very helpful in ensuring a smooth
    project implementation.
· In terms of reporting, there has not been a central compiler to put all the reports from different
    institutions together, because we are still in an emergency situation, closing this project will create
    many challenges for the MoHE again. We suggest supporting the training allowances for faculty to
    help us keep the faculty working."

Overall Assessment and Lessons Learned

As the first education project in Afghanistan, important lessons have been learned from the experience.
Progress has been made in terms of SOE preparation and submission to Special disbursement Unit (SDU)
in Ministry of Finance. The general level of disbursements has improved considerably.

The Emergency Project helped avoid brain drain within the higher education institutions by paying
training allowances for our faculty. This allowance has helped teachers focus on research and academic
work such as writing journals and articles. The training allowances supported university professors and
lecturers extra time for the development of quality teaching materials for their teaching sessions. The
project enabled the dialogue between MoHE and MoF on compensation of university professors and
lecturers on a permanent basis. MoF for last one year has been paying extra benefits to university
professors and lecturers based on their presence and performance at their lectures from government
ordinary budget.

Block Grants disbursed to all 18 higher education institutions and has helped start-up of basic operations
for all these universities. Urgently needed basic equipment was bought to facilitate day to day learning
and administrative affaires of these institutions.




                                                       37

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                    38

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1. Technical Annex, World Bank. May 10, 2002.
2. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, World Bank. May 10, 2002
3. Development Grant Agreement, World Bank, June 8, 2002
4. Aide Memoire, 2002-2006
5. Afghanistan Transitional Support Strategies (2002 and 2006)
6. The State of Education in 2005, Key Indicators Report, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan,
   MOE June 2006
7. Country Portfolio Reviews, 2004-2006
8. Evaluation Report of Two Facilitation Agencies for the Community Grants for School
   Development Component (2006)
9. Technical Memo #1: Analysis of 2005 School Survey Data on Student Enrollment in 1383
   and 1384, USAID/Creative Associates International
10. EMIS data 2003, 2004, 2005
11. UNICEF, Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey-2003 Questionnaire and Report
12. Poverty, Vulnerability and Social Protection: An Initial Study. Study, World Bank, March 7,
    2005.
13. Investing in Afghanistan's Future: A Strategy Note on the Education System in Afghanistan
    (2005)
14. Afghanistan ­ State Building, Sustaining Growth and Reducing Poverty
15. Afghanistan: Managing Public Finances for Development (2006)
16. PREM Working Paper Series: Structure and Performance of the Afghan Economy
17. Completion Report, EERDP, BRAC Afghanistan




                                               39

