                                                                                                  94928
                                                                                              February 25, 2010

Afghanistan Girls' Schools: Achieving Results in a
Difficult Environment

                                                           PROJECT DOCUMENTS

                                                           - Emergency Education
                                                           Rehabilitation and Development
                                                           - Education Quality Improvement
                                                           Program
                                                           - Strengthening Higher Education
                                                           Program
                                                           - Second Education Quality
                                                           Improvement
                                                           - Afghanistan Skills Development
                                                           Project




MARCHING TOWARDS A BETTER FUTURE | EDUCATION UNDER TALIBAN | WORLD BANK'S ROLE
                                ADDITIONAL RESOURCES




Since 2001, enrollment in grades 1-12 increased from 3.9 million in 2004 to 6.2 million
     in 2008. Girls’ enrollment skyrocketed from 839,000 to more than 2.2 million




MARCHING TOWARDS A BETTER FUTURE

February 25, 2010 - When Mohammad Yousuf
returned home to Afghanistan in 2003 after
spending more than 12 years as a refugee in a
neighboring country, the first thing he wanted
was a better life for his children and
grandchildren. “ When we heard that Afghanistan
was finally free and peace had returned, I
brought my family home ,” says the 65 year old
grandfather of a large extended family.             Mohammad Yousuf


But, Yousuf’s ancestral village in western Herat
province had suffered greatly during the
decades of conflict. “ We faced a lot of problems
when we returned ,” Yousuf recalled. “ There
was no water, no road, no electricity, and no
school or health center .”

Despite these difficulties, the children’s future
was the greatest concern for all the 500 families   New school building

in the village. The nearest school was miles
away. The children had to walk almost two hours to get there. The girls had to be
escorted by a male family member each time they went to school and back.

By 2007, almost four years after returning home, all the children in Yousuf’s family were
in school. “ We have a school in the village for both boys and girls,” said Yousuf . “ All
the children attend classes regularly, especially those who couldn’t go to school earlier
because of the distance .”



EDUCATION UNDER FIRE

Afghanistan emerged from more than two decades of war and civil strife in fall of 2001.
The country was essentially left out of global development for 25 years. In the eight
years since the end of the Taliban rule, Afghanistan has made significant strides in
overcoming decades of war and strife, and is working toward catching up on all the lost
years of development.

Under Taliban rule (1996-2001), the country was plagued by continuing conflict, and
international isolation. The education system was virtually dismantled: girls were
officially excluded from the system. Boys in school were taught a curriculum limited to
religious content. The net enrollment rate for girls was estimated at 3%.

After the fall of Taliban in 2001, more and more Afghan families returned home after
living the war years as refugees in neighboring countries. As a result village populations
across the country have swelled and there was increased demand for education. The
presence of a good school in the village is a high priority for returning refugees. They
wanted their children to have a better life than they have had.



WORLD BANK'S ROLE

Recognizing that education would play a vital role in the reconstruction and
development of Afghanistan, World Bank’s International Development Association
(IDA) along with other International partners launched since 2001 a series of education
programs aimed at providing access and quality education at all levels with a focus on
girls. Specifically, these programs aimed to reconstruct the education sector across the
country.

Since 2001, the projects have brought new life to education and particularly benefited
girls. Enrollment in grades 1-12 increased from 3.9 million in 2004 to 6.2 million in
2008. Girls’ enrollment skyrocketed from 839,000 to more than 2.2 million, and
boys’ from 2.6 million to 3.9 million—the highest enrollment in the history of
Afghanistan.



ADDITIONAL RESOURCES

Expanding Access to Quality Education
IDA at Work in Afghanistan. Read More »

Knowledge on Fire
Girls' Schools in Afghanistan Face Highest Risk of Violence. Read More »

Afghanistan Skills Development Project
is designed to increase the number of skilled Afghans and create a high-quality
technical vocational education. Read More »

Afghanistan: Data & Statistics
A wide range of social and economic measures on Afghanistan, including links to the
World Bank's most important online development databases. Read More »

Afghanistan: Analysis and Research
Compilation of all the World Bank's publications on Afghanistan. Read More »

World Bank Program in Afghanistan
Launching pad to all information on World Bank activities in Afghanistan. Read More »
