Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21527-MLI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.2 MILLION
(US$43.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR THE
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROGRAM
November 13, 2001
Rural Development II
Country Departnent 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
700 CFAF = US$1
US$0.0014 = I CFAF
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD         Agence Fran,caise de Developpement                        DRAMR    Direction Regionale de l'Appui au Monde Rural
(French Development Agency)                                          (Regional Directorate for Rural Services)
AOPP        Association des Organisations Professionnelles Paysannes  EA          Executing Agency
(Association of Producer Organizations)
APCAM       Assemblee Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture           FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
(Assembly of Agriculture Chambers)
APL          Adaptable Program Loan                                   GOM          Govemment of Mali
CARI         Cellule dAppui aux Rformes Intitutionnelles  (Institutional    IDA    International Development Association
Reform Support Unit)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy                              IlER        Institut d'Economie Rural (Rural Economy Institute)
CFAF         Franc de la Communaute Financiare Africaine (Westem      IPM          Integrated Pest Management
Africa Franc)
CMDT         Compagnie Malienne des Textiles                          KfW         KreditanstaltAr Wiederaujbau
(Malian Cotton Company)                                              (German Cooperation Bank)
CNRA         Comite National de la Recherche Agricole (National       LCV         Laboratoire Central Veterinaire
Committee for Agricultural Research)                                 (Central Veterinary Laboratory)
CNU          Comite National des Jttilisateurs                        M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
(Users' Committee)
CPS          Cellule de Planification et Statistiques (Plannipg and Statistics   MDR  Ministere du Developpement Rural
Unit)                                                                (Ministry of Rural Developmen)
CRA          Chambre Regionale d'Agriculture                          NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
(Regional Chamber of Agriculture)
CRU          Comite Regional des Utilisateurs                         MRSC        Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton
(Regional Committee of Users)                                        (Cotton Sector Restructuring Unit)
CTD          Collectivites territoriales dcentralisees                ODR         Office de Ddveloppement Rural
(Decentralized communes)                                             (Rural Development Agency)
DGRC         Direction Generale de la Reglementation et du Contr6le   OMBEVI   Office Malien du Betail et de la Viande
(Regulation and Control Directorate)                                 (Livestock and Meat Agency)
DNAER        Direction Nationale de I 'Amenagement et de I 'Equipement  ON        Office du Niger (Niger Agency)
Rural
(National Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment)     PCU         Cellule de Coordination du Projet
(Project Coordination Unit)
DNAMR        Direction Nationale de lAppui au Monde Rural             PNIR        Programme National dinfrastructures Rurales
(National Directorate for Rural Services)                            (National Rural Infrastructure Program)
DNSI        Direction Nationale de la Statistique et de l'Informatique  PNLS      Plan National de Lutte contre le SIDA
(National Directorate for Statistic and Computing)                   (National Plan against AIDS)
DRAER       Direction Regionale de l'Amenagement et de l'Equipement   SFI          Soil Fertility Initiative
Rural
(Regional Directorate for Rural Works and Equipment)
Vice President:        Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:             A. David Craig
Sector Manager/Director:            Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Daniel Moreau



MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                    Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                  3
2. Project development objective                                                        4
3. Key performance indicators                                                           4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       7
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           7
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  11
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                   13
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  15
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                       23
3. Benefits and target population                                                      23
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       24
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           25
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          25
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    28
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         28
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            28
2. Financial                                                                           29
3. Technical                                                                           30
4. Institutional                                                                       30
5. Environmental                                                                       32
6. Social                                                                              34
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  37



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      37
2. Critical risks                                                                      38
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      38
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             39
2. Other                                                                               40
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           40
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          40
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           41
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     48
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          71
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    72
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                76
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        81
Terms of Reference for the Audit of Project Account, Special Account and
Statement of Expenditures
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      99
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   100
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  102
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            104
Annex 11: Environmental and Social hnpact Assessment.                                    106
Executive Summary. Management Plan
MAP(S)
IBRD 31059



MALI
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTR2
Date: November 13, 2001                          Team Leader: Daniel Moreau
Country Director: A.David Craig                  Sector Manager: Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Project ID: P035630                              Sector(s): AE - Agricultural Extension, AR - Research,
AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development; Poverty Reduction; Public
Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan        Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank_FY)        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
IDA            Others       Total    Commitment  Closing
US$ m     %      USS m      USS m        Date        Date
APL 1       43.50    81.5    9.90        53.40    01/01/2002  01/01/2005 7.6
Loan/
Credit
APL 2       40.00    80.0   10.00        50.00    01/01/2005  01/01/2009 5.00
Loan!
Credit
APL 3       40.00    88.9    5.00        45.00    01/01/2009  01/01/2013 5.00
Loan/
Total      123.50            24.90      148.40
[ I Loan    [(X Credit    [ Grant      [ I Guarantee    [ Other:
For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$43.5 million equivalent
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: Standard
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       7.60           0.00          7.60
IDA                                                           25.33          18.17         43.50
LOCAL FARMER ORGANIZATIONS                                     2.30           0.00          2.30
Total:                                                        35.23          18.17         53.40



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Address: Ministere du Developpement Rural, Bamako, Mali
Contact Person: Mr. Abdoulaye Toure, Coordinateur du PASAOP
Tel: 21 48 07             Fax: 21 48 07              Email: Pasaop-Mali@Timbagga.Com.MI
Other Agency(ies):
Comite National de la Recherche Agronomique
Address: Ministere du Developpement Rural
Contact Person: Mr. Seydou Idrissa, Secretaire Executif du Comite National de la Recherche Agronomique (CNRA)
Tel: 22 71 65             Fax:               Email: CNRA@Spider.toolnet.org
APCAM
Address: B.P. 3299 Bamako
Contact Person: Mr. Sekou Oumar Tall, President de l'Assemblee Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali
Tel: 21 87 25             Fax: 21 87 37              Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
Annual     2.70        17.00       14.80        9.00
Cumulative     2.70        19.70      34.50       43.50
Project implementation period: April 1, 2002 to June 30, 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 04/01/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
Additional support under parallel financing is expected to be provided by bilateral donors, in particular the USAID (for about US$2
million), the French Government (under the AFD-financed PASE for about US$3.9 million equivalent in the cotton areas), the Swiss
Govemment, the Dutch Govemment (for about US$ 10 million equivalent, in addition to the already committed US$A million equivalent)
and the European Union (for about US$700,000 equivalent)
OCS At PAC Fam: a. M, 2X0
-2 -



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the program is to alleviate rural poverty in Mali through sustained labor productivity
increases brought about by technical change in agricultural and non-agricultural rural productive activities.
Sustained technical change will result from increasing the efficiency of the national technology generation
and dissemination system by (i) building the capacity of farmers and other rural producers to identify and
articulate their needs and to manage their access to service providers; (ii) making service providers
responsive and accountable to their clients; and (iii) improving the capacity of the delivery system by
fostering a national agricultural knowledge supply system that integrates research, extension and technical
and organizational/ managerial education, rely on public as well as private delivery capacities and has
strong linkages with the regional and international research systems.
Achieving this broad objective entails major institutional reformns and investment in social capital, and
requires long-term support. Therefore, a  11-year Program has been designed in three phases. It will be
implemented through an Adaptable Program Loan (APL), which will support a phased approach of
progressive restructuring and strengthening of: (i) the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) to focus its
activities on the provision of core public goods (policy-making and regulatory functions), re-align its
internal management and structure to its core functions (in particular through decentralization) and
strengthen its human resources capacity and management; (ii) national extension and research services, to
make them more accountable to producers and improve their technical capacity, cost-efficiency and
financial sustainability; and (iii) producer organizations, so that they have the technical and
organizational/managerial capacity to formulate their demands, apply leverage, particularly financial, to
make their voices heard as to the nature and quality of services they require.
The program would consist ofthree phases:
The Phase I (the "Project") of three years will have for central objective to establish a strong policy
and institutional basis for full implementation of the program. It will support the key institutional
reforms necessary to: re-focus and streamline the MDR; improve the autonomy, efficiency and
accountability of public agricultural services agencies; pilot the transfer of extension activities to the
private sector in five regions, and; strengthen the representativity, policy-making and technical and
managerial capacities of producer organizations. During Phase I, National Strategic Action Plans for
Rural Education and Training, and for Rural Information and Communication will also be prepared,
for full implementation during the second and third phases of the program. Finally, Phase I will also
support the National AIDS Prevention Program (PNLS) in rural areas to help prevent the spread of the
disease and mitigate its impact on households.
Phase II (4-year period) will consolidate the institutional reforms undertaken during Phase I and
initiate the full scale implementation of the new decentralized, open and demand-driven agricultural
service delivery system. Phase II will also support the implementation of the National Programs for
Rural Sector Education and Training, and for Rural Information and Communication.
Phase III (4-year period) will complete the integration of the national agricultural knowledge system
and ensure its technical and financial sustainability.
- 3 -



2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the first phase of the program (the Project-PASAOP) is to establish an institutional
framework conducive to the efficient delivery of agricultural services to the producers. The project will
support the decentralization of core functions in the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR), promote the
emergence of private actors in the execution of agricultural support services, and empower producer
organizations. Demand-driven mechanisms will be developed with the various stakeholders for the design,
selection, financing and the execution of technology generation and transfer programs and projects, to
improve the relevance, effectiveness and sustainability of such activities. Specific objectives are as
follows:
(a)   refocus the Ministry's services on their regulatory, policy-making and monitoring functions,
strengthen their capabilities in these domains, devolve core services to the regions, and transfer
some execution activities to autonomous regional or local entities, and/or to NGOs and the
private sector;
(b)    support PNLS' efforts in reaching out the people working in the rural sector, and improve the
relevance and quality of the AIDS prevention messages;
(c)    develop a long-term strategy and a medium-term action plan for rural training and rural
communication;
(d)    consolidate the efforts made with support from the Agricultural Research Project (PNRA - Cr.
2371-MLI) to establish an effective and sustainable national agricultural research system
capable of developing medium and long-term technology development strategic progranms and
responding to users' needs through demand-driven regional R&D programs;
(ej    consolidate the efforts made with support from the Agricultural Extension Project (PNVA- Cr.
2557-MLI) to establish an efficient, responsive and sustainable technical advisory service system
through the regionalization and decentralization of extension programs and budgets with
increased producer participation in the design and management of extension programs;
(f)    establish on a pilot basis advisory services (for both technical and farm management advice)
accountable to producers and responsive to their needs through contractual arrangements;
(g)   improve the ability of producer organizations to provide services to their members and to make
their voice heard in the decision-making processes for formulating and implementing local,
regional and national rural development policies and in particular, research and extension, and
functional literacy activities.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
A joint Government/World Bank/other donors/users committee evaluation will deternine the extent to
which the above objectives have been fulfilled. A beneficiary assessment will be undertaken 6 months
before the end of each phase. For each component, the key indicators for this first phase and trigger
conditions for the second phase are as indicated in the following table:
- 4 -



Project Development Objectives    Triggers for the second phase    Key performance indicators
Determination by an extemal review
1. MDR Restructured and       >  New institutional framework    that:
Strengthened                      adopted;
>  Divestiture completed;        > MDR's main focus is on its
>  Staff redeployed and trained.   regulatory, policy-making and
monitoring functions, with clear
agreed mandates (Cadre Organique
) and adequate budgets;
> MDR core services have been
decentralized and are functioning
(personnel adequately trained and
equipped);
> The redeployment/retrenchment of
redundant personnel is completed,
according to the MDR action plan;
> MDR commercial activities
transferred/ divested to the private
sector.
Determination by an extemal review
2. Improved relevance and     >  National committee for       that:
effectiveness of the National     Agricultural Research and
Agriculture Research System      research executing agencies (IER  >  A more autonomous CNRA
and LCV) operate according to    functions satisfactorily according to
their statutes;                agreed upon policies and
>  Demand-driven R&D Grant         procedures, certified by an
system in place in all regions;  independent management audit;
>  Agricultural research strategy    >  A Competitive Research Grant for
and program for phase 2        national strategic research and
available.                     regional research and development
sub-projects is functioning
satisfactorily according to agreed
upon policies and procedures;
> IER and LCV, as autonomous legal
entities, function satisfactorily
according to their respective
mandates;
> Govemment financing is
supporting the costs associated with
the maintenance of the national
agricultural scientific capacity, and
together with the large commodity
organizations up to 50% of Strategic
Research Programs;
> Research and Development
programs are designed and
monitored at regional levels with
the active participation of the
various stakeholders;
> A national agricultural research
-5-



strategy and detailed program have
been prepared on the basis of the
lessons of the first phase for
implementation during Phase 11.
Determination by the external review
3. Improved relevance and       >  Extension programs and budgets that:
effectiveness of the National       are established on a regional
Agricultural Extension Services     basis with producer             > The extension pilot operates
participation;                   according to satisfactory policies and
>  Pilot extension program          procedures, in particular as far as
implemented in five regions;    the technical and financial
>   Agricultural Advisory services in   management and accounting system
the cotton areas managed by the   is concemed, as reflected in the
producers;                       beneficiary assessment will be
>  Agricultural Extension strategy   undertaken in PY3, and in the
and program for phase 2          annual audit reports;
available.                     > DNAMR successfully established
decentralized and demand-driven
extension programs and budgets for
each region of the country;
> Pilot extension programs in the five
regions and Agricultural Advisory
services in the cotton areas executed
on a contractual basis by private
service providers have been
implemented as planned;
> A national agricultural extension
strategy and detailed program have
been prepared on the basis of the
lessons of the first phase for
implementation during Phase 11.
Determination by the external review
4. Strengthening of Producer    >  Agricultural Advisory Services  that:
Organizations' ability to provide   Grant mechanism is in place.
services to their members.                                          >  At least 250 local and 8 regional
committees are functioning;
> At least 350 "graduate" POs are
providing satisfactory services to
their members (in particular
through contractual arrangements),
including improved access to
technical advice, input distribution
and product marketing;
> At least 70% of POs eligible
requests under the program's service
delivery mechanism -- for training
(including functional literacy),
technology generation and transfer--
have been implemented.
-6 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDAIR198-64; IFC/R98-84 Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/26/98
The overall objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Mali is the reduction of poverty
through improved macroeconomic management, income generation and employment creation. Indeed, with
a per capita GDP of only US$240 in 2000, Mali remains one of the world's poorest countries. The CAS is
structured around two major axes: (i) sustainable human development; and (ii) stable economic growth
through private sector development. The CAS puts particular emphasis on supporting competitive,
broad-based growth in the rural sector because of the overwhelming prevalence of deep poverty in rural
areas, but also because the rural economy will for the foreseeable future remain the country's main engine
of broad-based growth. Key areas of focus in the CAS include capacity building, decentralization,
protection of the environment and gender issues. The next CAS will be prepared in FY03. Mali acceded to
the Decision Point of the enhanced HIPC with submission of an I-PRSP (IDA/SecM2000-460) in
September 2000. A full PRSP emphasizing economic growth, human development and reduction of human
vulnerability is expected to be issued by early 2002.
Mali's population of about 11 million is predominantly rural, with 80 percent living in rural areas. Its rural
sector employs 80 per cent of the total labor force and accounts for 45 percent of GDP and some 75
percent of total exports (essentially cotton, rice and livestock). According to a 1998 survey, an estimated
72 percent of Mali's population lives below the poverty line. Poverty in Mali is therefore essentially a rural
phenomenon with the rural poverty incidence over three times higher in rural areas than in urban areas.
In Mali, opportunities for ernployment and income creation are mostly in the labor intensive and small-scale
agricultural and non-agricultural rural sector. Mali has areas with good agricultural potential. Increased
farm incomes stimulate the demand for goods and services in the non-farm enterprise sector. There is
strong evidence from detailed studies (India, Indonesia, China) that rural growth not only reduces rural
poverty, but also has a strong impact on reducing urban poverty more that does urban growth. Increased
agricultural productivity lowers food prices, which has a strong effect not only on rural but also urban
poverty and the competitiveness of the economy as a whole. Thus, in the short and medium term, poverty
alleviation in Mali is predicated on accelerated growth in the agricultural sector.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
PASAOP is at the center of the Government rural development strategy, which addresses the main causes
of rural poverty:
(i) low level of agricultural productivity and total agricultural production due to a narrow resource
endowment (poor and fragile soils for the most part, and limited rainfall); poor access to markets (roads,
waterways, etc.) and market information; poor and inadequate agricultural services (limited access to
credit resulting in limited use of improved farm inputs and cultural practices, inadequate technical
support); a sometime non-supportive policy and institutional environment, with ill-adapted administrative
organizational structures (overly centralized and bureaucratic government services, weak producer
organizations); and
(ii) poor access to social services and infrastructure (health, education, rural roads and drinking water
supply and sanitation).  Accelerated growth and better living conditions in rural areas require
- 7 -



improvements in the sustainable provision of basic social and agricultural services. In particular it
requires: the increase in general agricultural productivity through sustained and environment-friendly
technical change; the sustainable development of Mali's large potential for irrigated agriculture; the
diversification of agricultural and livestock production; the decentralization to local populations of the
responsibility for managing local development, in particular the management of their productive natural
resource base; and the strengthening of the capacity of the public and private sectors to plan and
implement rural development activities, particularly at the regional and local levels.
Constraints and Issues.
(a) Declining and erratic rainfall. Mali is characterized by extremne ecological diversity, with
agroclimatic zones ranging from Saharan (less than 150 mm of rainfall) in the North to Guinean
or sub-tropical (1,200 mm of rainfall) in the South. Over the past 30 years, the country has
experienced declining and erratic rainfall and a southward movement of desertification, with
severe droughts in the 1980s (particularly 1983-84 and 1987-88), which have left an estimated
1.4 million rural residents highly vulnerable to food shortages. The climatic risk is a major
factor in sustained production and productivity increase. The effect of recent droughts had
negative impact on productive assets and on the behavior of producers who select low risk/low
productivity production systems.
(b) Increasing natural resource/soil fertility degradation. Natural resource degradation in Mali
is characterized by: (a) massive soil erosion by wind and water in volurnes reaching 6.5 tons
per ha per annum in some areas in the Guinean zone, covering about 60 percent of arable land,
(b) declining soil fertility, coupled with low input use (0.8 kg/ha of fertilizer versus a
sub-Saharan Africa average of 5.3 kg/ha, and 58.5 kg/ha for the rest of the developing world)
resulting in stagnant, and in some cases declining agricultural productivity; (c) accelerated
forest degradation due to excessive fuel wood use, specially in peri-urban areas; (d) overall
degradation of rangeland due to overgrazing; (e) lowering of the ground water table by 6 to 12
meters in some parts of the country over the past ten years; (f) a decline in fish catches in the
Niger River from 120,000 tons to about 50,000 tons per annum in recent years; and (g)
accelerated loss of biodiversity.
(c) Limited access to markets because of poor basic rural infrastructure. Rural infrastructure
is poor and unevenly distributed, contributing to slow and unevenly distributed growth in many
regions. Because of the poor network of rural/feeder roads, large tracts of rural areas are not
adequately linked to markets, thus hindering producers from fully exploiting the new
opportunities offered by increased urban demand and export possibilities. In addition, limited
access to input distribution and credit, as well as other agricultural services (extension,
technical advice), has resulted in low yields and poor revenue. Rural water supply poses also a
serious challenge to both people and livestock.
(d) Limited agricultural policy capacity and poor institutional efficiency. Over the past ten
years, the government has implemented sectoral policy reforms, including far reaching price and
market liberalization. In November 1987, Government announced full (consumer and producer)
price and market liberalization of coarse grains. Cereal, cotton, and livestock exports, as well
as input distribution, were also totally liberalized. However, cotton is still sold through a state
monopoly, and Malian producers receive one of the lowest prices in the sub-region. The recent
cotton sector crisis (see below) resulted in cotton producers losing trust in the cotton company
- 8 -



(CMDT) and its extension agents.
Within MDR, there is a limited capacity for planning, monitoring and evaluation of rural
investment programs to ensure their social, environmental, and economic soundness, as well as
for the regulation and control of animal and plant pests and diseases, the quality control of non
organic agricultural inputs, seed and planting materials, and food products. The efficiency of
MDR services is impaired by its highly centralized organization, lack of training, logistics, and
poor remuneration.
(e) Limited capacity of agricultural services to address the particular needs of the farming
community and unsustainability of their financing. Although the National Agricultural
Research System (NARS) and the National Agricultural Extension System (NAES) have been
greatly improved over the past decade, with support from the Bank, both need to be revamped
and strengthened to become: (i) more efficient and responsive to the diversity of the
agro-socio-economic conditions of the producers; and (ii) financially sustainable in the long
run. While a large percentage of producers are women, agricultural services are not readily
available to them. Access of small producers to agricultural inputs and credit is still limited and
remains a constraint for improving farm productivity. There is no comprehensive rural training
and education program and this sub-sector has not been sufficiently supported by the
government nor by extemal donors. Rural communication is still at its infancy.
(f) Weak producer organizations. Producer organizations are in place up to the national lev,el,
but they remain by and large not as effective as they could be. Their weaknesses stem from
organizational and managerial difficulties: they lack well trained human resources; because
they have been often government- or donor-induced, their leaders' legitimacy is often in doubt;
their capacity to communicate with their members and to keep information flowing in both
directions is weak; and they lack financial leverage.
(g) Cotton sector crisis. Mali's cotton sector, which achieved impressive growth since the 1994
devaluation of the CFA franc, has been facing a severe financial and structural crisis since
1998. The crisis was catalyzed by the sharp decline in world prices for cotton lint combined
with the inability of CMDT, the cotton parastatal, to respond effectively to the price shock.
Despite the low price paid to farmers, CMDT accumulated losses. An action plan was
implemented in 1999/2000, but it was not sufficient to deal with the structural deficiencies of
the cotton industry.
Government Rural Sector Strategy
The main constraints to the development of the rural sector have clearly been identified. In 1992, the
government prepared a long-term rural development plan (Schema Directeur du Developpement Rural -
SDDR) and a detailed action plan to implement the strategy in 1993. Progress has been slow, however.
In October 2000, a review took stock of progress made and updated the SDDR through a revised Action
Plan for the next decade, which emphasized the following priorities:
(i) Improving the management and conservation of natural resources to promote sustainable
growth. A Ministry of Environment has recently been created to coordinate implementation of
the Environment Action Program, through various on-going and planned programs supported by
the donor community, including GEF and IDA (particularly the PGRN project), and a Draught
Preparedness Program is being envisaged to better manage climatic risks;
-9-



(ii) Improving the provision of basic rural infrastructure. Extending the rural road network has
been given now a high priority, and the government has adopted a new rural transport strategy.
The government has also adopted a new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in March 2000 to
increase to safe water in rural areas (the FY00 IDA-financed National Rural Infrastructure
Program, PNIR will support the development of rural transport infrastructure, rural water
supply and sanitation, as well as the rehabilitation and/or the construction of irrigation schemes
for a better control and management of irrigation water);
(iii) Refocusing MDR on core public service functions. The government has carried out a study
defining: (i) the core functions to be performed by the state exclusively, e.g. policy
formulation, regulation; (ii) functions that the state can carry out in conjunction with the
private sector, producer organizations, NGOs, etc..-- e.g. agricultural research and extension,
training, communication, animal health, plant protection, promoting rural organizations, and
(iii) functions to be immediately privatized -- e.g. production, processing, marketing, input
supply, credit, etc. Indeed, the privatization program of conmnercial entities is well underway,
including the rural works and equipment company (Operation des Travaux et d'Equipement
Rural -- OTER, privatized in April 1995), the veterinary pharmacy (Pharmacie Veterinaire du
Mali-- PVM, liquidated in March 1995), and the sugar complex (Complexe Sucrier de Kala
Superieur-- SUKALA, privatized in December 1995). Other entities like Office du Niger were
restructured (April 1994), their commercial units privatized (rice mills, civil works unit,
agricultural implements workshop), and their services delivered on a cost recovery basis. The
next steps in the government strategy are to transfer to autonomous or private entities or to
share with private operators: (i) the veterinary and artificial insemination services; (ii) the
production and commercialization of imiproved seeds and seedlings; (iii) the management of
slaughterhouses and areas of slaughters; and (iv) agricultural extension/advisory services.
Given the recent severe financial crisis in Mali's cotton sector, the government has prepared a
new action plan for reforming and liberaJizing the cotton sector, including the privatization of
CMDTs agro-industrial and commercial activities. In addition to the downsizing of the
company, the program intends to divest all non-core operations including the
sub-contracting/outsourcing of extension services, whose delivery and quality would be
controlled by farmers and farmer organizations. This will be undertaken with support from
SAC 111.
(iv) Strengthening MDR 's capacity to deliver its core functions. MDR has initiated a restructuring
and strengthening program (with descriptions of posts and profiles), with the stated objective
of: (a) progressively transferring some of its functions to autonomous executing agencies
and/or to the private sector; (b) reinforcing its capacity for agricultural policy forrnulation,
program planning, statistical analysis, regulation and control, and monitoring and evaluation;
(c) bringing core services closer to the beneficiaries by decentralizing responsibilities to
regional directorates or lower units; and (d) realigning its internal management policies,
procedures and information systems with its new decentralized structure. An inventory of
MDR's existing and required human and physical resources has been done, and a skill gap
analysis is being carried out to serve as a basis for its staffing and training program. A small
unit (CARI) reporting directly to the Minister of Rural Development has been specially created
to spearhead the proposed reforms.
(v)  Strengthening the efficiency and sustainability of agricultural services, by promoting
pluralism and competition among service providers (public and private) and the participation
- 10 -



of beneficiaries in the design, implementation, monitoring and, gradually the financing of
research and extension programs. To improve the coherence, quality and accountability in the
research system, the government embarked in 1993 on a National Agricultural Research
Program (PNRA) ,whose objectives were to undertake deep institutional reforms including: (a)
establishing a National Agricultural Research Council responsible for defining research
priorities and monitoring the delivery of agreed upon research programs; (b) transforming IER,
the country's main research institute, into an autonomous institution with efficient internal
management procedures; (c) developing interactive processes between producers, extension
agents and researchers through producer participation in setting research objectives and
evaluating its results; and (d) improving research quality and relevance through enhanced
research programming, monitoring and evaluation methods and procedures. These institutional
reforms have been initiated successfully under the PNRA, but need to be continued and
consolidated.  Extension services were also improved under the IDA-financed National
Extension Project, through its reorganization along the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V)
system.  Although its performance has increased markedly, the current system  is still
overwhelmingly based on public service delivery, is top-down and is little, if at all, accountable
to beneficiaries. It needs to be restructured to give an increased role to the private sector in the
provision of extension services and introduce demand-driven mechanisms for improving the
quality and the relevance of extension programs to beneficiaries. The government also intends
to promote the development of the existing local savings and credit associations to improve
rural financial intermediation in rural areas;
(vi)   Strengthening the capacity of producer organizations to be the main partners of
government in the design and management of rural development policies and programs, in
particular at the local and regional level, and to be the key instrument for improving farmers
access to the inputs and services they need. The legal framework for the operation of producer
organizations has been revised to take into account the evolving political/social/economic
environment. Training will be provided to members of producer organizations and leaders to
foster efficient, transparent and accountable management. Consultation and representation
mechanisms will be established or consolidated at the national, regional and local levels to
facilitate producers' access to information, and the representation of their interests in national
fora and negotiations.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed project will primarily address the restructuring and decentralization of the Ministry of
Rural Development (MDR), the efficiency and relevance of agricultural support services, as well as the
strengthening of producer organizations.  Other sector issues are being addressed under separate
operations. The overall objective of the program is to improve the performance and responsiveness of
agricultural services as a whole. The proposed restructuring is expected to make agricultural services
more accountable and cost-efficient. The program will promote the development of the private sector,
which will have an increased role in the delivery of agriculture advisory services.  Producer
organizations, in particular for the cotton sector, will be strengthened and empowered to play an effective
role in the design of both technology generation and transfer programs and making the entities involved in
agricultural services more accountable to the beneficiaries. Strategic action plans will be developed for
two key programs, one for rural training and education and the other for rural communication. A new
emphasis will be given to the promotion of environmentally and socially responsible agriculture. The
project will be supporting these efforts.
- 11 -



Strategic choices made in project design, for the first phase of a longer-term national program include:
A change from previous research and extension projects: Emphasis on producer participation. The
operation was first intended to be a continuation and a merging of the National Agricultural Extension
and National Agricultural Research Projects. The mid-term reviews and implementation completion
reports for these projects had identified one of the problems as being the lack of accountability of the
research and extension institutions to producers and lack of responsiveness to their needs. Failure to
involve the main users in the technology generation and dissemination process had led to several
inefficiencies, among which: (i) the generation and extension of technologies that do not correspond to the
diversity of socio-economic and agroecological constraints and fail to take into account the knowledge
accunulated by producers; and (ii) delays in technology dissemination and adoption. The proposed
project will address these issues by helping Community-Based Organizations and Producer Organizations
play an effective role in the design of both technology generation and transfer programs and making the
public and private entities involved in agricultural services more accountable to the beneficiaries.
Agricultural technology generation (Research) and transfer (Extension) as a continuum. Perhaps
the most important institutional reforms will be to step away from the present institutional set up for
research and extension, i.e. the national research institutes (IER and LCV) as the exclusive building
blocks for agricultural technology generation, and a heavily centralized public extension agency with a
few semi-public agencies (ON and CMDT in particular, for which extension is a secondary activity).
Lessons learned from previous extension and research projects in Mali and elsewhere show that the
linkages between extension and research are always the weakest element of the agricultural services
delivery chain. The challenge for Mali is to determiine how to exploit the complementarities between the
various actors involved in research and extension, mainly the University, agricultural schools, the private
sector and the NCOs, so as to allow additional scientific and practitioner skills and resources to be
tapped and therefore develop a well-articulated integrated National Agricultural Technology Generation
and Transfer Knowledge System (ATKS). The program will seek in the long run to establish one single
national system for the programming and financing of agricultural technology generation and transfer, the
execution of programs being done on a demand-driven and contractual basis through a Competitive
Agricultural Technology Grant System.
Separate the financing from the execution of extension and research programs and introduce
competiton among agricultural services providers. A separate competitive funding mechanism has a
number of advantages over the direct funding of an executing institute or agency:
(i)   it allows for effective involvement of research and extension users and stakeholders in
priority setting and resource allocation; thus it interests them in funding research and
extension, and provides an enabling environment for sustainable funding;
(ii)   it allows other research and extension suppliers (other than IER and LCV, and the public
extension agency) to have access to funding, thus it ensures an optimal utilization of
scarce human and physical resources, provides the financial tool for building a national
agricultural technology knowledge system; and promotes collaboration among all entities
involved,
(iii)  it improves the scientific quality and relevance of research and extension activities
through scientific rigor and producers overview in proposal selection and
implementation;
(iv)   it ensures that funding is effectively allocated to the team of researchers or extension
- 12-



workers, whose proposal has been approved;
(v)   it enforces the accountability of researchers and extension workers for results.
The project will consolidate the progress made under the PNRA and PNVA on this aspect.
Capital development through the empowerment and capacity-building of producer organizations.
The program is designed from the start to bring together technology users and suppliers, under a
three-pronged approach to agricultural services, based on collaboration among producer organizations,
research, and extension. Producer organizations have a crucial role to play in defining the research and
extension agenda and priorities, in accelerating the diffusion of information and in providing services to
producers to facilitate technology adoption. They can bring about more demand-driven and accountable
agricultural services. In addition, producer organizations, in particular for the cotton sector, will
increasingly be involved in the business of agricultural input distribution and product marketing, and thus
will be more powerful and financially viable. However, producer organizations need support to build up
their capacity to help them play an effective role in the technology development and diffusion process, as
well as in input distribution and product marketing business.
Adaptable Program Lending (APL) vs. a Specific Investment Loan (SIL). APL was selected for three
reasons. First, institutional development, agricultural technology generation, and technology adoption are
long-term processes that benefit from stable, long-term support. This is especially so in Mali, where
major system reform and redirection is necessary. Secondly, development of a pluralistic research and
extension system does not lend itself to blueprint financing. Institutions require time to develop
strategies, plans, and alliances, and project financing must adapt to institutional needs as they evolve.
And, finally, decentralized provision of demand-driven services represents a fundamental change in
Malian agricultural technology programs and requires a period of leaming and refining program design
and implementation strategies as these programs are developed. The flexibility to adapt subsequent
phases of the program to what is being learned under a previous phase and to the evolving needs of the
country and its rural sector is essential in such an institution and social capital building effort. The Rural
Sector Institutional Development Letter clearly spells out the long-term vision and the critical path and
benchmarks that will set the basic framework for the proposed APL.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
As indicated in the Rural Sector Institutional Development Policy Letter, the long-term vision for the
proposed program is the following:
(a)    Refocus and streamline the services of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) on sector policy
formulation, coordinated sector policy guidance, monitoring and evaluation, control and regulatory
functions, with corresponding services strengthened and relocated to the regions. Mandates
between the Ministry and the research and extension services will be clearly separated.
(b)    Separate research (= technology generation) planning and funding from research execution. All
research activities will be financed through two financing mechanisms, one for strategic research,
the other one for research and development (R&D). Regional common-interest research programs
in collaboration with other NARSs, and regional/international research centers (in particular the
CGLAR centers) will be financed through a Regional Agricultural Research Competitive Fund.
- 13-



(c)    Make extension (= technology transfer) services (public and private) accountable to producers and
responsive to producers' demand.   Decision-making regarding extension programs and
management will be in the hands of producer organizations, who will progressively bear a
substantial share of the costs of these services.
(d)    Entrust the planning and monitoring activities of technology generation and transfer, as well as the
corresponding allocation of resources to a National Council for Agricultural Technology (CNTA)
independently from the MDR and the implementing research institutes or extension entities. The
CNTA would be an independent body with a majority representation of research and extension
users. Establishment of an autonomous Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) will be explored
during the course of Phase 2 of the APL program.
(e)    Identify research and development (R&D), extension, and functional literacy activities at the local
level jointly with producer organizations and establish contractual arrangements between them, on
the one hand, and research, extension, and training/education services providers (including the
public and private sector, non-profit organizations, and the universities) on the other.
Establishment of a network of farm management centers in the various ecological zones will
complement technology transfer activities.
(f)    Promote strong and effective producer organizations at the local, regional and national levels,
capable of: (i) having a say, technically and financially, in technology generation and transfer; and
(ii) effectively providing services to their members to promote increased farm productivity and
incomes, and sustainable natural resources management through technology change. Producer
organizations will be able to participate in the fmancing of research and extension activities out of,
inter alia, levies on agricultural production. They will be able to take increasing responsibility in
input distribution and product marketing.
Program Phase Objectives                               Trigger Conditions
First Phase (2001-2003).                         See detailed trigger conditions in Section A 3.
To set in place the institutional reforms to
streamline and achieve more regional autonomy
and accountability of public agencies, consolidate
and expand the technology generation and
transfer system on a demand-driven and
contractual basis, and empower producer
organizations.
Second Phase (2004-2007).                       *  Efficient and sustainable MDR core services
functioning;
To consolidate and expand the achievements of the   *  Government financing is supporting the costs
first phase, in particular the accountability and  associated with the maintenance of the national
responsiveness of research and extension entities,  agricultural scientific capacity, and together with
and thus create an environment in which the     commodity organizations 80% of Strategic
beneficiaries are willing to assume an increasing  Research Programs;
share of the cost of the services they receive.  *   Positive extemal peer reviews of strategic
Move from the linear model of technology
- 14 -



research programs;
generation and transfer toward a more integrated    *  Positive evaluation of implementation of
Agricultural Knowledge and Information System  Competitive Research Grant Scheme, both for
with one single financing mechanism            strategic research sub-projects and regional R&D
sub-projects;
.  Private sector and other stakeholders are
cofmancing at least 25% of R&D project costs;
*  Establishment of a nation-wide demand-driven
Agricultural Technology Transfer Grant System
and Fund based on the experience of the 5 pilot
areas;
* Positive evaluation of regional extension
programs.
Third Phase (2008-2010).
To ensure the long-term sustainability of the  .  An efficient and sustainable National
system by completing the transfer of financial  Agricultural Knowledge System (NAKS)
responsibility for most of the operating costs to  established and functioning;
producers and other shareholders/clients of the  *  Community- and Producer-Based Organizations
research and extension agencies.               are co-managing the NAKS.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector         Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total       (US$M)  financing
I. MDR Reform: Rationalization and  Institutional      15.50       29.0     13.80       31.7
Modernization                     Development
II. Improving the efficiency, relevance, Research       8.70       16.3      6.30       14.5
and sustainability of the National
Agricultural Research System
Ill. Improving the efficiency,    Agricultural         18.00       33.7     14.40       33.1
relevance, and sustainability of the  Extension
National Agricultural Extension System
IV. Support to Producer Organizations Institutional     9.20       17.2      7.00       16.1
Development
V. PPF Refinancing                Non-Sector Specific   2.00        3.7      2.00        4.6
Total Project Costs                   53.40     100.0      43.50     100.0
Total Financing Required                     53.40     100.0     43.50      100.0
- 15-



Component I. MDR Reform (US$15.5 million).
I. 1. Sharing and/or transfer of non-basic public service functions/activities to autonomous and/or
private entities (US$1.2 million). Under the project the following activities have been identified for total
divestiture (D) or for sharing between public and private operators (S): (i) the veterinary services and
artificial insemination (S); (ii) the production and commercialization of improved seeds and seedlings (D);
(iii) the management of slaughter-houses/areas (D); (iv) the provision of technical and management services
to cooperative organizations (S); (v) the management of natural resources (S), and; (vi) the provision of
agricultural extension advisory services (S). During project preparation, action plans have been prepared
for carrying out the proposed transfer and their satisfactory implementation would be a trigger for the
Phase II of the program.
I. 2. Decentralization and strengthening of Ministry's basic public services (US$4.3 million). Within
the context of the overall decentralization strategy of the government, the program would assist MDR's
CARI in deconcentrating the responsibility for the planning and implementation of MDR's core services
(DGRC; DNAER; DNAMR) to the regional and local levels by:
(i) designing and adopting a new decentralized organizational structure;
(ii) realigning its internal policies, procedures and management systems with its new structure;
(iii) training staff at all levels and providing them with the necessary equipment to accomplish their
roles and functions.
In addition, the project would support the strengthening of MDR's regulatory and quality control functions
through:
(i) the establishment of a National Committee for Food Safety, and the strengthening of a National
Disease Surveillance Network, and the National Pest Management Committee;
(ii) a review/updating/streamlining of critical food safety and agricultural input safety and
environmental standards and regulations, and of control policies and procedures, and the wide
dissemination of standards and regulations;
(iii) the strengthening of the capacity of the national and regional services -the Directorates of
Regulation and Control (DGRC), and of Rural Works and Equipment (DNAER); and
(iv) the training of staff of other relevant public services, but also of relevant private providers of
these type of services, in quality control and safety standards monitoring.
By the end of the first year of project implementation, MDR's medium-term staffing/training program
(including if necessary a staff redeployment/renewal plan) would be developed on the basis of a detailed
skill gap analysis and an inventory of existing and required physical assets. Completion of MDR's
restructuring program would be a trigger for the Phase II of the Program.
- 16 -



I. 3. Strengthening of MDR's policy formulation, planning, statistics, and monitoring and evaluation
functions (US$2.1 million). The project would support a major program for strengthening MDR's
capacity in policy analysis and formulation, policy reform and public investment program design and
iraplementation, statistics, and monitoring and evaluation, as well as activities related to the Cotton Sector
Recovery and Restructuring Program:
(i) An Integrated Sector Management Information System (ISMIS) would be established to collect
and analyze essential information on sector performance and provide a prioritized and timely flow of
information to decision-makers in government, to producer organizations and other economic agents
in the sector, as well as to MDR's own services including DNAMR and DGRC, and the CPS at the
central level. The statistics and M&E activities of all rural development programs/projects would all
be integrated in the ISMIS.
(ii) MDR's staff would receive in-service training in policy analysis, program planning, statistics,
monitoring and evaluation. In addition, MDR would sub-contract some of the data collection and
analysis work to specialized institutions such as universities, IER, or private firms. Adequate
logistics in the form of computers, office equipment and transport as well as funds for operating
costs would be provided so that staff would perform their duties effectively. Provision has been
made for both internal and external short and medium-term training, and study tours.
1. 4. Strengthening of MDR's Direction of Administration and Finance (DAF) (US$1.7 million). As
part of improving MDR human resource development and management, the division in charge of MDR
Human Resources Management would be strengthened. In addition to its administrative and financial
management responsibilities, the DAF would be in charge, with project's support, of the design and
implementation of MDR's human resource restructuring program (see above), and of the ministry's overall
medium-term training program.
L. 5. Special programs: the Rural Training Program (US$1.0 miUion); the Rural Communication
Program (US$1.0 million); the AIDS Prevention Program (US$1.0 million); Cotton Sector
Restructuring Program (US$1.0 miUion). Under the project, provision has been made for the
development of a long-term strategy and a medium-term action plan for Rural Training, as well as for
Rural Communication. In addition, given the dramatic spread of AIDS within the country and the critical
role that MDR could play in reaching out to the people working in the rural sector, an AIDS/HIV
prevention program has been developed to support PNLS's efforts to prepare and launch a Multisectoral
Approach Program for AIDS/HIV prevention. Provision under the project has also been made to support
the functioning of the Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton(MRSC) and cotton sector related
studies.
The Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance Program (US$1.0 milion). Under the
project provision has been made to support a Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance
Program that would include in particular the co-financing required for: (i) a Drought Preparedness
Program, and; (ii) the removal and destruction of stocks of obsolete pesticides. Regarding the removal and
destruction of stocks of obsolete pesticides, an action plan and a related budget has been prepared by the
Ministry in charge of the Environment with technical support from FAO. The estimated cost associated
with the removal and destruction of these stocks amount to a total of about US$2.5 million. A financing
plan is being prepared and will presented to the donor community for their support.
I. 6. Project Coordination (US$1.2 million). As part of MDR strengthening, a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) under the MDR General Secretariat would be responsible for the overall coordination and guidance
- 17 -



for project implementation. The project would support the costs associated with the functioning of the
PCU, including a national coordinator, a deputy and support staff. Provision has also been made for the
functioning of a Project Steering Committee.
Component II. Improving the efficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National Agricultural
Research System (US$8.7 million).
The research component would focus on four major thrusts:
(i) strengthen the NARS' institutional capacity, by improving CNRA's capacity to provide
overall policy and scientific guidance, and upgrading and maintaining the national
agricultural research capacity, in particular of IER which will continue to play a central
role in the new national agricultural research system;
(ii) establish under the management of CNRA a financing mechanism for strategic and
applied agricultural research based on national medium and long-term priorities;
(iii) establish a decentralized, demand-driven and competitive financing mechanism for
short-term agricultural R&D sub-projects in the eco-regions of Mali; and
(iv) improve the linkages between the national and the intemational research systems
through partnerships with regional and intemational institutions/programs/networks;
II. 1. Strengthening of NARS Research Management Capacity (US$1.6 million). The project would.
support in particular the strengthening of CNRA as the overall policy-making as well as scientific and
fimancial management institution of the national research system. CNRA's mandate would focus oni (i) the
overall guidance for the upgrading and maintaining of the national agricultural scientific capacity, (ii) the
development of participatory mechanisms with the various research stakeholders for strategic and adaptive
research; and (iii) the overall management of technology generation programs in line with the national
strategy and priorities of the medium and long term National Agricultural Research. A comprehensive
financial management system would be set-up for the NARS so that research program budgets and
financial execution reports can be consolidated and monitored by sources of financing. CNRA would be
responsible for the management of Strategic and Applied Research programs and of the Competitive
Agricultural Research & Development Grant Fund (CAR&DGF).
The project would finance: mninor civil works for CNRA office renovations; vehicles, goods, and
equipment; technical assistance and studies; staff training, publishing and documentation; salaries and
operating costs for the CNRA (including scientists' participation in the various regional and national
committees, fora, regional and international research networks, etc.); and NARS program monitoring and
evaluation.
The composition and terms of reference of CNRA Executing Secretariat and its internal operational policy
paper has been reviewed during negotiations. Satisfactory operation of CNRA under its new mandate
would be a Phase II trigger.
IL 2. Upgrading and maintaining the NARS Research Scientific Capacity (US$43 million). The
project would support the rehabilitation of IER's physical infrastructure (IER's headquarters and regional
research stations), vehicles, goods, and equipment for the research executing entities (in particular IER, and
LCV); technical assistance and studies; research staff training; scientific intelligence system, publishing
- 18-



and documentation; scientist's participation in regional and international networks and workshops.
11. 3. Funding of Strategic and Applied Agricultural Research Sub-Projects (SARP)
(US$1.4 million). The project would include provision for the financing and/or co-financing with other
donors (under parallel financing) of priority strategic and applied agricultural research sub-projects
identified in the context of the Programme Strategique de Recherche Agricole (PSRA), and specific ad
hoc analyses and planning studies. The SARPs will essentially be carried out by IER during the first phase
of the APL before being open to competition on a scientific competitive basis during the second phase of
PASAOP implementation. In view of their strategic/public good nature, a minimum of 30 percent of the
financing of these programs would come from government and national commodity organizations (in
particular the cotton sector), and potentially from co-financing with Regional and International research
organizations. Under this sub-component, the project would finance direct and research-related indirect
costs, as a percentage of direct costs that will be determined by the CNRA Management Committee.
Indirect costs include station and equipment maintenance and management. Direct costs include research
operating costs, i.e. research sub-projects related materials and supplies, minor equipment requirements,
facility renovation, and short-term contractual research assistant and laborers salaries. It may also' finance
short term training and travel for research team leaders.
The adoption of the operating policies and procedures for financing competitive strategic and applied
research sub-projects would be a Phase II trigger.
Note: The Dutch Government will provide parallel financing for most of the strategic and applied research
sub-projects and research and development sub-projects. AFD through PASE will also provide parallel
financing in particular for soil fertility research sub-projects in the cotton areas.
-H. 4. Competitive funding of demand-driven agricultural research and development sub-projects
(AR&DP) (US$1.4 million). Based on the experience of the Research Users Fund that has been developed
under the PNRA, the project would finance on a regional and demand-driven basis AR&D sub-projects
submitted by beneficiaries and focusing on resolving constraints to small farn productivity and income
generation. AR&DP funding would be regional and grants would finance research operating costs,
including research materials and supplies, travel, minor equipment requirements, and short-term contractual
research assistant and laborer salaries. Grants may also finance short term training and travel for research
team leaders, but would not finance large construction, major equipment procurement, salary supplements,
general degree training programs, or salaries for lead researchers. Grant funding for AR&DP would be
implemented according to procedures described in the Implementation Manual The functioning of the
Competitive AR&D Grant System under satisfactory operating policies and procedures will be a Phase II
trigger. During Phase II, the Competitive AR&D Grant System would be multi-donor funded.
Component III. Improving the efficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National Agricultural
Extension System (US$18.0 million).
Building on the existing national extension system, the project would support the on-going public service
decentralization process and introduce progressively demand-driven contracting mechanisms to ensure the
relevance and quality of extension programs to Malian producers and agribusiness. Such demand-driven
contracting mechanisms would result in a pluralistic (public and private) system for the financing and
execution of extension programs, thereby increasing private sector participation and contributing to the
sustainability of the system.
- 19-



MII. 1. Strengthening and regionalization of extension services (US$15.6 million). Under the project,
DNAMR's Extension Directorate would be progressively decentralized to the regions:
(i) Responsibility for the planning and implementation of extension services would be progressively
placed at local and regional levels. Producers would participate in the management of the extension
services through their producer organizations. Extension activities would be undertaken on the basis
of annual contractual arrangements between DNAMR regional offices and producer organizations
and/or the rural communes. The program contract would specify the content of extension activities,
expected results, operating budget (and gradually, see below, the contribution of producer
organizations or rural communes to the financing). Regional Extension Coordination Committees
would serve as a forun for the programming and financing of extension activities.
(ii) The main functions of DNAMR 's central Directorate at national level would be to provide
support to the regional directorates and field operations in the following areas: (i) R&D
methodology, (ii) training (communication extension methods, and agricultural technologies), (iii)
ex-post financial management and accounting control, (iv) human resources management
procedures for personnel annual evaluation and career development, (v) establishment of a
referential data bank on agricultural technology and results of on-farm research, and (vi) overall
extension program monitoring and evaluation
Extension activities would be progressively formulated at the rural commune level, through a
participatory diagnosis conducted jointly by the producers, DNAMR staff and staff from other
development agencies working in the rural commune (NGOs, etc). Agreed upon extension activities would
be the basis for annual contractual arrangements (work program agreement- WPA) between the rural
commune and/or PO, and the Regional Directorate of DNAMR. The WPA would specify the content of
the extension activities, the expected results, the operating budget and the contribution of the producer
organization or rural commune to financing. Wherever POs have their own private extension provider,
DNAMR would only provide the service provider with technical backstopping as needed through its subject
matter specialists and training programs. The program of work of the private agent, technical back up and
training, and budget would be defined in an annual contract between DNAMR, the PO and the private
service provider. The cost of the services of the private provider would be funded by the project. Once
WPAs have been agreed at the communal level, they would be submitted to the regional RDCC for final
approval and funding on a matching grant basis. The organization of DNAMR and working arrangements
for extension activities at the regional and local levels would be presented in a detailed NAES operation
manual. The draft operational manual was agreed upon at negotiations. Satisfactory implementation of
DNAMER restructuring/decentralization would be a Phase II trigger.
MII. 2. Pilot Extension Program (PEP) for contracting extension to private providers of extension
services (US$1.0 million). A Pilot Program for contracting extension/advisory services (PEP) would be
implemented in five regions --the District of Bamako and in four selected regions (Koulikoro, Segou,
Mopti, Sikasso).  Its objective would be to test institutional arrangements for contracting private
agricultural extension services at a communal level and/or at a Producer Organization level. Because of
the pilot nature of this sub-component, the project would finance 100 percent of the cost of the extension
contracts to be passed between POs and selected private providers.  Because of the proposed
demand-driven mechanism, it is difficult to predict the number of PEP contracts that would be financed
under the project, but it is expected that the project would be able to finance PEP grants for a total amount
of US$1.0 million.
- 20 -



11I.3. Contracts for agricultural support services in cotton areas (US$1.4 million). In the context of
the Cotton Sector Recovery and Restructuring Program (under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC 111), agreement was reached that cotton producers in PY2 would contract with parties of their choice
to obtain the technical agricultural support services they need following PEP procedures. Starting in PY2,
provision has been made for that purpose, and the financing of such contracts is expected to be provided
directly from the Cotton Producer Organizations.
Piloting and Coordination of the Extension Program. A National Extension Task Force would be
established to provide guidance and coordination for the new decentralized extension system.' The task
force would in particular be responsible for reviewing progress made in implementing contractual
arrangernents for the provision of extension services (with public and private providers) and promoting
mechanisms for the participation of beneficiaries in the financing of demand-driven extension services.
Progress in these areas would be reviewed at the end of the project and lessons used to scale-up the use of
contractual arrangements and shared financing between extension service providers and beneficiaries. The
establishment of these mechanisms and procedures would be a trigger condition for the second phase.
The project would finance: (a) civil works for the rehabilitation of central and regional offices; (b)
equipment; (c) local and foreign short-term technical assistance; (d) workshops for participatory regional
planning and priority setting, and for institutional analyses and strategy development; (e) monitoring and
evaluation and irnpact assessments, and (f) up to 75 percent of DNAMR extension services operating costs
(excluding salaries).
Comuonent IV. Support to Producer Organizations (US$9.2 million).
Under Government's decentralization program producer organizations and associations at village/comrniuie
level (POs and CAs) would be empowered to take increased responsibilities for local development. The
project would support producer organizations (at the national, regional and local levels) to improve access
of members to agricultural services, inputs, product marketing, credit and information. Three levels of
producer organizations would have access to funding under the PO component: (i) the national level: the
umbrella organizations, in particular APCAM and ANOPA; (ii) the regional level, in particular the CRAs,
the regional cooperatives and regional unions; and (iii) the local level, POs (at the rural communes or
inter-communes level).
IV. 1. Strengthening National Associations (APCAM, ANOPA) (US$1.4 million), and CRAs and
Regional Unions capabilities (US$2.9 million): The project will support APCAM, ANOPA, and CRAs
and Regional Unions (including cotton related Unions) in strengthening of their capabilities to carry out
their representation and advocacy role; to participate in the analysis/design of sectoral policies and
programs; and negotiate with public and private partners. Specifically, the project will support the
strengthening of these apex institutions through:
(i) the rehabilitation/construction and equipment, and up to 25 percent of the operating costs of
APCAM, ANOPA, and CRAs;
(ii) the training for APCAM, ANOPA, and CRAs personnel, and of national and regional
PO/cooperatives/union leaders;
(iii) communication, forum, and networking, and the development of a monitoring and
evaluation system, as well as of a PO information system.
- 21 -



IV. 2. Promotion and strengthening of private agricultural advisory services providers (US$0.5
million). The project would provide additional support (within and outside the cotton area) to the
AFD-financed PASE project for the development of an efficient private agricultural advisory system
(technical and managerial advice) on the basis of existing arrangements, in particular the Private
Services Centers (PSC). It would support the promotion of new agricultural advisory services
providers (in particular for cotton producers) and the strengthening of the capacity of existing PSCs
and of their network through the creation of a national association of all such centers willing to
participate. Links to the research institutes and universities would be developed to ensure a flow of
technical information as well as advice on demand. Information exchange links among the agricultural
advisory services providers and/or PSCs would be strengthened, as would links with the market
information system initiated with support from PAVCOPA and the Observatoire des Marches
Agricoles (OMA).  The project would provide technical support (technical assistance, studies, and
training) to the association and its members, including new associations that would be established in
locations not yet covered, in addition to the indirect financial support provided through the competitive
funds for financing demand driven services for producers organizations (see above). It is expected that
the services providers and centers would increasingly charge users for the services provided, and will
become financially sustainable.
WV. 3.   Strengthening local and regional POs through a demand-driven OPA Agricultural
Advisory Service Grant (AAS) Grant Program (US$4.4 million).
At the local and regional level, POs' fora will be established to bring together local or regional POs for
discussing and setting common priorities. These fora would also review and approve individual POs'
project proposals for financing under the Agricultural Advisory Service Grant Scheme (AASGS)
managed by APCAM. All POs would have access to funding under the AASGS. Eligible activities
would be selected in accordance with the procedures and criteria of the "PO Agricultural Advisory
Service Grant Management Manual" , and funded on a matching grant basis. They would include:
(a)    Training  in  the  following  domains: (i) functional literacy; (ii) organizational and
financial/accounting management for PO Board members; (iii) association rules and processes, including
cooperative and associative movement regulations; (iv) leadership skills; (v) understanding the
macro-economic and institutional environment; (vi) participatory diagnosis, including gender analysis; (vii)
program/project formulation; (viii) the organization and management of marketing and of input supply
delivery.
(b)    Communication programs (rural radio, newspapers, videocassettes as well as less formal means of
communication: traditional theater and songs) to communicate relevant information to their members in
technical, economic and organizational domains.
(c)    Technical and management advice to assist producer organizations in the implementation of
economic activities (for example, extension, specialized agricultural technical skills; preparation of the
documentation to access credit; micro-enterprise management; etc.).
Once a subproject is approved by the local forum, a contract would be established between APCAM, the
PO and the service provider (a private extension firm, a research institution, an university, an NGO, etc.),
specifying the activities, the results to be achieved, the budget and the payment modalities. The percentage
of the project costs to be funded by the PO's themselves would depend upon the type of activities and will
range from 10 to 40 percent (less for training or communication, more for technical and management
advice). Procedures and criteria for sub-project selection, monitoring and evaluation, and auditing are
- 22 -



specified in the "PO Agricultural Advisory Service Grant Management Manual".
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The government's rural development strategy (Schema Directeur) and its accompanying action
plan has been updated in October 2000 to account for major developments since its first adoption in 1992.
They provide a basic framework for all sector interventions.  The government presented a concise
agricultural policy note that highlights the major issues to guide investment decisions in the rural sector
over the next several years. With regard to institutional reforms, a Rural Sector Institutional Development
Policy Letter has been prepared as a basis for the institutional reforms that would be supported by the
project.
3. Benefits and target population:
Rural poverty alleviation
A National Strategy for the Fight Against poverty (Strategie Nationale de la Lutte contre la Pauvrete -
SNLP) has been adopted in July 1998 by the Government. In July 2000, an Interim Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP) has been issued. It provides a framework for poverty-reductions actions. In this
context, with 70 percent of the rural population in Mali being below the poverty line (US$1 a day), earning
most of their revenues from farming, the Program would contribute to broad-based poverty alleviation in
the country. It would do so by supporting technological change and innovation in crop, livestock, fishery
and forestry production and in agroprocessing, thereby improving returns to all production factors,
including land and labor. Strengthened producer organizations would be able to provide better services to
their members and facilitate technology adoption, by improving access to inputs and facilitating marketing.
IThe participatory approach and fine-tuning of technical recommendations would help address the needs of
vulnerable groups and of the poorest producers, many of them are women. A gender analysis was carried
out during project preparation to assess the specific needs and constraints of rural women. Rural women
who make up over 60 percent of the fanning population and are often the major providers of their families,
would particularly benefit from targeted technical and organizational interventions to be financed under the
project. Increased incomes for women would improve household food security and well-being, as women
spend most on their earnings on their families, especially their children. Under the program, a "Vulnerable
Group Special Initiative" has been specifically designed to ensure that the poverty aspects are taken into
account in a systematic manner through all projects components. Given the broad consensus between the
GOM and all the donors on the proposed framework of activities to be executed under the program, it is
expected that the whole country would be covered. With the improved capacity of agricultural services to
effectively reach the faniing community, it is also expected that the project would directly benefit to about
450.000 rural families.
Social Capital and Capacity building
Through its producer organizations component, the program would invest in social capital, strengthening
grassroots organizations capacity to negotiate with actors and institutions that regulate: (i) access to
services, (ii) the functioning of input and output markets; and (iii) social access to means of production.
Strengthening local civil society capacity would help influence the processes through which value derived
from rural production activities is distributed and used, as well as the extent to which it is retained in local
communities. Empowering grassroots organizations is a social instrument for rural people to draw
themselves out of poverty. The program would support the producer organizations and community-based
organizations, in addition to technical advisory services, to access training courses on organizational and
self-management matters.
- 23 -



Improved governance
Strong grassroots associations such as producer organizations improve govemance: they foster more
effective and transparent public services at all levels.  In particular, user participation in the
decision-making and resource allocation of research and extension institutions would improve the
transparency in priority setting and resource use, as well as the quality and relevance of technical
recommendations.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
APL Implementation period: three phases of 3, 4 and 4 years each.
Project organization. The project would not have a separate project structure and organization. Project
implementation at the national and regional levels would be the responsibility of each executing agency,
namely CARI for the MDR reform component, CNRA for the research component, DNAMR for the
extension component, and APCAM for the support to producers' organizations (PO) component A draft
project operation manual defines the practical implementation modalities for the executing agencies. The
draft manual was reviewed and agreed upon at negotiations, and would be finalized before Credit
Effectiveness.
Project coordination. Overall coordination and guidance for project implementation will be provided by a
project coordinator seconded by a rural development specialist (agro-economist with monitoring and
evaluation experience). The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be responsible for coordinating the
monitoring activities and together with the financial management specialist (recruited under the:project by
the MDR Directorate of Administration and Finance) for consolidating the budget for each project
component. The PCU would, twice a year and as the need arises, recruit short-term consultants in various
fields (project monitoring and evaluation (M&E), technical, social, and environmental issues) for project
supervision, and conducting impact assessments of PASAOP's activities. The PCU would be responsible
for:
*   coordinating and consolidating for each component: work program and budget preparation;
* coordinating and consolidating for each component: bi-annual project technical and financial execution
reports that will include project implementation performance, project M&E indicators, procurement
and financial performance, and the fulfillment of legal covenants as stipulated in the credit agreement;
and
*   ensuring the secretariat of the PASAOP Steering Committee.
Project oversight. A project Steering Committee would be created to conduct periodic reviews and give
direction on policy and implementation issues. The Secretary General of MDR would be the chairperson,
and members would comprise the Director of the Natural Resources Management Project, senior officials
from the Prime Minister Office, the Ministries of Finance and of Planning, of Environment, a representative
of the Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton(MRSC), Directors of ODRs, the PASE Coordinator,
and representatives of the private sector (including in particular the Chambers of Agriculture and producer
organizations). The secretariat of the PASAOP Steering Committee would be provided by the Project
Coordinating Unit. Representatives of donors involved in rural sector development would be invited twice
a year at the Steering Committee meetings.
- 24 -



Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The National Agricultural Research Committee would be in
charge of the research program monitoring and evaluation, and impact assessment. Technical assistance
has been provided to set-up a M&E system for MDR reform and the producer organizations components,
as well as to improve the existing research and extension M&E systems. The deputy coordinator in the
PCU would double as the M&E coordinator, and be mandated with controlling data quality, consolidating
overall project information into annual plans and quarterly report and coordinate project impact evaluation
studies. He/she would act as a facilitator and communicator of the monitoring and evaluation results, and
as a trainer for the users of the M&E systems. He/she would be assisted in this task by the M&E units of
the project executing agencies, and in particular by CPS of MDR.
Note: The Mission de Restructuration du Secteur Coton(MRSC), although supported under the project,
would be part of the SAC III Technical Committee and thus would have its own implementation and M&E
arrangements.
In addition to the monitoring of progress toward expected outcomes, an Integrated Sector Management
Information System (ISMIS) would be developed during project implementation for the rural sector. CPS
of MDR would take the lead and provide key rural sector stakeholders with inforrnation to help them
monitor and analyze their activities, identify problems and formulate solutions, discover trends and pattems
for taking better management decisions at local, regional and national levels.  For ensuring the
sustainability of the system, all key stakeholders would be both ISMIS participants and users.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The alternative of preparing two separate follow-up projects to consolidate the gains made under the two
previous projects in agricultural research and extension, as well as a new livestock project was considered
but rejected. The Government and the Bank agreed that there would be synergies in bringing together
agricultural services. This would ensure consistency in addressing the needs of producers and in the
implementation of sector reforms. To provide a reasonable time frame and flexibility for implementing a
broad program of reformns and support, it was considered that an adaptable lending program (APL) was the
appropriate lending instrument. Another altemative considered was an operation that would go even
fuirther, and incorporate all major rural sub-sectors, e.g. rural infrastructure, and rural credit. However,
such an all-encompassing Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP) would be beyond the Malian
government capacity to manage and monitor. MDR needs first to be strengthened considerably before it
can take on such a task. Instead, rural infrastructure is being handled in a separate rural infrastructure
operation (PNIR), and rural credit will be addressed under a financial sector operation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
l  l                             Latest Supervision
Sector Issue          |          Project                  (PSR) Ratings
l___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___ ___    j ____ ___(Bank-financed  projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Economic Management               Economic Management Project,     S             S
ongoing
Poverty Alleviation               Grassroots Initiative to Fight   S             S
- 25 -



Hunger and Poverty, ongoing
Human development                Population and Rural Water       S             S
(Cr.2217-MLI), on going
Transport                        Transport Sector                 S             S
(Cr. 26170-MLI), ongoing
Capacity Building                Public Works and Capacity        HS           HS
Building Project
(Cr. 2371-MLI), completed
Rural Development                Agricultural Secal               S             S
(Cr. 2163-MLI), completed
Agricultural Services            S            S
(Cr. 2235-MLI), completed
Agricultural Research            S            S
(Cr. 2557-MLI), ongoing
Natural Res.Mgt                  S            S
(Cr. 2370-MLI), ongoing
Agro-Processing Project          S            S
(Cr.2737-MLI), ongoing
Pilot Private Irrig.Promotion    S             S
(Cr. N021-MLI), ongoing
National Rural Infrastructure
Program (recently launched)
Structural Adjustment            Third Structural Adjustment
Credit (SAC III), under
preparation                                 ___
Other deveiopment agencies
Poverty Alleviation              Local Area Development
Program (NORAD, Swiss
Cooperation, CIDA)
French Cooperation
Agriculture Development Support  VRES - ongoing
Dutch/French/KfW funded
projects at Office du Niger -
ongoing
French/AFD funded project:
Support to cotton-based
fanming systems (PASE)
recently approved
8th FED funded project:
Support to the Rice Sector
planned for 2002.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 26 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
As stated earlier, the proliferation of small, uncoordinated donor-financed projects has in the past
overtaxed MDR's sector management capacity, leading to parallel implementation arrangements (Rural
Development Agencies), insufficient counterpart funds, and contradictory philosophies and approaches to
development. The government has set up a Donor Coordination Committee to ensure coherence of all
activities in the rural sector. Also, because of the short-term horizon of most projects, institution building
objectives and sustainability were usually not obtained. The proposed APL approach would provide an
appropriate framework for building up strong institutions with producer participation. Benchmarks were
designed to monitor progress in institutional development and sustainability.
The main lessons from the ongoing or recently completed IDA-financed related projects, i.e. the
National Research Project, and the Agricultural Services Project are as follows:
PNRA: Although some improvements have been made in the piloting of user participation at national and
regional levels through the creation of the CNU and CRUs, the impact of research on agricultural
development remained insufficient because of: (i) the still limited participatory process for research design
and testing; and, (ii) poor accountability to producers. In addition, a number of organizational and
management issues remain unresolved under that project: (i) a civil service attitude and lack of a
performance review and reward system based on results; (ii) lack of competition for research program
proposals and among research institutions; (iii) an overextended network of infrastructures (experimental
stations and laboratories) that cannot be maintained adequately; and (iv) weak performance in accounting
and financial management.
PNVA: The fundamental weakness of the Agricultural Services Project was its institutional set-up: (i) lack
of accountability of extension agents to producers and insufficient use of participatory diagnosis,
programming and evaluation methods; (ii) insufficient supervision and technical back-up of front-line
extension workers by subject matter specialists and national and regional extension managers; and (iii)
insufficient attention to vulnerable groups and in particular women needs. In addition, the beneficiary
assessment done for the ICR emphasized that the way extension agents established and worked with
"contact groups" was problematic. One major weakness was that extension agents were not paying enough
attention to existing community associations or producer organizations and not working through them in
setting up their contact groups.
A review of the Bank's experience in agricultural technology generation and transfer, as documented by
OED evaluations, indicates that the following elements are important for success: (i) user ownership and
participation for priority settings, planning and monitoring, as well as financing, is crucial; (ii) a single
model cannot be designed for global application, pluralism and competition among services providers
(public, private, non-profit, and nongovernmental sectors) improve the efficiency of the system; (iii)
generation, transfer and adoption of technologies is a continuum (the linear model of technology generation
and transfer found in a large number of national research and transfer systems, has shown its limitations in
particular vis a vis farmer participation in planning and priority setting, and research-extension linkages)
within an integrated Knowledge and Information System; (iv) success and sustainability of development
programs require commitment to long-term social capital building through organizational and technical
training of user groups and community-based organizations. These lessons from previous projects have
been incorporated into the project design.
- 27 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
PASAOP has been largely prepared by the Malians themselves, as part of the government's overall effort to
update its rural sector strategy and investment program. The redefinition of the Ministry's role and its
restructuring has been prepared for over two years by a unit specially designated for this purpose
(CAMOPA, and then CARI). Several national seminars were held to involve Ministry staff in the design of
the reform and to give them the opportunity to influence the process. The extension component builds on
the recently completed National Agricultural Extension Program (PNVA), in which the government has
shown keen interest and has made available all necessary counterpart funds. The component to support
producer organizations is part of the government's policy to empower farmers to play a more active role in
the development process. This component has been prepared in collaboration with various producer
organizations.
There is a broad consensus among officials, donors involved in the rural sector, and beneficiaries that,
although ambitious for the long-mn, the program is aiming at the right objectives and should succeed with
close monitoring and appropriate flexibility. The recent AFD-funded PASE project is considered as part of
the PASAOP in the cotton zone and it has been agreed that the PASAOP Steering Committee would also
be responsible for guiding and supervising the implementation of the PASE. The planned Rice Sector
Support project to be funded by the European Union would complement the proposed PASAOP activities
(particularly the Research and PO components).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
'The Bank played a catalytic role in helping the government throughout the preparation of the PASAOP by:
(a) assisting it in the development of an overall coherent rural development policy and strategy, (b)
associating intensively all other donors; and (c) involving systematically and proactively the beneficiaries in
the preparation process. This augurs well for program irnplementation and would help MDR to regain
control over externally funded projects. IDA participation in this long-term institution building effort
through an adaptable lending program would provide an appropriate framework for the support given by
other donors, which is generally of shorter-term nature. The Bank would assist the Borrower in its efforts
to ensure closer donor coordination in the rural sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV-US$104 million; ERR = 27.3 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
There is ample evidence of satisfactory economic returns to investment in agricultural services in other
African countries. There is no reason to believe that economic retums to agricultural services in Mali
would be substantially below the level of historical return in other African countries.
An economic analysis of PASAOP as a whole would be methodologically difficult because of the strong
emphasis on institutional strengthening and social capital building. However, an economic analysis of the
research and technology transfer components has been completed. Because of the demand-driven nature of
the program, the analysis is based on a broad selection of prototype adaptive research and technology
transfer actions and investrnents (see AKIS Good Practice Note: "Economic Analysis of Agricultural
Research and Extension: Problems, Methods, and Guidelines for Good Practice"). Prototypes have been
applied to relevant natural regions and standards types of farms and herds. Corresponding farm/herds
models have been analyzed in both "with" and "without" project situations. Additional economic benefits
- 28 -



have been assessed, by type of farm/herds and by natural region, illustrating the possible increases in farm
revenues and overall agricultural product induced by the project.
The economic analysis covers the following aspects: (i) diagnosis of the present situation of production
systems and available transferable technologies; (ii) description of the analytical approach used for the
economic analysis; (iii) financial and economic analysis of prototype activities (iv) overall economic
analysis; and (v) sensitivity analysis and critical assumptions. The sensitivity analysis with switching
values considers the impact of changes in output prices, expected yields, rates of adoptions, investment and
operation costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 104 million; FRR = 27.3 % (see Annex 4)
There are no significant distortions in prices used to calculate Program costs and benefits. Financial NPV
and FRR for the Program would be essentially equivalent to the economic NPV and IRR.
Financial soundness of the program relies principally on the ability of producers and agribusiness to
participate in the financing of the development, transfer, adoption, and use of technologies and on the
ability of participating technology institutions/entities to sustain operations. Financial sustainability of
technology system is a major issue in most developing countries. It would be unrealistic to expect the first
phase of the APL program to be financially sustainable. However, the APL program as a whole, addresses
this problem by supporting: competitive, pluralistic, and demand-driven technology programs; co-financing
of technology generation and transfer from the producers and the agribusiness sector; decentralized
operations management, and; reforms in the involved institutions. In addition, the decentralized operation
envisaged under PASAOP requires establishing a new system of financial procedures and management that
would ensure transparency as well as accountability at various levels from central units to regional and
district units. The establishment of such a system would be a condition of effectiveniess.
Fiscal Impact:
The impact of the proposed project over the public sector budget has been assessed. The issue is whether
the recurrent costs generated by the project would be satisfactorily covered under government budget
during program implementation, as well as in the longer term. The analytical approach consisted of
comparing, in the medium and long-term, the additional recurrent costs generated by the program with
estimates of primary sector public expenditures dedicated to salaries, operations, and maintenance.
Different levels of financial participation of the users in extension and research costs have been integrated
into this analysis, taking into account the risks of delays and a less than expected contribution.
The project impact on fiscal revenues has also been assessed, in the context of existing and improved tax
systems for the agricultural sector. This overall impact is the result of impacts in main sub-sectors (rice,
other cereals, cotton, horticulture, livestock). Each impact has been estimated on the basis of fiscal
revenues (direct and indirect) generated by the additional production expected from the project taking
account of the results and conclusions of existing studies.
Analysis of GOM's net cash-outflow shows that although the fiscal burden of the first phase of the
PASAOP is substantial, it is bearable over the project life. During phase 1, average annual govermnent
financing of PASAOP would amount to about CFAF 1.7 billion, i.e. about 10 percent of the current total
budget of the rural sector operating and maintenance costs (BSI and ordinary 2001 state budgets). For the
following phases, the government contribution would be reduced substantially, due to the cost recovery
mechanisms, and to the incremental tax revenues generated. In the medium term, cost recovery would
- 29 -



reach 20 to 30 percent of recurrent costs and incremental tax revenues generated by project activities would
reach about CFAF I billion, representing 60 percent of the recurrent costs.
PASAOP would introduce innovative approaches in commercialization, privatization, co-production and
cost-sharing of agricultural services to enhance their financial sustainability. In the first years of program
implementation, implementing agencies would develop baseline cost estimates of services to be privatized,
out-contracted, co-produced, and cost-shared for monitoring and evaluation of the cost recovery
mechanisms.
3. Technical:
An assessment of the supply and demand for agricultural technologies was carried out during preparation
for each of the agroecological zones of Mali through local and regional consultations of beneficiaries and
main actors involved in technology generation and transfer. The demand for technologies evolves around
soil and water conversation techniques, short cycle varieties resistant to pest and diseases, animal nutrition
based on local products, agricultural practices, post-harvest technologies, more integrated pest
management, agroforestry, small agricultural equipment. On the supply side, an inventory of available
research results ready to be either extended or field tested indicates that IER and LCV have developed, or
are able to adapt technologies suitable for the technical challenges of each agroecological zones. The
proposed demand-driven system, partially funded by users and agribusiness, is expected to be
cost-conscious and results-oriented, thus encouraging efficiency and effectiveness in program operations.
In addition, strategic alliances and increased local capacity would provide a basis for ready access to new
technologies from regional and/or international sources.
To ensure that producers in general and producer organizations in particular have access to agricultural
inputs at the best price and on time, in collaboration with the on-going Soil Fertility Initiative, a "Policy
Analysis on Agricultural Inputs Distribution and Sustainable Use" would be undertaken to identify issues
and make proposals to improve the legal and fiscal framework, as well as the marketing and distribution
system of agricultural inputs including in particular, fertilizers and pesticides. Special attention would be
given for the promotion of Integrated (Soil) Nutrient Management and Integrated Pest Management
programs to diminish the use of chemical products (in particular in relatively intensive-cultivation areas,
i.e. irrigated rice and cotton) when possible and consequently to decrease the cost of production as well as
the risk of negative environmental impact.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Although project organization has been kept simple, implementation arrangements would require building
an institutionally-pluralistic technology system with substantial private sector participation. The program
would introduce major changes in the role and functioning of MDR, the orientation of technology
programs, and the way these relate to one another. Decentralized and client-oriented research has already
been initiated under the PNRA project through the CRUs and CNU. However, for extension,
producer-contracted services require a new mentality in technology diffusion institutions, in particular
DNAMR. PASAOP would consolidate or foster this new mentality, introducing it gradually as institutions
and scientists/technicians become accustomed to demand-driven funding.  Strategic national research
program development would reinforce this change in thinking by promoting partnerships and collaborative
programs, and by introducing more effective program coordination. Given the emphasis of PASAOP
toward the promotion of environmentally and socially responsible agriculture, DNAMR would host four
"Special Task Forces" with the responsibility to lead and monitor the proposed IPM, Soil Fertility,
- 30 -



Livestock and Vulnerable groups Special Initiatives. These four Special Initiatives include a series of
"horizontal" activities to be executed through the four PASAOP components. As far as producer
organizations are concerned, this would also not be a completely new approach since some bilateral donors,
in particular the French Cooperation, have piloted a system of contracting private service providers through
a voucher program for demand-driven livestock advisory/training services. To help APCAM move into
this approach, specialized NGOs would be contracted to promote and manage the Producer Organization
Agricultural Advisory Service Grant.
4.2 Project management:
The Steering Committee, the PCU, each Executing Agency would be responsible for project management.
MDR would continue to need technical assistance to carry through with the proposed reform and
decentralization. APCAM would also need technical assistance support during project implementation to
carry out the Producer Organization component. The phased nature of the APL Program provides an
important initial period for institutional capacity building and testing and scaling up of the program.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The following is a summary of the procurement assessment for the project's executing agencies which was
done during project preparation (see annex 6 for details of the assessment and the proposed action plan):
3   MDR-DAF has experience in implementing donor-funded projects. Its staff has participated in
procurement training programs for World Bank financed projects and with limited technical assistance
would be procurement proficient. However, their procurement planning and filing capacity is deficient
and will be strengthened early in the project, and monitored every six months thereafter. A technical
assistance program is necessary and will be provided in the early stages of project implemrentation.
*   CNRA has little experience in directly implementing donor funded projects. Most of procurement of
the on-going PNRA was done by IER, which has experienced staff in World Bank project management.
CNRA would be responsible for the selection and financing of research contracts, and would be
involved only with the procurement of consultancy contracts. Civil works and/or equipment contracts
would be prepared with support from experienced IER procurement staff. Additional staff would be
recruited for CNRA and trained accordingly. CNRA procurement planning and filing, as well as
contract management need to be strengthened, and specific training is planned during the first six
months of the project, and would be closely monitored thereafter.
*   DNAMR has long experience in implementing World Bank-funded projects. Its staff has participated
in procurement training programs for World Bank financed projects and is procurement proficient.
However, their procurement planning and filing capacity is deficient and would be strengthened early in
the project, and monitored every six months thereafter. A technical assistance program is needed and
would be done in the early stages of project implementation.
*   APCAM has no experience with Bank funded projects. Additional staff would be recruited and trained
accordingly. APCAM procurement planning and filing, as well as contract management capacity needs
to be built, and specific technical assistance and training are planned during the first two years of the
project, and close monitoring.
Provision for short-term missions of international and local procurement specialists for EAs support has
been included under the project. In addition, for the major transport and equipment contracts IAPSO or
any specialized AGETIPE/AGETIER institution would be recruited as a procurement agent.
- 31 -



4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management units of MDR-DAF, DNAMR, CNRA and APCAM would have their
own independent accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. During preparation the
financial and accounting capacity of the various EAs was assessed. It shows that CNRA and DNAMR
have adequate capacity and experience in implementing a World Bank project (see annex 6 for details of
the assessment and the proposed action plan). Under PPF financing a financial and accounting system is
being developed and established for each EA with adequate recruitment/training of key accounting
personnel before credit effectiveness.
APCAM at the central level, the Regional Chambers of Agriculture and DNAMR representations
at regional levels, have no experience in executing Bank projects. Provision has been made in the project
for a two-year financial management training program and technical assistance to the EAs to be called
upon as need arises. During the first phase an independent accounting firm would be contracted for
providing on-the job training for accounting personnel of in particular APCAM, the regional DNAMR and
Regional Chambers of Agriculture on the administrative and financial management aspects of the Project.
During the project launch workshop, the Bank procedures and requirements would also be discussed by
Bank staff.
The World Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in the World Bank Group
financed projects, the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). This initiative assists projects to put in
place sound financial management, procurement, and output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, when
these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditure,
and the special account ceiling would be increased to cover six months of eligible project expenditures.
During Phase 1, the project would not be considered as being in full compliance with the FMI for
purposes of disbursements. An action plan has been prepared to make the project ready for FMI within 18
months of Credit Effectiveness.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Safeguard Policy 4.01 -- Environmental assessment.  The project was subjected to an environmental
impact assessment during preparation. It shows little trade-off between stimulating efficient agricultural
growth, and sustainable natural resource development.  The agricultural strategy supported under
PASAOP argues that Mali's agricultural growth potential lies in the high and medium-potential areas, and
the greater the degree to which this potential can be tapped, the less pressure there will be to expand
intensive agricultural frontiers into the more fragile areas. Although the proposed Cotton Sector Recovery
and Restructuring Program (financed under SAC III) would help restore the competitiveness of the cotton
sector, no major expansion of the cotton cultivated area is expected. Indiscriminate expansion into the arid
lands would be cautiously held in check and intensification of agriculture in the high potential areas would
be associated with appropriate land use practices. Soil erosion and degradation is already a serious
problem and sustainability of the natural resource base is a priority of the national strategy.
The project would institute several measures specifically designed to ensure a systematic environmental
screening of farm activities and to result in greater awareness among producers of the environmental
consequences and opportunities associated with their farming operations. These measures are described in
paragraph 5.5 below.
- 32 -



Safeguard Policy 4.09 -- Pest Management. Although procurement of pesticides is not envisaged under
the project, it is expected that the necessary intensification of agriculture would possibly lead to increased
use of pesticides (and of inorganic fertilizers). However, the overall objective of the project being to
increase producer income, improved farm management methods and techniques (to decrease the cost of
production) would seek promote a better efficiency of external (chemicals) inputs and might result in a
decrease of such external inputs. The proposed training and extension activities under the project would be
aiming at promoting an integrated "agro-ecological" approach to agricultural research and extension which
stress conservation measures such as maintaining vegetative cover and retention of soil organic matter as
well as integrated pest management. In particular specific IPM activities (see Annex on IPM Special
Initiative, with the IPM Implementation Plan) have been included for execution during the project under the
research and extension components as well as under the MDR reform component (as far as its regulatory
and control functions are concerned). The cost of the activities proposed under the IPM Special Initiative
during APLI have been estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million. Further, during negotiations
assurances were obtained that the govenmuent would apply, or have applied, standards and procedures for
the utilization of agricultural chemicals in connection with agricultural extension activities which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, and in addition under the
"Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance Program" (US$1.0 rnillion), it specifically includes
provision for the co-financing of removal of obsolete pesticides stocks throughout the country.
Special Initiative Task Forces for Integrated Pest Management, Soil Fertility, and Livestock would be
set up under the project to lead a series of activities related to the respective Special Initiatives. The
activities to be promoted and supervised under the Integrated Pest Management (IPM), Soil Fertility, and
Livestock Special Initiatives have been respectively estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million; 2.5
million, and 4.7 million.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP clearly spells out the activities to be undertaken under the four components with regard to
environmental issues. It includes in particular a Pesticide Management Plan to address the main relevant
environmental issues of the proposed program.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 01/15/2001
The Environmental and Social Assessment report has been issued and its quality accepted by the Bank.
The report was sent to Infoshop on January 26, 2001 and published in Mali for public disclosure on
February 13, 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The methodology used during the EA was based on interviews of various technical staff and of producers
in the field.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project would institute several measures specifically designed to ensure a systematic environmental
screening of farm activities and to result in greater awareness among producers of the environmental
consequences and opportunities associated with their fanning operations. These measures would include
the following:
- 33 -



(a) a representative of the Ministry in charge of Environment would be included in the Steering
Committee and in the Regional Agricultural Technology Fora to review all project activities for
environmental impact assessment;
(b) requirements that training activities touching on environmental impact of rural development would
be included in each MDR staff annual training program;
(c)all proposals for research sub-projects would include an assessment of environmental impacts.
Sub-projects would be screened for impacts on: water use, water contamination, air contamination,
erosion, deforestation, land clearing, overgrazing, use of pesticides, wildlife, biodiversity, parks
and protected areas, or cultural heritage's sites;
(d) the requirement that the review of annual extension plans at each level (commune, region, and
national) would include, among its other elements, an assessment of the environmental issues which
are raised or which fail to be addressed by the plan;
(e) the availability of funding for investigation of the environrmental inpact of the project and of
agricultural activities in general and for contracting expertise from outside of the extension services
staff to address environmental concerns as they arise;
(f) requirements that training activities touching on environmental impact of traditional and emerging
agricultural production techniques be included in each extensionist annual training program;
(g) requirements that the topics covered by extensionists' training programs include in particular
integrated pest management, and other practices and techniques designed to permit more effective
incorporation of ecological factors (Integrated Nutrient Management) into overall farm
management.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
During preparation, independent environmental and social analyses of the PASAOP project were carried
out in an integrated manner. The analyses were subsequently combined in a Summary Environmental and
Social Assessment (ESA). The summary ESA concluded that the project could have some minor negative
environmental and social impacts as well as substantial environmental and social benefits. The detailed,
independent environmental and social analyses and the summary ESA report are available in project files.
The major social issues for the project are the feasibility of implementing the demand-driven R&D and
extension programs through producer organizations and the impact of the technological innovation on the
poor and disadvantaged groups. Producer organizations ranging from commodity-based groups, to
community and irrigation associations exist in all eco-regions in Mali. Some groups are quite strong and
have already access to technology, training, and information services. The project would provide support
directly to the most capable organizations, while investing in training and promotional activities to
strengthen the capacity of others. A proactive information and education/training program would be
developed to ensure that the poor and the disadvantaged groups have a voice and participate actively in the
design and management of technology generation and transfer programs.
- 34 -



Social groups in Mali vary considerably in population size, internal social differentiation, and social
influence. Nonetheless, no ethnic groups in Mali are deemed to be indigenous under the definitions of the
Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples. Some PASAOP activities would take place in areas frequented by
small ethnic groups, such as transhumant herders and traditional (semi-nomadic) fishermen. These groups
would get benefits from the project because their special needs have been recognized and are dealt with the
project. However, some of these groups for various reasons have received limited attention and support
from public and/or NGO intervention and could be considered as "vulnerable groups". During preparation
specific possible interventions have been identified for these vulnerable groups (including women), and in
particular the semi-nomadic Bozo fishermen in the Mopti area. A Vulnerable Groups Special Initiative
has been formulated and would be led by a high-level specialist contracted through DNAMR to ensure in a
proactive manner that initiatives and actions effectively take place during project implementation to address
the particular issues and needs of these groups.
Operational Policy 4.20 -- The Gender Dimension of Development. As indicated above, the social issues
related to the Safeguard Policies have been integrated in project design. A specific gender assessment study
was carried out during project preparation and identified women's lack of access to extension as a critical
issue. Insufficient efforts have been made to improve the quality and the dissemination of technical
recommendations for products like fruit, vegetables, small livestock, which are mainly the responsibility of
women producers. Fishing and fish marketing (specifically women activity) have also been identified as
having good potentialities to alleviate poverty in terms of income and nutrition.
The program would therefore include a comprehensive set of actions (the above-mentioned Vulnerable
Groups Special Initiative) to address the specific needs of both women and vulnerable groups producers.
Key indicators with regard to gender dimension and vulnerable groups have been defined for monitoring
and evaluation purpose for each project component. Under research and extension, agricultural activities
that are either solely or largely carried out by women (crop production; livestock; food processing
techniques; and utilization, storage and marketing of farm products and other off-farm income-generating
activities) would be given special attention. Research and extension on the post-harvest, value-added
processing activities that women carry out would be increased. Specific criteria for the selection of
demand-driven technology generation and transfer projects would ensure that women issues are taken into
account in a systematic manner. The scope of the extension program in particular would include the
training of all extension agents on gender and poverty issue. The number of female extension agents would
be increased. Finally, project financing would include provision for undertaking beneficiary assessments,
specific surveys and analysis to assess and monitor in particular the participation of women and vulnerable
groups producers in rural production and rural commercial activities.
A Vulnerable Group Task Force would be set up for leading this Special Initiative. The activities to
be promoted and supervised under the Vulnerable Groups Special Initiative have been estimated at a total
of about US$2.7 million.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Overall Prograin Preparation. During preparation, the beneficiaries, through in particular, the Chambers
of Agriculture and Producer Organizations have expressed a strong interest in becoming reliable partners of
agricultural services institutions. The government and the beneficiaries are strongly committed to a shift
from public to private management of agricultural services and to building an effective national agricultural
research system through the separation of research funding from research execution. Extension activities
would be progressively contracted out to the private sector when possible. User feedback would play an
important role in technical orientation and be a major input into the planning and monitoring process,
through research and extension contracts, and through participatory methods for diagnosis, progranmning
- 35 -



and evaluation.
Ministry restructuring. The proposed organization for the Ministry of Agriculture (MDR) has been
discussed and agreed upon during a number of national and regional workshops involving ministry staff.
Research. CNRA, IER and LCV prepared a strategic plan through a bottom-up approach. In each of the
administrative regions of Mali, preparatory commissions were set up, involving research users, the
government development agencies, NGO's and, when appropriate, small agro-processing enterprises. A
national comrnmission comprising the same partners reviewed the strategic plan. The plan was adopted
during a two-day national workshop involving all stakeholders.
Extension. The new institutional set up for extension was discussed at the regional level during a number
of workshops involving the beneficiaries and stakeholders.
Support to producer organizations.   Various producer organizations (Charnber of Agriculture;
Commissions Regionales des Utilisateusr - CRU; le Syndicat des Producteurs de Coton er Vivrier -
SYCOV; le Syndicat des Producteurs Agricoles de Mali-Ouest, le Syndicat de Riziculteurs de l'Office du
Niger,l' Union Regionale de Coop&ration Agricole de Kayes- URCAK; I'Association des Organisations
Paysannes Professionnelles - AOPP; etc.) have been involved in the preparation of the producer
organization support component and would be largely responsible for its execution. Also, the proposed
livestock activities have been prepared through a large consultative process with representatives of the
industry.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As indicated above, various producer organizations have been involved throughout the preparation of the
project. Regional workshops have been organized with the active participation of civil society
organizations and NGOs.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
*  provision has been made under project financing for special surveys and supervision of project
achievements in general and for social development outcome in particular;
*   a task force would be set-up to lead a "Vulnerable Groups Special Initiative" and ensure that the
special needs of vulnerable groups (including the poor, women or minority groups) are identified and
taken into account in the activities of each project component;
*   experienced social intermediaries (NGOs, consulting firms, etc.) would be recruited to facilitate the
participatory approach for village diagnosis, preparation of demand-driven advisory service
sub-projects, etc.;
*   local and regional fora would allow the active participation of producers in the design and management
of agricultural services programs;
*   the Producer Organization Advisory Service Grant Scheme would give the power to producers to pay
for services and thus to control the quality and relevance of the advices.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
*   Specific key indicators have been defined to monitor progress made and achievermients with regard to
social development outcomes;
*   surveys by independent consultants would be undertaken during the course of the project;
*   finally beneficiary assessment would be made in the third year of the project first phase.
- 36 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   (0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               O Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The promotion of socially and environmentally responsible agriculture and the monitoring of related
activities have been factored into each project component, since it involves some macro policy, regulation
and control, technology generation and transfer, as well as human resources management and training
activities. Special task forces would be set-up in particular for the promotion and monitoring of the
following "Special Initiatives": IPM (US$3.5 million); Soil Fertility (US$2.5 million); Livestock (US$4.7
million), and Vulnerable Groups (US$2.7 million). In addition, a provision of US$1.0 million has been
made for the removal of obsolete stocks of pesticides.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
*    Financial sustainability is a major issue for agricultural technology systems throughout the
world. The project would incorporate strategies as described above to address this risk and to
enhance financial sustainability of the program.
*    Institutional sustainability is a moderate risk due to: (i) the set-up of the project with the
relative autonomy of the project executing agencies; (ii) the MDR rationalization program; (iii)
public-private partnerships for technology generation and transfer, and; (iv) the emphasis on
empowering producer organizations.
    Environmental sustainability presents a minor risk. Project activities would improve natural
resource management, increase the productivity of arable land and thus decrease the pressure
to expand agriculture to more fragile land, and promote the use of environmentally friendly
techniques, such as in particular, integrated soil management, and integrated pest management.
- 37 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Climatic conditions deteriorate            S         Under the project, the development of technical
recommendations would help promote
agricultural diversification as well as improved
and sustainable natural resources management
Cotton prices further decline              S         Although cotton prices are subject to market
fluctuations, the Cotton Sector Reform program
aims at a better efficiency of the cotton sector
and thus would improve farm gate cotton prices
Macroeconomic management deteriorates      M         Reinforced country policy dialogue
Environment for private sector             M         The project would support the development of
development deteriorates                             private initiatives in the rural sector
Programs in social sectors are inefficient  M        Reinforced country dialogue
Rural infrastructure does not improve      M         Close supervision of infrastructure projects
From Components to Outputs
Commitment to reform in MDR weakens        M         Close supervision and donor coordination
Governiment support to agricultural        M         Reinforced country dialogue and donor
reforms falters                                      coordination
Counterpart financing is not made          S         Annual public expenditure reviews
available on time
Staff attitudes in research and extension  M         Support govemment decentralization policy
are not conducive to participatory
approaches
Public procurement does not improve        M         Close monitoring of procurement plan
implementation
Private sector response to divestiture is  M         Support initiatives for improving private sector
weak                                                 environment
Overall Risk Rating                        S         Flexibility is part of the project design as the
first phase of the APL; the project would
emphasize establishing an adequate M&E
system. It would require external supervision.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The program promotes decentralization and increased private sector involvement in activities, which have
been traditionally carried out by the public sector in Mali. There could be some rear-guard opposition to
these reforms. The broad consultation process initiated during program preparation would continue during
its implementation. This would help alleviate resistance to change. Retrenchment is an issue in MDR, but
not a major one, as about one third of the staff is over 50 years old and close to retirement. Financing from
bilateral is expected to be available to facilitate redeployment and possible lay-offs.
- 38 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Effectiveness Condition
(a) Government to open the Project Account and deposit the Initial Deposit;
(b) adoption of a Project Operational Manual, in form and substance acceptable to IDA,
determining the practical implementation modalities for the Executing Agencies (including the
implementation plan, the computerized financial management system, the monitoring and
evaluation system, the overall project procurement plan, and a detailed procurement plan for
the first year of project implementation);
(c) recruitment in DAF of a finance specialist, and signing of a procurement TA contract for the
first year of project implementation;
(d) signing of a convention between the MDR and CNRA, as well as between the MDR and
APCAM;
(e) appointment of auditors for the project annual audits.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
- 39 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0l 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The Project Implementation Plan as well as the procurement plan for the three years' activities for each
component have been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality. However they need
some additional detailed work before Credit effectiveness to ensure clear consistency and coherence
between: (i) the Project Operation Manual, (ii) the Project Financial Management System and (iii) the
Monitoring and Evaluation System.
The following is a summary of project preparedness:
v  the legal texts regarding IER, CNRA, Cooperatives, and the PASAOP Steering Committee have
been passed;
*  the PCU is established and is functioning;
*  the draft Project Operation Manual (which includes in particular the Project Implementation
Plan and the procurement plan for the first year of implementation) is ready; setting up of
detailed financial procedures and of the Monitoring and Evaluation System is underway and will
be ready before Credit Effectiveness.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project cornplies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Daniel Moreau                    ;oseph Baah-Dwomoh                A.David Craig
Team Leader                      Sector Manager                    Country Director
-40 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty through    Reduction in poverty       CAS progress reports
improved macroeconomic    incidence
management and income
generation and employment
creation
Focus on capacity building,
decentralization and
environment protection
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
Alleviate rural poverty   Increase in labor productivity  Annual reports of Ministries  Population growth decelerates
through sustained labor   in each agricultural region of of Rural Development and of
productivity increases and    Mali                   Environment
improved management of
natural resources         Natural resources have not
deteriorated further.
-41-



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact            Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Establish an institutional  - Share of MDR work       Progress reports          Institutional changes result in
framework conducive to the   programs ad hoc budgets                             more efficient and responsive
efficient delivery of      managed at regional levels    Annual reports of institutions  agricultural services to
agricultural services to   reaches 80%;               supported by the project   producers
producers                  - Qualifications of agricultural
staff;                     Supervision reports
- Number of women extension
agents;                    Beneficiary assessments
- Extension agents at local
level are managed by local   Evaluation reports requested
governments or POs;        by POs
- Cost sharing formula
between different levels of
government and with the
private sector are introduced
in 5 pilot areas;
- Village participatory
approaches for extension
planning and programming
has been introduced in 1000
villages;
- Audience of the rural
communication system;
- Improved AIDS prevention
messages and PNLS outreach
program;
- Response to disasters in
rural areas
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
MDR is restructured and                                                          Climatic conditions remain
its overall efficiency is                             Project evaluation (mid-term  favorable
improved                                              and final) reports.
Cotton prices do not decline
its non core functions are  Transfer of:              Supervision reports        further
divested                  -veterinary services and
artificial insemination;                              Macroeconomic management
-production and            Periodic review of training    remains supportive
commercialization of       plan and assessment of quality
improved seeds and seedlings; work delivered by all staff    Environment for private
(staff surveys).          sector development continues
-management of slaughter                              to improve
houses;
-technical and management                             Poverty-reduction programs in
services to producer                                  other sectors than agriculture
organizations; and                                    continue to show progress
-management of natural
resources                                             Rural infrastructure continues
to private sector or                                 to improve
-42 -



autonomous entities is
completed.                                           Credit associations increase
- DAF, CPS, Direction                                 support to producers
its core functions are     Techniques are reorganized
discharged efficiently     and strengthened at the
national and regional levels;
- Action plan for human
resource development
implemented;
- Performance-based system of
incentives in place.
HIV/AIDS program in rural  Knowledge of HIV causes
areas is efficient         increases.
A rural communication      Consensus reached through
strategy and an action plan   regional and national
are ready for implementation  workshops.
A rural training strategy and  Consensus reached through
action plan ready for     regional and national
implementation             workshops.
Cotton sector reform program  Consensus reached through
ready for implementation   regional and national
workshops.
A more efficient, pluralistic                         Supervision reports
and responsive agricultural
knowledge system is in place                          Project evaluation (mid-term
and final) reports.
Research:
CNRA is reorganized with                              Periodic review of research
increased producer         - CNRA reorganization      program management and
participation in           completed                  assessment of quality
decision-making            - About 20% of resources
allocated to strategic and
applied agricultural research,
and 80% to R&D projects
identified through extension
programs
- Research proposals reviewed
by regional committees
including representatives of
producer organizations
- Number of institutions
engaged in research execution
increases from 2 to 5
- Increased regional and
international collaboration
-43-



- Monitoring & evaluation
systems established including
management information
systems
- Scientific (electronic)
information system
established
- Staff promotion system is
based on performance
Appropriate technology for   - Farming systems are well    Annual reports, surveys and
improving productivity and    documented                 beneficiary assessments
maintaining natural resources - Natural resources status and
is available for dissemination  trends are well documented
to producers                - Packages responsive to
producer needs are available
- Number of papers published
- Number of collaborative
research programs established
with intemational partners
- Extension services are
satisfied with development of
relevant technologies
Extension
Extension services are      - Number of private entities   Supervision reports
provided on a contractual   providing extension services
basis                       - Evaluation of extension staff Project evaluation (mid-term
takes into account producers'  and final) reports.
views.
- Adoption rates for new    Periodic review of extension
practices or technologies,  program management and
Available technologies are    including studies of rationales assessment of quality
disseminated                for adoption and non-adoption
- Number and extent of farm
practices recently changed as
a result of extension (IPM,    Surveys and beneficiary
Soil Fertility, and Livestock in assessments reports
particular)
- Time-series or case studies
on change in farmer
knowledge, skills, attitudes
and understanding of
biological, social, economic &
practices.
A system is in place for    Task forces for leading: (i) an surveys and extemal reviews
promoting a more            IPM Special Initiative,; (ii) a
environmentally responsible   Soil Fertility Special Initiative
agriculture                 , and; (iii) Livestock Special
Initiative are in place
A system is in place for    Task force for leading a     surveys and extemal reviews
promoting social and gender  Vulnerable Group Special    beneficiary assessments
equity                      Initiative (targeting in
particular minority groups,
-44 -



women, young and poor) is in
place
Capacity of Producer       - Regulatory framework for   Supervision missions reports
Organizations Improved    POs, VAs and cooperatives
revised                   Project evaluation (mid-term
- Training and dissemination  and final) reports.
of revised regulations
completed                  Periodic review of extension
- APCAM/CA investment    program management and
program executed           assessment of quality
- Organizational, managerial
and technical training
program for APCAMICRA
developed and executed     Surveys and beneficiaries
- Chambers of Agriculture    assessments reports
and POs Coordination
Committee established
-Number of private
management and service
center private services
providers in the cotton areas
- POs forums at local (80) and
regional level (9)
- Demand-driven financing
mechanism for agricultural
advisory services (OP
Agricultural Advisory
Services Grant) established
-45 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components i       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. MDR restructuring            US$15.5 million      Progress reports,          Commitment to reforn in
supervision reports,       MDR remains strong
- Sharing and/or transfer of      US 1.2 million      disbursement reports, audit
non-basic public service                              reports for all components    Reforms in agriculture sector
functions/activities to                                                          continue to enjoy support
autonomous and/or private                             Project evaluation (mid-term  from Cabinet
entities                                              and final) reports for all
components                 Public procurement improves
- Decentralization and           US$4.3 million                                  in keeping with
strengthening of MDR's core                                                      recommendations of 1998/99
services                                                                         CPAR
- Strengthening MDR's            US$2.1 million                                  Counterpart financing is
policy, planning, statistics and                                                 available on time
M&E functions (CPS)
Staff incentives are conducive
-Strengthening MDR's             US$1.7 million                                  to decentralization
administration and finance
(DAF)                                                                            Staff attitudes in research and
extension change from a
- Coordination and                US 1.2 million                                 traditional mode of authority
Supervision of Project                                                          to a more listening mode
implementation, Project
evaluation (mid-term and                                                         Private sector is willing to
final) Audits                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~take over functions and
final), Audits                                                                   activities to be divested
- AIDS Prevention Program        US$1.0 million
Producer organizations are
- Rural Training Strategy and    US$ 1.0 million                                 responsive to initiatives under
related Action Plan                                                             the project
- Development of a Rural         US$ 1.0 million
Communication Strategy and
related Action Plan
- Rural Disaster Prevention      US$1.0 million
and Emergency Assistance
- Cotton Sector Reform           US$1.0 million
2. Research                      US$8.7 million
- Strengthening of NARS          US$1.6 million
Management Capacity
- Upgrading and maintaining
the National Scientific          US$4.3 million
Capacity
- 46 -



- Technology Development              US$1.4 million
- R&D sub-projects                    US$1.4 million
3. Extension                         US$18.0 million
- Strengthening and                  US$15.6 million         - Impact assessment/ surveys/
Decentralization                                             beneficiaries assessment
reports
Civil works, Equipment and          (USS$5.7 million)
Goods for Regional and local
offices
Training, Technical Support          (US$9.9 million)
and Functioning for
Technology dissemination
Task Forces for the Promotion
of a more environmentally         *Total 1PM (US$3.5 million)
responsible agriculture (*IPM, *Total Soil Fertility (US$2.5 million)
*Soil Fertility, and Livestock
Special Initiatives)              Total Livestock (US4.7 millon)
Task Force for the Promotion        *Total Vulnerable Groups
of social and gender equity           (US$2.7 million)
(*Vulnerable Groups Special
Initiative)
* = the Task Forces would be located
within central DNAMR, but related
activities and financing would be
spread out the four project components.
- Pilot Extension Program             US$1.0 million
- Agricultural Services               US$1.4 million
Contracts in the Cotton areas
4. Support to Producer                US$9.2 million
Organizations
- Strengthening capacity of         US$1.4 million          - Impact assessment] surveys/
APCAM, ANOPA and                                            beneficiaries assessment
National Unions                                             reports
- Strengthening capacity of         US$2.9 million
CRAs and regional Unions
- Promotion and
Strengthening of Private            US$0.5 million
Agricultural Advisory
Services Providers
- Strengthening local and           US$4.4 million
regional POs through a
Demand-driven OPA
Agricultural Advisory
Services Grant Program
-47 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$15.50 million
MDR Reform: Rationalization and Modernization.
The Rural Sector Institutional Development Letter emphasizes the need for refocusing MDR on
core rural development services, promoting a gradual transfer of responsibility for other services to more
autonomous national or regional executing agencies and/or to the private sector (including producers
organizations), rethinking MDR's organization and culture, and strengthening its capacity to provide better
services to rural beneficiaries through the deconcentration of its core services to the regions.
Rationalization and Strengthening of MDR core services. To ensure focus and teamwork, while
breaking down sectoral barriers MRD's departments have already been reduced from 6 to 3. Meanwhile,
MDR launched the process of redefining its organizational chart (with descriptions of posts and profiles)
with the stated objective of: (a) progressively transferring the execution of some of its functions to
autonomous executing agencies and to the private sector; (b) strengthening its agricultural policy
formulation, investment program planning, statistical analysis, and monitoring and evaluation capacity; (c)
strengthening its regulatory and quality control capacity; (d) strengthening the MDR's Direction of
Administration and Finance (DAF), and finally; (e) bringing core MDR's services closer to the people by
deconcentrating some of them to regional MDR offices, and decentralizing decision making to lower units.
An inventory of the existing ministry's human and material resources has been done, and the assessment of
MRD's needs (material needs, training needs, etc.) in view of its planned organizational structure and
functions will take place once the organizational chart is complete. A small unit (CARI) reporting
directly to the Minister of Rural Development has been specially created to spearhead the proposed
reforms.
The Program would assist the Ministry devolve its services to the regional and department level by
providing funding and support to: (i) equip these services (mainly vehicles, and office rehabilitation and
equipment); (ii) train staff for their new functions, in particular, in data collection, management and
analysis; (iii) elaborate procedures to define the role and functions of the regional and departmental services
within the Ministry and vis-A-vis their clients and stakeholders, as well as with other sectoral ministries. To
this end, some of the headquarters staff will be redeployed to the regions. During the first year of project
implementation, a skill gap analysis would be prepared, as well as an inventory of physical assets.
The project will support:
*   the sharing and/or transfer of non-core public service functions/activities to autonomous and/or
private entities (US$1.2 million). Under the project the following activities have been identified for
divestiture (D) or for sharing between public and private operators (S): (i) the veterinary services and
artificial insemination (S); (ii) the production and commercialization of improved seeds and seedlings
(D); (iii) the management of slaughter houses/areas (D); (iv) the provision of technical and
management services to cooperative organizations (S); (v) the management of natural resources (S),
and; (vi) the provision of agricultural extension advisory services (S). During project preparation,
action plans have been prepared for carrying out the proposed transfer and their satisfactory
implementation would be a trigger for Phase II of the program.
-48 -



*  Decentralization and strengthening of Ministry's basic public services (US$4.3 million). Within the
context of the overall decentralization strategy of the Government, the Programn would assist MDR's
CARI in decentralizing the responsibility for the planning and implementation of MDR's basic public
services (DGRC; DNAER; DNAMR) to the regional and departmental level by:
(i) designing and adopting a new, decentralized organizational structure;
(ii) realigning its internal policies, procedures and management systems with its new structure;
(iii) training staff at all levels and providing them with the necessary equipment to accomplish their
functions.
By the end of the first year of project implementation, MDR's medium-term staffing/training program
(including if necessary a staff redeployment/renewal plan) would be developed on the basis of a
detailed skill gap analysis and a inventory of existing and required physical assets. Completion of
MDR's restructuring plan would be a trigger for the Phase II of the Program.
Strengthening MDR's regulatory and quality control functions. These functions which should
mostly remain within the mandate of the State, concern the Directorate of Regulation and Control (
DGRC). During the first year, with the participation of the main rural development stakeholders at the
national and regional levels, consensus would be sought to deternine what needs to be controlled, by
whom, at what level (national/regional) and to what reasonable extent. The capacity of the national
and regional services to ascertain quality control would be enhanced through training in quality control
and management and development of a reporting system. In addition, quality control would be
redefined to encompass the prevention of market failures. Training courses would be organized to
improve and standardize the quality of the services provided by veterinary, pest control and seed
certification personnel. Project support would include revised legislation, personnel training and
equipment for Regional Inspections, a National Committee for Food Safety, a National Disease
Surveillance Network, and the National Pest Management Committee.
The Project would support the strengthening of MDR's Regulatory and Quality Control functions
through:
(i) the establishment of a National Committee for Food Safety, and the strengthening of a National
Disease Surveillance Network, and the National Pest Management Committee;
(ii) a review/updating/streamlining of critical food safety and agricultural input safety and
environmental standards and regulations, and of control policies and procedures, and the wide
dissemination of standards and regulations;
(iii) the strengthening of the capacity of the national and regional services --the Directorates of
Regulation and Control (DGRC), and of Rural Works and Equipment (DNAER); and
(iv) the training of staff of other relevant public services, but also of relevant private providers of these
type of services, in quality control and safety standards monitoring.
Retrenchment program. The Ministry is committed to reform, but job security is considered an
essential benefit in the civil service. A mechanism for financing redundancies is being worked out.
Financing from bilateral donors, in particular the Dutch government, has already been agreed upon.
- 49 -



One possible option is to let everyone reapply for positions on a contractual basis in the new lean and
mean structure, and those not considered would then be laid off or returned to the Ministry of Public
Service for redeployment elsewhere. However, the personnel age structure of most of the MDR
services shows about one third of the personnel is in the range of 50 - 55 years. Normal attrition and
redeployment would minimize major social problems. It is also anticipated that the emergence of
private firms for services delivery would attract mid-career technical personnel. In this context,
specific Technical and Business Management training programs would be provided for MDR staff
willing to create or move to a private firm. It has been agreed that for the time being any new MDR
positions would be filled only on a contractual basis.
*   the strengthening of policy formulation, program  planning, statistics, and monitoring and
evaluation functions (US$2.1 million). Policy analysis for sector-wide planning and program
monitoring and evaluation would be a central function of MDR. The Policy, Planning, Monitoring and
Evaluation Directorate (CPS) is responsible for agricultural policy formulation, program planning and
budgeting, statistical analysis, and monitoring and evaluation of agricultural development policy and
programs in the country. To date CPS has difficulties to carry out these important functions effectively
due to shortage of qualified staff. The various MDR directorates often plan agricultural development
programs and secure donor funding without the involvement of CPS in ascertaining whether these
programs are in line with the national and regional development objectives and strategies of MDR
and/or whether these are duplicating aspects of ongoing programs. With the decentralization of
MDR's services, policy makers at the center and their development partners would need real time
feedback on the effect of policy decisions and the progress and impacts of agricultural development
programs executed at the district and regional levels. This was an important consideration leading to
the decision that the overall coordination of PASAOP should reside within CPS. This places a heavy
responsibility on CPS into becoming the 'nerve center' of MDR.
The move of some personnel from the DNAMR Commodity Programs into the CPS structure has the
merit of maintaining commodity-specific expertise and focus, for policy formulation, planning
commodity development programs, and monitoring and evaluating their impacts. The more technical
aspects of commodity development programs would be the responsibility of technical specialists within
the DNAMR/Extension (NAES) and the NARS. Graduate students in the local universities would be
encouraged to use agricultural policy and impact evaluation research for their M.Sc. and Ph.D. thesis
by funding their field work, analysis of data and writing up the results. Monitoring implementation and
evaluation of agricultural programs would be the responsibility of the implementing agencies.
However, they would use an agreed format developed by CPS in consultation with them so that the
information generated can be aggregated, compared and contrasted. The CPS would have the
responsibility for the maintaining an overview of the implementation and impact of on-going and
completed rural development programs. It would also have the responsibility to build and support the
capacity for rural policy planning and monitoring and evaluation of rural development programs at the
regional levels.
Statistics. The program would assist the MDR in establishing within CPS an efficient, reliable and
rapid data collection and analysis system through: (i) a simplification of the procedures; (ii)
decentralization of the functions to the regional and departmental level; and (iii) training in
methodology for data collection and analysis. The Program would introduce the use of a number of
less costly and more efficient computerized data collection instruments, such as remote sensing and
improved statistical methods. Data would be collected not only for specific project management and
agricultural campaign information, but also to assess the economic, social and environmental impact of
rural development programs. The various users of information at all levels, i.e. CBO, PO, district,
- 50 -



regional and central would be identified to ensure coherence among data to be collected, their
participation in data collection, as well as to set-up a coherent architecture of flow and analysis of
information.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Under the project, provision would be made to support the development
of an Integrated Sector Management Informnation System (ISMIS) for the rural sector that would aim at
providing a regular flow of information to Community- and Producer-Based Organizations, Regional
Fora, APCAM and CRAs, MDR decentralized services including DNAMR and DGRC, and the CPS
at the central level. The M&E activities of programs such as PNIR and PGRN would also be
integrated in one single comprehensive ISMIS system.
Existing staff would receive in-service training in policy analysis, program planning, statistics,
monitoring and evaluation. Recruitment of additional staff and technical assistance in the form of short
and long-term consultants and contracting out some of the work to specialized institutions such as
universities, IER, or private firms would be needed to carry out the work load. Staff with good
performance would be given opportunities for both internal and extemal short and medium-term
training, and for attending regional and international conferences. In addition as performance-based
incentives consideration should be given to the possibility for staff with good performance to do
consultancies, for a maximum of one or two months a year, on a competitive basis outside their own
structure. Technical assistance, on an ad hoc basis would be provided to impart professional
experience and guidance to staff. Adequate logistics in the form of computers, office equipment and
transport as well as funds for operating costs would be provided so that staff would perform their
duties effectively.
An early priority for the CPS would be to undertake a broad-ranging assessment of the role of each
commodity in the livelihood of Mali's producer community. This would provide an essential
understanding of the priorities for PASAOP in terms of supporting greater access to more relevant
services, technologies and resources as well as provide baseline data on basic commodity ownership
pattems and producer structures. The study would be undertaken by an independent local organization
or institution, with CPS oversight and in close collaboration with DNAMR and IER.
*   MDR's Direction of Administration and Finance (DAF) (US$1.7 milion). As part of improving
MDR human resource development and management, a directorate for human resources management
would be created within MDR. In addition, the Program would support the development of a
computerized Human Resource Management system and an important MDR training component with
three objectives: (i) sensitization to the MDR's new role; (ii) improved management, especially for the
new human resources management unit and the financial and administrative management MDR
Directorates; and (iii) improving technical skills.
* Rural Training (US1.0 million); Rural communication (US$1.0 million); Special AIDS Prevention
Program (US$1.0 million); Cotton Sector Restructuring Program (US$1.0 million). Under the
project provision has been made for the development of a long-term strategy and a medium-term action
plan for Rural Training, as well as for Rural Communication. In addition, given the dramatic spread
of AIDS within the country and the critical role that MDR could play in reaching out to the people
working in the rural sector, an AIDS Prevention Program has been developed to support PNLS's
efforts to improve the relevance and quality of the AIDS prevention messages, as well as its outreach
program. Provision under the project has also been made to support the functioning of the Mission de
Restructuration du Secteur Coton (MRSC) and cotton sector related studies.
- 51 -



*   Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance Program (US$1.0 million). Under the
project provision has been made to support a Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance
Program that would include in particular the co-financing required for the removal and destruction of
stocks of obsolete pesticides. An action plan and a related budget has been prepared by the Ministry in
charge of the Environment with support from FAO. The estimated cost associated with the removal
and destruction of these stocks amnount to about US$2.5 million. A financing plan is being prepared
and will presented to the donor community for their support.  In addition, given the country-wide
prevailing climatic risks, a Drought Preparedness Program would be developed during APLI.
* Project Coordination (US$1.2 iillion). As part of MDR strengthening, a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) under CPS would be responsible for the overall coordination and guidance for project
implementation. The project would support the costs associated with the functioning of the PCU which
will comprises the National Coordinator, the National coordinator deputy and the support staff.
Provision has also been made for the functioning of a Project Steering Committee.
Project Component 2 - US$8.70 million
Improving the etficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National Agricultural Research System.
To improve the coherence, quality and accountability in the research system, the government embarked on
a National Agricultural Research Program (PNRA) in 1993 whose objectives were to: (a) undertake
institutional reforms by transforming the National Agricultural Research Council, supporting the
transformation of IER into an autonomous institution with an independent Board of Directors, and
regionalizing research to bring it closer to users; (b) develop interactive processes between producers,
extension agents and researchers through producer participation in setting research objectives and
evaluating its results, (c) improve research quality and relevance through improved research programming,
monitoring and evaluation methods and procedures, and; (d) develop and manage their human resources.
As far as IER is concerned, the desired autonomy finally materialized in 2000 by the adoption of an EPST
statute. However, the downsizing of the number of staff (some 120 conventionnaires) and reducing the
number of stations to a sustainable level given the financial resources available to the Institute is still to be
done. An evaluation of the "right size" for the Institute has been done under the on-going PNRA, and
would constitute the basis for the rationalization of the research facilities and of personnel redeployment of
IER to ensure proper maintenance and management of research facilities and operations. This would
constitute a condition of disbursement for the research component i.e. in particular: the relocation of
Research teams for Maize, Livestock and Natural Resources from Sotuba to the regions of Sikasso, Kayes,
and Niono.
To improve the efficiency of the National Agricultural Research System the project would seek to promote
more research autonomy and accountability through the separation of funding from implementation.
Strategic research sub-projects would be selected and financed on a scientific-merit basis. A Competitive
Research and Development Grant Fund (CR&DGF) would be established to finance adaptive research or
research and development research (R&D) sub-projects on a producer demand-driven basis. The project
would support the functioning of a revamped CNRA which would manage research financing (through the
CR&DGF) independently from the implementing institutes. The revamped CNRA would function as a
fully autonomous body with a majority representation of research users. The satisfactory functioning of
the new CNRA is a trigger condition for the second phase of the program.
The project would also improve the research capacity within the country by promoting a diversified,
interactive and sustainable system. Increasing or diversifying the number of suppliers of technology would
- 52 -



by itself bring more resources into the system and provide a broader opportunity for private funding to
participate, thereby contributing to the sustainability of the system. Regional and international alliances
would be promoted for the financing and execution of strategic research programs. Through the
competitive R&D grants, opportunities would be provided for joint research projects to be developed
between research entities (research institutes, universities, NGOs etc.), and the private sector. Giving the
opportunity to producer groups to cofinance such projects would strengthen their ownership of the research
system, thus their capacity to control the quality and relevance of research. To that effect, the project
would consolidate and expand the mechanisms put in place during PNRA which gave producer groups the
opportunity to producer groups to be systematically involved in the discussions for research program
priority setting and monitoring.
The research component would focus on four major thrusts:
*  build the NARS institutional capacity, by improving CNRA's capacity for providing the overall
policy and scientific guidance, and upgrading and maintaining the national agricultural scientific
capacity with IER playing naturally a central role in the new national agricultural research system;
*   establish under the management of CNRA a financing mechanism for strategic and applied
agricultural research sub-projects based on national medium and long-term priorities;
3  establish a decentralized, demand-driven and competitive financing mechanism for short-term
agricultural R&D sub-projects in the main eco-regions of Mali;
3   improve the linkages between the national and the intemational research systems through
partnerships with regional and intemational institutions/programs/networks.
IL. 1. Strengthening the capacity of NARS Research Management (US$1.6 million).  Current
directions for the technology generation system are outlined in the Institutional Development Policy Letter.
PASAOP would support the CNRA which would be the implementing agency for the research component.
Technology policy and coordination of public sector financing is a pemianent govemment function,
requiring the CNRA to evolve as a permanent body affiliated with the Ministry of Rural Development, but
with full managerial autonomy. CNRA's mandate would focus on (i) the overall guidance for the
upgrading and maintaining of the national agricultural scientific capacity, (ii) the development of
participatory mechanisms with the various research stakeholders for strategic and adaptive research; and
(iii) the overall management of technology generation programs in line with the national strategy and
priorities of the medium and long term National Agricultural Research. A comprehensive research
Financial Management System would be set-up for the NARS so that research program budgets and
financial execution reports can be consolidated and monitored by sources of financing. CNRA would be
responsible for the management of Strategic and Applied Research programs and of the Competitive
Agricultural Research & Development Grant Fund (CAR&DGF). Procedures for carrying out these
functions would be established in the Operational Manual (OM).
The composition and terms of reference of the personnel of CNRA and its draft operational policy have
been reviewed. Satisfactory operation of CNRA under its new mandate would be a Phase II trigger.
Under this sub-component, the project would finance: minor civil works for CNRA office renovations;
vehicles, goods, and equipment for CNRA and regional offices; technical assistance and studies; staff
training, publishing and documentation; salaries and operating costs for the CNRA and regional offices
(including scientists' participation in the various committees, fora, regional and intemational research
- 53 -



networks, etc.); and program monitoring and evaluation.
Bank financing of CNRA operational costs would be phased out during APL 1.
II. 2. Upgrading and maintaining the scientific capacity of the NARS (US$4.3 million). The project
would also support facilities rehabilitation (and part of the relocation of IER headquarters to Sotuba by
PY3), vehicles, goods, and equipment for the research executing entities (in particular IER, and LCV);
technical assistance and studies; staff training, publishing and documentation; scientist's participation in
regional and international networks and workshops; performance-based incentives and allowances to staff;
and overhead costs for the IER and LCV. Bank financing would be for the system's upgrading aspects,
counterpart financing being mostly dedicated to salaries and indirect costs, including station and equipment
maintenance and management.
II. 3. Funding of Strategic and Applied Agricultural Research Sub-Projects (SARP) (US$1.4
million). The project would include a grant provision for the financing of priority strategic and applied
agricultural research sub-projects identified in the context of the PSRA (and specific ad hoc analyses and
planning studies described below). These SARP would essentially be carried out by IER for the first phase
of the APL before being open to competition on a scientific competitive basis during the second phase of
PASAOP implementation.  These research sub-projects by their strategic and applied nature require
medium to long-term public support. Given the limited resources available, selectivity and prioritization
should be the guiding principle in order to obtain highly beneficial results, both from the economic
standpoint and in the social and environmental spheres. Financing of SARPs would come mostly from
Government and national commodity organizations (in particular the cotton sector), and potentially from
co-financing with Regional and International organizations.
To determine a first set of SARP, the Project would built on the actual PSRA and finance a series of
analyses and planning studies for strategic and applied research areas. The result of these studies would
nurture the periodic revision of the national agricultural research plan. The strategic and applied research
areas to be approved by the CNRA Management Committee are expected to include six research areas i.e.
biotechnology, genetic resources, integrated pest management, post-harvest handling and processing,
natural resources management (including irrigation and water management, soils and land management,
agroforestry), and agricultural economics. Strategic and applied research area selection would be based on
potential contributions to:
*   achieving national priorities (i.e., increasing agricultural competitiveness, contribution to poverty
alleviation, opening new export markets, protection of natural resources, etc.);
*   establishing an institutional base with core expertise, demonstrated comparative advantage, and
leadership needed to maintain program direction and long term contributions in the area;
*  providing direct impact on priority research programs on a national level; and
accessing intemationally available technologies for import and adaptation in Mali.
During the first year of project implementation, for each strategic and applied research area, the CNRA
would contract expert review teams composed of recognized local and/or foreign specialists to undertake a
comprehensive inventory of current research programs, capacities, and interests in Mali and assess research
areas in terms of potential technology and development. Each team would present its findings in a
workshop with participation of local and foreign specialists in the relevant field. Workshops would develop
recommendations for priorities for future work and program development in the technical field. Based on
these workshops, the CNRA would identify area priorities for the first generation of activities under the
- 54 -



SARP program. These priorities would be approved by the CNRA Management Committee.
During negotiations, 34 SARP sub-projects were agreed upon for financing during the first year of
PASAOP implementation. However, a prioritization and selection system would be developed during the
first year of the APLI to set-up and agree on valuation criteria and procedures for the financing of future
SARPs for each strategic and applied research area that would be defined as described above. SARP
reviews would assess technical direction of SARPs including: scientific quality, program performnance,
institutional linkages, and potential impacts.
The adoption of the operating policies and procedures for financing competitive strategic and applied
research sub-projects would be a Phase II trigger.
Note: The Dutch Government would continue to provide parallel financing for most of the strategic and
applied research sub-projects and research and development sub-projects. AFD through PASE would also
provide parallel financing for soil fertility research sub-projects.
II. 4. Competitive financing of demand-driven Agricultural Research and Development sub-Projects
(AR&DP) (US$1.4 million). The project would finance on a regional and demand-driven basis AR&D
sub-projects submitted by beneficiaries and focusing on resolving constraints to small farm productivity
and income generation. AR&DP funding would be regional and grants would finance research operating
costs, including research materials and supplies, travel, minor equipment requirements, and research
assistant and laborer salaries. Grants may also finance short term training and travel for research team
leaders, but would not finance large construction, major equipment procurement, salary supplements,
general degree training programs, or salaries for lead researchers. Grant funding for AR&DP would be
implemented according to procedures described in Annex 12. The functioning of the CAR&DGF under
satisfactory operating policies and procedures would be a Phase II trigger. It is expected that under Phase
11 the CAR&DGF would be multi-donor funded.
Project Component 3 - USS 18.00 million
Improving the efficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National Agricultural Extension System.
Building on the existing national extension system, the project would support the on-going public
service decentralization process and introduce progressively demand-driven contracting mechanisms to
ensure the relevance and quality of extension programs to Malian producers and agribusiness. Such
demand driven contracting mechanisms would result in a pluralistic system for the financing and execution
of extension programs, thereby increasing private sector participation and contributing to the sustainability
of the system.
* APL 1: phased contractualization and regionalization of extension services.
During the first phase, DNAMR's extension division would be progressively decentralized at the
regional level for its overall planning, supervision, and for the execution of extension activities.
In addition, on a pilot basis in five selected areas, contractual arrangements would be made
between producer organizations and extensionists from the private sector to carry out extension activities
on demand. The progress made in the contractualization of those services would be assessed for possible
further contractualization and/or complete privatization of extension services delivery with an significant
financial participation of the users themselves.  The emergence of independent/private providers of
extension services would be encouraged.
- 55 -



During project implementation, i.e. the first phase of the program, extension activities outside the
pilot areas, would be undertaken on the basis of annual regional contractual arrangements, between
DNAMR regional office on the one hand, and the producer organizations and/or the rural communes on the
other. The program contract would specify the content of the extension activities, the expected results, the
operating budget and the contribution of the producer organizations or rural commune to financing.
Participation of producer organizations, community-based organizations, and villages associations would
be actively encouraged in the design, co-financing when possible, and supervision of regional extension
programs. The requests/proposals would be aggregated at the regional level and the Regional Chambers of
Agriculture will be responsible for organizing a Regional Rural Development Forun where the extension
programs and budgets would be presented, discussed and agreed upon with the representatives of the
various stakeholders.
The project would support the NAES with respect to: (a) decentralization of extension
activities to the rural commune level; (b) establishment of technical backstopping and training at the
regional level; (c) upgrading of agricultural extension management through systematic training, and
improved work environment including incentives for extensionists, infrastructure and transportation; (d)
technical assistance and establishment of concertation mechanisms empowering community/
producer-based organizations in the design, management, and quality control of extension programs at the
communal and regional levels. A description of the structure and management of the decentralized system
are presented here and are followed by more specific descriptions of the sub-components of the proposed
project. In addition, the project through the Pilot Extension Program in the five selected regions would
support the establishment of mechanisms and the institutional set-up for contracting private agricultural
extension services at a communal level and/or at a Producer Organization level.
-1-. 1. Strengthening and regionalization of extension services (US$15.6 million).
At Local and Regional Levels. Under the proposed system, responsibility for, and decision-making in, the
implementation of extension services would be placed at the level of the communes and regions. Along the
lines of the on-going govemment decentralization program, producers would participate through their local
governments (commune) and/or POs in the management of the extension services. Financing of the
decentralized extension system would be progressively shared on a matching grant basis by the govemment
at the national and regional levels, and the beneficiaries themselves (communes and/or POs). Regional
Rural Development Coordination Committees (Regional RDCC) would serve as a forun for, in particular,
the programming and financing of extension activities.
At National Level. At the national level, during the first year, the sub-program would be coordinated and
implemented by central DNAMR. To ensure both coherence with the national policies and increased
participation of the producer community and the private sector, during the second year of implementation, a
National Extension Coordination Task Force would be established and would be responsible for the
establishment, regulation, and coordination of the new decentralized extension system. It would review in
particular, annual regional extension plans which have been proposed at the region level, and once
approved, would manage the flow of funds from the national to the regional levels. At the region level, this
review of annual extension plans would focus on all aspects of the proposals including: practicality;
feasibility; the economic relevance and sustainability of the proposed technical packages; and, the
environmental relevance and sustainability of the proposed technical packages. Central DNAMR would
also participate in the provision of the training of extensionists. DNAMR would contract, from research
institutions such as IER, LCV, universities, and other private or non-governmental research institutions, a
cadre of national level SMSs to provide national perspective and leadership on specified technical and
methodological issues. It would also contract region level SMSs at the request of the region offices.
- 56 -



Finally, Central DNAMR would manage a program of studies and technical assistance designed to monitor
the imnpact of the project and to bring in outside expertise when needed.
The Program would help:
(a)    support DNAMR by selecting and training staff at all levels and defuiing new operating
procedures. T'he procedures would ensure that DNAMR operates in a decentralized
fashion, giving regional offices a great deal of autonomy in managing staff and financial
resources and providing for mechanisms to involve the participation of producer
organizations in decision-making regarding extension local level staffing;
(b)    develop mechanisms to improve the capacity of extension services and producer
associations to work together to define and implement extension activities. To this effect,
DNAMR would test ways to work together with POs to: (i) elaborate local level extension
activities based on participatory assessment; (ii) involve POs and rural communes in the
selection and evaluation of the extension workers; and (iii) train and involve POs' auxiliary
personnel in the implementation of the extension activity;
(c)    upgrade technical and managerial skills of extension personnel through a regular
in-service, as well as short-term, training activities. All staff would initially be trained to
adopt a participatory attitude, DNAMR's guiding principle. Village diagnosis
methodology would be widely adopted by all extentionists. Extension workers' technical
skills would be upgraded. Subject matter specialists, along with researchers and
representatives from produicers' associations, would receive systematic training in their
respective disciplines, as well as training in participatory technology development methods,
basic economic and financial analysis, and social and gender analysis. All staff in
managerial positions would be trained in management techniques;
(d)    establish a system for continual staff evaluation and reward for best performances. The
system would include input from producers in the evaluation process;
(e)    promote the use of mass media, particularly radio, to complement field activities;
(f)    promote a systematic concem for meeting the technology needs of female and vulnerable
groups producers, processors, and marketers;
(g)   implement pilot extension activities, such as provision of specialized extension advice from
private providers, on a contractual basis in the five selected regions;
(h)   implement the pilot national component of the West African Pilot Pastoral Program
(WAPPP) aiming at testing community-based pastoral resource management;
The West African Pilot Pastoral Program (WAPPP) is aiming at testing an innovative Community-Based
Natural Resource Management in the semi-arid pastoral areas of Mali. This pilot operation is the national
component of the regional West African Pilot Pastoral Program. The Pilot Pastoral Program objective is to
demonstrate that through proper resource management, it is possible to reverse the current process of land
and vegetation degradation taking place in most pastoral areas of Mali and to secure sustainable
agrosylvopastoral production, thus alleviating poverty and improving the living conditions of these
communities. The initiative would be mainstreamed into the Agricultural Extension and Producer
- 57 -



Organizations Components. It is intended to progressively add more Pilot Pastoral Areas, so that at the end
of the first phase, the operation would include a dozen sites. If the pilot is a success, the next step would be
to scale-up the operation at the national level. The activities include technical assistance to pastoralists in
designing and implementing their Community Based Natural Resource Management plans, investments in
Pilot Pastoral Areas and a specific national training program. Given the pilot nature of the program, it
would be closely monitored and evaluated.
Extension Services Financing plan during the first three years. During the first three years it has been
agreed that the GOM, through its own resources and the IDA credit, would finance most of extension
activities. Although in the five pilot areas, technology transfer grants would be allocated for financing most
of the extension contracts to be passed between POs and selected private providers, it is expected that
through the proposed contractual arrangements in the five pilot areas, Producer Organizations would
participate in the financing of the local extension agents' operating costs. During the first phase, the GOM
and large producer organizations would determine how the taxes collected on agricultural products could be
co-managed between the GOM and producer organizations. The establishment of these mechanisms and
procedures would be a trigger condition for the second phase.
Financing plan during the second and third phase. After the initial phase, beneficiaries would participate in
the financing of extension activities up to 20 percent of extension operating expenditures. To this end, a
sustainable financing mechanism with the participation of POs, CRAs and communes would be developed
during the first phase. A study would be undertaken to determine how the taxes collected on agricultural
products could be used for the financing of agricultural services demanded by the producers. The testing
and establishment of a such mechanism and related procedures would be a trigger condition respectively for
the second (APL2) and third phase (APL3).
DNAMR's revised mandate, organization, management. and strategy. The main functions of DNAMR
headquarters would be to provide support to the regional directorates in the following areas: (i) R&D
methodology, (ii) training (communication extension methods, and agricultural technologies), (iii) ex-post
financial management and accounting control, (iv) human resources management procedures for personnel
annual evaluation and career development, (v) establishment of a referential data bank on agricultural
technology and results of on-farm research, and (vi) overall extension program monitoring and evaluation.
Decision-making regarding the content of the extension activities would be made at the rural community
levels, so that the extension activities can be tailored to the specific needs and capacities of producers and
their communities. The Regional Chamber of Agriculture would be responsible for organizing Regional
Rural Development Fora where the commune and/or PO requests/proposals would be aggregated, the
regional extension programs and budgets presented, discussed and agreed upon with the representatives of
the various stakeholders.
In order to prepare itself for its new role, central DNAMR would adopt a new institutional structure
specifically tailored to its new mrission. This would involve the creation of a Technical Unit, a
Methodology Unit, a Training Unit, a Monitoring and Supervision Unit. At the central level DNAMR
would employ roughly 35 full-time staff. At the professional level, this would include 13 extension
specialists to staff the Technical, Methodology, and Training Units, a small audit and legal staff (three
people), and a small staff of administrative professionals to manage budgetary, financial, planning,
procurement, human resources, and other admninistrative matters (six people). Additional positions in
central DNAMR would be filled through an open competitive search process and would be on a contractual
basis.
In addition to its central office DNAMR would maintain nine regional directorates with the appropriate
- 58 -



administrative and financial autonomy for implementation. DNAMR's total staff would be limited to 520
extension agents working at rural commune level, a total of 136 extension managers and 102 subject-matter
specialists, with different fields of expertise depending on the production systems. 63 high level managers
would be located in the regions (9x7).
PY 1           PY 2                         PY 3
Commune Extension Agent     520       520 + 160* (PEP)                   470 +200*
Subject Matter Specialist   102        102 + 28* (PEP)                   90 + 40*
M&E field surveyer          151       redeployed or transferred* to CPS            =
OPA Specialist              40        transferred* to APCAM/CRA
Supervisor                  178        178                               150
High Level Staff and Managers  136     35 central + 63 regional          35 NI + 63 Rl
(* Contractuals)
Working arrangements. Extension activities would be progressively formulated at the rural commune level,
between the extension agent and the producers. To elaborate an extension program, a participatory
diagnosis would be conducted jointly between the producers, DNAMR staff and staff from other
development agencies working in the rural commune (NGOs, etc). The extension activities identified in
that way, would be the basis for an annual contractual arrangement (work program agreement, WPA)
between the rural commune and/or PO, on the one hand, and DNAMR and the extension agent on the other.
The WPA would specify the content of the extension activities, the expected results, the operating budget
and the contribution of the producer organizations or rural commune to financing. Wherever POs or
NGOs have their own private agent, DNAMR extension agent would intervene only to complement the
work of the private agent. DNAMR would provide the service provider with technical backstopping as
needed through its subject matter specialists and training programs. The program of work of the private
agent,technical back up and training, and budget would be defined in an annual contract between DNAMR
and the PO or NGO. Once WPAs have been agreed at the communal level, participating communes would
submit these WPAs to the regional CCDR for final approval in order to obtain from regional DNAMR
extension office the required financing on a matching grant basis. The organization of DNAMR and
working arrangements for extension activities at the regional and local levels would be presented in a
detailed NAES operation manual. However, it is understood that the manual would have to be adjusted
along with implementation, therefore it is proposed that it be reviewed at the end of the first phase.
Each regional DNAMR office would be responsible for programmning and implementing extension activities
in its area of intervention. Subject-matter specialists would be grouped to work as a team, according to
production systems or agroecological zones and would be located at the department level, rather than the
regional level, to be closer to their intervening zones. Each extension agent would have access to a team of
two to three subject-matter specialists. He/she would be based in a rural commune and work with an
agreed upon number of villages and producer organizations. The task of the extension manager is not
solely administrative: he/she would be expected to provide technical back-up to the extension agents as
well.
Each communal agricultural extension office would prepare an annual communal project outlining the
objectives and the proposed plan of activities which would be employed in order to achieve the objectives.
The plan would also indicate, in the form of a detailed budget, the resources which would be required in
order to fulfill the elements of the plan. This plan would be submitted to the regional DNAMR office for
approval.
- 59 -



Procedures for personnel annual performance review, criteria for promotion and incentive system would be
defined in the management and internal organization. These procedures would include mechanisms to
collect beneficiaries' appreciation of regional and local level extension agents.
Staffing. The terms of reference and profiles for all DNAMR positions would be defined in the draft
management and internal organization manual. Procedures for personnel armual performance review,
criteria for promotion and incentive system would be defined in the management and internal organization.
These procedures would include mechanisms to collect beneficiaries' appreciation of DNAMR local level
staff, in particular the extension agents.
*     National-level Subject Matter Specialists. DNAMR's Regional Technical Unit would house a
group of technical SMSs. These technical SMSs would be individuals with technical expertise in the
agricultural sciences, with experience in the research community, but with a practical "extension"
orientation. This group of technical SMSs would include specialists in subject areas such as the following:
(a)   crop protection (IPM);
(b)  irrigation and fertilization (Soil Fertility);
(c)  farm management;
(d)  farm machinery;
(e)   methodology of field trials and surveys;
(f)  institutional development for participatory groups of poor producers; and
(g)   environmental sustainability of agricultural techniques.
Additional expertise in extension methodology would be provided on a contractual basis to complement the
staff of the national DNAMR's Methodology Unit. The group of extension methodology SMSs wiould
include specialists for each one of the following areas of expertise:
(a)   participatory diagnosis;
(b)   monitoring and evaluation;
(c)   programming and planning of extension activities; and
(d)   communication and publications.
Extension methodology SMSs would be responsible for the production of materials and activities at the
national level which would lead to the diffusion and adoption of agricultural technologies from the national
level. This would include the production of communications materials for radio, TV, and newspapers, as
well as the production and distribution within the extension system of technical recommendations for use by
extensionists and producers. They would also be responsible for providing guidance with regard to the
monitoring and evaluation of regional agricultural extension programs.
To complement the staff of the DNAMR's Technical and Methodology Units, the project would establish a
fund to finance short-term technical consultancies to address problems and issues which are national and
strategic in scope. This national fund would be sufficient to contract up to 60 man-years of consultant
services over the life of the project.
*      Training of Extensionists. Provision for training activities would be made for extensionists and
other persons employed or otherwise connected to the new decentralized extension system. Annual training
programs consisting of a variety of activities would be prepared for each extensionist. These training
activities would present new techniques designed to protect and enhance productivity and environmental
- 60 -



sustainability and would provide training in participatory extension methodologies designed to ensure that
all members of the farm family are reached, including women and youth. The primary responsibility for
training activities would lie with DNAMR's Methodology and Training Units.  Regional DNAMR
extension offices would share in the responsibility for identifying training needs and implementing training
activities. DNAMR would contract the services of other institutions (universities, NGOs, etc.) as needed to
provide specific training activities under the project.
A progressive implementation. A comprehensive training program would accompany the process of
revamping the NAES. This initial training program would have as its objective the sensitization of all
DNAMR staff to the new extension approach and to the way that DNAMR would function at the national
and regional levels (on the basis of the NAES Operation Manual). The training program would include
various managerial and communication aspects as well.  The new system  would be established
progressively over the three-year period of the project. The extension activities of the revamped NAES
would be evaluated before the end of the third year of the project as far as the cost-efficiency of each
structure, beneficiaries satisfaction, quality and relevance of extension services, in order to decide on the
institutional modalities for carrying out extension services. Satisfactory functioning of the revamped
NAES as indicated in Annex 1, Key Performance Objectives, would constitute a trigger for the second
phase.
Financial management and accounting system.  DNAMR has showed good records in financial
management and accounting under PNRA. However, given the new decentralized management approach,
an accounting firrn has been recruited to design a decentralized cost-accounting financial management and
accounting system. As part of its termns of reference, the firm would have to design the system, advise on
the choice of a software, and agree on selected parameterswrite the manual of procedures, and train the
accountants in the manual of procedures and use of the software. This firm has also been recruited over a
period of two years to guarantee the quality of DNAMR's accounts.
Linkages Between A2ricultural Research and Extension. SMSs at both the national and the region levels
would be individuals located professionally within existing agricultural institutions (including research
centers, universities, NGOs, and others). Even when contracted to provide services to the extension
system, they would maintain their posts and offices within their institution. This arrangement would foster
and facilitate a natural and close linkage between the technology generation activity and the technology
transfer function in Malian agriculture. The participation of these SMSs in the monthly meetings in each
region would ensure a systematic point of contact between research and field level concerns. SMSs would
also interface with extensionists and producers through a variety of other activities including: the
supervision of field trials; the undertaking of field days, seminars, and workshops; diagnostic field visits;
and responding to inquiries.
The connection between the agricultural research and agricultural extension communities would be further
strengthened through interaction in the training component. Technical subjects and practical training
events to be offered to extensionists under the training program would in many cases be taught or led by
staff of research institutions, universities, and other entities through contractual arrangements with the
extension system.
Promotion of Environmentally Responsible Agriculture. The project would be expected to have a positive
environmental impact in that the activities of extensionists would improve the awareness of producers with
regard to the environmental impacts of the technologies which they employ. Further, extensionists would
be in a position to suggest methods to control negative environmental consequences of fanning activities
and to promote technologies which have positive ecological consequences. Armed with better information
- 61 -



about, and keener awareness of, environmental issues than they would otherwise have without the extension
project, it is anticipated that producers would make production decisions in a more environmentally
responsible manner than would be possible without the project.
The project would institute several measures specifically designed to result in greater awareness among
producers of the environmental consequences and opportunities associated with their farming operations.
These measures would include the following:
(a) requirements that training activities touching on environmental impact of traditional and emerging
agricultural production techniques would be included in each extensionists annual training
program;
(b) requirements that the topics covered by extensionists' training programs include in particular
integrated pest management, and other practices and techniques designed to permit more effective
incorporation of ecological factors into overall farm management;
(c) the inclusion of a specialist in environmental issues in agriculture among the staff of DNAMR's
Technical Unit and the availability of funds to contract SMSs with expertise in environmental
issues to work with producers and extensionists as needs arise;
(d) the requirement that the review of annual district extension plans at each level (district, region, and
national) would include, among its other elements, an assessment of the environmental issues which
are raised or which fail to be addressed by the plan;
(e) the availability of funding for investigation of the environmental impact of the project and of
agricultural activities in general and for contracting expertise from outside of the extension services
staff to address environmental concems as they arise; and
(f) the availability of funds for pilot extension activities, among which could be activities designed to
test and disseminate interesting production or conservation techniques which are expected to be
environmentally beneficial. In particular specific IPM, Soil Fertility, and Livestock activities have
been included for execution during the project under the extension component and the research
component, as well as under the MDR reform component (as far as its regulatory and control
functions are concemed) (see Annex on IPM, Soil Fertility, and Livestock Special Initiatives).
These aspects of project design would operationalize the principles of World Bank Operational
Directive 4.03 which deals with the topic of agricultural pest management in Bank operations. Further,
during negotiations assurances were obtained that the Govemment would apply, or have applied, standards
and procedures for the utilization of agricultural chemicals in connection with agricultural extension
activities which are satisfactory to the Bank. More generally, the project's design would encourage
environmental awareness among beneficiaries in that it would provide an attractive opportunity for
environmental interest groups, as well as groups with interest and expertise in participatory development, to
participate in the dissemination of the techniques which they favor through participation in the provision of
extension, in the provision of training, as SMSs, and in the provision of technical assistance. These are
opportunities which would not exist in the absence of the project.
A Special Initiative Task Forces for Pest Management, Soil Fertility, and Livestock would be set up
to lead a series of activities related to the respective special initiatives. The activities to be promoted and
supervised under the Pest Management (IPM), Soil Fertility, and Livestock Special Initiatives have been
- 62 -



respectively estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million; 2.5 mnillion, and 4.7 million.
Gender and Vulnerable Group Equity. During project preparation, women's lack of access to extension
was identified early on as a critical issue. The program would therefore include a comprehensive program
of actions (the Vulnerable Group Special Initiative) to address the specific needs of both women and
vulnerable groups producers. The scope of the extension program in particular would include the training
of all extension agents on gender and poverty issues, the number of female extension agents would be
increased. Finally, project financing would include provision for undertaking specific surveys and analysis
to assess and monitor the participation of women and vulnerable groups producers in rural production and
rural commercial activities.  Insufficient efforts have been made to improve the quality and the
dissemination of technical recommendations for products like fruit, vegetables, small livestock, which are
mainly the responsibility of women producers. Fishing and fish marketing have also been identified as
having good potentialities to alleviate poverty in terrns of income and nutrition. In particular, as described
in Annex on Vulnerable Group Special Initiative, in the Mopti area the project would support a series of
actions to address specifically the needs of the Bozo ethnic groups and women in particular which have
been completely left out of any support for social and/or productive investments and services.
A Vulnerable Group Task Force would be set up for leading the Special Initiative. The activities to
be promoted and supervised under the Vulnerable Groups Special Initiatives have been respectively
estimated at a total of about US$2.7 million.
I_. 2. Pilot Extension Program (PEP) for Contracting Extension to Private Providers of Extension
Services (US$1.0 million). A Pilot Program for contracting extension/advisory services (PEP) would be
implemented in five regions --the District of Bamako and in four selected regions (Koulikoro, Segou,
Mopti, Sikasso).  Its objective would be to test institutional arrangements for contracting private
agricultural extension services at a communal level and/or at a Producer Organization level. Because of
the pilot nature of this sub-component, the project would finance 100 percent of the cost of the extension
contracts to be passed between POs and selected private providers.  Because of the proposed
demand-driven mechanism, it is difficult to predict the number of PEP contracts that would be financed
under the project, but it is expected that the project would be able to finance PEP grants for a total amount
of US$1.0 million.
I113. Contracts for Agricultural Support Services in Cotton Areas (US$1.4 million). In the context
of the Cotton Sector Recovery and Restructuring Program (under the Third Structural Adjustment Credit
SAC III), agreement was reached that cotton producers in PY2 would contract with parties of their choice
to obtain the technical agricultural support services they need following PEP procedures. Starting in PY2,
provision has been made for that purpose, and the financing of such contracts is expected to be provided
directly from the Cotton Producer Organizations.
Piloting and Coordination of the Extension Program. A National Extension Coordination Task Force
would be established to provide guidance and coordination for the establishment of the new decentralized
extension system. The task force would in particular be responsible for reviewing progress made in
implementing contractual arrangements for the provision of extension services (with public and private
providers) and promoting mechanisms for the participation of beneficiaries in the financing of
demand-driven extension services. Progress in these areas would be reviewed at the end of the project and
lessons used to scale-up the use of contractual arrangements and shared financing between extension
service providers and beneficiaries. The establishment of these mechanisms and procedures would be a
trigger condition for the second phase.
- 63 -



The project would finance: (a) civil works for the rehabilitation of central and regional offices; (b)
equipment; (c) local and foreign short-term technical assistance; (d) workshops for participatory regional
planning and priority setting, and for institutional analyses and strategy development; (e) monitoring and
evaluation and impact assessments, and; (f) up to 75 percent of DNAMR extension services operating costs
(excluding salaries).
Project Component 4 - US$9.20 million
Support to Producer Organizations.
As stated in the revised long-term rural development action plan, the main thrust of restructuring the
management of the sector is to transfer development responsibilities to grassroots organizations. To this
effect, the government intends to promote and empower village communities or rural associations e.g.
Producer Organizations and Commune Associations (POs and CAs), so that they can take on an increasing
share of the responsibilities assumed in the past by the public sector. This component aims at social capital
building through the empowerment and strengthening of community-based and producer organizations.
Rural Conmmunes.  In line with the government decentralization process and according to its
implementation schedule, it is proposed under the project that, during the first year of their participation in
the; program, participating communes would build on the experiences of the Associations Villageoises
(AV) and would each establish a Association Communale de Developpement Rural (ACDR) which would
eventually govern the public/private extension service at the communal level.  The Association
Communale de Developpement Rural would be the legal entity to constitute and administer a participatory
form of public investment, including agricultural services. Once formed, ACDRs would gradually be
granted an increasing level of responsibility over the management of the extension service in their own
communes. The ACDR would be constituted of seven members, with five representatives elected from
among the beneficiaries (at least two female representatives) and two from the MDR regional office. Other
interested organizations (such as NGOs, universities, or farm organizations) could, at the invitation of the
board, place representatives on the board as long as the number of producers' representatives would be
increased sufficiently to maintain their majority.
Producer Organizations. Though some producer organizations are organized up to the national level, they
remain by and large not as effective as they could be and are not yet representative of the majority of the
producers. Their weaknesses stem from managerial and organizational difficulties: they lack well trained
human resources; their capacity to communicate with their members and to keep information flowing in
both directions is weak; and they lack financial leverage. In the case of producer organizations that have
been government- or donor-induced, their leaders' legitimacy is often in doubt. However some producer
organizations play an increasing role in research planning and management (Commissions Regionales et
Nationales des Utilisateurs de la Recherche CRU/CNU), as well as in negotiating with the Government
commodity (in particular cotton and rice) strategic plans (Contrat-Plan). Mali's Chambers of Agriculture
(created in 1993), for example, are still very weak and so far poorly reflect the country's agricultural and
socioeconomic diversity. Although elections were organized and statutes revised to introduce more
democratic mechanisms, elected representatives are too often rich producers primarily interested in the
development of agribusiness.
Therefore:
*   legal texts conceming POs and AVs have been revised to take into account the evolving
political/social/economnic environment;
- 64 -



* producers' "organizations" membership and leadership needs support and training to increase
transparency and accountability and to be active partners in development capable of articulating their
needs vis-a-vis the government and the private sector, and to be able to plan, execute, monitor and
finance programs or projects of their own;
* concertation and representation mechanisms need to be established or consolidated at the national,
regional and local level for all producer organizations to discuss and agree on priorities and strategies,
and to monitor the implementation of national and regional rural development programs. There is a
need for supporting the establishment and the functioning of a National Association of Agricultural
Producer Organizations (ANOPA), as well as of a national PO forum under APCAM that would
facilitate producer access to information and express the interests of the various groups of agricultural
producers.
As mentioned earlier, producer organizations would become the main stakeholders of the future national
agricultural research and extension system after the second phase and they would have access to one single
demand-driven financing mechanism for training, extension, and research and development activities. This
financing would be accessible to regional or local level producer organizations on the basis of the
presentation of requests according to the manual of operation (defining the selection criteria and processes)
that would be tested during the first phase. It is envisioned that this mechanism would support
group/organization capacity-building, functional literacy, extension, and research and development, while
leaving the decision-making with regard to the content and the providers of the services to the beneficiaries
themselves. The process, from the design of the proposal to the selection by the committee, would be
facilitated by one or several NGO.
POs have very specific needs in term of technical, organizational, and managerial advisory services. They
also may cover several communes, even regions, thus POs cannot use the same type of contracting
arrangements. Participating POs would use their own governance and management system for contracting
agricultural advisory services as demanded by their members. Three levels of producer organizations
would have access to funding under the PO component:
(i) the umbrella organization (ANOPA; APCAM);
(ii) the regional level (unions);
(iii) the local level POs (at the rural communes or inter-communes level).
During the first phase, the program would help producer organizations (at the national, regional and local
levels) strengthen their capabilities so as to be better able to provide services to producers, such as access
to inputs, product marketing, access to credit, access to infornation. Also, producer organizations are
expected to be able to carry out a diagnosis of their members' constraints, aggregate and prioritize their
needs and articulate them to research and extension services. They are also expected to take part in
adaptive research and be able to disseminate knowledge and information to their members.
Local and Regional Fora. At the local and regional levels, POs' fora would be established. These fora
would bring together representatives from local or regional POs to discuss and agree on common priorities,
review POs' project proposals and select them on the basis of the procedures and criteria presented in the
approved "PO Agricultural Advisory Service Grant Management Manual". Once a subproject is approved
by the local forum, a contract would be established between APCAM and the PO, specifying the activities,
- 65 -



the contractor who would provide the services or the training, the results to be achieved, the budget and the
payment modalities. Subsequently, with the assistance of a specialized NGO, one of the roles of the local
and regional fora would be to monitor results.
Role of NGOs. One NGO or several NGOs would be recruited by APCAM to help establish the local and
regional fora, train the POs' representatives in proposal review and selection, manage the ASSG program,
and then monitor results. The NGO would also prepare and recurrently update a data base of potential
providers of services and training (both national and external) which POs would be able to consult at the
Regional Chamber of Agriculture (CRA) to identify the service provider of their choice. The data base
would also include a record of the performance of the service providers.
Agricultural Advisory Services Providers. It is anticipated that a wide variety of professionals and
institutions engaged in the agricultural sector would participate in the activities to be supported under the
project. An assessment of existing agricultural services providers was undertaken during preparation.
Universities, NGOs, private firms, and other entities with appropriate capabilities would all be eligible, on
a competitive basis, to participate in the actual provision of agricultural advisory services. They would
also be able to participate in the provision of training to extensionists, as providers of subject-matter
specialists, and as sources of technical assistance to the project's activities. Eligibility criteria and a
weighting system for the selection of private services providers will be part of the Operation Manual for the
Agricultural Advisory Service Grant Program. The CRAs would be responsible at the regional level for
maintaining and updating a list of private agricultural advisory service providers, as well as for contracting
out from time to time specific surveys such as quality control and impact assessment surveys.
A progressive implementation. Because of the innovative, highly participatory and decentralized approach
for this component, the activities would be piloted in nine regions, in a leaming-by-doing mode. In addition
to the general role assigned to the NGO's, as described above, under its contract, the NGO is expected to:
(i) review the procedure manual jointly with the PO leaders; (ii) with the same collaborative approach, help
set-up with POs' representatives annual program and budget; (iii) determine key performance indicators
and procedures for monitoring and evaluation; (iv) elaborate and update a data base of potential service and
training providers; and (v) assess the support these providers will need themselves (training of trainers).
All these reforms are expected to be piloted and to take place during the first phase of the Program and
would be trigger conditions for the second phase.
During the first phase of the program, the Project would finance:
* the strengthening of APCAM, ANOPA and of the CRAs and regional unions;
*   the promotion and strengthening of private agricultural service providers;
*   agricultural advisory services on a PO demand-driven and matching grant basis through the
establishment of an OPA Agricultural Advisory Service Grant Scheme.
IV. 1. Strengthening National Associations (APCAM, ANOPA) (US$1.4 million), and CRAs and
Regional Unions capabilities (US$2.9 million): The project would support the strengthening of the
capabilities of APCAM, CRA, ANOPA, and Regional Unions leaders in their representation and advocacy
role; their capabilities to analyze, synthesize and design strategic alternatives; and negotiate with public
and private partners.
- 66 -



To ward this goal, under the PO component provision has been made for financing: (i) the
rehabilitation/construction and equipment of APCAM, CRA, as well as needed transport; (ii) operating
costs of APCAM and CRAs; (iii) the training for APCAM, CRA personnel, and PO leaders; (iv)
communication, forum, and networking, and; (v) the development of a monitoring and evaluation system.
IV. 2. Promotion and strengthening of private Agricultural Advisory Services Providers (US$0.5
million). The proposed project would support an effective system of agricultural advisory services that is
in line with the new realities in the agricultural sector -- i.e., the emergence of a market economy,
agricultural restructuring, and the need to transform agricultural producers into entrepreneurs. At least as
important as technical matters is the economic advise like support of business planning. Another task of
the agricultural advisory centers is clearly to provide producers with information and advise on the outlet
and marketing opportunities of their goods. The agricultural advisory services should assist the
establishment of groups (machinery groups, fruit and vegetables grower cooperatives, service cooperatives,
marketing groups, etc.), which, in many cases, is a precondition for successful marketing, machinery
services, or any other business activity in the agriculture or rural sector. To provide this information and
advise, a decentralized, private sector and market based approach is required. Therefore, the agricultural
advisory system would be build on available in-country experience in particular the Private Services
Centers, and on institutional arrangements that already exist and show promise of working effectively.
The project would support these agricultural advisory and farm service centers and strengthening their
network through the creation of a national association of all such centers willing to participate. It would
provide financial and technical support to the association and its members, including new members that
would be established in locations not yet covered. Links to the research institutes and universities would be
developed to ensure a flow of technical informnation as well as advice on demand. Information exchange
links among the centers would be strengthened, as would links with the market infornation system initiated
with support from AFCOPAV.
The project would finance the core expenditures of the centers and the national association, at an annually
declining rate, over several years, and they would increasingly charge users for the information and services
provided. Centers would be encouraged to add new services and activities to their portfolio, in an effort to
generate revenues. At the end of an agreed period, project financial support would end, and each center
would have developed into a viable business enterprises or would have to close its doors.
IV. 3. Strengthening local and regional POs through a demand-driven OPA Agricultural Advisory
Service Grant (AAS) Grant Program (US$4.4 million).
Each PO would have access to funding under the component whether or not they belong to a Federation
that is part of ANOPA nor APCAM. The financing under the proposed OPA Agricultural Advisory
Service Grant Scheme would be for contracting the services of agricultural advisory service providers (a
private extension firm, a university, an NGO, etc.) to deliver the demanded advisory services. The
activities, funded on a matching grant basis with participation from beneficiaries (10 percent), would be the
following:
(a) Training. The program would finance training to strengthen POs' organizational and
managerial capabilities upon POs' request. Training would be in the following domains: (i)
functional literacy; (ii) organizational and financial/accounting management for PO Board
members; (iii) association rules and processes, including cooperative and associative
movement regulations; (iv) leadership skills; (v) understanding the macro-economic and
institutional environment; (vi) participatory diagnosis, including gender analysis; (vii)
- 67 -



program/project formulation; (viii) the organization and management of marketing and of
input supply delivery.
(b) Communication. The program would help producer organizations have access to means of
communication (rural radio, newspapers, videocassettes as well as less formal means of
communication: traditional theater and songs) in order to communicate relevant information to
their members in technical, economic and organizational domains.
(c) Support to production, processing, and marketing technical innovations. The program would
finance, technical and management advice to assist producer organizations in the
implementation of economic activities (for example, extension, specialized agricultural
technical skills; preparation of the documentation to access credit; micro-enterprise
management; etc.).
OPA Agricultural Advisory Service Grant management and implementation support AASG Program
management and implementation responsibility would lie with APCAM, in conjunction with the communes
and the producer organizations. DNAMR representatives would participate in the regional fora and be
responsible for ensuring the technical quality and the respect of agreed regional/national rural development
strategies, in particular with regards to the social, economic and environmental aspects of delivered
services. APCAM would contract an NGO for the management of the ASS Grant and for the development
and execution of an outreach and training AASG program to help producers and service providers to enter
into the Grant system. In addition, regional workshops would introduce key issues of marketing,
agribusiness development, producer organization, environmental management, gender sensitivity, and
priority technical issues important to proposal development.
Procedures for ASSG proposal sollicitation, selection and award are indicated below. Following award of
a grant, the AASG Unit would sign a contract with the service provider for the provision of advisory
services as stipulated in an approved Agricultural Advisory Services Agreement and signed by both the
producer organization and the provider. Release of project funding would be based on authorization of the
producer organization.
Program monitoring and evaluation would be coordinated by APCAM. Each ASSG sub-project would
submit semi-annual technical and fmancial execution reports to the NGO Regional AASG Coordinator
following a standard format. Regional AASG Coordinators would evaluate project performance on a
semi-annual basis and regional staff would visit each active project at least once per year. Projects would
report their experience and accomplishments at the semi-annual fora workshops. The AASG NGO/Unit,
using additional contracted services as necessary, would ensure regular monitoring of project activities,
including monitoring compliance with environmental commitments. Monitoring and evaluation would
receive special emphasis while program procedures are being established and program impacts
AASG budgets are based on profiles developed for three sizes of projects with about 10, 50, or 200
participating producers. The average AASG project would benefit 800 producers and last a maximum of
three years. Each selected regional office would scale up the AAS grants program with award of 60 grants
the first year, 100 the second, and 200 each year thereafter. Agricultural Advisory Service grants would
fund up to a maximum of 90 percent of total AASG project cost, a maximum grant amount of US$ 100,000
and a maximum project life of three years.
The percentage of the sub-project costs to be funded by the PO's themselves will depend upon the type of
activities and will range from 10 to 40 percent (less for training or communication, more for technical and
management advice). Detailed procedures and criteria for sub-project selection, financing, execution,
- 68 -



monitoring and evaluation, and auditing are specified in the "Support to POs Component' Operation
Manual"" (See Annex 11).
The following break-down in cofinancing for the Project as a whole is indicative of what might be
expected over the life of the Program:
Financing for AASG Projects:
Financier                         Phase I           Phase II           Phase m
AASG Grant Fund                   90%               70%                55%
Producers                         10%               20%                30%
Agricultural Advisory Service     0%                10%                15%
Providers
APL 2 and APL 3: Consolidation and Expansion
With regard to the medium- to long-term institutional set-up, the establishment of a more comprehensive
competitive Agricultural Technology Fund (ATF) would be contemplated to support both agricultural
research and extension projects. An umbrella organization/system would allow various private agricultural
services providers to compete within an agreed framework and with a clearly defined set of criteria, both
for the selection of providers and for the selection and financing of specific extension sub-projects
requested by groups of producers (in particular, rural communes and producer organizations).
Based upon the experience of the OPA AASG and of the Competitive Research Grant Scheme, the ATF
woild be established at the national level with decentralized implementation through regional offices. The
Fund would co-finance two types of grants: grants for the private provision of agricultural advisory
services and grants to research institutions for adaptive research/R&D projects carried out in collaboration
with producers. Combined grants would be encouraged to ensure the continuum between technology
generation and technology transfer. Grants would be made in response to proposals submitted by applicants
under competitive procedures. Proposals would be submitted by producer groups in association with
identified service providers (i.e., NGOs, private associations/centers, government research institutes,
universities, agribusiness firms, consulting firms, and individuals). All projects would require cofinancing
from grant recipients. The purpose of the ATF would be to increase efficiency in use of public funding for
agricultural technology innovation and transfer. The requirement that grant recipients prepare project
proposals and cofmance projects ensures that government financing responds to user demands and genuine
interests of participating institutions.  Cofinancing leverages the amount of resources available for
technology innovation programs. Funding a range of institutions enables the technology system to exploit
both under-utilized capacity in the system and the comparative advantages of different institutions. Finally,
competitive allocation of funding would improve project quality.
Detailed procedures for Fund administration, competitive selection of projects, and cofinancing matrices
would be developed during the course of the APLI and included in the Operational Manual. Standard
contract documents would be developed to be used for projects financed by the Fund. All contract
agreements would include requirements that Bank procedures be followed for all procurement and would
require regular reporting keyed to the Project Management Report-base disbursement procedures. The
PCU would be responsible for ensuring the respect of standards of full transparency in implementation of
- 69 -



the program, especially with respect to review and award of grants and release of information on project
outcomes and program implementation.
ATF Adaptive research/R&D grants would finance research operating costs, including research materials
and supplies, travel, minor equipment requirements, facility renovation and maintenance, and research
assistant and laborer salaries. Grants may also finance short term training and travel for research team
leaders, but would not finance large construction, major equipment procurement, salary supplements,
general degree training programs, or salaries for lead researchers.
It is expected that the government functions with regard to adaptive research and R&D programs would
focus on the financing of most of the costs of the R&D programs/sub-projects, the enforcement and
monitoring of strategic plans, for quality control as well as for ensuring social equity in the provision and
delivery of agricultural services. The producer organizations, the private sector and civil society will be
responsible for the design/preparation of most of the R&D programs/sub-projects at the end of the second
phase of the PASAOP as well as for co-financing an increasing share of the costs of the
programs/sub-projects (on a matching-grant basis). The evaluation of the research (NARS) and the
extension (NAES) components in PY3, one year before the end of the first phase, would determine and
agree on the institutional arTangements for the second phase of the program.
- 70 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million    US $million    US $million
MDR Reforn                                                  8.50          6.05        14.55
NARS Revamping and Strengthening                            6.23          1.91         8.14
NAES Revamping and Strengthening                           11.16          5.64        16.80
Support to Producer Organizations                           7.24          1.39         8.63
PPF                                                         0.00          2.00         2.00
Total Baseline Cost                                        33.13         16.99        50.12
Physical Contingencies                                     0.48          0.50         0.98
Price Contingencies                                        1.62          0.68         2.30
Total Project Costs               35.23         18.17        53.40
Total Financing Required               35.23         18.17        53.40
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million    US $million    US $million
Civil Works                                                   1.63          0.18          1.81
Vehicles, Goods, and Equipment                                1.91          9.64         11.55
R&D Grants                                                    2.73          0.00          2.73
OP Grants                                                     4.42          0.00          4.42
Consultancies, Training, and Studies                         11.75          6.27         18.02
Other                                                        12.79          2.08         14.87
Total Project Costs      35.23          18.17        53.40
Total Financing Required      35.23          18.17        53.40
Identifiable taxes and duties are 4.89 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 48.5 1 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 89.67% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 71 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Economic analysis:
PASAOP would contribute significantly to the growth of Mali's economy in several ways. First, it
would increase producers' productivity and income by supporting technological change and innovation
in agricultural sector, mainly for crops and livestock production and primary marketing. The
participatory approach of technical recommendations addresses the needs of the poorest producers,
particularly of the vulnerable groups, including women, whose increased incomes would help improve
food security. Second, PASAOP would foster a favorable business environment for private sector, by
strengthening the regulatory framework at sector level. Third, the capacities to advance development
at the local level would be enhanced through the strengthening of producer-based organizations.
Fourth, PASAOP would contribute to improved govemance by implementing the decentralization of
MDR and public agricultural services at the regional level. Fifth, it would encourage better
environmental management by promoting sustainable agricultural production techniques. Overall,
PASAOP would contribute to poverty reduction in rural areas where poverty is most acute, by raising
rural incomes, improving food security, and empowering grass root organizations, which would be in
better position to negotiate for increased access to social services.
Quantitative economic analysis of agricultural research and extension projects is methodologically
difficult because of their demand driven nature and of the strong emphasis on institutional
strengthening. Therefore economic analysis follows current recommendations for good practice within
the Bank and includes three sections: a sunmmary of issues for economic analyses of research and
extension projects; a summary of global experience with returns to investments in agricultural
technology projects; and an estimation of the IRR and NPV for the proposed project investments.
A. Issues in Economic Analysis of Research and Extension Projects.
A draft AKIS Team Good Practice Note (Horstkotte-Wesseler and others 1999) reviewed issues with
economic analysis of agricultural research and extension (R&E) within the framework of World
Bank- funded projects. This assessment concluded that the main objective of economic analysis of
agricultural R&E should not be the calculation of a single summary measure (normally subject to a
wide range of assumptions), but rather the mainstreaming of economic analysis into a process of
evaluating costs and benefits for more efficient allocation of scarce resources within the technology
system. Given the large share of R&E project resources allocated to institutional development,
economic analysis of the whole project may not be wan-anted and therefore ex-ante economic analysis
of individual investments and their possible combinations within the project may be more appropriate.
Emphasis in projects financed by the Bank should be placed on building capacity within national
agricultural R&E systems to undertake economic analysis (both ex-ante and ex-post) for effective
evaluation, priority setting and impact assessment on an ongoing basis.
The Good Practice Note recommended the following strategies to make economic analysis of R&E an
integral part of the management processes within national systems.
- 72 -



> During project preparation, economic analysis should focus on (a) retrospective technology
adoption and impact studies to demonstrate that the current technology system has been productive in
some areas, and (b) prospective technology case studies to demonstrate the potential for research and
extension investments to produce good economic returns. The preparation team in Mali gathered the
existing information on available improved technologies and assessed their existing and potential
impacts on yields and producers revenues, by main cropping and breeding activities, and by main
natural regions.
> During project implementation, emphasis should be placed on establishing a system to
incorporate economic analysis methods as a tool in R&E evaluation, planning, and priority setting on
an ongoing basis. This requires the development of capacity for improved R&E management and
more attention to the collection of baseline information and performance indicators. PASAOP would
finance institutional capacity development in agricultural economics, including an emphasis on
economic evaluation of technology investments. The project monitoring and evaluation system would
draw on this capacity to ensure a continuing process of economic and social impact evaluation of
technology investments.
)  Agricultural research expenditures should be evaluated at the level of research progams for
important commodities or production systems (e.g., maize, beef, and irrigated rice). Economic
evaluation of expenditures for agricultural extension is valid when appropriate technologies are
available, but have not been adopted.
To build capacity for economic analysis and to create ownership for the results of the analysis,
analyses would be undertaken by analysts within the national system. The preferred underlying model
for all approaches is the economic surplus method, or a simplification thereof, such as cost-benefit
analysis. However, the exact type of analysis to be conducted would be deternined by the activities to
be financed, existing and projected analytical capacity, and data availability within the national
system.
B. Global experience with returns to agricultural research and extension projects.
A large number of ex postanalyses of economic returns to agricultural research and extension
investments have shown high rates of return. The most recent and comprehensive review of literature
in this area is a 1999 IFPRI study ("A Meta-Analysis of Rates of Return to Agricultural R&D" by
Alston, Marra, Pardey, and Wyatt). This study reviewed 294 benefit-cost studies reporting 1,858
estimates of rates of return to research and extension investments. The IFPRI study found average
returns to research investments alone of 88 percent, extension alone averaging 79 percent, and
research and extension combined averaging 45 percent. The study suggested that the lower estimate
for research and extension combined might be due to these studies capturing more of the total costs in
the technology innovation process. The analysis found little difference in estimates between different
types of research and found no evidence of a decline in rates of return in recent years.
- 73 -



C. Estimation of IRR and NPV for investments in research and extension projects
General. An estimate of economic returns to planned investments for extension and adaptive research
projects was the basis for assessing economic impact of the project. The analysis did not incorporate
environmental benefits from improved natural resource management impacts. The economic analysis
was based on projections of PASAOP costs and expected incremental benefits from producer adoption
of improved technology as a result of participation in the project. The economic analysis was carried
out for a 20-year period, in constant 2000 prices. Incremental benefits include cropping and livestock
activities. Incremental costs are estimated as all PASAOP costs, including farm level production costs
(input and on farm investments) plus costs of research, extension, capacity building and support to
producers organizations.
Benefits (farm level). Primary project beneficiaries would be small producers currently practicing
low-input and low-output production systems. Project benefits are estimated as the incremental
income benefits to producers adopting improved technologies and management practices, which would
be designed in association with the producers and with their organizations. Analysis includes
cropping and livestock activities.
For cropping activities, constraints to production and potential increase of yields have been estimated
according the five agro-ecological zones of Mali. Incremental production and benefits would result
from adoption of improved varieties, better use of inputs and associated cultural practices by
producers, along with better use of irrigation water in the case of rice-based farming systems or for
vegetable production.
For livestock activities, the analysis includes four standard herds (large nomadic herds in the North of
Mali; sedentary cattle in the South) and four standards flocks of small numinants (large nomadic
flocks in the North; small sedentary flocks in the South). Sedentary cattle breeding has been
increasingly integrated with cropping activities by developing ox-drawn cultivation and increased use
of manure.  Incremental benefits would result from better health care, and improved breeding
techniques and feeding patterns.
Adoption rates. The adoption rate is the percentage of the total numnber of existing farms or herds
over six years, which are supposed to adopt and benefit from the full impact of technology transfer
proposed by the project. For cropping activities, projected adoption rates vary from 15 to 30 percent
depending on the agro-ecological zone and the type of farm. It was assumed that full impact of
technology transfer on productivity is reached after 6 years. For livestock activities, adoption rates
are supposed to vary from 20 to 60 percent, depending on breeding system and type of technology.
Marketing of outputs. As significant demand exists for domestically produced crops, the above
project activities would facilitate the market absorption of the incremental production to be generated
under the project. Main incremental outputs would be staple grains (millet, sorghum and maize),
groundnuts, cotton, rice, and vegetables. Main output of the livestock activities would be meat and
milk. Major constraints to efficient marketing of agricultural outputs are a poor distribution network,
which leads to a wide disparity between farm-gate and retail prices, along with wide seasonal price
fluctuations; inadequate low-cost storage at farm level; and lack of processing capacity at village
level. The project includes research and extension activities to alleviate a part of these constraints, in
particular through support to producers' organizations.
Results of base case. Table I in Document Files presents the results of the economic and sensitivity
analysis. This analysis yields a project NPV of FCFA 75.8 billion (at a 12 percent discount rate) and
an IRR of 26.9 percent.
- 74 -



Management and technology improvements brought by the project are assumed to increase farm
income by 20 to 30 percent, depending on the farming system and the type of technology considered.
The analysis is conservative in term of benefits and costs. Estimates of production increase and
technology adoption rates are conservative, and based on the experience of national preparation teams
of neighboring countries. All PASAOP costs have been charged, including strategic research,
improved sector policy and management, and training services. These costs would in fact benefit the
many other developing programs operating in the country.
Sensitivity analysis. Project profitability appears relatively sensitive to target average production and
adoption rates, which are both variables for which little accurate information is available from the
former projects, and more generally from authorized sources in Mali. Under PASAOP, the
monitoring and evaluation unit and the service of Agricultural Information and Statistics of
MDR/CPS should therefore concentrate their efforts on the measurement of the above critical
parameters.
- 75 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31,
.t   r       \         ,.^L<M ;'4TATIN PERIOD
| Year I I Year2 2      Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5  | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          19.5       14.0        9.5        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             3.3        3.6       3.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         22.8       17.6       13.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             22.8       17.6       13.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                  19.0       14.2      10.3        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 3.6        2.5       1.5        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.2        0.9       1.2        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    22.8        17.6      13.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
Under parallel financing it is expected that bilateral donors in particular the USAID (for about US$2
million), the French Government (in particular though the AFD-financed PASE for about US$3.9 million
equivalent in the cotton areas), the Swiss Government, the Dutch Govermnent (for about US$10 million
equivalent, in addition to the already committed US$3.5 mnillion) and the European Union (about
US$700,000 equivalent) would provide additional support for MDR reforms, research activities and
Producer Organizations.
Impact of recurrent project costs on Public Finances
ISSUE
The issue is whether the recurrent costs generated by the PASAOP Program would be satisfactorily
covered by the beneficiaries and by the state budget, during project implementation, as well in the longer
term. The analytical approach consisted of comparing, in the medium and long term, (a) the additional
recurrent costs to be supported by the state budget, net of additional tax revenues generated by the project,
(b) with projections of available primary sector expenditures dedicated to salaries, operation and
maintenance.
Data and projections below should be considered as rough estimates, due to uncertainties about statistics,
future macroeconomic development and intersectoral arbitration for public expenditures.
- 76 -



INCREMENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
Total incremental recurrent costs amount to approximately CFA F 10 billion for the three-year first phase
project. Projections for following phases amount to CFA F billion 3 to 5 per year. These costs include
additional personal, operating and maintenance costs, for each of the four project components.
Two scenarios have been considered for the estimates of the medium term increase of financial contribution
of the users of agricultural services, for each project component. The base case scenario A derives from
preliminary discussions with the main stakeholders involved. Scenario B takes into account delays in
effective users contributions. Scenarios and contribution rates are presented below:
Project        Average rate of financial contribution of
Components             users and beneficiaries
End of phase 1 End of phase 2 End of phase 3
year 2002     year 2006      year 2010
scenari scenari scenari scenario scenari scenario
o base o with o base  with  o base  with
case  delays  case  delays  case  delays
(A)   (B)   (A)    (B)    (A)    (B)
Applied       30%   15%   40%    30%    60%    40%
research
Agricultural   17%   10%   40%    20%    60%    40%
extension
Support to    30%    15%   60%    30%   100%   60%
Producer
Organizations                           l
For the three-year project (PASAOP Phase 1), the financial participation of beneficiaries is estimated at
CFA F 1.6 billion per year for the A scenario, and at only CFA F 0.9 billion for the B scenario.
INCREMENTAL TAX REVENUES
The project impact on the tax revenues has also been assessed, in the context of existing and forecast
improved tax systems for the agricultural sector. This overall impact is the sum of the impacts on tax
revenues assessed by main sub-sectors (rice, other cereals, cotton, horticulture, livestock). Impact has been
estimated on the basis of (a) the incremental production and trade generated by the project and (b) the
corresponding increase of fiscal revenues (direct and indirect) estimated by using the results and
conclusions of available relevant studies (studies on the potential tax revenues of main sectors, have been
financed by PAMORI, a project supported by the Canadian Agency for Development).
As farmers and breeders are not subject to income and indirect taxes, except some minor local taxes on
rural inhabitants and cattle, most of incremental tax revenues would come from the trade of agricultural
outputs and inputs and the transfornation of crops and livestock productions. With the exception of cotton,
and possibly of intensive irrigated rice, most of these activities remain in the informal sector, for which the
fiscal pressure is currently low. Fiscal reforms under preparation would aim to expand taxation of
revenues to informal sector (lump sums) and to improve the yield of VAT.
- 77 -



With the current tax system, global incremental taxes generated by PASAOP would reach CFA F 1 billion
in year 6. It would increase up to CFA F 2.5 billion with the enforcement of the fiscal reforms which are
considered currently (incremental taxes would grow progressively from PY 1 to PY 6).
- 78 -



PROJECTION OF PUBLIC EXPENDITURES
Current budgetary structure
Note: the corresponding tables are presented in project files.
The state budget consists of the investment budget and the operational budget, allocated by ministry.
Actual expenditures are often at great variance with approved allocations. The investment budget, called
Special Investment Budget (BSI), is the annual executive version of the Tri-annual Investment Budget
(PTI) (BSI and PTI include the external financing by donors and Mali counterpart funding). PTI is
structured in four main sectors, broken down into sub-sectors, activities and projects. Most operational and
maintenance expenditures linked with the projects are included in PTI and BSI. Operational budget include
credits for the treatment of civil servants and limited operating and maintenance costs.
The current PTI (2001-2003) amounts to CFA F 690 billion for three years (PTI include programs and
projects, for which financing is acquired, or in the process of negotiation or preparation), out of which CFA
F 234 billion is dedicated to the rural sector (34 percent of total PTI). For this sector (including
agriculture, livestock, fisheries, and forestry), external financing for 79 percent (loans 55 percent; grants 24
percent) and state internal resources for 7 percent. As a rough estimnate, the total public expenditures for
the rural sector averages currently to CFA F 78 billion per year. MDR's total operational budget amounted
to CFA F 28 billion in 1999, out of which CFA F 16 billion were financed by extemal sources.
Medium-term projections
Note: detailed tables are in projectfiles.
Projections of public expenditures are based on available documents in February 2001, including the Policy
Framework Paper (IMF) date July 1999, Mali National Accounts and state budget for fiscal year 2001. On
this basis, public expenses of the rural sector are supposed to grow at an average of 3 percent per annum
during phase 1, up to 5 percent per annum at the end of phase 3. Catch-up of public expenditures for the
rural sector would be continued for several years, to compensate former adverse budgetary allocations per
sector.
Attached table shows the projected increase and structure of the public expenditures for the rural sector, in
constant prices 1999, along with the projections of recurrent costs of PASAOP.
Year      Rural Sector operating costs Budget   PASAOP           Ratio
(BSI and ordinary budget, i.e. salaries,    recurrent costs
functioning and maintenance)
(CFA F billion)            (CFA F billion)
2002                   14,0                        2,3            16 %
2002                   14,5                        2,5            17 %
2003                   15,0                        2,4            16 %
- 79 -



CONCLUSION
Analysis of GOM's net cash-outflow shows that the fiscal burden of the first phase of the PASAOP is
substantial, but is bearable over the project life. During phase 1, average annual Government financing of
PASAOP would amount to about CFA F 1.7 billion, i.e. about 10 percent of the current functioning budget
of the rural sector (operating and maintenance costs BSI and ordinary 2001 state budgets).
For the following phases, the Government contribution would be reduced substantially, due to the cost
recovery mechanisms which would help cover a part of government cash outflow, and to the incremental
tax revenues generated, which accrue the resources of the state budget. At medium term, cost recovery
would reach 20 to 30 percent of recurrent costs and incremental tax revenues generated by the project
activities would reach CFA F I to 2,5 billion, representing 15 to 50 percent of the recurrent costs.
PASAOP would have therefore to introduce innovative approaches in commercialization, privatization,
co-production and cost-sharing of agricultural services to enhance the financial sustainability of these
services. In the first years of the prograrn's implementation, implementing agencies would develop baseline
cost estimates of services to be privatized, out-contracted, co-produced, and cost-shared for monitoring and
evaluation of the cost recovery mechanisms. The GOM would also have to improve the taxing system and
increase, in a sustainable manner, the fiscal pressure on the production, transforTnation and trade of
agricultural products.
- 80 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Procurement
1. General.
1. The last Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) on Mali was carried out in 1998. The
Malian procurement Code, revised in 1995, and in 1999 with IDA assistance, is generally sound. No
special exemption, permit or license needs to be specified in credit documents, as Mali allows Bank
procedures to take precedence over any contrary local regulations or practices. National Competitive
Bidding advertised locally (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA
which allow that: (a) any bidders are given sufficient time to submit bids (four weeks for contracts
exceeding US$100,000 equivalent); (b) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified; (c) no
preference margin is granted to domestic contractors or manufacturers; (d) eligible foreign firms are not
precluded from participation; (e) contracts provide for security in amounts sufficient to protect the
Borrower in case of breach of contract (without distinction or exception); (f) prior to issuing the first call
for bids, draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable; and (g) award will
be made to the lowest evaluated bidder. Table A summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs,
and proposed methods of procurement.
2. Use of Bank Guidelines
IDA-financed Goods and Civil Works will be procured in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January and August 1997,
September 1997 and January 1999). World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents and Bid Evaluation
Report will be used for intemational competitive bidding (ICB).
IDA-financed Consulting Services will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 revised in September 1997, and
January 1999). The Standard Request for Proposal (RFP) as developed by the Bank, will be used for
appointment of consultants as well as the Sample Form of Evaluation Report for the Selection of
Consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for short term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six
months, carried by firmns or individual consultants.
Contracts for OP Agricultural Advisory Services and R&D Grant sub-proiect will follow procurement
and disbursement procedures as presented in the Bank "Guidelines for Simplified Procurement and
Disbursement for Community-Based Investments" (February 1998).
3. Advertising
The draft General Procurement Notice (GPN) was prepared for the project and will be finalized and
published in Development Business and in the National press after Board approval, listing all ICB for
works and goods contracts. The GNP will also include large consulting assignments (US100,000 equivalent
and above), to obtain expressions of interest and draw-up a pool of solid candidates from which to compile
the short list. Sufficient time will be allowed (a minimum of 30 days) before preparing the short list.
Specific procurement notices (SPNs) for works or goods will be advertised in the national press of wide
circulation, and intemationally for ICB. The GPN will be updated yearly and should show all outstanding
- 81 -



ICB for works and goods contracts; and large consulting assignments.
4. Procurement Implementation Arrangements
Procurement for each project component will be implemented by a separate implementing agency
who would be primarily responsible under their respective components for (i) the preparation and
implementation of the procurement plan; (ii) monitoring the progress of procurement; (iii) the preparation
of bidding documents and advertisements for goods and works contracts and requests for proposals for
consulting assignments; and (iv) bid opening and evaluation. The procurement institutional arrangements
are as follows:
(a) the "Direction Administrative et Financiere (DAF)"of the MDR, will be responsible for all
procurement for component I and component IV, as well as all procurement of goods under ICB
and NCB for components II and III, and monitoring and auditing of the project
(b) CNRA will be responsible for procurement of all consultants services and procurement of goods
under shopping methods for component II
(c) DNAMR, will be responsible for procurement of all consulting services and all procurement of
goods under shopping method for component III,
(d) Given the limited procurement capacity of some of the implementing agencies, the government has
proposed to use the services of a qualified Procurement Management Consulting firm (such as
AGETIER, AGETIPE, or another private firm) acceptable to IDA, to manage the procurement of
all civil works and related consultants contracts under a delegated contract management. Given
that AGETIER and other Procurement Management Consultants except AGETIPE have no past
experience in World Bank procurement procedures, the first three procurement contracts managed
either by AGETIER or another Procurement Management Consultant will be prior-reviewed by
IDA, regardless of contract amount. Also independent technical audits of works carried out by
the selected firm will be performed.
5. Procurement Capacity Assessment
A procurement capacity assessment was carried out during the appraisal mission to assess the capacity of
the implementing units. A detailed capacity assessment report has been prepared and is kept in the project
files. A summary of the findings is presented below.
MDR-DAF has experience in implementing donor funded projects. Its staff has participated in
procurement training programs for World Bank financed projects and with some technical assistance
will be easily procurement proficient. However, their procurement planning and filing capacity is
deficient and will be strengthened early in the project, and monitored every six months thereafter. A
technical assistance program is necessary and will be provided in the early stages of project
implementation.
CNRA has little experience in directly implementing donor funded projects. Most of procurement of
the on-going PNRA was done by IER which has experienced staff in World Bank project management.
CNRA will be responsible for the selection and financing of research contracts, and will be involved
with the procurement of consultants services and equipment with support of IER staff. Additional
staff will be recruited for CNRA and trained accordingly. CNRA procurement planning and filing, as
- 82 -



well as contract management need to be strengthened, and specific training is planned during the first
six months of the project, and close monitoring thereafter.
DNAMR has long experience in implementing World Bank funded projects. Its staff has participated
in procurement training programs for World Bank financed projects and is procurement proficient.
However, their procurement planning and filing capacity is deficient and will be strengthened early in
the project, and monitored every six months thereafter. A technical assistance program is needed and
will be done in the early stages of project implementation.
APCAM has no past collective experience with Bank funded projects. Additional staff will be
recruited and trained accordingly. APCAM procurement planning and filing, as well as contract
management capacity needs to be built, and specific technical assistance and training are planned
during the first two years of the project, and close monitoring.
Details of the proposed action plan to address the above findings are presented in the attached Appendix
6.1. The plan includes (i) the reinforcement of the implementing units through training of staff in the area
of procurement, especially in the new features of Bank procedures for the selection of consultants; (ii) the
use of consultants as necessary to assist in procurement; (iii) the development of a Project Implementation
Manual (POM) which ensures adequate coverage of procurement; (iv) the inclusion of procurement
planning and monitoring and contract management tools in the computerized project financial management
system and (v) the reorganization of project filing system so that all relevant procurement documents for
each contract are kept in separate files for easy retrieval
Provision will be made under the Credit for the financing of short-term missions of international and local
procurement specialists and a procurement audit to be carried out every two years by an independent
qualified auditor. The recommendations of this audit will be implemented by each implementing Unit and
monitored by the Project coordinating Unit.
6. Project Operations Manual - Procurement plan
A draft Project Operation Manual (POM) which ensures substantive coverage of procurement and a draft
procurement plan for the first year of implementation, has been prepared by the government and discussed
during negotiations. Also, the government has prepared two manuals "Manuel de Procedures de Gestion
des Financements destines aux Organisations de Producteurs Agricoles" and "Competitive Research
Grant Financing Procedures", describing the procedures for the submission and selection of OP
Agricultural Advisory Services and/or R&D proposals, as well as for their procurement and financing.
The government gave assurance at the negotiations that it will:
(a) finalize the POM to ensure adequate coverage of procurement for the project, as well as procedures
for the OP Agricultural Advisory Services and R&D Grant sub-projects. The procurement section
of the POM will describe (i) procedures for calling for bids, selecting contractors, consultants, and
suppliers, and awarding contracts; (ii) intemal organization for implementation and monitoring of
procurement; (iii) contract management procedures; and (iv) procedures for handing over completed
works. Adoption of the POM including the first year procurement plan is a condition of
effectiveness;
(b) hire a consulting firm acceptable to IDA for the handling of procurement of civil works and related
consultant services;
- 83 -



(c) develop and submit to IDA review/approval detailed procurement plans for the following years
during the first 12 months of project operations, and update the procurement plan every six months,
with the assistance of consultants as necessary;
(d) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, for NCB, the Standard Request for Proposals for the
selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation Report;
(e) apply the procurement procedures and arrangement outlined in the above documents; and organize its
filing system within six months of operations, so that all relevant procurement documents for each
contract are kept in separate files for easy retrieval;
(f) carry out during annual reviews an assessment of the effectiveness of the bidding procedures and
performance as they relate to project procurement experience, and propose for IDA's consideration
any modifications to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement, while
still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines;
(g) ensure that procurement planning and monitoring and contract management tools be included in the
computerized project financial management system to be installed as a condition of effectiveness.
7. Procurement Methods
Civil Workscontracts to be financed under the project will cover: (i) MDR small offices and meeting
rooms construction and rehabilitation works (US$0.58 million); (ii) CNRA, IER headquarters and research
stations rehabilitation (US$1.34 million); (iii) national and regional DNAMR offices rehabilitation
(US$0.95 million) and (iv) regional Chambers of Agriculture rehabilitation (US$0.63 million}. Because of
the number of contracts, the type of works, and the location in remote rural areas, it is unlikely that these
works would be attractive to foreign contractors (though they would not be prevented from bidding). These
works estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract would be tendered through NCB procedures
acceptable to IDA, for a total not to exceed US$1.1 million (US$ 0.87 million are financed by IDA).
Small worksestimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of US$1.54
million equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum fixed price contract awarded on the basis of
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable.
The award shall be made to the contractor who has presented the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to execute the contract successfully.
Goods Goods financed under the project totaling US$13.22 million, would include vehicles, computers, and
miscellaneous equipment for implementing agencies. ICB procedures will be used in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for procurement (published in January 1995 and updated in January and August 1996
and in September 1997 and in January 1999) except for contracts totaling US$1.33 million equivalent for
computers, supplies and fumiture not exceeding US$100,000 each, which would be tendered through NCB
procedures acceptable to IDA. Prudent Intemational and National shopping procedures based on price
quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers can be used for small quantities of goods, provided
that: (a) these goods cannot be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000; and (b) the aggregate amount
does not exceed US$200,000 for international shopping and US$100,000 for local shopping.
- 84 -



Consulting services. Consulting services financed by IDA, totaling US$18.60 million equivalent, will be
for the preparation of bid documents, supervision and project management, surveys, institutional studies,
capacity building, training, accounting, and technical and financial audits. These services will be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the use of Consultants (published in January 1997 and
updated in September 1997, and in January 1999). Selection of consultants will be carried out through
competition among qualified short-listed finns in which the selection will be based on Quality-Based and
Cost Selection (QBCS), except for the following: (i) audits of a standard nature estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract which will use the Least Cost Selection; (ii) studies, research and training,
estimated to cost less than US$50,000 to be carried out by consulting finrs, research and training
institutes, which may be procured under Consultants' Qualifications Selection, and; (iii) assistance
services, lectures and small studies, which could be delivered by individual consultants and which will be
selected through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest in the assignment or
approached directly. The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$100,000
equivalent per contract, may be comprised entirely of domestic consulting firms, provided those firrns with
experience required are available locally in a sufficient number (at least three). However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Contracts for OP Agricultural Advisory Services (US$4.42 million) and R&D Grant sub-proiect
(US$2.73 million) will cover Research and Development services activities requested by Chambers of
Agriculture and OP at the Regional Forum. They will include: (a) village/group services needs
assessments, (b) producer group and village services planning, (c) village inter-group meetings and visits,
(d) producer media materials preparation and dissemination, (e) producer group/village technical and
business meetings/training, (f) farmer-to-farmer training and technology dissemination, (g) producer/group
leader literacy, (h) organizational training; (i) technical advice; and (j) marketing information. All
contracts for "OP Grants" and "R&D Grants", because of their producer demand-driven nature, will
follow procurement and disbursement procedures as presented in the "Guidelines for Simplified
Procurement and Disbursement for Conununitv-Based Investments" (February 1998), and reflected in the
Manuals for the OP Agricultural Advisory Services and R&D Grant sub-project prepared by the
Government.
8. IDA Reviews
Prior review by IDA will be required for: (a) civil works contracts estimated to cost US$200,000
equivalent or more, and the first three civil works contracts managed by a consultant except by AGETIPE;
(b) contracts for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more; (c) contracts with consulting
finms estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more ; and (d) contracts with individuals consultants
estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more. With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$20,000 or more, the government shall provide to IDA a report on the comparison and
evaluation of quotations received, prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures. For
contracts with consulting firms estimated US$100,000 or more, the opening of the financial proposals will
take place only after the government has received IDA non objection to the technical evaluation. For
contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 but more than US$50,000
equivalent, the government will only notify IDA with the results of the technical evaluation prior to opening
the financial proposals. The exception to prior review for consultant contracts would not apply to terms of
reference for such contracts, single-source hiring, all contracts for audits and assignments of a critical
nature (as determined by IDA), and to amendments to contracts for works, goods and services raising their
value above the prior review thresholds documentation for contracts under these thresholds will be
maintained for ex-post reviews by auditors and IDA supervision.
- 85 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table 6A. Procurement Methods
(US$ million equivalent, net of taxes)
I,                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
Project Elements                                          Procurement Method
ICB                NCB         3|                         Total
I Other
1. Civil Works
L.a Component I (MDR)                                                        0.5           0.01                    0.58
(0.44          (0.06                   (0.50
I .b Component 11 (CNRA)                                                     0.            0.7                     1.3
(0.43          (0.52                   (0.95
I.c Component III (DNAMR)                                                                  0.09                    0.09
(0.08                  (0.08
L.d Component IV (APCAM)                                                                   0.63                    0.63
(0.55                  (0.55)
2. Goods
Vehicles
2.a Component I (MDR)                                2.33                                                          2.33
(2.02                                                         (2.02
2.b Component 11 (CNRA)                              0.1                                                           0.1
(0.15                                                         (0.15
2.c Component III (DNAMR)                            3.4[                                                          3 42
(2.97                                                         (2.97
2 d Component IV (APCAM)                             0.66                                                          0 66
(0.58                                                         (0.58)
Equipment
2.a Component I (MDR)                                1.9                    0.4                                    2.4
(1.67                  (0.42)                                 (2 09
2.b Component II (CNRA)                              1.4;                   0.3                                     1.7
(1.23                  (0.30)                                 (1.54)
2.c Component III (DNAMR)                            1.75                   0.44                                    2.19
(1.52                  (0.38)                                 (1.90
2.d Component IV (APCAM)                             0.21                   0.05                                    0.2
(0.18                  (0.04)                                 (0.22
3. R&D Grants                                                                                 2.7                     2.73
(1.50                  (1.50
4. OPA Grants                                                                                 4.43                    4.42
-86___________________________    ___________(3.30       (3.30)
- 86 -



5. Consultant, Training, Studies
5.a Componcnt I (MDR)                                                                8.41                  8.41
_______________________________________  ______________        ~~~~~(7.75             (7.75)
5.b Component 11 (CNRA)                                                               1.4                  1.44
(1.38                (1.38)
5.c Component III (DNAMR)                                                            6.3                   6.30
(4.90                (4.90)
5.d Component IV (APCAM)                                                             2.4:                  2.45
(2.27                (2.27)
4/
6. Operating Costs
5.a Component I (MDR)                                                                 1.74                  1.74
(1.42                (1.42)
5.b Component II (CNRA)                                                               1.2(                  1.26
(0.75                (0.75
S.c Component III (DNAMR)                                                             6.05                  6.05
(4.50                (4.50)
5.d Component IV (PCAM)                                                               1.3                   1.30
(0.65                (0.65)
7. PPF.                                                                                 2.0(                 2.00
(2.001               (2.00)
Total                            11.89                  2.43         39.0W                 53.40
L                                   ~~~~~      ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~(10.34)  (2.01   (31.15 _(43.50)1
hEntities in parenthesis denote agencies responsible for the component's execution.
21Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by International Development Association.
All costs include contingencies.
Includes small civil works national shopping, studies and consulting services, training, technical assistance
services,
R&D Grants, OP Grants, and incremental operating costs.
The term "operating costs" means: the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation,
management and monitoring, including office supplies, administrative support, communication and utility
services,
travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of official of the Borrower's civil service.
- 87 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category          (US$)                  Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                200,000 if any, or above        ICB                     none
less than 200,000 but more       NCB                     none
than 100,000 if any
First three contracts if
Below 100,000       Small works procurement    managed by other
consultant than AGETIPE:
0.3 (0.24)
2. Goods                    Above 150,000               ICB                  All contracts
1 1.89 (10.32)
(including 2.0 through
AGETIPE/IAPSO)
Below 150,000 but more          NCB           |
than 30,000                              | each Execution Agency
Below 30,000         National Shopping or         1.33 (1.15)
Intemational Shopping
None
3. Services                100,000 or above             QCBS                 All contracts
Firms                                                                         0.46 (0.36)
Firms                    Less than 100,000 but        QCBS/CQ            None, except TOR, or
more than 50,000                                  quick review
Individuals/Firms           Below 50,000                 CVNone except TOR
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$13.98 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
One procurement supervision mission per year for CNRA and DNAMR, and two procurement supervision
missions per year for MDR throughout the entire Phase I of the Program.
- 88 -



Report on the assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to the
PASAOP project  The objective of the review was to determine whether the
procurement/contract management system adopted by the project conforms to the
Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and procurement Supervision
Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement
management requirements. However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place
an adequate procurement/contract management system than can provide the appropriate
data on major procurement and contract management (PMR - Section 3) as required by
the Bank/IDA.
I have detailed in the following attachment the inadequacies that I found in the
system together with an agreed action plan by the Borrower to remedy the situation.
Bamako, December 14, 2000.
Signed by:   Cheick A. T. Traore, Procurement Specialist, Mali resident Mission
- 89 -



Annex 6.1
Action Plan for MDR-DAF, DNAMR, CNRA and APCAM
MDR-DAF
Areas of lack or insufficient      Action proposed             Performance Indicators
expertise ____
1. The staff is familiar with   1. Staff will be closely monitored    1I.1 The staff has produced at
the preparation of bidding  and assisted in producing       least one bidding document for
documents, requests for     acceptable documents during a    goods, and one request for
proposals, and bid/proposal    probationary period, and will  proposals for consultant
evaluation reports in respect    attend more training.       services within 3 months; and a
to Malian regulations and to                                 bid/proposal evaluation report
Bank's rules; it has attended                                - within 6 months of sufficient
training sessions on Bank's                                  quality.
procedures, but needs to be
monitored, specifically for                               1.2 Staff involved in procurement
bid/proposal evaluation and                                  have attended the
contract award.                                              Bank-sponsored regional
procurement training within 6
months following project
effectiveness
2. . The staff lacks experience 2.1. Technical Assistance will be    2.1 The TA contract is signed
in procurement planning and    provided during first year of  before effectiveness - Updated
the procurement filing system   implementation to assist the staff    procurement plan is produced
is deficient.               of all implementing units (i) in  every 6 months by the staff; and
making periodic updates (every 6  the procurement plan for the rest
months) of the procurement plan  of the program is prepared
drawn during the appraisal      before the end of Year 1,
mission, and putting together the  a filing system satisfactory to
procurement plan for the rest of  IDA is in place in all
the program, and (ii) in correctly    implementing units within six
filing all procurement matters.  months of operation and
maintained throughout project
implementation
2.2 Adequate procurement planning
module to be included in the  2.2 Procurement planning tools as
project computerized financial  part of the project financial
management system, and staff    management system are in place
trained on its use              by effectiveness and are used
effectively by the staff
3. The staff is familiar with  3. Procurement planning and   3. Contract management tools as
contract management, but    contract management system       part of the project financial
need to be monitored.       shall be included in the         management system are in
computerized project financial   place by effectiveness and are
- 90 -



management system; Staff will    used effectively by the staff -
be closely monitored and guided   At least, one summary report
in producing execution           produced within 12 months,
summaries of contract execution   demonstrating that the majority
and to ensure at least that: i)   contracts for the first year
contracts are executed in        were awarded as planned and
accordance with the              implemented in accordance
specifications/ TOR and within    with contract provisions
contract period, and; ii) payments
are made on time.
DNAMR
Areas of lack or insufficient       Action proposed              Performance Indicators
expertise
1.The staff is familiar with    1. Staff to be trained in Bank  1.1 The TA contract signed by
the preparation of bidding   procurement procedures and the   effectiveness
documents, requests for      TA to be hired will assist in the
proposals, and               handling of procurement until    1.2 The staff is able to produce
bid/proposal evaluation     the staff is trained              procurement documents of
reports in respect to Malian                                  substantive quality by the first
regulations; it has some                                      supervision mission (i.e,
knowledge on Bank's                                           within six months).
procedures, but needs
training.                                                  1.3 Staff involved in procurement
have attended the
Bank-sponsored regional
procurement training within 6
months following project
effectiveness.
2. The staff lacks experience   2. Same as DAF               2. Same as for DAF
in procurement planning and
procurement filing system is
deficient.
3. The staff is not familiar  3 Same a DAF                   3. Same as DAF
with contract management.
- 91 -



CNRA and APCAM
Areas of lack or insufficient    Action proposed               Performance Indicators
expertise
1. The staff has no experience       Samne as DNAMR                 Same as DNAMR
of Bank procurement
procedures (preparation of
bidding documents, requests
for proposals, and
bid/proposal evaluation
reports etc)
2. The staff lacks expenence in      Same as DNAMR                  Same as DNAMR
procurement planning and
procurement filing system is
deficient.
3. The staff is not familiar         Same as DNAMR                  Same as DNAMR
with contract management.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11 .04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-92 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
The first phase of the project is expected to be disbursed over a period of 4 years in accordance with the
disbursement profile of rural projects in Mali. The credit's closing date will be six months after the project
completion date. Disbursement of the IDA credit will be made available for civil works, goods, consultant
services, training and operating expenses (including project audit expenditures) eligible for IDA financing.
While operating under traditional disbursement procedures all disbursements will be fully documented at
the time of submission of withdrawal applications, except for expenditures made against statement of
expenditures (SOEs). Once the project's financial management is deemed satisfactory enough to fulfill all
the requirements for disbursements on the basis of Project Management Reports (PMRs), the project will
have the option to switch to PMR-based disbursements.
-93 -



Allocation of Credit Proceed
1. Civil Works
L.a Component I (MDR)                               0.50                80%
I.b Component II (CNRA)                             0.85
L.c Component III (DNAMR)                           0.08
L.d Component IV  (APCAM)                           0.05
2. Goods
2.a Component I (MDR)                               3.50           100% of foreign
expenditures and 90%
2.b Component II (CNRA)                             1.50         of local expenditures
2.c Component III (DNAMR)                           4.50
2. Component IV  (APCAM)                            0.70
3. Consultancies, Training, and Studies
3.a Component I (MDR)                               7.50                80%
3.b Component II (CNRA)                             1.20
3.c Component III (DNAMR)                           4.50
3.d Component IV  (APCAM)                           2.20
4. Research and Development Grants.                   1.50           100% of amount
(CNRA)                                                                  disbursed
5. OP Agricultural Advisory services                  3.30           100% of amount
Grants (APCAM)                                                          disbursed
6. Operating Costs2
6.a Component I (MDR)                               1.40                80%
6.b Component II (CNRA)                             0.75                60%
6.c Component III (DNAMR)                           4.50                75%
6.d Component IV  (APCAM)                           0.65                50%
7. PPF                                               2.00                100%
8. Unallocated                                        2.32
Total                              43.50
Entities in parenthesis denote agencies responsible for the component's execution.
2 The term "operating costs" means: the incremental expenses incurred on account of Project
implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, administrative support,
communication and utility services, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of official of the
Borrower's civil service.
Financial management
Project financial management. Project financial management will be the responsibility of each
executing agency, namely CNRA for research, DNAMR for extension, and APCAM for the CRA and PO
support.  Overall coordination and guidance for annual budget preparation will be provided by a an
- 94 -



financial management specialist (FMS) located at the MDR-DAF. The annual budget for the Project will
be covered under a consolidated budget, under the responsibility of the DAF's FMS, and each Executing
Agency (EA).
Accounting system and procedures. The general accounting system and procedures will follow
the government accounting system. Specific project accounting system and procedures will be designed
and documented in the Project Financial Management System (FMS) manual which will be made available
to the MDR-DAF and the national and regional Executing Agency representations. The project financial
statements will show the financial position of Project during the fiscal year ending on December 31,
comprising in particular of the following:
(a)    Financial statement of project account Each regional Executing Agency representation will
maintain separate sub-project accounting records, on cash basis, for each source of fund. All relevant
supporting documents will be kept for annual audit and random inspection by Bank's mission. The
regional and national Executing Agency representations will provide the component financial reports to
National Steering Committee, through the Project Coordination Unit, on a bi-annual basis. Each EA will
maintain the similar accounting records for activities executed by each component at central and regional
levels. The MDR-DAF and PCU compile the components financial reports, prepare consolidated financial
project accounts such as Statement of Project Expenditures and Financing (SPEF).
The financial management units of MDR-DAF, DNAMR, CNRA and APCAM will have their own
independent accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements. Under PPF financing a financial
and accounting system is being developed for each EA. During preparation an assessment of the financial
and accounting capacity of the various EAs has been made and shows that MDR-DAF, CNRA, and
DNAMR have adequate capacity and experience in implementing a World Bank project. However
APCAM at the central level, the Regional Chambers of Agriculture and DNAMR representations at
regional levels, have no experience in executing Bank projects, and a FMS will be recruited for the
financial management of the PO component. In order to meet the gaps, during the first phase an
independent accounting firm will be contracted for providing on-the job training for accounting personnel
of in particular APCAM, the regional DNAMR and Regional Chambers of Agriculture on the
administrative and financial management aspects of the Project. During the project launch workshop, the
Bank procedures and requirements will also be discussed by Bank staff.
The World Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in the World Bank Group
financed projects, the Financial Management Initiative (FMI). This initiative assists projects to put in
place sound financial management, procurement, and output monitoring systems. Where appropriate, if
these systems are in place, disbursements may be made on the basis of agreed quarterly Project
Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual invoices or statements of expenditure,
and the special account ceiling would be increased to cover six months of eligible project expenditures.
During Phase 1, the project will not be considered as being in full compliance with the FMI for
purposes of disbursements. An action plan has been prepared to make the project ready for FMI within 18
months of credit effectiveness.
Audit requirements.  The annual audits will be carried by independent auditing firms for each
component. Likewise, the independent auditing firms will also audit the financial statement of Special
Account and Statement of Expenditure (SOE) prepared by each EA. The audits by the independent
auditing firms will be in accordance with the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the audit of project accounts,
special account, and statement of expenditures acceptable to the Bank.  These audit reports should be
- 95 -



submitted to the Bank each year, six months after the end of fiscal year.
Internal control system. The internal control system framework for the project consists of project
management organization, policies, and procedures. It was patterned after the existing government internal
control system, comprising of: (a) project organization; (b) accounting system; and (c) control procedures,
which are satisfactory to the Bank. To meet Bank requirements (O.P. 10.02), an assessment of the
financial management capability and control environment of the Borrowers' implementing agencies was
carried out by the Bank's Resident Mission Financial Specialist (Annex 6.2a). The weaknesses identified
will be addressed by the Govermnent by project effectiveness. An action plan for financial management
was prepared for the project (Annex 6.2b).
Flow of funds. The annual work plans and budget estimates for the PASAOP will be submitted to
the MDR-DAF and the PCU for consolidation and approval by the PASAOP National Steering Committee.
Funding mechanism for R&D Grant sub-projects and OP producer-demanded agricultural
advisory services sub-projects. The mechanism to fund R&D Grant sub-projects and PO Grant services
sub-projects will be a modification of the scheme used by CNRA with the Regional Research Fund and, the
PVRN for village-managed activities. Producer groups will propose priority services (including in
particular organizational, management and technical training, and/or technology information/dissemination)
which they will manage through contractual arrangements with private services providers on a
matching-grant basis. The requests for services will be aggregated into a PO proposal amounting to a
ceiling per year to be determined according to the kind of user group. The screening, verification, and
funding allocation mechanism, will involve the Regional Development Committee staff following the
procedure described in Annex 15 B. The demand-driven financing mechanism for services will be
developed and piloted during the first phase of the program. The manual of procedures describes eligibility
criteria both for the selection of type of services to be co-financed and for the selection of the best qualified
provider of requested services, as well as contractual arrangement for technical review and payment
procedures.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be submitted monthly or when the Special Account is
reduced by one-third, whichever comes first. All replenishment or reimbursement applications will be fully
documented except for: (a) contracts of less than USD 200,000 for works; (b) USD 100,000 for goods and
consulting firms; (c) USD 50,000 for individual consultants. SOE documentation will be retained at each
implementing agency for review by Bank staff and annual audits.
Special account:
a) Special Account under traditional disbursement procedures
To facilitate disbursements three special accounts will be opened at a commercial bank for IDA's share of
eligible expenditures. The authorized allocation of these accounts will amount to CFAF 1,100 million,
CFAF 250 million and CFAF 840 million for MDR-APCAM, CNRA and DNAMR respectively. The
authorized allocation shall be limited initially to 50 percent of the respective authorized amounts until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals (under each agency's eligible categories) from the Credit account plus the
total amount of all outstanding commitments entered into by the Association shall equal or exceed
respectively the equivalent of SDR 8,000 for MDR, SDR 5,000 for CNRA, and SDR 3,000 for DNAMR.
Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a
- 96 -



reconciliation statement
b) Special Account for withdrawal made on the basis of PMRs
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount
equal to the lesser of: a) the amount so requested; and b) the amount which the Association has determined,
based on the PMR accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to fnance eligible
expenditures during the six month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the
amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said PMR to be remaining in the special
accounts, shall not exceed the amount of CFAF 1,700 million, CFAF 370 million and CFAF 1,300
MDR-APCAM, CNRA and DNAMR respectively.
- 97 -



Annex 6.2
Action Plan for Financial Management
Actions to be Taken                             Responsible Group         Completed By
1. Organization and Staffing
(a) Establishment of EA for each component with  GOM/PCU
qualified staff                                 CNRA                      Done
-at central, and                                DNAMR
-at regional levels                             APCAM and CRAs
(b) Appointment of the National Coordinator     GOM                       Done
(c) Appointment of key PCU staff:               GOM                       Done
- Administrative and Financial Specialist
- Rural Development Specialist (Agro -
Economist with M&E experience).
11. Accounting System and Procedures
(a) Establishment and Issuance of a Financial   Consultant/PCU             The first draft has been
Management System acceptable to the Bank.                                  issued
(b) Recruitment of an accounting firm for the   Consultant/PCU             for credit effectiveness
implementation of the FMS, and for the related
training program during the first 2 years of project
implementation
(c) Recruitment of an independent specialized entity    Consultant/        6 months after
(NGO or consulting firm) for the identification,  APCAM                    effectiveness
selection, financing and execution of OP/AV
demand- services contract.
(d) Implementation of LACI-FMI and related FMI  PCU/IDA                    18 months after
Training Program                                                           effectiveness
- 98 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                                   45
First Bank mission (identification)                                          03/10/1997
Appraisal mission departure                     02/12/2001                   02/12/2001
Negotiations                                    10/29/2001                    11/02/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   04/01/2002
Prepared by:
Ministry of Rural Development
Preparation assistance:
PHRD TF029432                               |$400,000
PPF n Q234-0 MLI                           1$2,000,000
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Sylvie Mbappe, AFTR2              Language Program Assistant
Christian Fauliau, AFTR2          Institutional Specialist
Francois Le Gall, AFTR2           Livestock Specialist
Harry Palmier, AFTR2              Research Specialist
Alexandra Goffin, AFTR2           Language Program Assistant, COSTAB
Agadiou Dama, AFMML               Agricultural Services Specialist
Yeyande Sangho, AFMML             Agricultural Economist
Dirk Prevoo, AFTR2                Operations Officer, COSTAB
Annick Lachance, Consultant       Monitoring and Evaluation
Alek Bouchitte, Consultant        Economic and Fiscal Impact Analysis
Wolfgang Chadab, LOAAF            Disbursement Officer
Abdoulaye Coulibaly, AFMML        Financial Specialist
Cheick T.A. Traore, AFMML         Procurement Specialist
Hans Wabnitz, LEGAF               Country Counsel
Bemard Abeille, AFTQK             Procurement Specialist
Zainab Mambo-Cisse, AFTRC         Project Assistant, COSTAB
Daniel Moreau, AFTR2              Agricultural Services Specialist (Task Team Leader)
- 99 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.     Economic and Financial Analysis.
Fiscal Impact.
Cost/Benefit Analysis for the Agricultural Sub-Sector.
Cost/Benefit Analysis for the Livestock Sub-Sector.
2.    Proposal for the Operational Manual of the Competitive Research Grant System.
Annex 1. CNRA Terms of reference.
Annex 2. Terms of reference for the Research Review Committee and Peer Reviewers.
Annex 3. Criteria for Research Proposal Review.
Annex 4. CNRA Management Committee Terms of Reference.
Annex 5. Research Proposal Submission Format.
Annex 6. Research Sub-Projects Certificate of Understanding.
Annex 7. Competitive Research Grant Schemne Reports Format.
3.    Integrated Pest Management Initiative
4.     Livestock Initiative
5.     Vulnerable Groups Initiative
6.     Cotton Sector Reform Initiative.
C. Other
1.    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper PRSP. -- Government of Mali. July 2000.
2.     Programme d'Appui aux Services Agricoles et aux Organisations Paysannes.
Document Principal. Annexe Cadres Logiques. -- Ministere du DMveloppement Rural.
Aofit 2000.
3.     Lettre de Politique de Developpement Institutionnel du Secteur Rural.
-- Ministere du Developpement Rural, Bamako, Septembre 2001.
4.     Actualisation du Schema Directeur du Secteur du Developpement Rural.
Vol. 1: Situation du Secteur du Developpement Rural et Evaluation de la Mise en
Oeuvre du SDDR 1992-2000.
Vol. 2: Strategie du Developpement.
Vol. 3: Plan d'Action.
--- Ministere du Developpement Rural. Cellule de Planification et de Statistiques. Juin
- 100 -



2000.
5.     Elimination des Pesticides Perimes au Mali. Document de Projet.
Vol. 1: Etat des lieux des pesticides obsoletes et des sites contamines au Mali.
Vol. 2: Problematique de l'usage des pesticides au Mali.
--- Ministere de l'Equipement, de l'Amenagement du Territoire, de l'Environnement et
de l'Urbanisme. FAO/Gouvemement du Mali. Octobre 2000.
6.     Projet d'Appui a la Filiere Semenciere. Rapport de Preparation. --- FAO/CP/BAD.
1997
7.     Developpement des Statistiques de l'Alimentation et de I'Agriculture. Rapport
provisoire d'Identification.
--- FAO/CP/Banque Mondiale. Avril 2000.
8.     Etude Socio-Economique selon le genre du PNIR et du PASAOP. --- S. Proulx et M.
Diallo, Bamako, 2000.
9.     Rapport d'Evaluation du Programme d'Amelioration des Systemes d'Exploitation en
Zone Cotonniere (PASE)
--- Agence Francaise de Developpement, Bamako, Septembre 2000.
10.    Programme d'Appui a la Filiere Riz. Proposition de Financement 8eme FED
--- Commission Europeenne, Bruxelles, Aout 2000.
11.    Etude Nationale Prospective MALI 2025. Rapport de Synthese
-- Presidence de la Republique, Secretariat General, Bamako, Juin 1999.
12.    Etude de l'Impact Environnemental du Programme d'Appui aux Services Agricoles et
aux Organisations Paysannes (PASAOP). --- SERNES, Bamako, Janvier 2001.
13.    Lettre de Politique de Developpement du Secteur Coton (LPDSC).
-- Ministere du Developpement Rural. Juin 2001.
*Including electronic files
- 101 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
07-Nov-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY   Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                          Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P040650        2001 EDUCATION SECTOR EXPENDITURE PROGRAM                 0.00      45.00                             0.00      43.55      -1.96       0.00
P041723        2000 RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                                 0.00     115.10                             0.00     109.21      16.46 .     0.00
P058770        2000 IMPRCOVING LEARNNG IN PRIMARY SCHOOLS                0.00       3.80                             0.00       2.90       0.88       0.00
P001748        2000 FINANCE SECTOR DEVEL                                 0.00      21.00                             0.00      19.67       8.43       0.00
P040652        1999 INTEG HEALTH SEC INV                                 0.00      40.00                             0.00      32.77      26.49       0.00
P035617        1998 GRASSROOrS HUN/POVT                                  0.00      21.50                             0.00       8.54       3.64       0.00
P001738        1997 IRRIG PROMOTION                                      0.00       4.20                             0.00       2.58       2.71       0.00
P046651        1997 ML REGIONAL POWER                                    0.00      17.10                             0.00       6.27       6.80       0.00
P001750        1997 URBAN DEVT & DECENTR                                 0.00      80.00                             0.00      37.94      27.07       0.00
P034617        1996 ML SELINGUE REHAB.                                   0.00      27.30                             0.00       2.32       4.85       0.00
P001746        1996 VOCATIONALEDUCTRNG                                   0.00      13.40                             0.00       2.00       3.23       0.00
P001755        1995 AGRO-PROCESSING TRD                                  0.00       6.00                             0.00       0.75       1.53       1.67
P001751        1994 AG. RESEARCH                                         0.00      20.00                             0.00       0.26       0.63       0.45
P001730        1994 TRANSPORTSECTOR                                      0.00      65.00                             0.00       8.04       8.60       4.73
P001747        1993 PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                                 0.00      12.00                             0.00       0.72       1.62       1.57
Total:        0.00     491A0                              0.00      275.52     111.00       8.42
-102-



MALI
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
MAY-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic    Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1996               AEF GGG                        0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Hotel Bamako               0.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.17    0.00     0.00    0.00
1999               PAL-Graphique Id               0.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.67    0.00     0.00    0.00
0                  PAL-Rabelais                   0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/99            Randgold                       0.00    2.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.03     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF 3T                         0.12    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.12    0.00     0.00    0.00
2001               SEF Fibromat                   0.11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997               SEF Grand Hotel                1.14    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.14    0.00     0.00    0.00
1995               SEMOS                          7.00    4.80    0.00    5.00    7.00    4.80     0.00    5.00
1992/97            SOMISY                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         9.94    6.83    0.00     5.00     9.83    6.83    0.00    5.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    PaTtic
1996              AEF GGG                           0.00      0.31      0.00      0.00
1999              MMG - CVECA                       0.08      0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              Equipbail Mali                    0.79      0.00      0.07      0.00
2001               BMCD                             4.60      1.20      0.00      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        5.47      1.51      0.07      0.00
- 103 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MALI: AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Saharan      Low-
Mall    Africa   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.8       659     2,459                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                     240       480       420
GNl (Atlas method, USS billions)                       2.6       313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (X)                                         2.4       2.6       1.9
Labor force (%)                                        2.6       2.6       2.4      GNI                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latast year available, 199440)                               capita             0 /       enrollment
PovertY I% of population below national poverty line)   70
Urban Population (% of total population)                28        34        32
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                        50        47        59
Infant mortalitY (per 1,000 live births)               123        92        77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             31                                Access to Improved water source
Access to an improved water source (/% of population)   52        55        76
Illiteracy (% of population a.e 15+)                   68         38        38
Gross primary enrollment {% otschool-age population)    50        78        96            Mali        Low-income group
Male                                                            85       102
Female                                                          71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1960     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratlos.
GDP (USs billions)                            1.8      2.4       2.6       2.5
Gross domestic Investment/GDP                15.5     23.0      21.2      22.2                     T
Exports of goods and services/GDP            14.7     17.1      24.9      24.5                      rade
Gross domestic savinos/GDP                    1.1      6.0      12.4       9.1
Gross national savingslGDP                            15.1      14.1       11.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -13.0     -7.9      -8.5      -9.3      Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                         1.4      1.1       0.9        1.1     sav;ngs                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                              168.8    101.9      117.4     117.3
Total debt service/exports                   15.2     14.6       11.0      13.6
Present value of debVGDP                                        54.5      53.2
Present value of debt/exPorts                                  184.0     193.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  0.8      3.8      6.1       4.5       4.3       -MaO              Low-income grouP
GDP per capita                      -1.6      1.1      3.4       5.0       0.9
Exports of goods and services        4.8      9.3     14.3      -3.6       5.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                         20
Agriculture                                  483      455       46.5       44.8     10
Industry                                     13.2  15.9   16.7   16.8   o__
Manufacturing                               6.5      8.5        4.1       4.0   -l    i'o   99 oo
Services                                     38.5     38.6      36.8      38.5    -29
Private consumption                          87.4     79.8      77.3      79.9    -30
Generalaovernmentconsumption                 11.6     13.8      12.6       13.0                    GOI    O      GDP
Imports of goods and services                29.1     33.7      36.0      39.6
1980-90  1990-00      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(aBverage annual growth)                                                           r,o
Aariculture                                   3.3      3.2        9.5       5.5
Industry                                      4.3      6.6       1.7       7.5      o     
Manufacturina                               6.8      3.0       -4.0       6.0    20
Services                                      1.9      2.9       4.4       2.6    20
Private consumption                           0.6      2.5        1.5      5.9                        9t     s s    9 99   oo
General government consumDtion                7.9      4.6      16.6       9.6   -20
Gross domestic investment                     3.6     -0.7       4.5        5.8            -Exports          C-Imports
Imoorts of goods and services                 6.6      2.0       5.4       0.1
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missinqg the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 104-



Mali
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                       0.6061-12 -07 20
Implicit GDP deflator                       16.3      4.9       -2.7      0.9     1
Government finance                                                                                         _
(% of GOP, includes current rgrants)                       o        =8
Current revenue                             74.6    19.3        18.1     17.3    -10
Current budget balance                      23.7      9.2        4.4      3.9            -     GDP deflator  O   CP
Overall surplus/deficit                     -33.4    -7.1       -8.2     -9.1
TRADE
1980    1990       1999     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(UST  mileions)
Total exporns (fob)                          592      330       571       518 9    000
Cotton                                     262      164        244      199
Gold                                       242       45       253       287      750
Manufactures (f                            82       62         80       909
Total imports (cif)                          823      627       806       909      50
Food                                        120      694       112      166      250
Fueland energy                             120       69        112      166
Capital goods                              225      194        252      257        o - 94  95    8   97 s 99    so
Export price index (1995=100)                 70      108        76        82
Imxport prce index (1995=100)                 85       93        92       107 82Exports                    UImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     83      117        83        77
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1980    1990       1999      2000     Current account balance to GOP (%)
Exports of goods and services                263      415       655       606      o
Imports of goods and services                520      817       950       922
Resource balance                            -257    -401        -295     -316
Net income                                    -9      -16        -70      -71     -5        *    *I
Net current transfers                         35      226       172       175
Current account balance                     -232    -191        -219     -234      10
Financing items (net)                        241      275       164       140
Changes in net reserves                       -9      -84        56        94    1-
Memo:
Reserves including qold (US$ millions)        26      198       224       269
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)           211.3   272.3       615.7    662.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990       1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3,018    2,467      3,018    2,956
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0                    G:1B1
IDA                                      1,082      498      1,082      957                F: 3
Total debt service                            49       79        84        94                                   B: 957
IBRD                                         0        0         0         0
IDA                                          8        6        19        16
Composition of net resource flows                                                   E 1,043
Official grants                            115      235       151       137
Official creditors                         158      142        86        83
Private creditors                          -21       26         3         0                                  C 176
Foreign direct investment                    2      -14        16        45           _  Jv
Portfolio equity                             0        0         0         0                       D: 596
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       55        96       210      A-IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                               88       43        57        48      B-IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Pnvate
Prncipal repayments                          0        2        11         9      C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                   88       41        46        40
Interest payments                            8        4         8         7
Net transfers                               80       38        38        33
Development Economics                                                                                               9/20/01
- 105-



Additional
Annex 11
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This annex summarizes the analysis of the environmental and social impact of the Agricultural
Services and Producer Organizations Program (PASAOP). The work consisted in identifying activities
proposed under PASAOP that could induce positive or negative impacts on environment (physical,
biological, and social). PASAOP main objective is to strengthen the institutional capacity of MDR and of
its personnel toward a sustainable rural sector development. Its direct impact on the environment will be
very limited. However, for the long term, there is little doubt that after its execution PASAOP activities
will induce positive social and environmental impacts.
PASAOP Components
PASAOP will be executed through four components:
*     CComponent I: Support to MDR Reforms toward its rationalization and deconcentration;
*     Component II: Support to the National Agricultural Research System;
*     Component III: Support to the National Agricultural extension System;
*     Component IV: Support to Producer Organizations.
Methodology
The work was based on: (i) field surveys and interviews of field technical staff and producers, and; (ii)
thorough analysis of the proposed PASAOP activities as described in the preparation reports.
A. The Environmental Aspects.
Safeguard Policy - Environmental Assessment. The PASAOP's potential impact shows little trade-off
between stimulating efficient agricultural growth, and sustainable natural resource development. The
agricultural strategy supported under PASAOP argues that Mali's agricultural growth potential lies in the
high and medium-potential areas, and the greater the degree to which this potential can be tapped, the less
pressure there will be to expand intensive agricultural frontiers into the more fragile areas. Although the
proposed Cotton Sector Recovery and Restructuring Program would help restore the competitiveness of the
cotton sector, no major expansion of cotton cultivated areas is expected. Indiscriminate expansion into the
arid lands will be cautiously held in check and intensification of agriculture in the high potential areas will
be associated with appropriate land use practices. Soil erosion and degradation is already a serious
problem and sustainability of the natural resource base is a priority of the national strategy. While the
increased use of inorganic fertilizers and pesticides are important to increase productivity and output, the
program will promote an integrated "agro-ecological" approach to agricultural research and extension with
in particular stress conservation measures such as maintaining vegetative cover, retention of soil organic
matter, as well as integrated pest management.
Special Initiative Task Forces for Pest Management, Soil Fertility, and Livestock would be set up under the
project to lead a series of activities related to the respective Special Initiatives. The activities to be
- 106-



promoted and supervised under the Integrated Pest Management (IPM), Soil Fertility, and Livestock
Special Initiatives have been respectively estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million; 2.5 million, and; 4.7
million.
Safeguard Policy - Pest Management. Although procurement of pesticides is not envisaged under the
project, it is expected that the necessary intensification of agriculture will possibly lead to increased use of
pesticides (and of inorganic fertilizers). However, the overall objective of the project being to increase
producer income, improved farm management methods and techniques (to decrease the cost of production)
will seek promote a better efficiency of extemal (chemicals) inputs and might result in a decrease of such
extemal inputs. The proposed training and extension activities under the project will be aiming at
promoting an integrated "agro-ecological" approach to agricultural research and extension which stress
conservation measures such as maintaining vegetative cover and retention of soil organic matter as well as
integrated pest management. In particular specific IPM activities (see Annex on IPM Special Initiative,
with the IPM Implementation Plan) have been included for execution during the project under the research
and extension components as well as under the MDR reform component (as far as its regulatory and
control functions are concemed). The cost of the activities proposed under the IPM Special Initiative
during APLI have been estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million. Further, during negotiations
assurances were obtained that the Govemment would apply, or have applied, standards and procedures for
the utilization of agricultural chemicals in connection with agricultural extension activities which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The project is in compliance with the Safeguard Policy, and in addition under the
"Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency Assistance Program", it includes specific provision (USS1.0
million) for the co-financing of removal of obsolete pesticides stocks throughout the country.
B. The Social AsRects
The major social issues for the project are the feasibility of implementing the demand-driven R&D and
extension programs through producer organizations and the impact of the technological innovation on the
poor and disadvantaged groups. Producer organizations ranging from commodity-based groups, to
community and irrigation associations exist in all ecoregions in Mali. Some groups are quite strong and
have already access to technology, training, and information services. The project would provide support
directly to the most capable organizations while investing in training and promotional activities to
strengthen the capacity of others. A proactive information and education/training program would be
developed to ensure that the poor and the disadvantage groups can have a voice and participate actively in
the design and management of technology generation and transfer programs.
Social groups in Mali vary considerably in population size, intemal social differentiation, and social
influence. Nonetheless, no ethnic groups in Mali are deemed to be indigenous under the definitions of the
Bank's policy on Indigenous Peoples. Some PASAOP project activities will take place in areas frequented
by small ethnic groups, such as transhumant herders and traditional (semi-nomadic) fishermen. These
groups will get benefits from the project not because they are indigenous but because they constitute a set a
stakeholders whose special needs have been recognized and are dealt with the Project. However, some of
these groups for various reasons have received limited attention and support from public and/or NGO
intervention and could be considered as "vulnerable groups". During preparation specific possible
interventions have been identified toward these vulnerable groups (including women), and in particular the
semi-nomadic Bozo fishermen in the Mopti area. A Vulnerable Groups Special Initiative has been
formulated and will be led by a high-level specialist contracted through DNAMR to ensure in a very
proactive manner that initiatives and actions will effectively take place during project implementation to
address the particular issues and needs of these groups.
- 107 -



Operational Policy - The Gender Dimension of Development. As indicated above, the social issues
related to the Safeguard Policies have been integrated in project design. A specific gender assessment study
was carried out during project preparation and identified women's lack of access to extension as a critical
issue. Insufficient efforts have been made to improve the quality and the dissemination of technical
recommendations for products like fruit, vegetables, small livestock, which are mainly the responsibility of
women producers. Fishing and fish marketing (specifically women activity) have also been identified as
having good potentialities to alleviate poverty in terms of income and nutrition.
The program will include a comprehensive program of actions (the above-mentioned Vulnerable Groups
Special Initiative) to address the specific needs of both women and vulnerable groups producers. Key
indicators with regard to gender dimension and vulnerable groups have been defined for monitoring and
evaluation purpose for each project component. Under research and extension, agricultural activities that
are either solely or largely carried out by women (crop production; livestock; food processing techniques;
and utilization, storage and marketing of farm products and other off-farm income-generating activities)
will be given special attention. Research and extension on the post-harvest, value-added processing
activities that women carry out will be increased. Specific criteria for the selection of demand-driven
technology generation and transfer projects will ensure that women issues will be taken into account in a
systematic manner. The scope of the extension program in particular will include the training of all
extension agents on gender and poverty issues, the number of female extension agents would be increased.
Finally, project fnancing will include provision for undertaking beneficiary assessments, specific surveys
and analysis to assess and monitor in particular the participation of women and vulnerable grouips
producers in rural production and rural commercial activities.
- 108 -



AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND PRODUCER ORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
Environmental and Social Monitoring and Management Plan
Environmental and   Summary of proposed actions for the monitoring and             Responsibility
Social Aspects       management of Environmental and Social aspects
1. Monitoring and    Establishment of Management and Monitoring Mechanisms.
Management of
Environmental and    - Participation of a representative of the Ministry in charge of  Steering Committee
Social (ES) aspects     Environment in the PASAOP Steering Committee and in the  MDR
Regional Development Fora;
- Systematic training of MDR staff on environmental and social  DNAMR/CNRA
issues (ES);
- Recruitment of ES specialists within DNAMR and CNRA to
ensure that ES aspects are taken into account in project activities  MDR/CPS
(in particular with regard to the Special Initiatives);
- Development of ES impact screening mechanisms for all  MDR/CPS
technology generation and transfer programs at local, regional
and national levels;
- Outreach and sensitization ES programs toward producers; -
Regular and systematic ES impact assessments;
- Establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation System including
ES aspects.
2. Soil Fertility    Proposed activities under the Soil Fertility Special Initiative
Management
-  Strengthening DGRC capacity on regulation (in particular the  MDR/DGRC
revision of legal texts with regard to the importation and
distribution of fertilizers) and control at regional and national
level;                                                    MDRICPS
- Revision of the Land Law;                                  MDR/DGRC
- Information and sensitization of the rural population on the legal
and regulatory aspects of natural resources management;   DGRC/DNAMR
- Monitoring of Soil Fertility;
- Research programs on direct planting; minimum tillage; and  CNRA
cover crops;
- Research programs Integrated Soil Management;
- Research programs on sustainable farming systems in high and  DNAMR
medium potential areas, as well as in marginal and fragile areas.
- Technical advises of producers on manure, crop rotation and  APCAMIOP
intercropping;
- Transfer of soil protection techniques.
-  Support to Producer organizations for the distribution of
fertilizers.
- 109 -



3. Pest Management    Proposed Activities under the Integrated Pest Management
Special Initiative
-  Revision of the legislation on Regulation and Control for the  MDRIDGRC
management of pesticides (importation and commercialization);
-  Support to DGRC at national and regional level for: (i) the quality
control of pesticides; (ii) regulation and control of the distribution
and use of pesticides; (iii) the management of stocks and the
control of distribution points; (iv) the training of DGRC staff and
of private resellers.
-  Support to the National Pesticides Management Committee;
-  Establishment of a System for the Prevention of Phytosanitary
Risks (in particular migratory pests).                     CNRA
-      Support to Laboratories for the analysis of pesticides and
residues;
-  Support to IPM Research Programs (in particular, cotton, rice,  DNAMR
vegetables, and fruits);
-   Recruitment of IPM specialists in charge of the IPM Special
Initiative (training, technical support and monitoring);
-  Training of Extension Agents in IPM techniques;
-   Sensitization programs, farmer-to-farmer exchanges-field visits,
training producers in IPM (Field Schools) (in particular, cotton, rice,
vegetables, and fruits).
4. Social Aspects      Proposed  Activities under the Vulnerable Groups Special
Vulnerable Groups      Initiative
(minorities, women,    -    Information and sensitization off all MDR staff to the social  MDR
young, etc.)           equity issues (including the gender dimension);
-    Recruitment of female agents within MDR;
-    Identification and monitoring of key indicators specific to  MDR/CPS
vulnerable groups;
-    Surveys  and   Beneficiary  Impact  Assessments  (by  DNAMR
socio-economic and minority groups);                          CNRA/DNAMR
-    Management and Monitoring of the Vulnerable Groups
Special Initiative;                                           DNAMR/APCAM
-    Generation and transfer of improved specific technologies
responding to the needs of targeted vulnerable groups;
-    Systematic  (organizational,  managerial,  and  technical)
training and support for the targeted vulnerable groups.
- 110 -



IBRD 31059
MALI                                               I                                                                                         - -S
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES AND FARMERS'
ORGANIZATION PROJECT                                                 j                  T O M B 0 U C T O U                                                     /                              A L G E R I A
PROJET D'APPUI AUX SERVICES AGRICOLES                                                                                                                        /
ETAUX ORGANISATIONS PAYSANNES                                                                                                                     -
20                                                                                                                                                                                                              -I zuln    s2
300- - ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS                                                                N
*     REGIONALAGRICULTURALRESEARCH CENTERS                  ISOHYETESENMILLIMERES                                                                                                          JN,
CENTRES REOAUX DRERCHEAGRICOLE/STATTM
RIVERS
AGRJCULTURAL RESEARCH STAnONS                         RIVIERES                 jI                                                                                                            AL
SOUS STATIONS DE RECHEBCHEAGRICOLE                    F
*     CHAMBERS OF AGRICULTURE                        -- ZONE D'INONDATION                                               A 0--                                   *-                         E  L J,QL'
CHAMBERS DAGRICULTBURES                                      AFI ASli..I....
    REGION CAPITALS  -                   ~~~~~R   E  G   I 0 N
CMDT COTTON INTERVENTON AREA                          CHRFS-LIRUX DE$ REGIONS                                        QI       N                         i0IDAL                                     .
-   OFFICEDUNIGER(ONIINTERVENTIONAREA              -   -  REGION BOUNDARIES                                                                                  i-
Is ,                                                               L -  MITES REGIONALES                                                                              IA~I\
-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES .ENT.A,.  '                                                                                                                      ,                        15
FRZONTIERES INTERNATIONALES \'e   -   
0     50    100   150   20T                                                                                                                                             .
KILOMETERS   I                                           _
IDLIM TBpnf. imepoaignundolTneWAR BoddbAS      i   ~   _                    #TOMBOUCTOU         _             =oure m                A   W  ,.               R    TMeCN                 ,,f   I
Glisociionheof/eo.1o | IIAROV 00 R0. tj-. 54oy   'TE 
G.-d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
16,
0Aoo,o>    BI,..1~A     T~Oi A A6'    0M   A  U  R  I T A  N   I A                                                                  -  -  - - -  -                                                                                          16'
f ':s  - - r THr - - - - - - o    S7 _ _   o - a a   >,, C _                                                                                               XN )                                             >woo  b-    G
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NR 
8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Kc- r                                                                                      O Wai AEGO*GUbOO,N  _UFC/OOOLTZA o  >}
i0g0o.IB AY/                                            W                             REiUL ORO                                                                                      N   G E R
KAYL *             KAYE          R.                                                               T.                  `                                                                                               N      G   E 2 
tD ocOoji OTf$c     9;o ntoos obo6  G 0                        0B\ SO,NE -   - \  S                                               0'~1
/O  DiFo            aia0                N               tA~ 0           0T-i Si  R;BG
|L  ' 'ro0     z       B  R         N           F I dB  TOnI                        -                                                                 .1pK
~~  \00  o~~~~~~*n'~~~~"  -     D                                              - N-T j* 
0                                                               .-01                                      ' IONJ   Uo0OR
J   D i          %ENIAE   *.      N  ,,Nb15EI                                                                                                                                        
F.I. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     1                            
B U  K IN A        A 5I  MAALTA
O'                                                                                                  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A  N IGER
-- Eomooo  jR~LRK NA  FSC)
I          '         O.o5~~~~~~go~~    I tIlGERIA
TcBI 2                             I                             2T2                                                                                                                                    NCEDNl'             GHANEN
DECEMBER 2000



