Report No. PID3808
Project Name                     Mali-Agricultural Services and Producer (@)
Organizations Project-PASAOP
Region                           Africa Regional office
Sector                           Agricultural Extension; Research;
Other Agriculture
Project ID                       MLPE35630
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT OF MALI
Implementing Agency              MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
Bamako
Contact Person: S.E. Monsieur
Ahmed El Madani Diallo
Ministre du Developpement Rural
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 15, 2001
Appraisal Date                   February 12, 2001
Projected Board Date             May 25, 2001
1. Country and Sector background
PASAOP is at the center of Government rural development strategy which
addresses the main causes of rural poverty:
(i) a very low level of agricultural productivity and total agricultural
production due to a narrow resource endowment (poor and fragile soils
for the most part, and limited rainfall); poor access to markets (roads,
waterways, etc.) and market information; poor and inadequate
agricultural services (limited access to credit resulting in limited use
of improved farm inputs and cultural practices, inadequate technical
support); a sometime non-supportive policy and institutional
environment, with ill-adapted administrative organizational structures
(overly centralized and bureaucratic government services, weak producer
organizations); and,
(ii) poor access to social services (health, education, and drinking
water supply and sanitation).
Accelerated growth and better living conditions in rural areas requires
immediate and drastic improvement in the sustainable provision of basic
social and agricultural services. In particular it requires: the increase in
general agricultural productivity through sustained and environment-friendly
technical change; the sustainable development of Mali's huge potential for
irrigated agriculture; the diversification of agricultural and livestock
production; the decentralization to local populations of the responsibility
for managing local development, in particular the management of their
productive natural resource base; and the strengthening of the capacity of
the public and private sectors to plan and implement rural development
activities, particularly at the regional and local levels.
Constraints and Issues.



(a)     Declining and erratic rainfall.   Mali is characterized by extreme
ecological diversity, with agroclimatic zones ranging from Saharan
(less than 150 mm of rainfall) in the North to Guinean or sub-tropical
(1,200 mm of rainfall) in the South. Over the past 30 years, the
country has experienced declining and erratic rainfall and a southward
movement of desertification, with severe droughts in the 1980s
(particularly 1983-84 and 1987-88), which have left an estimated 1.4
million rural residents highly vulnerable to food shortages. The
climatic risk is a major factor in sustained production and
productivity increase. The effect of recent droughts had negative
impact on productive assets and on the behavior of producers who
select low risk/low productivity production systems.
(b)     Increasing Natural Resource/Soil Fertility degradation.    Natural
resource degradation in Mali is characterized by: (a) massive soil
erosion by wind and water in volumes reaching 6.5 tons per ha per
annum in some areas in the Guinean zone,   covering about 60 W of
arable land, (b) declining soil fertility, coupled with low input use
(0.8 kg/ha of fertilizer versus a Sub-Saharan Africa average of 5.3
kg/ha, and 58.5 kg/ha for the rest of the developing world) resulting
is stagnant, and in some cases declining agricultural productivity;
(c) accelerated forest degradation due to excessive fuel wood use,
specially in peri-urban areas; (d) overall degradation of rangeland
due to overgrazing; (c) lowering of the ground water table by 6 to 12
meters in some parts of the country over the past ten years; (f) a
decline in fish catches in the Niger River from 120,000 tons to about
50,000 tons per annum in recent years; and (g) accelerated loss of
biodiversity.
(c)     Limited Access to Markets because of Poor Basic Rural
Infrastructure. Rural Infrastructure is poor and unevenly
distributed, contributing to slow and unevenly distributed growth in
many regions. Because of the poor network of rural/feeder roads,
large tracts of rural areas are not adequately linked to markets, thus
hindering producers from fully exploiting the new opportunities
offered by increased urban demand and export possibilities. In
addition, poor road access, limited access to input distribution and
credit, as well as other agricultural services (extension, technical
advice), have resulted in low yields and poor revenue. Rural water
supply poses also a serious challenge to both people and livestock.
(d)     Limited Agricultural Policy Capacity and Poor Institutional
Efficiency. Over the past ten years, the government has been
implementing sectoral policy reforms, including far reaching price and
market liberalization. In November 1987, Government announced full
(consumer and producer) price and market liberalization of coarse
grains. Cereal, cotton, and livestock exports as well as input
distribution were also totally liberalized. However, cotton is still
sold through a statutory monopoly, and Malian producers receive one of
the lowest prices in the sub-region. The recent cotton sector crisis
resulted in the loss of trust from cotton producers vis a vis the
cotton structure (CMDT), and particularly the extension agents.
Within MDR, there is a limited capacity for planning, monitoring and
evaluation of rural investment programs to ensure their social,
- 2 -



environmental, and economic soundness, as well as for the regulation
and control of animal and plant pests and diseases, the quality
control of non organic agricultural inputs, seed and planting
materials, and food products. The efficiency of MDR services is
impaired by its highly centralized organization, lack of training,
logistics, and poor remuneration.
(e)     Limited Capacity of Agricultural Services to address the particular
needs of the farming community and Unsustainability for their
financing. Although the National Agricultural Research System (NARS)
and the National Agricultural Extension System (NAES) have been
greatly improved over the past decade, the two systems need to be
revamped and strengthened to be: (i) more efficient and responsive
with regards to the diversity of the agro-socio-economic conditions of
the producers; (ii) financially sustainable for the long run. While
a large percentage of producers are women, agricultural services are
not readily available for them. Access to agricultural inputs and
credit for small producers is still limited and remains a constraint
for improving farm productivity. There is no comprehensive Rural
Training and Education Program and this sub-sector has not been
sufficiently supported by the Government nor by external donors.
Rural Communication is still at its infancy.
(f)     Weak producer organizations.   Though producer organization are
organized up to the national level, they remain by and large not as
effective as they could be. Their weaknesses stem from organizational
and managerial difficulties: they lack well trained human resources;
because they have been often government- or donor-induced, their
leaders' legitimacy is often in doubt; their capacity to communicate
with their members and to keep information flowing in both directions
is weak; and they lack financial leverage.
Government Rural Sector Strategy
The main constraints impeding the development of the rural sector have
clearly been identified. In 1992, the government prepared a long-term rural
development plan (Schema Directeur du Developpement Rural.-SDDR) and a
detailed action plan to implement the strategy in 1993. Progress has been
slow. In October 2000, a review took stock of progress made and updated the
SDDR through a revised Action Plan for the next decade which emphasizes the
following priorities:
(i)     Improving the management and conservation of natural resources,
to promote sustainable growth. A Ministry of Environment has recently
been created to be responsible for the implementation/coordination of
the Environment Action Program, through various on-going and planned
programs supported by the donor community including GEF and IDA
(particularly the PGRN project), and a Draught Preparedness Program is
being envisaged to better manage climatic risks;
(ii)    Improving the provision of basic rural infrastructure.    Extending
the rural road network has been given now a high priority, and the
government has adopted a new rural transport strategy. The government
has also adopted a new Rural Water Supply and Sanitation in March 2000
to increase rural populations access to safe water (the recent IDA-
-3 -



financed National Rural Infrastructure Program, PNIR will support the
development of rural transport infrastructure, rural water supply and
sanitation, as well as the rehabilitation and/or the construction of
irrigation schemes for a better control and management of irrigation
water);
(iii)   Refocusing MDR on core public service functions. The government
has already carried out a study defining: (i) the core functions to be
performed by the state exclusively, e.g. policy formulation,
regulation; (ii) functions that the state can carry out in conjunction
with the private sector, producers' organizations, NGOs, etc..-- e.g.
agricultural research and extension, training, communication, animal
health, plant protection, promoting rural organizations, and (iii)
functions to be immediately privatized -- e.g. production, processing,
marketing, input supply, credit, etc. Indeed, the privatization
program of commercial entities is already underway, including the
rural works and equipment company (Operation des Travaux et
d'Equipement Rural -- OTER, privatized in April 1995), veterinary
pharmacy (Pharmacie Veterinaire du Mali-- PVM, liquidated in March
1995), sugar complex (Complexe Sucrier de Kala Superieur-- SUKALA,
privatized in December 1995). Other entities like Office du Niger
were restructured (April 1994), their commercial units privatized
(rice mills, civil works unit, agricultural implements workshop), and
their services delivered on a cost recovery basis. The next steps to
implement government strategy is to transfer to autonomous or private
entities or to share with private operators: (i) the veterinary and
artificial insemination services; (ii) the production and
commercialization of improved seeds and seedlings; (iii) the
management of slaughters and areas of slaughters; and (iv)
agricultural extension/advisory services. This will be undertaken
under the proposed program.
(iv)    Strengthening MDR's capacity to deliver its core functions. MDR
has already launched the process of designing its restructuring and
strengthening program (with descriptions of posts and profiles) and
with the stated objective of: (a) progressively transferring some of
its functions to autonomous executing agencies and/or to the private
sector; (b) strengthening its capacity for agricultural policy
formulation, program planning, statistical analysis, and monitoring
and evaluation; (c) strengthening its regulatory and control capacity;
(d) bringing core services closer to the beneficiaries by
deconcentrating responsibility to its regional directorates or lower
units; and (e) realigning its internal management policies, procedures
and information systems with its new decentralized structure and
strengthening its internal management capacity. An inventory of MDR's
required and existing human and physical resources has been done, and
a skill gap analysis is being carried out to be the basis for the
ministry staffing and training program. A small unit (CARI) reporting
directly to the Minister of Rural Development has been specially
created to spearhead the proposed reforms.
(v)     Strengthening the efficiency and sustainability of agricultural
services, by promoting pluralism and competition among service
providers (public and private) and the participation of beneficiaries
in the design, implementation, monitoring and, gradually the financing
- 4 -



of research and extension programs. In order to improve the coherence,
quality and accountability in the research system, the government
embarked in 1993 on a National Agricultural Research Program (PNRA)
whose objectives were to undertake deep institutional reforms: (a)
establishing a National Agricultural Research Council responsible for
defining research priorities and monitoring the delivery of agreed
upon research programs; (b) transforming IER, the country's main
research institute, into an autonomous institution with efficient
internal management procedures; (c) develop interactive processes
between producers, extension agents and researchers through producer
participation in setting research objectives and evaluating its
results; and (d) improve research quality and relevance through
improved research programming, monitoring and evaluation methods and
procedures. This institutional reforms has been initiated
successfully under the PNRA but needs to be continued and
consolidated. Extension services were also improved under the (now
closed) IDA-financed National Extension Project, through its
reorganization along the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) system.
Although its performance has increased markedly, the current system is
still overwhelmingly based on public service delivery, is top-down and
is little, if at all, accountable to beneficiaries. It needs to be
restructured to promote a increased role of the private sector in the
provision of extension services and introduce demand-driven mechanisms
for improving the quality and the relevance of extension programs to
beneficiaries. The Government also intends to promote the development
of the existing local savings and credit associations to improve rural
financial intermediation in rural areas;
(vi)    Strengthening the capacity of producers organizations to be
the main partners of government in the design and management of rural
development policies and programs, in particular at the local and
regional level, and to be the key instrument for improving farmers
access to the inputs and services they need. The legal framework for
the operation of producers organizations has been revised to take into
account the evolving political/social/economic environment. Training
will be provided for producers' organizations members and leaders to
foster efficient, transparent and accountable management.
Concertation and representation mechanisms will be established or
consolidated at the national, regional and local level to facilitate
producers' access to information, and the representation of their
interests in national fora/negotiations.
2. Objectives.
The overall objective of the first phase of the Program (the Project)
is to set in place the institutional reforms to rationalize, strengthen, and
refocus key agricultural public agencies towards their planning, control and
regulatory functions, with core services being decentralized, to promote the
emergence of private actors in the execution of agricultural support
services, and to build up and consolidate the capital social in rural areas
through the empowerment of producer organizations. Demand-driven mechanisms
will be developed with the various stakeholders for the design, selection,
financing and the execution of technology generation and transfer programs
and projects, to improve the relevance, effectiveness and sustainability of
such activities. Specific objectives are as follows:
- 5 -



(a)     refocus the Ministry' services on their regulatory, policy-making and
monitoring functions, strengthen their capabilities in these domains,
devolve core services to the regions, and transfer some execution
activities to autonomous entities and/or to the private sector;
(b)     support PNLS' efforts in reaching out the people working in the rural
sector, and improve the relevance and quality of the AIDS prevention
messages;
(c)     develop a long-term strategy and a medium-term action plan for rural
training and rural communication;
(d)     consolidate the efforts made during the PNRA to establish an effective
and sustainable national agricultural research system capable of
developing medium and long-term technology development strategic
programs and responding to users' needs through demand-driven regional
R&D programs;
(e)     consolidate the efforts made during the PNVA to establish an efficient,
responsive and sustainable technical advisory service system through
the regionalization and decentralization of extension programs and
budgets with an increased participation of the producers in the design
and management of extension programs;
(f)     establish on a pilot basis advisory services (for both technical and
farm management advice) accountable to producers and responsive to
their needs through contractual arrangements;
(g)     improve producer organizations' ability to provide services to their
members and to make their voice heard in the decision-making processes
for formulating and implementing local, regional and national rural
development policies and in particular, research and extension, and
functional literacy activities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement.
The Bank played a catalytic role in helping the Government throughout the
preparation of the PASAOP by: (a) assisting it in the development of an
overall coherent rural development policy and strategy, (b) associating
intensively all other donors; and (c) involving systematically and
proactively the beneficiaries in the preparation process. This augurs well
for program implementation and will help MDR to regain control over
externally funded projects. IDA participation in this long-term institution
building effort through an adaptable lending program also is needed since
some donors have difficulties to commit their resources on long term. Yet
without building the capacity of well functioning core public services in
rural areas, private sector initiatives will be constrained. The Bank will
assist the Borrower to create synergy through a more effective coordination
of all donors intervening in the rural sector. Also, given its involvement
and experience in many similar operations in West-Africa, IDA is well placed
to provide and mobilize the needed technical, managerial, and policy advice.
4. Description.
I. MDR Reform: Rationalization and Deconcentration
- 6 -



II. Improving the efficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National
Agricultural Research System
III. Improving the efficiency, relevance, and sustainability of the National
Agricultural Extension System
IV. Support to Producer Organizations
V. PPF Refinancing
5. Financing.
Total   Project cost:    US$57.5 million
6. Implementation.
APL Implementation period: three phases of 3, 4 and 4 years each.
Project organization.    The project will not have a specific "project"
structure and organization. On the contrary, the project aiming at
institutional capacity building and/or strengthening, project implementation
at the national and regional levels will be the responsibility of each
executing agency, namely CARI for the MDR reform component, CNRA for the
research component, DNAMR for the extension component, and APCAM for the
support to producers' organizations (PO) component. A project operation
manual, acceptable to IDA, will determine the practical implementation
modalities for the executing agencies. The draft manual would be reviewed
and agreed upon at negotiations, and would be finalized before Credit
Effectiveness.
Project coordination. Overall coordination and guidance for project
implementation will be provided by a Project Coordinator seconded by a rural
development specialist (Agro-economist with monitoring and evaluation
experience). The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be responsible for
coordinating the monitoring activities and together with the DAF Financial
Management Specialist (recruited under the project) for consolidating the
budget for each project component. The PCU will, twice a year and as the
need arises, recruit short-term consultants in various fields (project
monitoring and evaluation (M&E), technical, social, and environmental issues)
for project supervision, and conducting impact assessments of PASAOP's
activities. The PCU will be responsible for:
- coordinating and consolidating for each component: work program and
budget preparation;
- coordinating and consolidating for each component: bi-annual project
technical and financial execution reports that will include project
implementation performance, project M&E indicators, procurement and
financial performance, and the fulfillment of legal covenants as
stipulated in the credit agreement; and,
- ensuring the secretariat of the PASAOP Steering Committee.
Project oversight.   A project Steering Committee would be created to conduct
periodic reviews and give direction on policy and implementation issues. The
Secretary General of MDR would be the chairperson, and members would comprise
the Director of the Natural Resources Management Project, senior officials
from the Prime Minister's Office, from Ministries of Finance and of Planning,
- 7 -



of Environment, Directors of ODRs, the PASE Coordinator, and representatives
of the private sector (including in particular the Chambers of Agriculture
and Producers' Organizations). The secretariat of the PASAOP Steering
Committee will be provided by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).
Representatives of donors involved in rural sector development will be
invited twice a year at the Steering Committee meetings.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. For the MDR restructuring and for
the support to producers' organization/ capacity building component,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements need to be developed. For extension
and research, a detailed analysis on both systems in place showed that they
still require further improvement and assistance. The National Agricultural
Research Council will be in charge of the research program monitoring and
evaluation, and impact assessment. Technical assistance has been provided to
set-up a M&E system for MDR reform and the Producers' Organizations
components, as well as to improve the existing research and extension M&E
systems. The deputy coordinator in the PCU will double as the M&E
coordinator, and will be mandated with controlling data quality,
consolidating overall project information into annual plans and quarterly
report and coordinate project impact evaluation studies. He/she will act as
a facilitator and communicator of the monitoring and evaluation results, and
as a trainer for the users of the M&E systems. He/she will be assisted in
this task by the M&E units of the project executing agencies, and in
particular by CPS of MDR.
In addition to the monitoring of progress toward expected outcomes, and
routinely internal executing agency achievements, taking into consideration
the decentralization process and thus the need to have precise and up-to-date
information at all levels (national, regional and local), an Integrated
Management Information System (IMIS) will be developed during project
implementation for the whole rural sector. The system will be set-up for the
whole rural sector with the CPS of MDR taking the lead and providing key
rural sector stakeholders with information to help them monitor and analyse
their activities, identify problems and formulate solutions, discover trends
and patterns for taking better management decisions at local, regional and
national levels. For ensuring the sustainability of a such information
system, all key stakeholders will have to be both IMIS participants and users
(information provider and information user).
7. Sustainability.
- Financial sustainability is a major issue for agricultural technology
systems throughout the world. The project will incorporate strategies as
described above to address this risk and to enhance financial
sustainability of the program.
- Institutional sustainability is a moderate risk due to: (i) the set-up of
the project with the relative autonomy of the project executing agencies;
(ii) the MDR rationalization program; (iii) public-private partnerships
for technology generation and transfer, and; (iv) the emphasis on
empowering producer organizations.
- Environmental sustainability presents a minor risk. Project activities
will improve natural resource management, increase the productivity of
arable land and thus decrease the pressure to expand agriculture to more
- 8 -



fragile land, and promote the use of environmentally friendly techniques,
such as in particular, integrated soil and pest management.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector.
As stated earlier, the proliferation of small, uncoordinated donor-financed
projects has in the past overtaxed MDR's sector management capacity, leading
to parallel implementation arrangements (Rural Development Agencies),
insufficient counterpart funds, and contradictory philosophies and approaches
to development. The Government organized a Donor Coordination Committee to
ensure coherence and complementarity in the various programs in the rural
sector. Also, institution building objectives and sustainability were
usually not obtained given the short duration of typical projects. This
approach has been replaced in the preparation of this program and project,
through a more consolidated approach with a much longer time horizon.
The main lessons from the ongoing or recently completed IDA-financed
related projects, i.e. the National Research Project, and the Agricultural
Services Project are as follows:
PNRA: Although some improvements have been made in the piloting of user
participation at national and regional levels through the creation of the CNU
and CRUs, the impact of research on agricultural development remained
insufficient because of: (i) the still limited participatory process for
research design and testing; and, (ii) poor accountability to producers. In
addition, a number of organizational and management issues remain unresolved
under that project: (i) a civil service attitude and lack of a performance
review and reward system based on results; (ii) lack of competition for
research program proposals and among research institutions; and (iii) an
overextended network of infrastructures (experimental stations and
laboratories) that cannot be maintained adequately; and (iv) weak performance
for financial and accounting management.
PNVA: The fundamental weakness of the Agricultural Services Project was its
institutional set-up: (i) lack of accountability of extension agents to
producers and insufficient use of participatory diagnosis, programming and
evaluation methods; (ii) insufficient supervision and technical back-up of
front-line extension workers by subject matter specialists and national and
regional extension managers; and (iii) insufficient attention to vulnerable
groups and in particular women producers' needs. In addition, the
beneficiary assessment done for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of
this project emphasized that the way extension agents established and worked
with "contact groups" was problematic. One major weakness was that extension
agents were not paying enough attention to the already existing community
associations or producer organizations and not working through them in
setting up their contact groups.
A review of the Bank's experience in agricultural technology generation and
transfer, as documented by OED evaluations, indicates that the following
elements are important for success: (i) ) user ownership and participation
for priority settings, planning and monitoring, as well as financing, is
crucial; (ii) a single model cannot be designed for global application,
pluralism and competition among services providers (public, private, non-
profit, and non-governmental sectors) improve the efficiency of the system;
(iii) generation, transfer and adoption of technologies is a continuum (the
-9-



linear model of technology generation and transfer found in a large
percentage of national research and transfer systems, has shown its
limitations in particular vis a vis farmer participation in planning and
priority setting, and research-extension linkages) within an integrated
Knowledge and Information System; and (iv) success and sustainability of
development programs require commitment for long-term endeavor towards social
capital building through organizational and technical training of user groups
and community-based organizations. These lessons from previous projects have
been incorporated into the project design.
9.  Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI):      Y
10. Environment Aspects.
Issues:
Safeguard Policy 4.01 -- Environmental assessment.     The project as a whole
was subjected to an environmental impact assessment during its preparation.
The PASAOP's potential impact shows little trade-off between stimulating
efficient agricultural growth, and sustainable natural resource development.
The agricultural strategy supported under PASAOP argues that Mali's
agricultural growth potential lies in the high and medium-potential areas,
and the greater the degree to which this potential can be tapped, the less
pressure there will be to expand intensive agricultural frontiers into the
more fragile areas. Indiscriminate expansion into the arid lands should be
cautiously held in check and intensification of agriculture in the high
potential areas must be associated with appropriate land use practices. Soil
erosion and degradation is already a serious problem and sustainability of
the natural resource base must be a priority in the strategy. While the
increased use of inorganic fertilizers and pesticides are important to
increase productivity and output this has to be associated with an integrated
"agro-ecological" approach to agricultural research and extension which
stress conservation measures such as maintaining vegetative cover and
retention of soil organic matter as well as integrated pest management.
Awareness program, Environmental Screening, and Promotion of Environmentally
Responsible Agriculture. Targeted training and technical assistance would
sensitize MDR staff, researchers, extension agents, and producers to
environmental issues. A representative of Ministry in charge of Environment
would be included in the Steering Committee and in the Regional Agricultural
Technology Fora to review all project activities for environmental impact
assessment. All proposals for research or extension sub-projects would
include an assessment of environmental impacts. Sub-projects would be
screened for impacts on: water use, water contamination, air contamination,
erosion, deforestation, land clearing, overgrazing, use of pesticides,
wildlife, biodiversity, parks and protected areas, or cultural heritage's
sites. The project would be expected to have a positive environmental impact
in that the activities of extensionists would improve the awareness of
producers with regard to the environmental impacts of the technologies which
they employ. Further, extensionists would be in a position to suggest
methods to control negative environmental consequences of farming activities
and to promote technologies which have positive ecological consequences.
Armed with better information about, and keener awareness of, environmental
issues than they would otherwise have without the extension project, it is
anticipated that producers would make production decisions in a more
environmentally responsible manner than would be possible without the
- 10 -



project.
The project would institute several measures specifically designed to ensure
a systematic environmental screening of farm activities and to result in
greater awareness among producers of the environmental consequences and
opportunities associated with their farming operations. These measures would
include the following:
(a) the requirement that the review of annual extension plans at each
level (commune, region, and national) would include, among its other
elements, an assessment of the environmental issues which are raised or
which fail to be addressed by the plan;
(b) the availability of funding for investigation of the environmental
impact of the project and of agricultural activities in general and for
contracting expertise from outside of the extension services staff to
address environmental concerns as they arise;
(c) requirements that training activities touching on environmental
impact of traditional and emerging agricultural production techniques
would be included in each extensionists annual training program;
(d) requirements that among the topics covered by extensionists' training
programs would be in particular integrated pest management, and other
practices and techniques designed to permit more effective
incorporation of ecological factors (Integrated Nutrient Management)
into overall farm management;
(e) the inclusion of a specialist in environmental issues in agriculture
among the staff of DNAMR's Technical Unit and the availability of funds
to contract SMSs with expertise in environmental issues to work with
producers and extensionists as needs arise.
Safeguard Policy 4.09 -- Pest Management. Although procurement of pesticides
is not envisaged under the project, it is expected that the necessary
intensification of agriculture will possibly lead to increased use of
pesticides (and of inorganic fertilizers). However, the overall objective of
the project being to increase producer income, improved farm management
methods and techniques (to decrease the cost of production) will seek to
promote a better efficiency of external (chemicals) inputs and might result
in a decrease of such external inputs. The proposed training and extension
activities under the project will be aiming at promoting an integrated "agro-
ecological" approach to agricultural research and extension which stress
conservation measures such as maintaining vegetative cover and retention of
soil organic matter as well as integrated pest management. In particular
specific IPM activities (see Annex on IPM Special Initiative, with the IPM
Implementation Plan) have been included for execution during the project
under the research and extension components as well as under the MDR reform
component (as far as its regulatory and control functions are concerned).
The cost of the activities proposed under the IPM Special Initiative during
APL1 have been estimated at a total of about US$3.5 million. Further, during
negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government would apply, or
have applied, standards and procedures for the utilization of agricultural
chemicals in connection with agricultural extension activities which are
satisfactory to the Bank. The project is in compliance with the Safeguard
- 11 -



Policy, and in addition under the "Rural Disaster Prevention and Emergency
Assistance Program" (US$1.0 million), it specifically includes provision for
the co-financing of removal of obsolete pesticides stocks throughout the
country.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Daniel Moreau
Task Manager
Abidjan, Cote d'Ivoire
- 12 -



