                                         Document o f
                                        The WorldBank

                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                           ReportNo: 39630-ML




                                       PROJECTPAPER

                                             ON

                          A PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR13.3 MILLION
                               (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLICOF MALI


                                          FORAN

       AGRICULTURALSERVICESAND PRODUCERORGANIZATIONSPROJECT

                                        April 30, 2007




AgricultureandRuralDevelopment
FrancophoneWesternAfrica 2
Africa Region



This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipientsonly inthe performance
o f their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective as o fMarch 2007)
                           Currency Unit =        CFAF
                               CFAF510 =          US$1
                                    US$1 =        CFAF510

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1   - December31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ACDP   Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification Project
APCAM  Assemblde Permanente des Chambres d'Agriculture du Mali
       (Permanent Assembly of AgricultureChambers o f Mali)
ASPOP  Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CMDT   CompagnieMalienne de Ddveloppement des Textiles (Malian GinningCompany)
CRA    Chambre Rigionale d 'Agriculture (Regional Chamber o f Agriculture)
FY     Fiscal Year
GoM    Government of Mali
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
KPI    Key Performance Indicators
Ha     Hectare
HR     Human Resources
IBRD   InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA    InternationalDevelopment Association
ISR    Implementation Status Report
NBA    Niger BasinAuthority
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCU    Project CoordinationUnit
PDO    Project Development Objective
PO     Producer Organization
PRSC   Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
PSR    Project Status Report
NRIP   National Rural Infrastructure Project
OP     Operational Policy
SDR    Special DrawingRights
TOR    Terms o f Reference
VIP    Village IrrigationPerimeters


                   ActingVice President:      Hartwig Schafer
                        Country Director:     James P. Bond
                         Sector Manager:      Mary Barton-Dock
                            Task Leader:      Olivier Durand

                                                                                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                   REPUBLICOF MALI
             AGRICULTURAL SERVICESAND PRODUCERORGANIZATIONSPROJECT
                                              ADDITIONAL FINANCING




                                                             CONTENTS



       I Introduction
         .                    ..............................................................................................................        1

       I1 .    Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing                                          ..........................................   1

       I11 .   ProposedChanges         ....................................................................................................         4

       IV .    Consistencywith CAS            ..............................................................................................        4

       V  .    Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities                            ..............................................................     5

       VI .    ExpectedOutcomes          ..................................................................................................         7

       VI1  .  BenefitsandRisks        ....................................................................................................         8

       VI11 FinancialTerms and ConditionsoftheAdditionalFinancing
            .                                                                                                         ............................. 8

       Annex 1. of ProjectTriggers
                   Achievement                                          ....................................................................        10

       Annex 2 . PerformanceIndicators
                   Key                                          ...........................................................................         12

       Annex 3 .   RevisedResultsFramework                     ............................................................................         14

       Annex 4 . Monitoring
                   Results                     ...........................................................................................          16

       Annex 5 . of Technology-TransferScale-up Initiatives
                   Description                                                                                       ............................   18




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties.Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                PROJECTPAPERDATASHEET




Borrower:Republic ofMali
Responsibleagency:Ministry ofAgriculture
Revisedestimated disbursements (BankFY/US$m)
FY              FY 08            FY 09
Annual          14.20             9.60
Cumulative      14.20            23.80
Current closingdate: December31,2007


policies?
Havethese beenapprovedby Bankmanagement?n/a                                  oYes oNo

Revisedprojectdevelopment objectivestoutcomes[Ifapplicable]

Not applicable


Does the scaled-up or restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies? No
ForAdditionalFinancing
[ ] Loan  [XI Credit [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       TotalBankfinancing(US$m.):20.00
       Proposedterms: StandardIDA

I. Introduction

This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors for a proposed Additional
Financing in an amount o f SDR 13.3 million (US$20 million equivalent) to the Republic o f Mali
for the Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project (ASPOP or the Project)
(presently financed underCredit N o 3583-MLI).

The proposed Additional Financing will allow for the scaling-up o f institutional reforms
undertaken successfully during Project implementation so far, particularly in terms of
improvement o f agronomic research performance, promotion o f demand-driven extension
services, and empowerment o f producer organizations. The Project would expand its activities in
the field o f technology transfer to achieve more tangible results and increase its impact on the
ground.    N o change is proposed to the Project development objective or implementation
modalities. The Project results framework has been revised to reflect the increased development
benefits arisingfrom the Additional Financing.


11.     Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Country and Sector Context: As a landlocked country, highly vulnerable to external shocks and
with limited natural resources, Mali ranks among the ten poorest countries inthe world. Poverty
affects more than 60% o f the population, one third o f which lives in extreme poverty. The
poorest o f the population are rural households engaged in subsistence agriculture.         Poverty
incidence inrural areas is three times higher than in urban centers. The Malian economy depends
on agriculture and gold production for 90% o f its export earnings.

As per the last Country Economic Memorandum, agriculture remains the largest sector inMali in
terms o f value added even though its share o f GDP has declined slightly in recent years, as the
value added o f the secondary sector (notably gold) has begun to increase.          Mali's overall
economic performance is still largely driven by agricultural activities. Despite recent progress,
worrisome trends call into question prospects for the sector's future growth: (i)since the currency
devaluation o f 1994, the average annual growth o f the agricultural added value declined from 3.3
percent (from 1987-93) to 3 percent (1994-2004); (ii)agriculture's contribution to GDP growth
fell from 53 percent in 1994 to 20 percent in 2000; (ii)land productivity (crop yields) improved
for only one major crop: rice. Yields o f other crops and cotton are stagnant or sometimes
declining from already low levels. Growth in the agricultural sector is constrained by low and
irregular rainfall, poor and fragile soils, as well as generally low productivity due to the
widespread use o f traditional techniques. With some noticeable exceptions like irrigated rice
production, productivity o f Malian agriculture remains low and stagnant compared to that o f other
developing countries.

Project Background: The original Credit supporting the ASPOP,                 in the amount of
SDR 34.2 million (US$43.5 million equivalent) was approved on December 11,2001. The Credit
became effective on August 21, 2002. It was the first phase o f an Adaptable Program Loan. It
was subsequently decided, however, during CAS discussions in October 2006, to consolidate the
Bank's agricultural and rural development projects in Mali by merging the ASPOP and the
National Rural Infrastructure Project (NRIP) into a single broader and more production-oriented
operation. This new operation will be built on the results o f these two ongoing operations. It will
be prepared in close collaboration with other donors and will be submitted to the Board in the
first quarter o f FY 2009.




                                               - 1 -

In2004, to respond to the Government o f Mali (GoM)'s request to support the fight against the
desert locust outbreak, a reallocation o f the Credit proceeds was approved to allocate
US$2 million dollars equivalent for the purchase o f aerial treatments, equipment and vehicles.

The Credit supporting the ASPOP has been extended twice, in 2005 and 2006.                The first
extension was justified by delays that occurred in commencing and implementing institutional
reforms, mainly due to the fact that the Ministry o f Rural Development was split into four new
entities: the Ministry o f Agriculture, the Ministry o f Livestock and Fisheries, the Ministry o f
Environment and Sanitation, and the Food Security Commissariat. As a consequence, public
service reform was delayed, as reorganization and decentralization o f public functions had to be
re-analyzed and re-assessed in light o f the new institutional framework and applied to four
entities.

InJune 2006, eight ofthe 11triggers for the second phase ofthe Adaptable ProgramLoan were
fulfilled, and the Project had achieved its principal objectives regarding research, extension and
producer organizations. The three remaining triggers were related to institutional reforms which
were slowing down, but the process got back on track under the leadership o f an ad hoc
commission based outside the Ministry o f Agriculture and under the direct supervision o f the
Office o f the Prime Minister. It was then decided to grant a second extension to the Project, until
December 31,2007, to finalize these reforms, inparticular those implementedat the decentralized
level, and to give additional time to Project stakeholders to draw lessons from the innovative
approaches promoted amongst research institutions,            extension providers and producer
organizations.

The objective o f the Project is to establish an institutional framework conducive to efficient
agricultural service delivery to producers through the provision o f support to core public service
decentralization, promotion o f private sector participation and empowerment o f producer
organizations.    The Project comprises four components: (A) public service reform and
reorganization o f the Ministry o f Rural Development; (B) improvement o f efficiency, relevance
and sustainability o f the national agricultural research system; (C) improvement o f efficiency,
relevance and sustainability o f the national agricultural extension system; and (D) empowerment
o f producers and promotion o fproducer organizations.

Institutional Reform: Despite delays in reform o f the Ministry o f Rural Development, most o f
the planned activities have been successfully completed with significant achievements in the
transfer o f non-core public functions to the private sector. For instance, sanitation and artificial
insemination have been delegated to private veterinaries; public entities are no longer involved in
production- or commercialization-related activities; and seed and seedlingmultiplication has been
transferred to producer organizations. While refocusing on their core functions, public services
have been instrumental in the elaboration o f rural communication and agricultural training
strategies inclose cooperation with various stakeholders.

CottonSector Reform: The Project has been supporting policy dialogue on cotton sector reforms
by commissioning strategic studies on, inter alia, sector organization and management, price
setting mechanisms, advisory services for cotton producers and communication strategies. It has
also helped develop a training program for cotton producer leaders and provided the national
cotton producer association with two high-level advisers to assist them in their dialogue with the
Government, donors and the Malian Ginning Company.                Despite delays due to political
hesitation, the cotton sub-sector reform is now on track and moving towards privatization.




                                                - 2 -

Demand-Driven Financing Mechanisms: Thanks to innovative approaches promoted by the
Project, research and extension programs have been identified with the producers to better
respond to their needs, and are under implementation under performance-based contracts. To
date, research institutions have conducted more than 90 applied research programs (based on
farmers' demands), while strategic programs under implementation have increased from 37 in
2002 to 92 in 2006.      Extension agents have signed 10,175 advisory service contracts with
producer organizations, and 84 private agricultural advisory service providers have been
promoted through the implementation o f 275 performance-based contracts.             The national
umbrella producer organization has successfully set up specific financing mechanisms for
capacity-building subprojects targeting regional and local organizations.     To date, 1,620 sub-
projects have been financed for the benefit o f grassroots producer organizations, such financing
totaling US$2.8 million.

Project Performance: The Project has been rated satisfactory throughout implementation. It has
succeeded inhelpingagricultural institutions to move from a state-led and top-down management
o f agriculture to greater involvement o f private partners and the promotion o f demand-driven
services. Research institutions are better organized, more responsive to producers' needs and
more open to international collaboration. Extensionservices are more demand-driven and private
providers are emerging. Producer organizations have improved their legitimacy and credibility.
They have been empowered to effectively participate inpolicy dialogue and strategy formulation.

The Bank's last supervision mission decreased the Project implementation rating to moderately
satisfactory, however, due to the lack o f Government commitment to complete institutional
reforms. The Project also faced difficulties in the recovery o f counterpart funding, and delays in
justifying expenditures at the regional and local levels. As o f today, these problems have been
solved and the next ISR ratings will be upgraded to satisfactory to reflect the recent good
performance o f the Project. There are no unresolved issues relating to fiduciary or environment
and social safeguards. Audit compliance has also been satisfactory.

Triggers and KPIs: The Project is on track to achieve all the remaining triggers by
December 31,2007 as detailed in Annex 1. The status o f key performance indicators (KPIs) i s
presented in Annex 2. All targets for research programs, demand-driven extension services and
capacity buildingactivities for producer organizations have been met, or even exceeded in some
cases.

Rationalefor Additional Financing: The rationale for the proposed Additional Financing is the
need to scale-up Project technology transfer activities based on research results and institutional
reforms implemented by ASPOP. This Additional Financing would thus allow the Project to
increase its impacts on the ground while consolidating linkages established between research
institutions, extension services and producer organizations. This i s consistent with the ASPOP
development objective and its sub-objective o f "consolidating and expanding the technology
generation and transfer system on a demand-driven basis".

The proposed activities will also assist in making the transition to a multi-donor investment
operation scheduled for FY09 and will thus pave the way for further institutional and
implementation innovations: (i)transfer o f support to public services (Component 1 and part o f
Component 2) into budgetary support (PRSC2); (ii)stronger focus on productive investments
(technology dissemination and agricultural practice intensification, processing and trading o f
agricultural products); and (iii)
                                consolidation o f the various demand-driven financing mechanisms
into a national agricultural development fund as prescribed under the new agricultural framework
law (as a national and multi-donor financing mechanism for the sector).



                                               - 3 -

111.     Proposed Changes

Project Design: The original Project design with four components remains unchanged. However,
the Additional Financing will introduce technology transfer scale-up initiatives to increase the
scope o f Project activities and increase impacts on the ground. The proposed initiatives aim at
translating into concrete outcomes all the efforts put so far in institutional reforms and capacity
building.The idea is to demonstrate how the collaborationdeveloped betweenresearch, extension
and POs can now translate into tangible improvement o f productivity and farmers' incomes by
disseminating new technologies developed by research institutions. Based on producer interests
and research products available and ready for dissemination, the following five areas have been
selected: (i)biotechnology; (ii)livestock and poultry production; (iii)   introduction of improved
varieties o f cowpea seeds; (iv) water management; and (v) crop diversification.         A detailed
description o fthe activities to be implemented under each o f these areas is provided inAnnex 4.

ASPOP capacity building activities will be pursued to consolidate institutional development.
Linkages between research, extension and POs are now stronger and operational but still require
continuous efforts to enhance further more research performances, contractual arrangements with
private providers o f agricultural advisory services, and POs empowerment to help them maintain
a fair and constructive dialogue with other stakeholders. A detailed description o f these activities
is included in Section V.

Results Frameworks: The Project development objective remains unchanged. The original
outcome indicators in the Project's results framework were very general and overly numerous.
Parts o f them were too vaguely formulated, not sufficiently result-oriented or too institutional to
be easily measured. Key Performance Indicators were revised at midterm review; they were
narrowed down and made more specific and results-oriented. Most o f them have reached their
target values (Annex 2), but targets have been revised to record the additional results and effects
expected from the Additional Financing.        A new set o f indicators has also been added to
specifically monitor and capture the additional outputs and outcomes expected through the
proposed scaled-up activities (Annex 3). Intensive discussions with Project stakeholders have
helped the Project move from process- and institution-led indicators to a much more results-
oriented design.


IV.      Consistencywith CAS

The ASPOP is fully consistent with the overarching objectives o f the current CAS for FY 2004-
2006 which aims at promoting growth and developing human resources. It has contributedto the
first PRSP and CAS pillar for an "accelerated and re-distributive growth", with a particular focus
on two o f the three sub-objectives namely: (i)develop and diversify sources o f growth; and
(ii)involve decentralized government, de-concentrated services and local populations while
buildingcapacities.

The proposed Additional Financing will be aligned with the above mentionedobjectives but more
importantly it will draw lessons from the (draft) CAS completion evaluation by focusing more on
results and concrete achievements on the ground, while being selective in targeting specific sub-
sectors and beneficiaries. It will also anticipate the first objective o f the new CAS under
preparation for FY 2008-11, which calls for a stronger focus on agricultural productivity.




                                                - 4 -

V.       Appraisal of Scaled-upProjectActivities

Technical and Institutional Analysis: No major technical issues are foreseen as on-going
activities and demand-driven financing mechanisms have been implemented with satisfactory
results.   The main challenge this Additional Financing will face is that o f ensuring strong
coordination, technically and in terms o f timeliness, among stakeholders in the course o f the
implementation o f the proposed technology transfer scale-up initiatives. Technical arrangements
between research, extension services and POs have been discussed during appraisal to identify
roles and responsibilities o f each institution.     These arrangements will be translated into
implementation protocols to be agreed on before implementation. The role o f the PCU will be
crucial at this stage to ensure coordination between components and foster synergies, as well as to
take advantage o f complementarities with other projects, inparticular the IDA-funded projects.

Beyond technology transfer scale-up initiatives, activities to be conducted under each component
have been appraised as follows:

    Component 1 Public Service Reform(US$4.9 million):The first year o f implementation
                    -
    is crucial to undertake the necessary studies and audits to finalize the new organizational
    framework o fthe four Ministries at the central and decentralized levels. Implementation will
    then be transferred to budgetary support as it involves core public functions and not directly
    productive investments. The Additional Financing will give the opportunity for the
    agricultural sector to undertake a public expenditure review and to elaborate a medium term
    expenditure framework. This component includes the financing o f the project coordination
    unit which is responsible, under the direct supervision o f the Ministry o f Agriculture, for
    financial management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, as well as coordination
    between components.

    Component 2 - National Agricultural Research System (US$6.4 million): Research
    institutions need also to maintain their medium and long term strategic research programs to
    be able to monitor agricultural evolutions, to maintain collections o f varieties, to develop new
    technologies or to answer farmers' preoccupations. As the same time, the demand-driven
    research program financing mechanism will be renewed to sustain collaborations between
    researchers and farmers, and promote new innovations inrural areas.

    Component 3 - National Agricultural Extension System (US$3.1 million): This
    component will mainly finance the execution, under performance-based contracts, o f
    extension activities necessary to the completion o f the proposed technology-transfer scale-up
    initiatives.   Implementation modalities will continue to use the various contractual
    approaches with extension agents or private providers.

    Component 4       -  Producer Organizations (US$5.6 million): Specific capacity-building
    activities are still requiredto ensure producer organizations stay involved and increase their
    weight in decision-making mechanisms regarding identification and elaboration o f research
    and extension programs. Along with the PCU, their role will be crucial in ensuring proper
    coordination in the execution o f the technology-transfer scale-up initiatives. The scope o f
    matching grants for subprojects initiated and implemented by POs will be expanded to
    promote a larger scale o f innovations, especially to match the technology-transfer scale-up
    initiatives. This will cover production techniques, farm-level water management practices
    and post-harvest technologies, as well as public equipment, small-scale irrigation and
    infrastructure managed by producer organizations or water-user associations.




                                                - 5 -

As a preparation for the next operation, the Project will work closely with other IDA-funded
projects to ensure complementarities and develop synergies with the National Rural Infrastructure
Project and with the Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification Project in the field o f
supply-chain development, agricultural commercializationand post-harvest operations, as well as
dissemination o f small-scale technologies and innovations.

Implementation Arrangements: Financingmechanisms and implementation modalities set up by
ASPOP will be used to confirm their relevance and efficacy.              Financial management and
procurement will still be executed under the supervision o f the PCU. Activities to be financed
under the Additional Financing are expected to be undertaken over two croppingperiods and one
dry period. As such, all investments and activities should be completed by December 31, 2008.
Therefore the closing dates o f both the initial and additional Credits are proposed to be
June 30,2009, resulting in a cumulative Project lifetime o f about 7.5 years from Board approval
inDecember 2001.

Matching Grants: the funding mechanisms for research projects and PO small-scale investment
sub-projects, which have so far been successfully implemented, will be maintained.
-   Demand-DrivenResearch Projects will be identified and selected at the regional level by
    joint commissions including researchers, extension services and producer representatives. A
    scientific commission at the national level will ensure quality control o f implementation
    modalities for each research project. Joint supervisions will be undertaken by researchers and
    producer organizations.
-   Small-Scale Investment Projects initiated by POs will be reviewed and selected by
    decentralized producer committees under the overall supervision o f regional agricultural
    chambers. Eligibility criteria will still include PO legal registration and beneficiary
    contributions representing 10 to 20 percent o f the total project cost (either in cash or in kind).
    The only change will consist o f introducing scoring cards that will sharpen priority settings
    and ensure full coordination and consistency with the proposed technology-transfer scale-up
    initiatives as well as with the priority agricultural supply chains supported by the other IDA-
    funded Agricultural Competitiveness and Diversification Project.

Economic and Financial Analysis: The economic and financial appraisal o f the Project was
carried out during Project preparation based on a benefit and cost analysis per standard type o f
farm and herd. As outlined inthe PAD, the ASPOP has beenprimarily focusing on institutional
changes and on renewing the delivery modalities o f agricultural services. It is therefore too early
to be able to measure significant economic impact both at the macro and micro-economic levels.
However, for the Additional Financing period, it has been agreed that technology-transfer scale-
up initiatives are expected to increase productivity at the field level and incomes at the farm level.
Duringthe appraisal o fthis Additional Financing, economic analyses based on research data have
been carried out for selected technologies to be disseminated. To confirm these analyses, the
proposed scale-up initiatives will be closely monitored by research and extension to check to be
able to the second phase will pay particular attention to economic impact analyses.




                                                 - 6 -

Environmental and Social Safeguards: The ASPOP was classified as a Category B project and
was subject to an environmental impact assessment, disclosed in the Bank's InfoShop on
January 26,2001 and published inMali for public disclosure on February 13,2001. This report is
still relevant and no revision will be made. However, a review and assessment o f the effective
implementation o f the existing safeguards instrument, namely the Environmental Management
Plan, which includes a Pest Management Plan, has been carried out duringthe appraisal o f this
Additional Financing. The results and lessons learned from this evaluation will be used to
implement more efficiently the safeguards measures duringthe Additional Financing period and
will serve as guidance for the next operation, whose scope will be broader and more focused on
productivity increase.

Fiduciary and ProcurementAspects: No issues are expected to arise inrelation to these aspects
as financial management and procurement have so far been carried out by the PCU to the
satisfaction o f the Bank. The report-based disbursement method has been employed for two
years to the satisfaction o f the Bank as well.           Procurement and financial management
arrangements will thus remain unchanged.          A procurement plan specific to the Additional
Financinghas been prepared.


VI.      ExpectedOutcomes

Project Intermediate Outcomes and Key Performance Indicators have been revised to better
capture the impact o f the proposed Additional Financing.          They are detailed in the results
framework presented in Annex 3. New outcomes that will be essential to monitor and evaluate
the impact o fthe technology-transfer scale-up initiatives are as follows:

Component 1-PublicServiceReform:
    Human resources management within the four targeted ministries is consistent with
    their revisedcore missions
             -- Proportion o f staffwith profile consistent with their position/ TOR
                Proportion o f decentralized staff

Component 2 -NationalAgriculturalResearchSystem:
0   Research resultsare betterdisseminatedand applied
             - Quantity o fpotato mini-tubers available for dissemination
             - Quantity o fcowpea seeds available for multiplication

Component 3 -NationalAgriculturalExtensionSystem:
0   Extensionservicesare more responsiveand accountableto producers
             - Proportion o f nationalpotato seed needs met by domestic production
             - Proportion o f farms benefiting from improved cowpea seeds that reach a yield o f
                700 kilograms per hectare

Component 4 -ProducerOrganizations:
0   POs are better positioned within five major supply chains (mangoes, potatoes, rice,
    cowpeas,cotton)
             - Number o fproducers certified as potato mini-tuberbreeders
             - Proportion o f certified cowpea seeds grown inMali
             - Proportion o frecurrent costs o fAPCAM / CRAs covered by generated resources.




                                                 - 7 -

VII.     Benefitsand Risks

Benefits expected from this additional financing can be divided in two categories along with the
two axis o f interventionpresentedabove: (i)   producers who will benefit from technology transfer
scale-up initiatives will get concrete economic results; for instance, 100 producers are expected to
receive ten goats with a potential productivity level o f 1.5 liters per day, potential incomes o f
FCFA 375,000 per year, plus FCFA 130,000 thanks to meat (US$l,OOO per year); (ii)capacity-
building activities that will be pursued under the different components will have a sound, but
difficult to measure, impact on institution strength and performances. The recognition o f Malian
research institutions at the international level will certainly increase further more. Extension
services will be able to provide a broader range o f advisory services to producers, using a
combination o f approaches. More importantly, the additional financing through its fourth
component will invest extensively in social capital, helping producers increase their bargaining
power and be heard indecision making processes.

As the continuation o f an ongoing project, no additional risk is foreseen for the successful
achievement o f the proposed scale-up activities.      Implementation will build upon the good
performance o f the Project so far. The climate risk, specific to all agricultural projects, may
hinder Project achievements.      But technology dissemination also aims at helping producers
mitigate this risk by diversifying their production and source o f incomes, and by coping with
drought periods though a reliable access to water for irrigation.



VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsof the AdditionalFinancing

The Additional Financing, o f SDR 13.3 million (US$20 million equivalent), would be provided
as a credit. This Credit would be provided on standard IDA terms, that is, a 40-year repayment
period, including a ten-year grace period, a commitment charge not to exceed 0.50 percent, and a
service charge o f up to 0.75 percent.

Where disbursement under the Additional Financing is concerned, M a l i is eligible for
100% financing under its Country Financing Parameters, adopted in May 2005.             The Malian
government has indicated, however, that it would prefer not to alter the disbursement percentages
at this stage, given that the Project has been disbursingat other rates thus far (as it predates the
adoption o fthe Country Financing Parameters).

The legal agreement for the Additional Financing does, however, amendthe legal agreement for
the original Credit, and this in the following manner: It extends the Project closing date to
June 30, 2009 (It presently stands at December 31, 2007) and reallocates the balance of
unallocated funds (US$84,890) to the category o f operating costs under Component 1 o f the
Project. Finally, disbursement categories under the original Credit have also been harmonized
with those under the Additional Financing, which are slightly different.

Where effectiveness o f the proposed Additional Financing is concerned, there are no operational
conditions. There are, however, the two standard legal conditions o f effectiveness, as follows:
(i) ratificationorauthorizationoftheFinancingAgreementbytheMaliangovernment; and
   due
(ii)submission to IDA o f a satisfactory legal opinion from satisfactory counsel confirming said
government action in light o f Malian legal and administrative requirements.




                                                - 8 -

There i s also a disbursement condition insofar as Component 4 o f the Project, to be implemented
by the Permanent Assembly o f Agriculture Chambers o f Mali (Assemble'e Permanente des
Chambres d2griculture du Mali), is concerned. Due execution and delivery o f a satisfactory
subsidiary agreement between the Malian government and said entity for purposes o f
implementationo f this part o fthe Project are requiredbefore any funds can be disbursed under it.

Retroactive financing - that is, for expenditures incurred prior to the signing o f the legal
agreement for the Additional Financing - not to exceed US$2 million equivalent will be
authorized under the proposed Additional Financing, and this for eligible expenditures incurred
on or after January 1,2007.




                                                - 9 -

-
I
3

f

     I    f




     n




     4


3
v1
8k;
3
f3
a

i

      f




                            f
g                           N
                            c


P                           f


F:
I                      I
       L    1  I    t




 D
 E
 3)
 E
 3
 Ez
 E
 3
 d


                                                                       ___-                         ".
                                                                                           ~       "   1



                                       Intet-mediate Outcomes Indicators      Lke of inforniation

                                                                                                 -~




                                                                             organizatiuir reforms,


                                                                                                    nq

-  Trainingof staff



Rusearch   rcsultc         arc  better
disser~~~~a~edand a p ~ l i ~ d




                                              - 14-

                    -_    _  _  _   ~
IntermcrliateOutcomes {It))

Component 3: Satiomil Agriculturd I




Component 4: Producers Orgmizath (PO) support
                                   I.Number of produccrscertified as potato
                                   mini-tuber breeders
                                   2. ~     ~      ~ of ~certified rcowpea ~seeds
                                                             o         ~         ~  n
                                   grown in Mati
                                   3. P ~ ~ 3 p ~OF~rce'currcnt costs of CRAs
                                                      ~ i o n
                                   and    APC'AM       cmered      by    gerierated
                                   rcsowccs
                                                     ~                """
                                    1 .Ntirnber of ~ ~ i ~ p r ~fundedt by the
                                                                    j e ~ s
                                   m ~ ~ c ~grantnthat target the Eic selected
                                                i i    ~
                                   supply chains
                                   7. Number of CRAs that hate ~ e ~ ~ ae ~ ~ p e ~
                                   rnictcerm husitiess plan




                                            - 1 5 -

       '*
        c
        h




Gw
2
&




  l
       2
       a


             MALI AGRICULTURALSERVICES AND PRODUCERORGANIZATIONS PROJECT
                    -
                                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING
                Annex 5 -Description of Technology-Transfer Scale-up Initiatives
                                        ................................

The Additional Financing will introduce technology-transfer scale-up initiatives to increase the scope o f
Project activities and increase impact on the ground. The proposed initiatives aim at translating into
concrete outcomes all the efforts put so far in institutional reforms and capacity building. The idea is to
demonstrate how the collaboration developed between research, extension and POs can now translate into
tangible improvement o f productivity and farmers' incomes by disseminating new technologies developed
by research institutions. Based on producer interests and research products available and ready for
dissemination, the following five areas have been selected:
- Biotechnology: Based    on micro-plant and vitro-plant production developed by researchers, the Project
will disseminate on a large scale: (i)potato mini-tubers, with the objective o f producing, through a
network o f seed producers, half the needs o f tubers that are currently imported; (ii) vitro-plants o f date
palms (Mejool variety) to regenerate oasis plantation, while introducing biological pest management
practices to fight pest infestation; (iii)disease-free tillers o f bananas and plantains to regenerate
plantations.
- Livestock and poultry production: The Project will disseminate a new breed o f goat whose milk
production i s doubled compared to local breeds, while providing technical advice to promote improved
breeding techniques, as well as sanitary care. Using the same approach, a new breed o f chicken that
produces more meat and bigger eggs will be disseminated to farmers. Adaptation to local conditions and
production has been successfully experimented by research.
- Improved   varieties: The production o f cowpeas produced and consumed on a large scale in Mali can be
significantly increased through the introduction o f two new disease- and weed-resistant varieties o f
cowpeas. Based on on-farm trials results, farmers are strongly advocating for the dissemination o f these
varieties.

-  Water management: Under the National Rural Infrastructure Project, numerous Village Irrigation
Perimeters have been developed, but water management and irrigation techniques will be improved
through advisory activities to help producers make better use o f irrigation investments and improve water
use.

-  Crop diversification: On Village Irrigation Perimeters, maize production will be introduced as an
alternative to rice mono-culture and as a way to diversify production towards alternative sources o f staple
food and more profitable sources o f incomes duringthe dry season.




                                                      - 1 8 -

