Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3583 MLI
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Services And Producer Organizations Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ASSEMBLEE PERMANENTE DES CHAMBRES D’AGRICULTURE DU MALI
(APCAM)
Dated December 12, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3583 MLI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 12, 2001, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and ASSEMBLEE PERMANENTE DES CHAMBRES 
D’AGRICULTURE  DU MALI (APCAM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the 
REPUBLIC OF MALI (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-four million two hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 34,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit 
Agreement, but only on condition that APCAM agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a Subsidiary Grant Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and APCAM, 
part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made 
available to APCAM on terms and conditions set forth in said APCAM Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and
WHEREAS APCAM, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development Credit 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the term “Fiscal Year” means, for the 
purpose of this Agreement, the fiscal year of APCAM, beginning on January 1 and ending on December 
31 of each calendar year.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project and other Covenants
Section 2.01. APCAM declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in 
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part D of the Project 
with due diligence and efficiency pursuant to the provisions of: (i) the Implementation Program set forth 
in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement; (ii) the APCAM Subsidiary Grant Agreement; and 
(iii) the revisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this APCAM Project Agreement, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, environmental and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause 
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
carrying out of  Part D of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants' services, required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. APCAM shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and 
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the APCAM 
Project Agreement and Part D of the Project.
Page  3
Section 2.04. APCAM shall duly perform all its obligations under the APCAM Subsidiary Grant  
Agreement.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, APCAM shall not take or concur in any 
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the APCAM 
Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. APCAM shall:
(a)
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the 
progress of Part D of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
APCAM Subsidiary Grant Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit or the 
accomplishment of the objective of the Project.  APC
AM 
shall exercise their rights under the Subsidiary 
Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the objectives of the Project, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
APCAM 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Grant Agreement or any part thereof; and
(b)
promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the progress of Part D the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit and 
the objectives of the Project, or the performance by APCAM of its obligations under this Agreement and 
under the APCAM Subsidiary Grant Agreement.
Section 2.06.  APCAM shall:
(a)
carry out, in conjunction with the Borrower and the Association, the annual review and 
the mid-term review respectively, referred to in paragraphs 5. and 6. of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement; and 
(b)
promptly after completing such reviews, carry out recommendations arising out of said 
reviews, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices.
Section 2.07. APCAM shall:
(a)
furnish to the Borrower and the Association, for review and approval:
(i)
before the beginning of each Fiscal Year, a proposed annual work program, in 
respect of Part D of the Project, including a proposed budget and financing plan, 
for the forthcoming Fiscal Year; and
(ii)
up to and until the implementation of Project Management Reports, semiannual 
and annual progress reports on the status of the works carried out under Part D of 
the Project, including comments received from water sector users; and
(b)
following the preparation of Project Management Reports pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, contribute to their establishment in respect to Part D of the Project.
Section 2.08.  APCAM shall, until the closing Date, keep a computerized financial management 
system and a monitoring and evaluation system, both acceptable to the Association, for the purpose of 
carrying out Part D of the Project.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of  APCAM
Section 3.01. APCAM shall carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with 
sound administrative, financial and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. APCAM shall at all times operate and maintain its facility, equipment and other 
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all 
in accordance with sound administrative and technical practices.
Section 3.03. APCAM shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other 
provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks, other than the risk of default 
under credit provided by APCAM, and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) APCAM shall maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting standards acceptable to the 
Association consistently applied, adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b)
APCAM shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements 
of income and expenses and related statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year: (A) certified copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the audit thereof, as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account were 
made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
Page  5
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports 
or statements of expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, 
APCAM shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Association for the strengthening of 
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable 
APCAM, not later than 18 months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association shall 
agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for Part D of the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected 
sources and applications of funds for Part D of the Project for the six-month 
period following the period covered by said report, and (B) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in implementation of Part D of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D of the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
APCAM shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report 
for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination, Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Page  6
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of APCAM 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or
(ii)
the date ten (10) years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in paragraph 
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify APCAM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.  
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by 
hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses as such party shall 
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, DC
64145 (MCI)
For APCAM
ASSEMBLEE PERMANENTE DES CHAMBRES D’AGRICULTURE DU MALI
Sécrétaire Exécutif de l’APCAM
B.P 3299
Bamako
République du Mali
Facsimile:  (223) 21-87-37
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
Page  7
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of APCAM or by APCAM on behalf of the 
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Director General, 
or by such other person or persons as APCAM shall designate in writing, and APCAM shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an 
original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District of 
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ David Craig
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
ASSEMBLEE PERMANENTE DES CHAMBRES 
D’AGRICULTURE DU MALI
By /s/ Cheick Oumar Diarrah
Acting Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation of Subprojects
1.
Terms and Conditions for Subproject Grant  Agreements under Part D.3.  of the Project.
2.
Subprojects shall not be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit unless APCAM has entered 
into an agreement with an APO or VA, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association (Subproject Grant Agreement) for the provision, on a grant basis, of financing a Subproject.
3.
The APO or VA, as the case may be, shall utilize the proceeds of the Credit to carry out, inter 
alia: (a) training in institutional organization and administration, (b) carrying out communication 
Page  8
3.
The APO or VA, as the case may be, shall utilize the proceeds of the Credit to carry out, inter 
alia: (a) training in institutional organization and administration, (b) carrying out communication 
programs, (c) technical advisory services in economic activities, and (d) functional literacy.
4.
The Subproject shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the POM and the 
following provisions:
(a)
the Subproject shall have been approved by an APO forum, pursuant to the procedures 
set forth in the APO Manual; 
(b)
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured according to 
the provisions of Section I of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit  Agreement and  such goods shall be 
used exclusively for the carrying out of the Subproject;
(c)
the Subproject Grant Agreement shall provide for  the exercise by the Borrower or the 
Association (if the Association shall so request) of the right to inspect the sites relevant to the 
Subproject, and any relevant documents.
5.
CNRA shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Grant Agreement in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the objectives of the Project, 
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, neither CNRA nor APO or VA, as the case may be, 
shall assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subproject Grant  Agreement or any part thereof.
