Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3583-1-MLI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for 
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 5, 2007 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3583-1-MLI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated June 5, 2007, entered into between REPUBLIC OF MALI 
(“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement. 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to 
thirteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 13,300,000
)
(“Financing”) to assist in financing the project 
described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum.  
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the ministry at the time 
responsible for agriculture in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the minister at the time responsible for finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of the Economy and Finance 
P. O. Box 234 
Bamako 
Mali 
 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
2559MJ  223-222-14-88 
223-222-07-93 
 
Page  4
3
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 
AGREED at Bamako, Mali, as of the day and year first above written.
 
REPUBLIC OF MALI 
 
By /s/ Abou-Bakar Traoré 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Alassane Diawara 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  5
4
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in alleviating rural poverty 
through measures designed to sustain productivity increases in agricultural and non-
agricultural activities, notably, the establishment of an institutional framework conducive 
to efficient agricultural service delivery to producers through the provision of support to 
the decentralization of core public services, promotion of private sector participation, and 
empowerment of producer organizations. 
The Project consists of the Original Project and the following additional parts: 
1. 
Public Services and Project Coordination
(a) 
Finalization of central and decentralized organizational framework of 
ministries at the time responsible for agriculture, livestock, and the 
environment, respectively, and the Food Security Commissariat. 
 
(b) 
Carrying out of public expenditure review and elaboration of medium term 
expenditure framework. 
 
(c) 
Project coordination, including financial management, procurement, and 
monitoring and evaluation. 
 
2. 
National Agricultural Research System
(a) 
Provision of institutional support to research institutions and carrying out 
of medium- and long-term strategic research programs. 
 
(b) 
Provision of Research Subproject Grants to research institutions for 
financing of Research Subprojects involving strategic, applied, or 
producer-demand-driven research. 
 
(c) 
Contract execution by research institutions of research relating to 
technology-transfer scale-up initiatives in biotechnology, livestock and 
poultry production, cowpea variety improvement, water management, and 
crop diversification. 
 
3. 
National Agricultural Extension System
Contract execution by Recipient agents and private providers of extension activities 
relating particularly to technology-transfer scale-up initiatives. 
 
Page  6
5
4. Producer 
Organizations
(a) 
Capacity-building activities for Producer Organizations in relation to 
identification and elaboration of research and extension programs. 
 
(b) 
Provision of support to implementation of technology-transfer scale-up 
initiatives such as through selection of beneficiaries of said initiatives and 
communication, collaboration, and training activities. 
 
(c) 
Provision of Producer Investment Subproject Grants to Producer 
Organizations for financing of Producer Investment Subprojects promoting 
innovations, particularly those relating to technology-transfer scale-up 
initiatives, such as with regard to production techniques, including farm-
level water management practices, post-harvest technologies, small-scale 
irrigation, and public equipment and infrastructure under management of 
Producer Organizations or water-user associations. 
Page  7
6
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for agriculture shall coordinate 
and supervise Project implementation. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain, under the supervisory authority of said ministry, 
throughout Project implementation, the following entities, with terms of 
reference, personnel, resources, and functions satisfactory to the Association: 
 
(a) 
The Orientation and Steering Committee
,
which shall be responsible for 
policy guidance in respect of Project implementation. 
(b) 
The Administrative and Financial Directorate
of said ministry and the 
Project Coordination Unit
,
which shall be responsible for administrative 
and financial management under Parts 1 and 4 of the Project. 
(c) 
The Institutional Development Commissariat
,
which shall be responsible 
for implementation of Part 1 of the Project.
 
(d) 
The National Agricultural Research Committee
,
which shall be 
responsible for implementation of and administrative and financial 
management under Part 2 of the Project.
 
(e) 
The National Directorate of Agriculture
,
which shall be responsible for 
implementation of and administrative and financial management under 
Part 3 of the Project.
 
(f) 
The Permanent Agriculture Chambers’ Assembly of Mali
,
which shall be 
responsible for implementation of Part 4 of the Project.
 
B. Manual 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) carry out 
the Project, including any Subprojects, in accordance with the Project 
Operational Manual; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, the 
aforementioned, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of 
Page  8
7
the Association, may materially or adversely affect Project implementation or 
achievement of the objective thereof. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project, including any Subprojects, is 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Environmental 
Management Plan, including its Pest Management Plan, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be amended, abrogated, or waived, any provision of the 
aforementioned if such amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the 
Association, materially or adversely affect Project implementation, including 
implementation of any Subprojects, or achievement of the objective thereof. 
E. Subprojects
 
1.  
General
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I.A of this Schedule, the 
Recipient shall appraise, approve, and monitor Subprojects in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and the Project Operational Manual. 
2. 
Eligibility Criteria and Procedures for Subprojects
(a) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under the Project 
unless the respective Project Implementing Entity has determined, on the 
basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with this Section and the 
Project Operational Manual, that the proposed Subproject satisfies the 
eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the Project 
Operational Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the following: 
(i) 
the proposed Subproject shall be initiated by a research 
institution in the case of a Research Subproject and a Producer 
Organization in the case of a Producer Investment Subproject, 
each of which entity meets the eligibility criteria specified in the 
Project Operational Manual, and such entity shall be eligible for 
subsequent Subproject Grants if it has completed the Subproject 
to the satisfaction of the Recipient and the Association; 
Page  9
8
(ii) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for, but not limited to, activities 
set forth under Part 2 (b) of the Project in the case of a Research 
Subproject and Part 4 (c) of the Project in the case of a Producer 
Investment Subproject, and further detailed in the Project 
Operational Manual; 
(iii) 
the investment cost of each approved Subproject shall not exceed 
$40,000 equivalent, except as previously agreed with the 
Association; and 
(iv) 
the financing of the proposed Subproject shall be fully covered 
by the sum of the Subproject
 Grant and the Beneficiary’s 
contribution. 
(b) 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under the Project 
if the respective Project Implementing Entity has determined, on the 
basis of an appraisal conducted in accordance with this Section and the 
Project Operational Manual, that the proposed Subproject satisfies any of 
the non-eligibility criteria specified below and in further detail in the 
Project Operational Manual, which shall include, 
inter alia
,
the 
following: 
(i) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for activities relating to the 
production of tobacco or hallucinogen plants; and 
(ii) 
the proposed Subproject shall be for investments not proven to 
be in compliance with applicable land law. 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Grant Agreements
(a) 
A Subproject shall be carried out pursuant to a Subproject Grant 
Agreement, to be concluded between the respective Project 
Implementing Entity, on behalf of the Recipient, and a Beneficiary, 
under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, described in 
further detail in the Project Operational Manual, which, 
inter alia
,
shall 
include the following: 
(i) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to contribute, in cash or in kind, 
a
minimum proportion of the projected Subproject costs as set 
out in the Project Operational Manual; 
Page  10
9
(ii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
technical, environmental, financial, and managerial practices; 
and (B) maintain adequate records to reflect, in accordance 
sound accounting practices, the resources, operations, and 
expenditures relating to the Subproject; 
(iii) 
the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
to be financed from the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency and 
economy and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
this Schedule, and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out 
of the Subproject; and 
(iv) 
the right of the respective Project Implementing Entity, on behalf 
of the Recipient, and of the Recipient in its own right, to: 
(A) inspect by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants, and 
construction included in the Subproject, the operations thereof, 
and any relevant records and documents; (B) 
obtain all 
information as it, or the Association, shall reasonably request 
regarding the administration, operation, and financial condition 
of Subprojects; and (C) suspend or terminate the right of any 
Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Subproject Grant upon 
failure by the Beneficiary to perform any of its obligations under 
the Subproject Grant Agreement. 
(b) 
The respective Project Implementing Entity, or the Recipient, as the case 
may be, shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association 
and to achieve the Project objective, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive the Subproject Grant Agreement or any substantive provision 
thereof. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar quarter, and shall be 
Page  11
10
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.
 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following:
 
Indicator Closing 
Date 
Project Objective: 
 
(1) Percentage of farm
s
benefiting from new Guéra goat breed 
having reached productivity level of 1.5 liters of milk per 
day 
75 
(2) Percentage of targeted cowpea producers having increased 
net profit per hectare by at least 20 percent 
70 
Part 1 of Project: 
 
Percentage of decentralized staff of ministry responsible for 
agriculture 
65 
Part 2 of Project: 
 
Number of tons of cowpea seeds available for multiplication 
8
Part 3 of Project: 
 
Percentage of targeted cowpea producers having reached yield 
of at least 700 kilograms per hectare 
75 
Part 4 of Project: 
 
Percentage of certified cowpea seeds produced in Recipient’s 
territory 
60 
Page  12
11
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, as part of the Project Report, interim un-
audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association.
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting Services.
 
All goods, works, and non-
consulting services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth 
or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions 
of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting 
Services
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works, and Non-Consulting 
Services.  
The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than 
Page  13
12
International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, non-consulting 
services, and works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b) National Competitive Bidding 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(b) Least Cost Selection 
(c) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the technical specifications for each contract for goods or works, the description 
of services for each contract for non-consulting services, the terms of reference 
for each contract for consultants’ services, and the following contracts shall be 
subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each contract for goods or non-
consulting services estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(c) the first three (3) contracts for goods, non-consulting services, or works 
procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and Shopping, 
respectively; (d) each contract for goods, non-consulting services, or works 
procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; (e) each contract for consultants’ 
services provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; 
(f) each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual consultant 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (g) each contract for 
consultants’ services (provided by a firm or an individual consultant) procured on 
Page  14
13
the basis of Single Source Selection.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” 
dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to 
finance 100 percent of Eligible Expenditures. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works: 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Part 2 of Project 
(c) Part 3 of Project 
(d) Part 4 of Project 
 
0
0
0
0
80 
(2) Goods: 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Part 2 of Project 
(c) Part 3 of Project 
(d) Part 4 of Project 
 
445,000 
103,000 
362,000 
690,000 
100% of Foreign 
Expenditures and 90% of 
Local Expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ 
Services: 
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Part 2 of Project 
(c) Part 3 of Project 
(d) Part 4 of Project 
 
910,000 
440,000 
1,180,000 
790,000 
80 
Page  15
14
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(4) Grants: 
(a) Part 2 (b) of 
Project 
(b) Part 2 (c) of 
Project 
(c) Part 4 (c) of 
Project 
 
1,890,000 
 
1,380,000 
 
1,580,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(5) Operating Costs:  
(a) Part 1 of Project 
(b) Part 2 of Project 
(c) Part 3 of Project 
(d) Part 4 of Project 
 
1,740,000 
280,000 
340,000 
470,000 
 
80 
60 
75 
50 
(6) Unallocated 
700,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
13,300,000  
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made: 
 
(a) 
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals for Eligible 
Expenditures up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after January 1, 2007; and 
 
(b) 
under Categories 1 (d), 2 (d), 3 (d), and 5 (d), unless the Recipient has 
signed an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, with the Permanent Agriculture Chambers’ Assembly of 
Mali for purposes of implementation of Part 4 of the Project by the latter. 
 
2. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2009. 
 
Page  16
15
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A.
 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case no later than September 1 of each year, an annual work plan and budget for 
the Project for the following year, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association and of such scope and detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested, except for the annual work plan and budget due no later than 
September 1, 2007, which shall be furnished no later than October 1, 2007 or 
thirty (30) days after the Effective Date, whichever is sooner. 
 
B. Midterm 
Review
 
The Recipient shall: 
 
1. 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than twelve (12) months 
after the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project 
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred 
to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule.  Such review shall include an 
assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in Project 
implementation; (ii) implementation of annual work plans and budgets; 
(iii) progress on procurement and disbursement; and (iv) results of 
monitoring and evaluation activities; and 
(b) 
make adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve 
performance, if needed. 
2. 
Prepare and furnish to the Association, three (3) months before such review, a 
report, in form and substance and scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Section on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof 
during the period following such date; and 
3. 
Review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Section, and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount 
of the Credit repayable 
(Expressed as a 
percentage)* 
On each February 1 and August 1: 
 
Commencing August 1, 2017 to and including 
February 1, 2027 
 
1
%
Commencing August 1, 2027 to and including 
February 1, 2047 
 
2
%
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions.
 
Page  18
17
APPENDIX
 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Administrative and Financial Directorate” (
Direction Administrative et 
Financière
)
means the directorate of an entity responsible for the administrative 
and financial management of said entity. 
 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary” means individual members, or groups of members, of a research 
institution or Producer Organization (as hereafter defined), established and 
operating under the laws of the Recipient, which has met the eligibility criteria 
set out in Section I.E.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and in the Project 
Operational Manual and to which or for whose benefit a Subproject Grant (as 
hereafter defined) is made or proposed to be made. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
6. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, dated 
January 2001, agreed with the Association for the environmental and social 
screening process to be followed in identifying, assessing, and mitigating the 
potential adverse environmental and social impact associated with activities to be 
implemented under the Project, as the same may be updated from time to time 
with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Environmental Management Plan. 
 
7. 
“Food Security Commissariat” (
Commissariat à la Sécurité Alimentaire
)
means 
the Recipient’s entity, under the supervisory authority of the ministry at the time 
responsible for agriculture, responsible for food security. 
 
8. 
“Foreign Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
Page  19
18
10. 
“Institutional Development Commissariat” (
Commissariat au Développement 
Institutionnel
)
means the Recipient’s entity, under the supervisory authority of 
the ministry at the time responsible for agriculture, responsible for institutional 
development in said sector. 
11. 
“Local Expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Recipient or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient. 
12. 
“National Agricultural Research Committee” (
Comité National de la Recherche 
Agricole
)
means
 the Recipient’s entity, under the supervisory authority of the 
ministry at the time responsible for agriculture, established and operating 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 1-243/P-RM of June 7, 2001. 
13. 
“National Directorate of Agriculture” (
Direction Nationale de l’Agriculture
)
means the Recipient’s entity, under the supervisory authority of the ministry at 
the time responsible for rural development, responsible for agriculture. 
14. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient  
on account of Project implementation, management, and monitoring, including 
for office space rental, utilities, and supplies, bank charges, communications, 
vehicle operation, maintenance, and insurance, building and equipment 
maintenance, advertising expenses, travel and supervision, salaries of contractual 
and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and bonuses  
of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
15. 
“Orientation and Steering Committee” (
Comité d’Orientation et de Pilotage
)
means the Recipient’s entity established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 01-324 /PM-RM of August 2, 2001. 
16. 
“Original Financing” means the amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty 
four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,200,000) 
made available by the Association to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Original Financing Agreement (as hereinafter defined). 
17. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the financing agreement for an 
Agricultural Services and Producer Organizations Project between the Recipient 
and the Association, dated December 12, 2001, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement (Credit No. 3583-MLI). 
18. 
“Original Project” means the project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
19. 
“Permanent Agriculture Chambers’ Assembly of Mali” (
Assemblée Permanente 
des Chambres d’Agriculture du Mali
)
means the entity established and operating 
Page  20
19
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 
93-044 of August 4, 1993 and 
Decree No. 93-295/P-RM of August 18, 1993. 
20. 
“Pest Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, dated January 2001, agreed 
with the Association for measures to be followed in development and 
implementation of integrated pest management and safe handling of pesticides in 
the course of Project implementation, as the same may be updated from time to 
time with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Pest Management Plan. 
21. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
22. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 18, 2007 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
23. 
“Producer Investment Subproject” means a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) 
financed under Part 4 (c) of the Project. 
24. “Producer 
Organization” 
(
Organisation de Producteurs
)
means an entity 
established and operating as such under the laws of the Recipient. 
25. “Project 
Coordination 
Unit” 
(
Cellule de Coordination du Projet
)
means the 
Recipient’s entity established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s 
Decree No. 01-324 /PM-RM of August 2, 2001. 
26. 
“Project Implementing Entity” means either the National Agricultural Research 
Committee or the Permanent Agriculture Chambers’ Assembly of Mali. 
27. 
“Project Implementing Entity’s Legislation” means either the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 1-243/P-RM, dated June 7, 2001, as amended up to the date of this 
Agreement, with respect to the National Agricultural Research Committee, or the 
Recipient’s Law No. 93-044, dated August 4, 1993, and Decree No. 93-295/P-
RM, dated August 18, 1993, as amended up to the date of this Agreement, with 
respect to the Permanent Agriculture Chambers’ Assembly of Mali. 
28. 
“Research Subproject” means a Subproject (as hereinafter defined) financed 
under Part 2 (b) of the Project. 
29. 
“Subproject” means an activity financed under Part 2 (b) or 4 (c) of the Project. 
30. 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance a 
Subproject. 
Page  21
20
31. 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement concluded or to be 
concluded between the respective Project Implementing Entity and a Beneficiary 
for the purpose of carrying out a Subproject. 
Section II. 
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
1. 
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows: 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009, or such later date as the Association 
shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
2. 
The table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Works: 
(a) Part A of Project 
(b) Part B of Project 
(c) Part C of Project 
(d) Part D of Project 
 
200,000 
600,000 
325,000 
100,000 
80 
(2) Goods: 
(a) Part A of Project 
(b) Part B of Project 
(c) Part C of Project 
(d) Part D of Project 
 
5,000,000 
1,200,000 
1,600,000 
500,000 
100% of Foreign 
Expenditures and 90% of 
Local Expenditures 
(3) Consultants’ 
Services: 
(a) Part A of Project 
(b) Part B of Project 
(c) Part C of Project 
(d) Part D of Project 
 
3,700,000 
1,400,000 
3,000,000 
2,500,000 
80 
Page  22
21
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR 
Equivalent) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(Exclusive of Taxes) 
(4) Grants: 
(a) Part B.3 of Project 
(b) Part D.3 of 
Project 
 
4,000,000 
2,630,000 
100% of amounts disbursed 
(5) Operating Costs:  
(a) Part A of Project 
(b) Part B of Project 
(c) Part C of Project 
(d) Part D of Project 
 
2,584,890 
545,000 
2,700,000 
500,000 
 
80 
60 
75 
50 
(6) Refunding of 
Project 
Preparation 
Advance 
1,115,110 
Amount due pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement 
(7) Unallocated 
0 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
34,200,000  
