Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13506-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
MAY 19, 1995
South Asia Department II
Agriculture and Water
Operations Division



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupees (Rs.)
US$1 = Rs. 32
FISCAL YEAR
Government of India, State - April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)1/
1 meter (m)                               = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         = 0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                           = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)             = 810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 million acre-feet (MAF)                = 1,235 Mm3
1 thousand million cubic feet (TMC)    = 28.32 Mm3
I cubic foot per second (cfs or cusec) = 0.028 Mm3 per second (cumec)
1 cfs                                    = 102.9 m3/hr
1 ton                                    = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
1/    The Metric System has been used in most cases.  However, non-metric
units are used in some instances, and were also used in this report in cases
in which a conversion to the metric system may confuse the reader.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEU            Agricultural Engineering Department
AMG            Asset Maintenance Grant
ARAPB          Annual Review, Action Plan and Budget
BER            Bid Evaluation Report
CE             Chief Engineer
CAC            Contract Award Committee
CWC            Central Water Commission
EAP            Environmental Action Plan
EA             Environmental Assessment
EIC            Engineer-in-Chief
ERAP           Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan
ERGC           Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance Committee
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
FAOCP          Food and Agriculture Organization's Cooperative Program
PO             Farmer Organization
GO             Government Order
GOI            Government of India
GOTN           Government of Tamil Nadu
IAS            Indian Administrative Service
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
IDA            International Development Association
IHH            Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology
IMTI           Irrigation Management and Training Institute
IRDP           Integrated Rural Development Program
IWS            Institute of Water Studies
KWSP           Krishna Water Supply Project
LAER           Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation
LAERAP         Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan
LAERO          Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Office
LDP            Letter of Development Policy
M&E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS            Management Information System
MOU            Memorandum of Understanding
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NHP            National Hydrology Project
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NWMP           National Water Management Project
O&M            Operations and Maintenance
OFD            On-Farm Development
PAP            Project Affected Person
POM            Plan of Operations and Maintenance
PWD            Public Works Department
PY             Project Year
RAC            Research Advisory Committee
RG             Rehabilitation Grant
RGF            Research Grant Fund
SOE            Statement of Expenditure
TNEB           Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
TWAD           Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board
WRCRC          Water Resources Control and Review Council
WRCP           Water Resources Consolidation Project
WRO            Water Resources Organization
WRRF           Water Resources Research Fund
WSCC           Water Services Charges Committee
WUA            Water User Association






INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   i
I.     WATER RESOURCES SECTOR
Introduction     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .  1
Water Resources in India    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Development Priorities    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
Tamil Nadu State    ......  ...  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  .  .    2
Experience with Past Bank Lending  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
II.    THE PROJECT
A.  Rationale for IDA Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
WRCP Preparation and Policy Reforms  . . . . . . . . . .   7
B.  Project Obiectives and DescriDtion    . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Project Objectives    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
C.  Detailed Features  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
System Improvement and Farmer Turnover    . . . . . . . .   9
Scheme Completions    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research  .  14
Water Planning    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Environmental Management and Action Plan    . . . .  14
Water Sector Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Institutional Reforms .        .     .    ............. .  16
Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation    . . . . .  17
D.  Policy Reforms    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Policy Reform Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
State Water Policy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Expenditure Prioritization    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Maintenance Funding  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Cost   Recovery  .    .  .    .    .   .    .  .   .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    21
Groundwater Management    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
III. COST ESTIMATES, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs and Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Program and Project Investment Costs    . . . . . .  23
Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Procurement    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    25
Procurement Management    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Disbursement    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
Retroactive Financing and Special Account  . . . . . . .  29
Accounts and Audit . ................. . 29



IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Training and Technical Assistance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Management of Farmer Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Management of Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation   . 32
Monitoring and Evaluation  ....  .  .  .   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  32
Project Reviews and Reporting  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Supervision     .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    34
V.    BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project   Benefits  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   34
Economic   Analysis  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   36
Project Risks  ......  ..  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ..  ..   .  36
Program Objective Categories   ...............................  37
VI.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
MAP: IBRD No. 26167
ANNEXES
Annex 1      Policy Reform Program
Annex 2      Water Resources Organization - Institutional Reforms
Annex 3      Water Planning, Allocation and Management
Annex 4      System Improvement and Farmer Turnover
Annex 5      Scheme Completions
Annex 6      Tamil Nadu State Water Policy
Annex 7      Environmental Action Plan
Annex 8      Water Resources Research Fund
Annex 9      Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Plan
Annex 10    Baseline Survey Terms of Reference
Annex 11    Project Cost Tables
Annex 12    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 13    Implementation and Supervision Plan
Annex 14    Economic Analysis
Annex 15    Criteria for Preparation and Selection of Investment
Annex 16    Maintenance, Water Charges and Cost Recovery
Annex 17    Water and Agriculture in Tamil Nadu's Economy
Annex 18    Criteria for NGO Selection
Annex 19    Documents Available in Project File
This report is based on the findings of an IDA/FAOCP Appraisal Mission which visited India in
March 1994. The mission comprised Messrs./Mmes.: K. Oblitas (Task Manager), A. Pai, G.
Fauss, A. Subramanian, E. Schaengold, T. Estoque, F. Grohs, S. Thangaraj, and W. Plummer
(Consultant); and S. Rajagopal, N. Sugimura, and T. Lamrock (FAOCP). Additional
contributions were made by W. Price, R. Crooks, R. Zwieg, X. Fang, S. Subramanian, N. Raman,
T. Sharma, and Consultants D. Groenfeldt, P. Rogers, B. Sunderesan, S. Lele, S. Elumalai, I.
Moorehouse and C. Wood. The Department Director is Mr H. Vergin, and Division Chief, Mr S.
Barghouti. Peer reviewers were Messrs W. Ochs and J. Simas (Bank) and Ms R. Meinzen-Dick
(IFPRI).



INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
I.    CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, Acting by its President.
Executing  Agency:    The State of Tamil Nadu.
Amount:                  IDA Credit of SDR 181.9 million
(US$ 282.9 million equivalent).
Terms:                   IDA:  Standard with 35 years maturity.
On-Lending  Terms:       Government of India would make the proceeds of the
Credit available to the State of Tamil Nadu (GOTN)
under standard arrangements for developmental
assistance to the States of India. GOI would assume
the foreign exchange risk.
Project  Description: The project would be a sector investment loan,
financing an agreed state-wide program to improve the
productivity and sustainability of Tamil Nadu's
irrigation sector, to introduce multi-sectoral water
planning, to integrate farmers in irrigation
management, and to strengthen the state's
institutional and technical capability in water
development, management and planning. Project
components would be: (a) Systems Improvement and
Farmer Turnover to improve productivity through
rehabilitation and modernization of the existing
irrigation systems integrated with participation of
farmers and turnover of operations and maintenance
(O&M) of improved distributaries, as well as funding
of O&M, to water user associations (55% of investment
base costs); (b) Scheme Completion Investments to
complete viable investment on existing schemes for
increased availability and reliability of water (29%
of investment costs); (c) capacity building in Water
Planning. Environmental Management and Research to
introduce multi-sectoral water planning, incorporate
environmental management in all aspects of water
planning, investment and management, and to enhance
research in the water sector (8% of investment
costs); (d) Institutional Strengthening of Tamil
Nadu's Water Resources Organization (WRO) to
strengthen capabilities in all professional and
management areas (7% of investment costs); and (e)
associated Land Acauisition and Economic
Rehabilitation for project affected persons (1% of
investment costs). The above investments are
supported by recent issuance by GOTN of a State Water
Policy defining its new, broader objectives in the
water sector, an institutional reorganization to



establish WRO as a specialist state water agency,
stepped up funding by GOTN of maintenance to full
required levels and reordering of state expenditure
priorities to emphasize maintenance and improved
productivity of existing systems rather than new
construction.
Project  benefits:       The project would enhance agricultural production on
about 0.7 million ha (50% of the state's surface
irrigated area) directly benefitting some 4 million
persons, of which 70% occupy small and marginal farms.
Irrigation would be put on a sustainable footing
through rehabilitation and modernization of the
systems linked with farmer participation and upgraded
maintenance and water management. A specialist state
water agency would be created and strengthened
including in water planning and environmental
management, with broad and long-term benefits stemming
from multi-sectoral water planning and management,
essential for Tamil Nadu's present and long-term
economic development and its sustainability. Farmer
participation and turnover would forge a private
sector role in management of infrastructure and
contain organizational features to foster
participation of women and minorities in irrigation's
management and benefits.
Project  Risks:          First, the fundamental change in water resources
management will require continued political will and
sustained effort to be successfully implemented. Key
features required (state water policy, institutional
reorganization, reordering of expenditure priorities,
staff training and all key project related decisions and
Government announcements) were established by GOTN
during project preparation. The extensive reforms
already implemented provide a strong basis for project
start-up and some confidence regarding the critically
important continuation of GOTN's commitment. Second,
the systems improvement and farmer turnover program,
while based on successful piloting, is innovatory on
this scale. The project includes special monitoring and
management features and intensive consultancy, training
and NGO assistance, and provisions for adapting the
farmer turnover component as experience is gained.
Third, aeneral imDlementation capacitv constraints of
WRO have been addressed in the project's institutional
strengthening, including special arrangements for
implementation monitoring and financial management: in
other respects, WRO has proven capability and successful
experience in undertaking the kind of physical
activities to be implemented under the project.



iii
Estimated Costs and Financina:
Local  Foreign  Total       Local   Foreign   Total
Rs M --------              ------- US$ M ---------
Proiect Investment Costs
System Improvement &
Farmer Turnover            4,001    577    4,578        125.1      18.0    143.1
Scheme Completions         2,195    264    2,459         68.5        8.3     76.8
Water Planning, Environ-
mental Management and
Research                      309    364      673          9.6     11.4      21.0
Institutional
Strengthening                419    146       566        13.1       4.6      17.7
Land Acquisition &
Econ. Rehabilitation         123       3      126          3.8       0.1      3.9
Total Baseline Costs       7.047 1.354   8.401          220.1      42.4    262.5
Physical Contingencies       670      99      769        20.9        3.1     24.0
Price Contingencies        1,956    308    2,263         25.9        3.2     29.1
Total Project
Investment Costs           9.673  1.760   11.433        266.9      48.7    315.6
WRO Recurrent Costs        5,372    982    6,354        148.3      27.1    175.4
Total Program Costs1    15,045 2.742   17.787           415.2      75.8    491.0
Financina Plan:
Local        Foreicn         Total
----------- US$ Million -
Project Investment Costs
GOTN                                32.7            0.0           32.7
IDA                                234.2           48.7          282.9
WRO Recurrent Costs (GOTN)                148.3           27.1          175.4
Total Program Costs                      415.2            75.8          491.0
Expected  Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ million)       96      97      98      99      2000    2001   2002
Annual             27.6    31.2    44.6   50.9    51.0    46.7        30.9
Cumulative         27.6    58.8   103.4   154.3   205.3   252.0    282.9
Poverty Category:   Not  Applicable.
Economic  Rate  of  Return:    17%
MAP: IBRD No.26167 - INDIA: Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project.
1     Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$34.4 million.






TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
I.   WATER RESOURCES SECTOR
Introduction
1.01 The Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) would assist
Tamil Nadu state to better plan, manage and develop its water resources and to
improve the productivity of the irrigation sector. The project would fulfil a
critical need. The state is water short, severely so in some areas, and has
nearly fully developed its exploitation potential. Future economic
development will depend on the best allocation of water between sectors and
efficient use by the main sectoral users, especially agriculture. Two
principal needs are catered for under the project. First, comprehensive water
planning on a river basin basis and across sectors is required. Second, for
the largest user of water - the agriculture sector - which consumes some 75%
of water, irrigation's productivity must be enhanced to improve agricultural
growth while still ensuring the growing water needs of municipalities,
industry and other uses.
1.02 Under the project, a formerly construction oriented Public Works
Department (PWD) would be refocussed and strengthened as a state water agency
responsible for multi-use water planning and for providing irrigation,
drainage, flood control and bulk water supply services. Expenditures would be
refocussed to emphasize maintenance and modernization of existing facilities,
and beneficiary participation linked with cost recovery would be integral to
the service improvements. The new approach necessarily requires substantial
institutional and policy reforms for the water sector which Tamil Nadu has
already commenced. The project would assist Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN)
to implement these objectives including the funding of the associated physical
and institutional investments.
Water Resources in India
1.03 Water is an increasingly scarce resource in India. Its management in
terms of physical, economic and environmental needs is critical to economic
development. India's water resources are distributed unevenly, both spatially
and seasonally. In many states, including Tamil Nadu, development of surface
and groundwater is reaching its physical limits. Water needs to be planned
and managed holistically: planning needs to be on a multi-sectoral basis, by
river basin, recognizing the interlinkages between surface and groundwater,
and including environmental as well as quantity considerations.
1.04 Competing Uses of Water. Irrigation is the largest user of water in
India (about 93% of present gross water use). However, the National Water
Policy (Ministry of Water Resources, 1987) gives the first priority to the
provision of domestic water supplies for urban and rural populations and
assuring water supplies for livestock. Competing demands arise from industry,
thermal and hydro-power, fisheries and navigation. In addition, minimum flows
on rivers for flushing pollutants, dilution of waste water, and other
environmental concerns limit the operation of facilities. The Central Water
Commission (CWC, 1988) estimated that community needs would double, and
industrial and power requirements would increase almost seven-fold, by 2025.
While the total water demand for community use (forecast to be 40 BCM/yr in



2
2025) is not high compared to the total water resources (930 BCM/yr in 2025),
localized and regional demand can lead to severe shortages, particularly for
urban areas. Thus, in future, competing uses are likely to limit the water
available for agriculture and irrigation, particularly near major metropolises
and in dry regions. These increasing demands could also force fundamental
changes in irrigation systems, cropping patterns and water use efficiency.
1.05  Agriculture and Irrigation.  Agriculture is a key sector in India's
economy, contributing about 35% of GDP and 65% of employment. Annual
agricultural growth has been modest at 2.6% p.a. over the last two decades.
India has a land area of 3.3 million km2 of which about 40% is cultivatable,
and 20% is irrigated. Irrigation has been the major source of agricultural
growth, and the pursuit of India's goal of food self-sufficiency has been
based on massive investment in irrigation. The potential of irrigation,
however, has been constrained by inadequate attention to comprehensive
planning, maintenance, water management and farmer participation. Performance
of irrigation has been stagnant in the past two decades, and in some states
has deteriorated. Significant issues must be addressed if irrigation is to
maintain and surpass past contributions to agricultural growth (India
Irrigation Sector Review, 1991, Report 9518-IN).
Development Priorities
1.06 Development plans of the Government of India (GOI) and State governments
give priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment, particularly in
the rural areas. While per capita income has increased by 2% per annum to an
average of about US$310, the impact on improvement in the standard of living
of the poor or in reducing under-employment has not been significant due to
rapid population growth. Of the total population of about 900 million, an
estimated 300 million live below the poverty line. About 74% of the
population live in rural areas, depending directly or indirectly on
agriculture. One-third of the agricultural labor force are women, and
agriculture is the main source of employment for women in rural areas. Thus,
the performance of agriculture and its main source of productivity growth,
irrigation, is intrinsically linked to poverty alleviation.
1.07 GOI's long-term strategy is to stimulate agricultural growth and promote
rural development through improved water and land management, enhanced
efficiency of irrigation and drainage networks, strengthened research
services, increased attention to environmental protection, and improved rural
infrastructure. Investment programs to address these elements and to re-
establish growth are of high priority in the Eighth Five Year Plan (1992-97).
Equitable distribution of the benefits of growth and sustainability of the
resource base are also emphasized.
Tamil Nadu State
1.08 General Features. Tamil Nadu, at the southern tip of India (IBRD Map
No. 26167), has an area of 130,000 Sq. Kms and a population of 56 million of
which two-thirds are rural. About 40% of the population are below the poverty
line. Due to higher literacy and a successful family planning drive,
population is growing more slowly than the India average (1.5% in Tamil Nadu
compared with about 2.0% nationally), but population density is higher, 428
persons/sq. Km in Tamil Nadu compared with the national average of 264. Large



3
urban centers include Madras (3.8 million people), Madurai and Coimbatore
(nearly 1 million each). The state's average per capita income of US$319 is
at about the national average. Relative to the rest of India, Tamil Nadu is
both land and, in particular, water short.  It has 7% of the country's
population but only 4% of the land area and 3% of the country's surface water
resources.  Water constraints in Tamil Nadu vary by basin and as influenced by
the present level of irrigation development and by urban needs. Scarcity is
acute in some areas, particularly for Madras city, for which water is being
carried in by train and road.
1.09 Water Resources. The state's average rainfall is 925 mm/annum, but is
highly variable, both year-wise and geographically. Tamil Nadu is affected by
two monsoons, the northeast monsoon (October to December, average 440
mm/annum) and the southwest monsoon (June to September, 310 mm). The
intensity of the southwest monsoon decreases from North to South. Rainfall is
highest on the coast, decreasing westwards as the impact of the northeast
monsoon diminishes.   The state's estimate of water resources is 23.6 billion
cubic meters of surface water and 22.3 billion cubic meters of groundwater.
Utilization is estimated to be 93% for surface water and 60% for groundwater.
Groundwater utilization varies by basin. In a number of localities,
especially near urban centers including around Madras, Coimbatore and Madurai
and parts of the Palar and Vaigai basins, withdrawals are causing groundwater
levels to fall. Regulatory, pricing and other actions are needed to
counteract this.
1.10 The state comprises 17 river basins (some of these are groups of several
minor basins), all flowing eastwards from the Western Ghats and Deccan
plateau. Amongst these the major rivers are the Cauvery, Palar, Vellar,
Vaigai and Tambaraparani. Tamil Nadu either contains a basin in full or is a
downstream riparian to another state, and does not share any international
rivers. For one river, the Cauvery, shared with upstream Karnataka, water
sharing has not been agreed. While basin planning in the Cauvery would be
part of the project, the WRCP contains no plans for investment in this basin.
1.11 Agriculture and Irrigation. Agriculture contributes about 22% of state
domestic product. Cultivated area is 5.9 million ha (7.6 m. ha including
multiple cropping) or 45% of the state's area, the rest being primarily
occupied by forest, hill and waste land and urban development. The main crops
are paddy (2.4 m. ha), millet and sorghum (1.6 m. ha), oilseeds (1.1 m. ha),
and pulses (0.6 m. ha). The remaining 1.9 m. ha are mainly in fruits and
vegetables, spices, sugarcane and cotton. Annual production of foodgrains has
increased from 5.4 million tons in the 1960s to 7.5 million tons in 1987/88.
Despite this gain, production since 1970 expanded more slowly than population,
and in drought years Tamil Nadu has had to import from other states. Farm
sizes tend to be uniformly very small. The average holding size is 1 ha, with
71% of holdings less than 1 ha, and 88% less than 2 ha.
1.12 Irrigation covers 2.4 million ha (41% of the state's net cropped area).
The state's irrigation system is the product of old investment, in the case of
many tanks going back several centuries or more. By the 1960s new investment
in canal and tank irrigation had peaked. Investment in wells continued
through the 1970s, but by the 1980s irrigated area from all sources of
irrigation had reached a plateau. Canal and tank irrigation supply 1.3
million net ha, and wells irrigate 1.1 million ha. New investment



4
opportunities are limited by water availability, but large opportunities are
available for improving the performance of existing irrigation. Neglected and
underfunded maintenance has resulted in deterioration of most systems,
unreliable water to head-end farmers, and often no water for tailenders.
There are also opportunities to complete investments on a number of commands
in order to improve the water service and provide some extension in command
area.
1.13 Environmental Needs. Actual or potential environmental concerns in
Tamil Nadu are typical of those found in the water sector for any large state
or country. No one problem is endemic state-wide and conditions vary by
basin. Groundwater resources, though overall still under-exploited, are being
depleted in a number of localities; around Madras city, Coimbatore, Madurai,
and parts of some basins such as the Vaigai basin. In some coastal belts this
has been accompanied by saline intrusion. The opposite groundwater situation
of waterlogging is also found, in generally small localities and sometimes
with localized salinization. This is often due to poor water management
resulting in excess water at head-ends of commands. Effluents from industry
(chemicals, tanneries) cause pollution on a number of rivers affecting
riverine flora and fauna and the quality of drinking water. Tree cover of
watersheds ranges from excellent to poor; in parts of basins such as
Pennaiyar, Palar and Vaigai, deforestation has resulted in excessive soil
erosion and siltation problems for canals and reservoirs. While serious water
borne diseases such as Bilharzia are not present, malaria, dysentery and other
risks can be transmitted through stagnant or organically polluted water.
Tamil Nadu is also subject to cyclones and flood damage, especially in
estuaries.
1.14 Environmental management capabilities are present in Tamil Nadu's
specialized agencies - for instance, the Pollution Control Board, Public
Works, Public Health, Forestry, Agricultural, Fisheries and Wildlife
Departments, and Water and Drainage Board, together with good university and
research center capability. But coordination between them is limited. No
apparatus has existed for tackling such issues from a basin approach, and for
planning water development comprehensively incorporating environmental
management in investment decisions, including better representation from the
general public and private sectors. Within Tamil Nadu's main water agency -
the Water Resources Organization, recently created from the irrigation wing of
the Public Works Department (para 1.16) - technical skills in environmental
monitoring, assessment and management also need strengthening.
1.15 Water Resources Institutions. The Public Works Department (PWD) has
been responsible for construction, maintenance and operation of the state's
irrigation and drainage systems, bulk water supply for municipalities, and
flood control. Several entities also come under the Secretary PWD and would
be important to the WRCP. The Institute of Water Studies (IWS), located in
Madras has handled water planning and research, but until recently has not had
the mandate to coordinate with other sectors. The Institute of Hydraulics and
Hydrology (IHH) at Poondi is PWD's hydraulic research agency. The Irrigation
Management and Training Institute (IMTI) at Trichy provides training for PWD
engineers and farmers. The two other major water agencies are the Tamil Nadu
Water and Drainage Board (TWAD), which provides water supply, drainage and
sewerage for towns and villages, and Metrowater, which provides similar
services for Madras. A strong academic and research capability exists in



5
Tamil Nadu's universities. This includes, for the water and agriculture
sectors, Anna University, Coimbatore Agriculture University, the Madras
Institute of Technology and the Madras Institute of Development Studies.
However, closer coordination between the above institutions is a recognised
need.
1.16 PWD has had a long tradition as the state's construction agency,
covering many activities from irrigation to buildings. This has given it
civil works expertise, but within irrigation less funding and staff emphasis
has been put to water management, maintenance and water planning. Over time,
the organization became progressively less equipped to handle the increasingly
demanding requirements of the state's water sector. Accordingly, to meet
Tamil Nadu's new objectives for the water sector, and as part of its
preparation for the WRCP, Government decided to create a specialist water
resources agency. Following a detailed institutional study, PWD was
bifurcated in April 1994 to create a specialized "Water Resources
Organization" (WRO), separate from buildings and other traditional PWD
functions. WRO and its sub-entities - IWS, IHH and IMTI - will be solely
handling the water sector in two principal capacities: as state water planner
and coordinator between sectors, and as implementor for irrigation, drainage,
flood control and bulk water supply. This is being accompanied by a major
internal reorganization (para 2.24 and Annex 2). The objectives are to create
a decentralized and more functionally effective management, organized along
basin lines, specialization in functional areas such as planning, design,
construction, operations and maintenance, and establishment or strengthening
of capabilities in management information systems, programming and budgeting,
procurement, environmental management, regulatory, training, staff development
and other areas. An institutional apparatus has also been established for
state coordination of water planning and environmental management between
sectors (para 2.21). Farmer participation in irrigation management is also a
central objective, and a vigorous drive to implement this is already underway.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.17 Experience in India. India's agricultural development efforts have
attracted substantial support from the Bank Group. To date, 131 agricultural
projects in India have received US$10.5 billion equivalent of IBRD/IDA
financing (81% IDA and 19% Bank), the majority of which has been for
irrigation. Projects have also included: agricultural support services
(credit, research and extension); commercial agriculture (seeds, fisheries
and agro-industry); forestry, watershed and resource conservation; livestock
development; and drought assistance. The objectives of Bank involvement in
Indian agriculture have been to expand and modernize the infrastructure
supporting sectoral growth, strengthen the institutions serving agriculture,
increase the production of high value commodities, and introduce sustainable
land management systems affecting rainfed agriculture.  Common problems in
agricultural projects have been: (a) delays in project mobilization and
procurement; (b) quality of civil works; (c) institutional weaknesses; and
(d) insufficient local funding.
1.18 Experience in Tamil Nadu. In the irrigation sector the Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation II Project (Cr. 1468-IN/SF16-IN) financed extension and improvement
of the old Periyar Vaigai system in southern Tamil Nadu and closed on October
31, 1993. The Project Completion Report concluded that the project, while



6
slow in implementation, met its physical objectives and achieved an ERR of
25%. Sustainability was also considered satisfactory. Other positive
features included successful piloting of cultivator group participation in
water management, good construction quality, and accelerated implementation in
the last two years of the project. In other sectors related to water, the
Madras Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Cr. 1822/Ln.2846), and the Tamil
Nadu Urban Project (Cr. 1923), both ongoing, have, inter alia, encouraged
water planning initiatives. GOTN is currently preparing a Veeranam Water
Supply Project (for supply of bulk water to Madras) and a follow-on Madras
Water Supply and Sanitation Project for consideration by the Bank. The
project with the greatest relevance to the WRCP is the National Water
Management Project ("NWMP",Credit 1770-IN), which has enabled the gaining of
field experience for the WRCP's principal component. Under NWMP, seven
commands in Tamil Nadu covering 153,000 ha have been rehabilitated and
modernized. After a hesitant start, Tamil Nadu has been implementing this
project well and with enthusiasm over the past three years, as it experiences
the yield and social benefits of improved water management. This momentum has
facilitated preparation of the WRCP's main component which has similar
engineering features to NWMP, and has also enabled commencement in the field
of WRCP pre-investment and farmer organization activities, enhancing prospects
for rapid project start-up.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.01 The project would help implement the Bank's and GOI's new strategy for
the water and irrigation sector, as defined in the recent Bank policy paper
and the India Irrigation Sector Review. The Bank's new strategy ("Water
Resources Management", September 1993), proposes an agenda of policies and
institutional reforms that will utilize market forces and strengthen the
capacity of governments to carry out their essential roles in resource use and
planning. The policy paper calls for the adoption of a comprehensive
framework for analyzing policies and management options regarding water
scarcity, efficiency of service, allocation of water and environmental damage.
2.02 Specific to India, the "India Irrigation Sector Review" (Report 9518-IN,
December, 1991), prepared jointly with GOI and state governments, identified
four priority areas of action consistent with the above: (i) multisectoral
water resources policy and planning using river basins as planning units;
(ii) institutional development to upgrade management capability of irrigation
departments through improved functional responsibilities, institutional
accountability and participation of farmers and the private sector; (iii)
redefined public expenditure priorities, emphasizing improved performance of
existing schemes, enhanced operations and maintenance, completion of viable
incomplete projects and improved cost recovery linked to service improvements;
and (iv) improved technical performance of water and irrigation service
delivery including improved environmental management. The project also
supports the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for India of May 1995.
The CAS emphasizes investment lending operations providing comprehensive
support to policy, institutional, and expenditure reform for key sectors in
states receptive to reform. Reforms would be accompanied by investments in
basic infrastructure supporting increased productivity and better management



7
of natural resources. Better institutional and financial performance in the
public sector, complemented by devolution of responsibilities to stakeholders
and the private sector, is also emphasized.
2.03 The project would be a significant step towards implementation of Bank
and Government strategy in the water sector. In India, water development and
irrigation is planned and implemented at the state level, requiring a state-
by-state approach. WRCPs would be the main vehicle for Bank support to the
states. This project is the second WRCP (following Haryana WRCP, Cr 2592,
approved in FY94). Each provides the concerned state with the comprehensive
means to implement the new strategy. The Bank also has a strong interest in
supporting initiatives in hydrology and water management across states, as
this would lead to more rational allocation and use of water in the national
context. Such projects are also being developed by India. To implement the
new water and irrigation strategy, for both the state specific WRCPs and
multi-state projects supporting resolution of cross-state issues, a close and
continuous partnership with the states and central government is required.
The Bank is one of the few institutions that can provide the continuity and
policy support required for achieving the long-term strategic goals developed
in the sector strategy papers above. Choice of Tamil Nadu is because it is
one of India's most water constrained states and because of the interest of
the state Government in reforming its water and irrigation sector.
WRCP PreDaration and Policy Reforms
2.04 The project was prepared in the 1993-94 period. Over the past two years
Tamil Nadu has implemented a number of institutional and policy reforms in
preparation for the WRCP: (i) a fundamental decision was to create a
specialist Water Resources Organisation (WRO) from the former construction
oriented irrigation wing of PWD (para 1.16). This will handle state-wide
provision of irrigation and drainage, bulk water supply and flood control and
also be responsible for coordinating state water planning across sectors.
Within the new WRO, a staff reorganization is underway to create streamlined
and decentralized management and functionally specialized management units;
(ii) a Water Resources Control and Review Council (WRCRC) and supporting
institutional linkages have also been created to handle multi-sectoral water
planning and allocation; (iii) a State Water Policy has been formulated to
backstop Tamil Nadu's new approach to water and irrigation management; (iv)
priorities for public expenditures have been overhauled, with emphasis now on
maintenance and improved water management rather than new construction; (v)
state financial allocations for maintenance have been doubled to bring them up
to Bank/WRO recommended amounts; (vi) a program to involve farmers in
irrigation investment, operations and maintenance has been prepared and
implementation commenced; (vii) WRO's institutional capability for
environmental management has been strengthened and an Environmental Action
Plan prepared; and (viii) a new structure and procedures for handling land
acquisition have been established and a Land Acquisition and Economic
Rehabilitation Action Plan prepared.
2.05  The project is ready for implementation.  Start-up activities during
1994 and 1995 have been intensive, with 1994/95 expenditures proposed for
retroactive financing (para 3.15).  As concerns the project's two main
components - the systems improvement and farmer turnover program, and the
scheme completions program - detailed design is complete, staff divisions have



8
been allocated by work-site, and procurement packaging encompasses 70% of
contract packages over the seven-year project period and the full needs for
the first two years of the project. Implementation starts from the strong
base of successful performance under the National Water Management Project for
the systems improvement works, and already active work-sites as regards the
scheme completions. Readiness as concerns other project components is also
satisfactory. The new institutional structure is defined and agreed, the
water planning program has been underway since mid-1993; and training,
staffing and other preparatory actions for the Environmental Action Plan and
the Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan are advanced.
Most impressive has been the degree to which GOTN and its Water Resources
Organisation have emphasized early completion of all institutional and policy
decisions required for the project, including issuance of some two dozen
"Government Orders". These have formalized matters ranging from issuance of
the State Water Policy to adjusted policies for compensation in cases of land
acquisition, to the Institutional Reorganisation. WRO has also been active in
staff training in areas relevant to the WRCP.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.06 Project Obiectives. Tamil Nadu's future economic development and
welfare require better planning and management of water across sectors,
environmentally sustainable planning and management and, for irrigation, the
largest user of water, improved efficiency of public expenditures and water
use and enhanced agricultural productivity. The project's primary objectives
would be to: (a) introduce water resources planning by river basins across
all uses of water; (b) improve agricultural productivity through
modernization and completion of irrigation systems, upgraded water management
and farmer participation; (c) assure sustainability of water infrastructure
and the environment; and (d) improve institutional and technical capability
for managing the state's water resources.
2.07 Project Description. The project would be a sector investment loan
financing an agreed state-wide program to improve the productivity and
sustainability of Tamil Nadu's irrigation sector, to introduce multi-sectoral
water planning, to integrate farmers in irrigation management, and to
strengthen the state's institutional and technical capacity in water
development, management and planning. The project would be implemented over
seven years. Project components would be:
(a)   System Improvement and Farmer Turnover (US$143.1 million, 55% of
project investment base costs).
(b)   Scheme Comrpletions (US$76.8 million, 29% of investment base costs).
(c)   Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research (US$21.0 million,
8% of investment base costs);
(d)   Institutional Strenathenina (US$17.7 million, 7% of investment base
costs); and
(e)   Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation (US$3.9 million, 1% of
investment base costs).



9
C. Detailed Features
I.    System ImDrovement and Farmer Turnover  (US$ 143.1 million, 55% of
investment base cost, Annex 4)
2.08 The WRCP's largest expenditure item and field effort would be the
rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation, drainage and bulk
water supply facilities. This would be integrally associated with beneficiary
participation in scheme investment and management decisions and turnover of
water management and maintenance of distributaries to farmers.   Most of Tamil
Nadu's water delivery and drainage systems are performing below potential due
to outdated design, inadequate maintenance and lack of farmer involvement in
the design and management of the systems. As a result, water services are
increasingly becoming unreliable and inequitable, affecting agricultural
productivity. There is excess water in the upper reaches and tail-end farmers
do not receive adequate and timely supply of water.
2.09 Integrated ADproach. The National Water Management Project (NWMP, para
1.18) has succesfully piloted the engineering required to correct this
situation by rehabilitating and modernizing 153,000 ha in 7 commands in the
state. The WRCP incorporates the lessons learned under NWMP, but also
emphasizes the integration of infrastructural improvements with O&M funding
and farmer participation, associated with strengthened institutional
capability. In doing so, the project also reflects the general lesson in
Indian irrigation, and indeed worldwide, that: (i) efforts at cost recovery
without service improvement are mostly unsuccessful; and (ii) infrastructure
improvements without attention to O&M and farmer participation are physically,
financially and institutionally unsustainable. Sustained improvement in
performance is emphasized under the project, recognizing that this requires
mutually reinforcing actions.
2.10 Infrastructural Improvements. System improvements would cover about
660,000 ha, constituting 50% of the State's surface irrigated area, under a
phased, two-stage investment program. The first stage is technically similar
to NWMP, but will include innovations based on consultation with NWMP farmers
and other field experiences. Stage I comprises focussed low investment
improvement to enable more equitable and reliable water supply, based on a
detailed command diagnostic (crops, yields, hydrology, current performance and
problems) followed by preparation of a "plan of operations and maintenance'
(POM) and identification and design of the infrastructure improvements to make
this work. Under stage I, priority design changes and structural
improvements would be carried out in association with farmers on about 508,000
ha to ensure reliable irrigation to the tail-end sections in 10 major and
medium commands and about 40 minor schemes (98,000 ha). The central feature
of the design change would be the structuring of the system, usually at the
distributary, sometimes at the minor level. Below this level, control
structures will be provided at all offtake canals to distribute water in the
desired proportion without manual control. The costs of the rehabilitation
and modernization works under stage I will average Rs 5300/ha (US$ 166) in
1994 prices, to ensure a focus on top priorities.



10
System Improvement and Farmer Turnover
Constr./
Com-                                                               Procure-      O&M
mand       Base        Main    Distribu-       OFD                   ment    Divisions
Area       Cost       System      taries      Works      Others   Packages  Deployed
Scheme           (ha)      (Rs.m)      (Rs. m)    (Rs. m)    (Rs. m)    (Rs. m)   (in Nos.) (in Nos.)
Stage I
Cheyyar Anicut         14,337        66.6        26.3        33.6        6.0         0.7    16           2
Chittar                 9,644        43.4        10.0        31.0        1.5         0.8      8          1
Manjalar                2,169        13.5         8.4         2.3        1.6         1.2      7          1
Minor Schemes          97,885       468.0       146.0       250.0       72.0         0.0    30           6
Palar Anicut           32,796       163.8        65.4       67.4        24.0         7.0    20           3
Parambiculam          174,553      1035.0       718.5       179.5      130.0         7.0     41          9
Poiney Anicut           9,350        41.6        17.8       20.0         3.0         0.8      7          1
Thirukovilur &
Ellis Anicut          14,342        53.0        37.5       13.5         2.0         0.0      8         1
Tholodur               14,915       105.0        31.5        28.0        0.0        45.6      6          2
Vaigai Old Ayacut      54,143       368.6        60.9       307.7        0.0         0.0    28           5
Other Schemes          83,974       337.0       208.0       117.0        0.0        12.0    23           5
Subtotal           508,108     2695.5      1330.3      1050.0       240.1        75.1    194         36
Stage II
Cumbum                  8,099        58.5        40.8         8.2        4.7         4.8      8          2
Kodayar                36,836       292.9       171.4        94.3       18.2         9.0    12           3
Marudhanadhi            2,665        18.7         4.6         9.3        1.5         3.3      5          1
Sathanur             18217.00       187.7        93.0       86.4         7.7         0.7    13          2
Sethiathopppa          19,466       136.4        68.0       22.6         6.2        39.6    11           2
Thambaraparani         45,282       279.4       116.9       143.1       11.8         7.5    17           4
Other Schemes          22,384       228.8       127.0       77.5        16.8         7.5     14          2
Subtotal           152,949      1202.4      621.7       441.4        66.9        72.4    80          16
Periyar Vaigai                      200.0        75.3       95.0         0.0        29.7    25          4
V.H.F. (for all
schemes)                          36.0                                           36.0     1
IMTI, Training
& Consultant                      443.9
Grand Totals           661057      4577.8      2027.3     1586.4       307.1       213.1    300         56
2.11   Under  stage  II,  a second round of  investment  to  further  improve
performance and conveyance efficiency, especially at distributary levels,
would be undertaken for commands successfully through stage I. Investment
would be conditional on farmer commitment and would be associated at
distributary level with formal handover of O&M to farmers. In the WRCP
period, this is expected to be primarily on the ex-NWMP commands (153,000 ha).
Stage II improvements are primarily the construction of regulatory structures
and selective upgradation of canal lining, with an average cost of Rs 7900/ha.
The total base costs of the stage I and II works is US$ 84.2 and 37.6 million,
respectively. For all major and medium commands (85% of the program),
detailed designs and procurement schedules have been prepared.



11
2.12 Farmer Organization. The participation of water users would be closely
tied to the physical improvements (Annex 4). The centerpiece of the
participation program is a progressively increased involvement of farmers,
moving from consultation to active management of O&M below the structured
level. A 3-tier structure of farmer organization (FO) would be developed as
part of the public-private sector partnership between farmers and WRO. At the
lowest level (about 40-50 ha) would be outlet level organizations ("sluice
committees"), federating into a "Farmers Council" at the distributary level
(about 500-700 ha) where most of the formal negotiations with the WRO would
initially occur. Councils would further federate into an "Apex Committee" at
the scheme level for consultations and agreements on overall water management
and on inter-distributary issues. During stage I, farmer councils would
formally establish as registered societies and enter into a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with WRO. The councils would also collect from their
members Rs 250/ha, placing collections in a council bank account. Interest
earned would substantially pay the council's annual cash costs (the rest being
farmer supplied labor) of maintenance below the distributary head, which would
be their responsibility. Formal turnover of O&M responsibilities to Farmer
Councils would be accompanied by intensive training and also involve an
interim period (typically 6-9 months) of "joint management". The MOU defines
the mutual responsibilities and rights of the FOs and WRO in terms of water
services and O&M duties. A model MOU and by-laws for the FOs was formally
issued by GOTN prior to negotiations (Attachment C of Annex 4).
2.13 Distributary level improvements would be contingent upon the formation
of FOs: their participation and agreement on the nature of the works; and
their acceptance of O&M responsibilities, including financing, after the
investments are completed. Canal lining, the most expensive item of stage II
works, would be taken up selectively and only when it is part of a jointly set
priority improvement and when farmers collect 20% of the cost of lining.
Farmer contributions would be paid into council bank accounts to further
capitalize their capacity to undertake O&M and improvement works in the
future. The above arrangements (paras 2.12 to 2.13) were confirmed at
negotiations.
2.14 On-Farm DeveloDment Works. Farmer participation would extend to"OFD"
works as well, previously constructed by the Agricultural Engineering
Department (AED). OFD (sluice command works such as water courses, field
channels and field drains) provides the important link between the irrigation
system and farmer's fields, but needs to involve farmers and a lower cost
approach if investment is to be affordable and sustained. The WRCP will
support the state's program, with changes from past practice, and special
arrangements where AED is already present in a command. Under the WRCP, FOs
would decide on the need for OFD, and assistance to OFD would be extended only
in outlets where higher level Farmer's Councils are organized and the sluice
has an active sluice committee. The WRO would undertake a topographic survey
and propose designs for the distribution channels below the outlet. After
mutual consultation and agreement with farmers, alignment structures would be
constructed by WRO and farmers would construct the watercourses and field
channels themselves. WRO costs would be about Rs 720/ha compared with Rs
3500/ha as per present practices with government taking full resposibility.
About 425,000 ha are targeted under the WRCP, costing Rs 307 million in total.
The Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1) affirms that the new model for OFD
would be used henceforth throughout the state by both WRO and AED and that



12
AED's activities in WRCP commands would be limited to the five commands where
it is already active (Lower Bhavani, Periyar Vaigai, PAP, Sathanur and
Sethiathope). In these five commands, WRO and AED would both handle OFD
works, but activities would be phased with WRO's work on main and distributary
systems, and AED's program would be coordinated with the WRO executive
engineer for the command concerned. Arrangements would be reviewed annually
between WRO and AED for their implementation effectiveness.
2.15 Organization. Training and Eauipment. Under WRO's reorganisation, O&M
will become a specialist activity under the new post of CE O&M, with deputies
in the areas of operations, maintenance and farmer organization (Annex 2).
Staff reorientation and skill building needs are substantial. Accordingly,
WRO's Irrigation Management and Training Institute's (IMTI) program has been
refocussed to place emphasis in particular on farmer organization, and also on
technical aspects of systems improvement and O&M. Farmer organization teams
on each command will also be reinforced by community organizers recruited from
practical NGOS, backstopped by experienced consultants (para 4.04).
Management features for the systems improvement and farmer turnover program
incorporate intensive management and monitoring features, including a detailed
review by consultants in PY2 to enable early adjustments as experience is
gained (para 4.05). Adjustments are especially likely as regards the support
measures and approach for farmer participation and turnover. The project
would finance strengthening of IMTI (technical assistance, training and
equipment amounting to US$ 1.4 million) and equipment, training and
consultancies for farmer turnover (US$ 1.6 million). For operations and
maintenance, a one-time investment, aggregating to US$ 10.9 million base
costs, would be made in heavy equipment, surveying equipment and workshops
(US$ 6.3 million), vehicles (US$ 2.6 million), wireless communication (US$ 1.4
million) and remote sensing consultancy (US$ 0.6 million), to bring WRO to
full capability. GOTN would fully finance annual maintenance. Following its
undertaking to this effect at the beginning of project preparation, GOTN has
already brought funding levels up to estimated annual requirements (para
2.34).
II.   Scheme Completions  (US$ 76.8 million, 29% of investment base cost,
Annex 5).
2.16 The second largest investment expenditure under WRO's program would be
scheme completion investments to improve the reliability and availability of
agricultural and domestic water supply on nine existing schemes, plus a
contingency for future investment needs (para 2.17). The nine scheme
completions, all underway and in five cases with substantial investment
incurred, typically involve small impoundments and improvement of the existing
irrigation and drainage networks, including domestic water supply to local
communities. The principal impact would be in stabilization of the command's
water supply to existing irrigated areas, plus some expansion of irrigated
area. Benefits are primarily from higher yields, and increased irrigation
intensity, with unquantified likely benefits from diversification to higher
value-more water sensitive crops, and potential longer-term water diversion
for industrial use. The nine schemes were selected on the basis of an earlier
candidate list of 20 schemes, and detailed analysis by FAOCP and WRO of a
short-list of 13 schemes. The analysis included an operational hydrology
assessment of water supply reliability, as well as engineering, agriculture
and environmental impact features and economic viability (Annex 5). In the



13
process, outdated existing unit cost rates have been augmented, and
implementation schedules extended, both on the basis of past experience.
Final selection was made at appraisal and included the requirement of an
economic rate of return of 12% or more (para 5.06), corresponding to the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in India. The preparation exercise has
served to inject additional analytical rigor into WRO's investment
preparation, particularly in the areas of hydrological, environmental and
economic analysis.   As described below, WRO intends to apply the analytical
procedures developed with FAOCP and the Bank in its future investment
formulation work.
Stabilize  Gap     New   Base Cost Estimated  Econ. Value
Scheme       (acres)  (acres)  (acres)    Rs.   Completion of incr. prod.
million    Year    Rs. Million
Poigayar           477      140     500      94.6      1996        13.1
Nambiyar           911      458     375      120.6     1996        16.6
Sothuparai         1825     67      1040    304.2      1998        36.1
Mordhana           6388     704      0       467.6     1999        75.6
Rajathopekanar     545       0       0       26.7      1995        3.8
Kodumudiyar        1954    1925      0       210.4     1997        78.9
Vadakku
Pachchayar        7536    1147      0       306.1     2000        54.6
Adavinainarkoil    3859    1523     243      614.9     2000        79.3
Gridhammal II      2329     798      0       34.9      1995        22.1
Add'l. Schemes                               278.9     2000
and Consultants
Total             25824    6762    2158    2458.9                 380.1
2.17  As water planning is further established under the WRCP, perceived
medium and long-term needs will evolve, and the growing needs of urban centers
are likely to increasingly dominate investment choice. The urgent bulk water
supply needs of Madras would be catered for by the proposed Second Madras
Water Supply Project (from Veeranam tank providing 3tmc) primarily under
Metrowater/TWAD responsibility, and by Government's Krishna Water Supply
project (KWSP), under WRO responsibility, which will supply 15 tmc of water
under an agreement with Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu's part of KWSP is
virtually fully complete (completion expected in 1995) and is thus not
included in WRO's program above. Other bulk water supply needs are likely,
however, to arise. An amount of US$6.8 million, equivalent to 10% of the
combined base costs of the nine scheme completions above, has thus been
allocated for disbursement against as yet unidentified needs, urban or
agricultural, as determined by water planning and governed by rigorous
analytical and selection criteria. At negotiations, the preparation and
selection criteria outlined at Annex 15 ("Criteria for Preparation and
Selection of Investment") were agreed with GOTN. IDA's approval would be



14
required prior to selection of any such new proposal and would be based on the
investment satisfying the criteria at Annex 15. These include preparation in
the context of a river basin plan, satisfactory environmental assessment,
socioeconomic survey and, as needed, land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation plan, and a rate of return not less than 12%.
III. Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research (US$21.1 million,
8% of investment base cost, Annexes 3, 7 and 8))
Water Planning (Annex 3)
2.18    GOTN established the institutional apparatus for water planning during
WRCP preparation. At the apex is a "Water Resources Control and Review
Council" (WRCRC) established in September 1993 as the state's most senior body
for water allocation and planning decisions. Chaired by the Chief Minister
and with the three key Ministers involved (PWD, Water Resources and Energy;
Urban Development; and Rural Development) as Vice Chairmen, the Council
contains representation of all departments concerned with usage and
environmental management of water. At basin level, WRO's basin managers will
head "basin water planning and allocation committees" comprising the local
parties involved including private sector representatives. WRO's "Institute
of Water Studies" (IWS) has been appointed as Secretariat to the WRCRC and as
Tamil Nadu's nodal agency for preparation of basin and state water plans. In
collaboration with the basin committees and coordination officers from each
state government department, IWS has been charged with preparation and
periodic adjustment of basin plans and a state water plan. An environmental
sub-committee of WRCRC and an environmental unit in IWS has also been
established to provide special focus on integrating environmental management
in water planning (para 2.20). WRO's capabilities in hydrological data
measurement and collation are also to be upgraded, with assistance from Tamil
Nadu's component of the proposed National Hydrology Project (NHP). For this
purpose, a State Water Resources Data Center has been established in WRO.
2.19 Basin and state water planning will be progressively upgraded during the
WRCP. The first task, commenced in 1993, has been preparation of rapid basin
assessments on 16 of Tamil Nadu's basins/sub-basins, with completion of the
remaining basin expected by end 1995. A Tamil Nadu state "Framework Water
Resources Plan" will then be prepared on the basis of the basin plans and
state development objectives (by December 31, 1995). Detailed River Basin
Plans will subsequently be prepared, followed by a State Water Plan by March
31, 1998. Thereafter, the basin plans and the State Water Plan will be
periodically improved and updated. This effort will require substantial
technical support and strengthening of IWS, a process already commenced with
consultant assistance. WRCP funding covers international and local
consultancy assistance for IWS, training for IWS staff, and computer and other
equipment. The latter includes establishment of remote sensing interpretation
and geographic information systems capability. The above arrangements and
timetable are affirmed in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex 1).
Environmental Management and Action Plan (Annex 7)
2.20 Based on the recommendations of a Category A Sectoral Environmental
Assessment (EA), conducted by PWD/WRO and HR Wallingford consultants,
environmental management has been integrated in all aspects of the WRCP, from



15
institutional and policy aspects to specific sub-components. The EA provided
a detailed review of water related environmental issues in the state, assessed
the investment components of the project and also reviewed state and in
particular WRO capacity to handle environmental issues. The investment
components themselves were not found to pose particular issues. The improved
water management resulting from the project's rehabilitation, modernization
and scheme completion investment was assessed to mitigate against problems
such as waterlogging, salinization, depletion of groundwater levels and
disease risks caused by sources of stagnant water. The EA did, however,
recommend a comprehensive set of actions to improve WRO's environmental
capability to monitor, plan, develop and manage the state's water resources.
These measures, which incorporate institutional and procedural improvements,
major strengthening of technical capabilities, and field actions and studies,
have been incorporated in an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) to be funded
under the project.
2.21 The EAP includes the following actions (Annex 7): (a) establishment of
environmental units in IWS and the Project Formulation directorate,
respectively handling environmental concerns in state water planning and
allocation, and environmental assessment during preparation of specific sub-
projects. These would be supported through small cells at the level of each
basin manager; (b) establishment of a unit in WRO charged with groundwater
regulation; (c) consolidation of WRO's water data collection activities
including water quality under a state Water Resources Data Center (to be
funded under the proposed NHP, para 2.18); (d) preparation of a Groundwater
Act for regulation of groundwater usage; (e) establishment and usage of a
construction code of practice incorporating environmental safeguards; (f)
funding of a program for eco-restoration of catchments with depleted
vegetative cover and resultant soil erosion and siltation; and (g) special
studies, monitoring and demonstrations in groundwater utilisation, catchment
interlinkages, soil conservation planning, pesticide impacts, sedimentation,
reservoir environmental quality, wastewater reuse, pollution and health
hazards. The EAP would be supported with funding of consultancies, training
and equipment (US$3.6 million) and funds for the largest field component,
catchment management (US$1.9 million). As environmental management expertise
is limited in WRO and the water user community, training and technical
assistance to upgrade skills are extensive. Training would cover not only the
specialist needs of the staff in WRO's environmental units, but also awareness
building for WRO engineers and the general public.
Water Sector Research (Annex 8)
2.22 The new challenges to be embarked upon under the WRCP will require
significant innovation, problem solving and technology transfer for WRO and
related institutions. Creating this will be important, in part for the
immediate WRCP needs, but also as an investment for the future. Mechanisms
for harnessing Tamil Nadu based expertise in the university and non-Government
sector are needed. For WRO, other government agencies and Tamil Nadu's
universities and research institutes, linkages with technology, expertise and
ideas abroad and elsewhere in India are also important.   As discussed in
GOTN's letter of Development Policy, a "Water Resources Research Fund" (WRRF)
has been set up by WRO under the WRCP to support these objectives. Funds
would be provided by WRO on a grant basis to research proposals approved on
the basis of their relevance to Tamil Nadu water sector issues. IDA would



16
reimburse WRO against eligible WRO expenditures for such research contracts
(US$ 3 million of IDA funding is estimated required during the WRCP period).
Priority would be given to: cross-sectoral issues in water management and
planning; engineering and hydrology; environmental issues; basin planning
and modelling; water markets and prices; groundwater regulation and pricing;
farmer and other user participation; roles of women, marginal farmers and
other target groups; and water efficient irrigation and new technologies
(Annex 8, para 9). All research proposals would require some participation
from a Tamil Nadu located institution, but the WRRF would encourage and
actively favor collaboration with other Indian or overseas institutions.
2.23 The WRRF would be administered and funded through WRO, but would be
guided by a six member Research Advisory Committee (RAC). This would comprise
five senior experts, not in active Government service, with experience in
water resource engineering, agriculture, environmental science, economics and
social sciences, and with at least one member with experience in the urban and
industrial sector, and the EIC or his delegate as member-secretary. The RAC
would be responsible for reviewing proposals, and would also be proactive in
organizing workshops of relevance, identifying problems and research needs and
advertising the existence of WRRF. It would also undertake annual review of
WRO's own research related activities. To enable progressive establishment of
a permanent fund, GOTN would contribute quarterly to an interest earning
account in the name of WRRF an amount equal to one-third of IDA disbursements
to WRO on fund related activities in the previous quarter. IDA would thus not
directly finance the fund - disbursements would be made against eligible
contracts under the WRRF program - but GOTN's contributions would
progressively build up the fund. The program would be reviewed by IDA
annually, on the basis of an annual report prepared by the RAC. The above
arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
IV.   Institutional Reforms (US$17.7 million, 7% of investment base cost,
Annex 2)
2.24 Based on an Institutional Study undertaken by PWD with consultant
assistance during WRCP preparation, and review by GOTN and the Bank, PWD is
undergoing major reorganization to create a specialist state water agency.
This and the associated institutional strengthening to be funded under the
WRCP will be fundamental to the sustained drive to improve water sector
performance under the WRCP and beyond, and important to the success of all
project components. In March 1994, GOTN announced by Government Order the
bifurcation of PWD to create a "Water Resources Organisation" (WRO), divested
of all non-water sector related activities. It was also announced that the
WRO would involve an internal reorganization to create functionally
specialized sub-units and decentralization of line management along river
basin lines. Reorganisation has already commenced for several of WROs
management units, including creation in March 1995 of an Engineer-in-Chief
(EIC) position to head the WRO (the former post of CE Irrigation and General
needed to be upgraded so that the authority of the head of WRO was clearly
established).
2.25 The detailed changes agreed with the new WRO have the following
principal effects: (a) a single head of the WRO at EIC level; (b) reduction
to a manageable number of sub-units reporting to the EIC; (c) decentralized
management of field activities through four Chief Engineer (CE) level "basin



17
managers" with boundaries corresponding to boundaries of river basins or
groups of basins; (d) reorganization at headquarters around the following
functionally specialized units, each headed by a Chief Engineer: plan
formulation; design, construction and research; operations and maintenance;
and state water resources data center; plus water planning under IWS (para
2.18) and training support through IMTI (para 2.15); (e) creation of
management support units for: programming and budgeting, and monitoring and
evaluation, and strengthening of administration; and, (f) creation of a
groundwater regulatory directorate (para 2.38) and a special office for land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation (para 2.28). Descriptions of the new
functions and organigrams are at Annex 2. Reorganization along the above
lines is currently underway and is being assisted by a visiting consultant.
The ensuing strengthening in all capability areas of the new WRO will require
sustained effort by WRO over a number of years, and substantial training and
consultancy support (para 4.02). The WRCP provides funding in support of
these objectives for consultancy, training, study tours, equipment and
vehicles. At negotiations, the organizational charts and details at Annex 2
were reviewed and confirmed.
V.    Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation (US$3.9 million, 1% of
investment base cost, Annex 9)
2.26 The project's Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan
(LAERAP) described at Annex 9, provides a comprehensive program, to be funded
under the project, to enable all project affected persons (PAPs) to maintain
or improve their incomes and welfare on a sustainable basis. The Action Plan
comprises: (i) establishment of an organisational structure to handle water
sector LAER; (ii) adjustments in policies and procedures for LAER to enable
compensation and economic rehabilitation to be fully responsive to the needs
of PAPs; (iii) improved entitlements for PAPs; and (iv) site specific
implementation programs on the basis of sub-project LAERAPs with
implementation assisted by NGOs. The comprehensive measures on the
institutional, policy and procedural front have been designed to establish
permanent capability for future LAER in Tamil Nadu's water sector, thus
enabling benefits beyond the specific needs of the WRCP investment program
itself.
2.27 A baseline consultant's survey has found that the WRCP investment
program would involve, statewide, acquisition of some 570 ha of farmed land
involving about 1460 project affected persons (PAPs) (approximately 710
households). No village residential sites are being relocated, although
(statewide) 12 dwellings would be affected. The needs of all PAPs would be
catered for under the WRCP, based on completed detailed socio-economic surveys
and Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (LAERAPs)
undertaken by consultants and WRO, with PAP participation, for each of the
scheme completion sites where LAER is involved. The project's LAER component
would remedy several past weaknesses in Tamil Nadu. The measures comprise:
(a) strengthening of the institutional capacity to expedite LAER through
establishment of a special cell for LAER within the WRO and district level
negotiations and economic rehabilitation and grievance committees and field-
based officers (para. 2.28); (b) provision of entitlements to economic
rehabilitation and maintenance grants for specific categories of project
affected persons (PAPs) (para. 2.29); (c) assistance to PAPs provided by NGOs
for purchase of productive assets for self employment or for other income-



18
generating activities, to restore PAPs to their original economic status or
better (para. 2.29); and (d) facilitating access, through NGO's assistance,
to existing government poverty alleviation programs and income generating
schemes (para. 2.29).
2.28 To implement the WRCP's LAER program and to establish permanent
capability for future state needs in the water sector, a LAER Office has been
established in WRO headed by a senior Indian Administrative Service (IAS)
officer. The LAERO will be directly responsible for implementation and
monitoring of the Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan and
its scheme-level LAERAPs, and is also be the secretariat of a state level
Coordinating Committee comprising the Secretaries WRO (Chairman), Land
Administration, Finance, Rural Development, WRO EIC and the District
Collectors where LAER is involved. At district levels, Negotiation Committees
and Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance Committees would be established to
ensure district level coordination. For each LAER site, an NGO will be
contracted by LAERO to undertake primary responsibility for implementing the
economic rehabilitation program and to represent the interests of PAPs (rights
and entitlements), organize community participation and handle women's needs,
and facilitate access to ongoing Government development schemes (criteria for
NGO selection are at Annex 18). A full-time WRO official has also been
delegated at each site to provide hands-on WRO assistance (Implementation
Schedule and Organization Chart at Annex 9, Attachments 2 and 3).
2.29 Agreed criteria for eligibility and specific details for compensation
and rehabilitation packages are described at Annex 9. They include definition
of PAPs to include landless PAPs (encroachers, sharecroppers and tenant
farmers), and the use of negotiated purchase. This provides PAPs (personally
or through an NGO representing the PAP's interest) the option to request
negotiated settlement with a Negotiation Committee, a procedure widely used in
India and found to provide higher remuneration than the rates determined by
assessed market value. Particular emphasis will be placed under the LAERAPs
on economic rehabilitation. A first option available to marginal farmers with
incomes below the poverty line would be provision of productively comparable
land-for-land with assistance by the NGO. The land would be identified by the
PAPs within a well-defined geographic area near the village or in the command
area within a specific time frame. The terms of replacement would be on an
equal basis of one acre of dryland lost to one acre of replacement dryland, or
one-half acre of replacement irrigated land. Compensation paid for the land
lost would be applied to the cost of the replacement land and the difference
would be borne by GOTN.   As a second option, a farmer may elect to receive,
in addition to compensation for land acquisition, Rs.14,000/ha of dryland lost
(or Rs.28,000/ha for irrigated land lost) as rehabilitation grant fund (RGF)
up to a maximum of six acres of unirrigated or three acres of irrigated land
lost. The amount would be deposited by the NGO in a joint bank account with
withdrawal against signature of the PAP, the NGO and the LAERO. Withdrawals
would be linked to purchase of productive assets such as farm animals,
implements, items for self-employment, or other income-generating activities.
Both the land-for-land option and the rehabilitation grant fund (RGF) option
would be supplemented by the provision of an asset maintenance grant (AMG) of
Rs. 500/month/family applied from date of takeover of land by WRO when the
landowner loses his right to cultivate the land and ends with either
possession of replacement land or one year after establishment of the joint
bank account. The AMG would be to ensure that the PAPs have assured income



19
and are not obliged to sell existing family assets pending restoration of
earning ability. Finally, additional to the above, through the district
economic rehabilitation committees and facilitated by the NGOs, existing rural
development programs (many programs exist, eg IRDP, the sericulture program,
NABARD credit, horticulture, Training of Women in Agriculture, dairy
cooperative development) would be specifically targeted to land acquisition
sites. One additional innovatory program -- fisheries culture by PAPs on the
small reservoirs created - would be specifically funded (equipment, training
and consultancy totalling US$0.2 million) under the WRCP (Annex 9, Attachment
6). The other government programs are existing and simply need targeting by
GOTN to the PAPs. The objective of the LAER program together with its
supplementary rural development activities would be to create a record of
tangible gain in welfare and earning capability for PAPs.
2.30 The LAER Action Plan would be supported by IDA funding of equipment,
vehicles, training, consultancies and incremental staff and operating costs of
the LAERO. IDA funding would also finance the NGO contracts with LAERO,
including, within the contracts, the NGO's management of the rehabilitation
grants for purchase of productive assets. GOTN would finance all land
purchase and other compensation and the asset maintenance grant fund. LAER
monitoring and special auditing provisions (para 4.08) would apply to ensure
the RGF and AMG were used for creation of productive assets (RGF) and
safeguarding of existing welfare and assets (AMG). The consultancy assistance
would include an annual review by an independent consultant of the status of
PAPs at all sites. Prior to negotiations GOTN: (i) completed through
Government Orders the remaining announcements on the features of the LAER
program: (a) expanded definition of PAPs to include encroachers,
sharecroppers, and tenant farmers; (b) the option for PAPs to use negotiated
purchase procedures; (c) land-for-land provisions for marginal farmers or the
option for alternative assets funded through the RGF; (d) provision to all
PAPs of the AMG; (e) the institutional structure for LAER; (f) use of NGOs
to assist implementation for economic rehabilitation, management of the RGF
and AMG and assistance to PAPs in negotiated purchase procedures; and (g)
targeting of rural development programs including the fisheries program; (ii)
announced through Government Order the head of the LAER cell with a suitably
qualified IAS officer; and (iii) completed the site-specific socio-economic
surveys and action plans. At negotiations an assurance was provided that land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation would be implemented in accordance
with a plan satisfactory to IDA. Implementation details for the LAER Action
Plan (paras 2.26 through 2.30 and Annex 9) were agreed, including details and
timing for implementation of the scheme-level LAERAPs.
D. Policy Reforms
Policv Reform Program
2.31 During project preparation, GOTN implemented a number of key actions to
provide the necessary institutional and policy framework to achieve the
project's objectives (paras 2.04 and 2.05). These included: (i) announcement
and commenced implementation of the institutional reforms comprising a
separate specialized Water Resources Organisation and creation of the state
water planning apparatus; (ii) preparation of a state water policy; (iii)
agreement on refocussed expenditure priorities; (iv) full funding of
maintenance; (v) establishment of new approaches for environmental



20
management; (vi) agreement on revised policies and procedures for land
acquisition and establishment of the institutional structure for its
implementation; and (vii) forging of a new farmer integrated approach for
irrigation investment, O&M and cost recovery. These measures will be followed
up in the implementation of the WRCP, as described in the project components
above and other features presented below. The package of policy and
institutional strengthening measures to be implemented under the WRCP was
affirmed at negotiations through submission by GOTN of a Policy Reform Program
under a Letter of Development Policy (attached as Annex 1).
State Water Policy
2.32 An early product from the WRCRC has been preparation of a State Water
Policy for Tamil Nadu (Annex 6), consistent with GOI's National Water Policy
(1987), and with the overall objectives of the Bank's policy paper, Water
Resources Management (1993) and the India Irrigation Sector Review (Report
9518-IN, 1991).  The document, prepared on the basis of a state workshop
organised by IWS in 1993 and issued by GOTN in July 1994, places Tamil Nadu as
the first of India's states to have issued a state water policy. In its
policy statement Tamil Nadu highlights water scarcity and the need for its
management as a unitary resource; by river basin, conjunctively for both
surface and groundwater, integrating environmental management, planning
holistically for all uses of water, and carefully prioritizing water
allocation to maximise productivity, with first priority to household
consumption needs. Actions highlighted include: establishment, with the new
WRCRC and IWS as principal coordinators, of a state institutional apparatus
for planning and allocating water between sectors; introduction of
legislation for regulating groundwater; improving the efficiency and
productivity of existing water infrastructure; monitoring and regulatory
measures to enhance water quality and protect against overextraction of
groundwater; preparation of flood control, drainage and drought management
plans; cost recovery based on users paying for services and periodic
adjustment of water rates; and strong emphasis on beneficiary participation
including turning over of maintenance and management of distribution systems
to users as the systems are upgraded.
Expenditure Prioritization
2.33 In line with Tamil Nadu's State Water Policy and the recommendations in
the India Irrigation Sector Review and the India, Public Expenditure Review,
the project would forge a fundamental reprioritization of public expenditures.
The new emphasis would be on intensified use and sustainability of existing
infrastructure and improved institutional performance. In its Letter of
Development Policy GOTN proposes to allocate public expenditures in the
following priority order: (i) activities supporting the reorganization and
technical strengthening of WRO; (ii) O&M of existing facilities (para 2.34);
(iii) the system improvement and farmer turnover program; and (iv) viable
scheme completions. This reordering would enable turning around the past
situation where diversion of funds to new construction left insufficient funds
for maintenance and the large benefits from modernization, and would also
enable financial support to the project's institutional strengthening, water
planning and environmental management objectives. Inclusive of several small
and separately financed ongoing or expected activities of WRO (Tamil Nadu's
components under the Bank financed Dam Safety project, Cr 2241/Ln 3325, and



21
the proposed National Hydrology project, and the EEC financed Tanks project),
the agreed WRCP program would represent the entire state expenditure program
of WRO and would serve as an instrument to sustain the turnaround in effort
and expenditures of WRO, corresponding to the priority needs of the state. An
Annual Review process (para 4.11) and strengthened programming and budgeting,
monitoring, and investment selection criteria (Annex 15), confirmed during
negotiations, would ensure consistency with these priorities while enabling
program flexibility as sectoral needs evolve and water planning becomes
further established. The WRCP would serve to institutionalize the new water
sector expenditure priorities by creating the analytical and procedural
mechanisms required and progressively strengthening the staff and
institutional capability to implement them. Additionally, for the power
sector, GOTN provided an assurance at negotiations that it would implement a
program satisfactory to IDA for reducing subsidies provided to the Tamil Nadu
Electricity Board (TNEB) and cause TNEB to implement a program satisfactory to
the Association for improving its cost recovery and maintaining a sound
financial status.
Maintenance Funding
2.34 GOTN is committed to ensuring that the WRCP's investment in systems
improvement is accompanied by completely revamped management of operations and
maintenance and full funding of the state's future maintenance needs (Letter
of Development Policy). Funding for maintenance has been progressively
stepped up. From a state-wide average including staffing of Rs 120/ha in
1992/93, GOTN increased PWD's allowance to Rs 200/ha in 1993/94 and to Rs
265/ha in 1994/95. The 1994/95 allocation comprised an allocation to the new
WRO of Rs 150/ha in a separate budget account exclusively for works
expenditures, with the balance Rs 115/ha for staff costs. Similar procedures
were followed for GOTN's 1995/96 budget. The works expenditure allocation in
both 1994/95 and 1995/96 corresponds to WRO and Bank estimates of works
expenditure needs in the respective years, thus starting the project with full
Government expenditure on this key need (inadequate past funding for O&M had
been primarily absorbed by salaries leaving little for actual field works).
To ensure the continued priority funding of maintenance in the future, an
assurance was provided at negotiations that: (a) GOTN would provide annually,
and make available in a timely manner during each fiscal year, starting April
1, 1995, to WRO the funds required for satisfactory maintenance of all WRO's
infrastructure, in order to sustain the infrastructure in full operating
order; (b) funds would continue to be allocated to a separate maintenance
works budget exempt from withdrawals for salaries and wages; and (c) WRO
would prepare and submit its annual maintenance budget estimates to GOTN and
IDA, based on detailed command-by-command estimates following an agreed
reporting, programming and budgeting and monitoring and evaluation process.
Cost Recovery (Annex 16)
2.35 Water charges to farmers (basic irrigation rate plus irrigation cesses)
amount to about Rs 200-210/ha, amongst the highest water charges in India.
This exceeds the Bank/WRO recommended expenditures on maintenance works (1994
prices) of about Rs 150/ha, and covers about 80% of all recurrent costs of WRO
including establishment. GOTN is currently reviewing water rates through its
"Water Rates Rationalization Committee", and this is expected to simplify
agricultural rates (presently unwieldy involving over 100 assessment



22
categories depending on crop, soils and quality of service), to less than 20
rates under a new rating structure. GOTN intends to follow-up on these
initiatives through creation of a permanent annual review apparatus for
examining water charges, including charges for non-agricultural use. This is
an important need as the absence of such an apparatus has meant that Indian
states seldom examine water rates, resulting in stagnation of rates, for over
a decade in some instances. Second, and most fundamentally, the objective
over time in the agricultural sector will be to internalize revenues
collection and O&M responsibilities at the level of water user associations,
and to link service fees to the quality of service. Universally in India,
farmers have resisted changes in water charges where the service is poor. An
improved service through the systems improvement component allows for change
in both farmer responsibilities and service fees accompanying the improved
performance of the service.
2.36 GOTN intends to undertake the following actions under the project
(Letter of Development Policy). First, GOTN will establish a permanent "Water
Services Charges Committee" (WSCC) comprising user as well as government
representation and reporting to the WRCRC. This would prepare an annual
status report and recommendations covering all uses of water. In the first
year, and as needed thereafter, consultant assistance would be funded under
the WRCP to prepare a state-wide computerized model for assessing service
costs and revenues of all water services by use (Annex 16). Dates advised by
GOTN at negotiations for establishing the WSCC and for preparing the
computerised model were July and December 1995 respectively. Second,
financial arrangements accompanying turnover of distributaries to farmers
after stage II improvement (para 2.12) were confirmed at negotiations.
Farmers would contribute Rs 250/ha to their farmer councils prior to agreement
with WRO for stage II investment. This would be placed in an interest earning
capitalization account. Farmers would use interest earnings or annual fees
collected by themselves to finance their cash costs for maintenance of
distributaries. For lining under stage II investments, farmers would also
contribute 20% of the costs of lining to their council bank account, further
capitalizing their capacity to finance their O&M, and providing an internal
incentive to economize for this expensive works item to reaches where lining
is assessed to have significant benefits. Third, as described in GOTN's
Letter of Development Policy, the report of the Water Rates Rationalization
Committee and/or the 1995 report of the Water Services Charges Committee would
include analysis and recommendations related to: simplifying existing rates,
providing a mechanism for adjusting rates over time in line with service
costs, recommendations for introducing volumetric charging to established
farmer councils, recommendations for providing farmer councils the option to
collect the service fees due to government including retention of part of fees
as a collection incentive, and recommendations for introducing direct
provision of collected fees to the O&M bank accounts of individual schemes.
Groundwater Manaaement
2.37 The project would also introduce planning, measurement and regulatory
mechanisms to monitor and manage the state's groundwater resources. The
WRCP's basin planning component (para 2.18) integrates conjunctive assessment
of surface and groundwater resources and would be supported by the
strengthened hydrological data collection and monitoring funded under the
proposed National Hydrology project. Under the WRCP GOTN also intends to



23
establish a groundwater regulatory mechanism and supporting legislation
(Letter of Development policy). The proposed legislation, targeted in the
Letter of Development Policy to be ready for GOTN review by December 1996, is
expected to be a modification of the India Model Law and a draft report
prepared by UNDP and GOTN, making enforcement more rigorous and increasing
penalties for violations. A system of water use licence would be used, and
new groundwater abstraction would require licensing. GOTN established by
Government Order a nucleus Groundwater Regulatory Unit in WRO in September
1994. This is being followed up by preparation of a description of tasks to
be performed and preparation of a proposed set of measures (guidelines,
Government Orders in lieu of legislation, procedural improvements) that would
establish better control and monitoring of groundwater development and usage
pending legislation. The unit would also prepare and revise the proposed
legislation and be responsible for technical guidance and steerage of the
draft in the GOTN review process.
III. COST ESTIMATES. FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Costs and Financina
3.01 Proaram and Project Investment Costs. The total cost of WRO's program
during the project implementation period is estimated at US$491.0 million,
including physical and price contingencies, with a foreign exchange component
of US$75.8 million (15%) and taxes and duties estimated at about US$34.4
million. Program costs comprise the project investment costs of the WRCP,
which would be supported with IDA funding (para. 3.03), and WRO's recurrent
expenditures funded by GOTN. Project investment costs amount to US$315.6
million, including physical and price contingencies and US$22.0 million in
local taxes. Project investment costs cover: investment expenditures on
civil works for systems improvement and scheme completions; and, the costs of
equipment, facilities, and training/consultancies, for water planning,
research, institutional development, the environmental action plan, and
economic rehabilitation costs associated with land acquisition. WRO's
recurrent expenditures comprise the costs of maintenance, staff salaries, and
overheads, and amount, including contingencies, to US$175.4 million. Physical
contingencies were applied to baseline costs at the rate of 15% for equipment,
10% for civil works and vehicles and zero for consultancies and training, and
price contingencies at the rates estimated for international and domestic
inflation prior to negotiations (Annex 11).



24
3.02 Summary project costs are provided below and detailed at Annex 11.
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Cost Summary
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total
Rs. million                 US$ million
Project Investment Costs
Systems Improvement &          4,001      577   4,578      125.1    18.0   143.1
Farmer Turnover
Scheme Completion Works        2,195      264   2,459       68.5      8.3    76.8
Water Planning, Environmental
Management & Research             309     364      673        9.6    11.4    21.0
Instit. Strengthening             419     146     566       13.1      4.6    17.7
Land Acquisition and
Economic Rehabilitation           123       3      126        3.8     0.1      3.9
Total Baseline Costs           7,047   1,354   8,401       220.1    42.4   262.5
Physical Contingencies            670      99     769       20.9      3.1    24.0
Price Contingencies            1,956      308   2,263       25.9      3.2    29.1
Total Project
Investment Costs          9.673   1,760  11.433       266.9    48.7   315.6
WRO Recurrent Costs (GOTN)    5,372       982   6,354       148.3    27.1   175.4
Total Program Costs           15.045   27.742  1 7.787     415.2    75.8   491.0
3.03  Project Financina.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$282.9 million would
contribute to financing of the project investment costs of the WRCP.  The IDA
contribution would be equivalent to 58% of the costs of WRO's program (62%
exclusive of estimated taxes and duties) or the equivalent of 100% of the
foreign exchange and 54% of local program costs net of taxes and duties.
GOTN's contribution to project investment costs would be US$32.7 million
equivalent, and to WRO recurrent costs (100% financing by GOTN) would be
US$175.4 million making a total GOTN contribution to the costs of WRO's
program of US$208.1 million, as tabulated below.



25
Financing Plan
Local       Foreign       Total
--- US$ Million -------------
Project Investment Costs
GOTN                             32.7           0.0         32.7
IDA                             234.2         48.7        282.9
Total Project
Investment Costs             266.9         48.7        315.6
WRO Recurrent Costs (GOTN)         148.3          27.1        175.4
Total Program Costs                415.2          75.8        491.0
3.04  The Credit would be made available to GOI on standard terms and
conditions and on-lent to GOTN under standard terms for developmental
assistance to the states. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that GOI
and GOTN would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling the
funds required for the project to the project entities. An understanding was
also reached that GOI would release about three months anticipated project
expenditures in advance to GOTN (in accordance with the amounts established in
the Annual Action Plans, para 4.11), and that upon receipt of funds from GOI,
GOTN would transfer such funds, together with its quarterly counterpart
contributions, immediately to the project accounts of WRO. The project
completion date would be September 30, 2001 and the Closing Date of the Credit
would be March 31, 2002.
Procurement
3.05  Land  (US$0.7 M). Land acquisition would comprise, statewide, about 570
ha of private lands. GOTN would finance all land acquisition costs.
3.06 Civil Works (US$268.8 M). Civil works are scattered throughout the
state and are primarily for rehabilitating and modernizing existing irrigation
and drainage networks or completion of ongoing schemes, plus a few small
buildings (workshops, training and office space). Such works, carried out
throughout the life of the project over more than 65 locations, would not
attract foreign bidders due to their dispersed nature and the small size of
the individual contracts (works at each site would average only US$4.0
million, and each site would involve individual works scattered throughout the
distribution system). Therefore, these works would be procured through
national competitive bidding (NCB) or Force Account as follows:
(a)   NCB (US$259.8 M).  Works would be grouped into convenient
packages (80% over US$100,000 and above) for bidding and contracts
would be awarded on the basis of standard NCB documents and
following procedures satisfactory to the Association. Foreign
contractors would not be precluded from participation.
(b)   Force Account (US$9.0 M). Force Account would be used on small,
scattered civil works valued at US$15,000 equivalent or less, up to an
aggregate amount not exceeding US$9.0 M to carry out very small works
in isolated and inaccessible locations that are not suitable for



26
contracting. Force Account may also include rates and labor contracts
as appropriate. Materials required for these works valued at US$2.9 M
would be procured under national shopping.
The civil works will be executed by WRO (PWD's former irrigation wing) which
has executed, and is executing Bank-financed contracts, and is fully
conversant with Bank procurement procedures.
3.07 EauiDment, Materials and Vehicles (US$22.7 M)
(a)   EpuiDment and materials (US$17.1 M) would comprise a one-time investment
in maintenance equipment, and purchases of computers, other office equipment,
and various laboratory, teaching and field equipment. Procurement would
primarily be through international competitive bidding (ICB), which would
apply to purchases that can be bulked and is expected to amount to US$14.9 M.
Up to US$1.1 M of materials and equipment, including maintenance equipment,
available locally and easily serviced through local facilities, in contracts
valued below US$200,000 equivalent each, would be procured through NCB.
Isolated or smaller lot purchases, including in particular, immediate
requirements of equipment and materials, would be procured following national
shopping procedures in packages below US$25,000 equivalent each, up to an
aggregate total of US$1.1 M.
(b)   Vehicles (US$5.6 M) would consist of cars, four-wheel drives, vans,
trucks and motorcycles. ICB would be used for the bulk of purchases (US$4.0
M). Isolated or small lot purchases over the seven year life of the project
including immediate requirements, each contract not exceeding US$100,000,
would be procured using national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank
(US$1.6 M).
The Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for all procurement under
ICB/NCB. For comparing foreign and local bids in ICB, the qualifying domestic
bidders would be allowed a margin of preference in accordance with the
provisions of paras. 2.55 and 2.56 of the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Under national shopping, rate contracts of the Director General, Supplies and
Disposals would be acceptable.
3.08 Technical Assistance. Training and Studies (USS22.2 M) Technical
assistance, training and studies includes local and foreign consultancies
(US$6.4 M), contracts under the Water Resources Research Fund (US$3.4 M),
contracts with NGOs for implementation assistance for the land acquisition and
economic rehabilitation component (US$1.3 M) and the farmer turnover component
(US$0.7 M), applied research and special studies by IWS, IHH, CE Plan
Formulation and Basin Managers and under the Environmental Action Plan (US$6.0
M), and costs of staff training including visits in India and overseas (US
$4.4 M). Technical Assistance would be contracted on terms and conditions in
accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency", published by the Bank in
August 1981. It would comprise consultancy through a "twinning arrangement"
(para 4.03) which would provide both technical assistance and access to
training arrangements (about US$5.8 M), and a smaller (about US$0.5 M)
"supervision consultancy" (para 4.13) to assist GOTN's supervision committee,
and small individual consultancies in particular specialties or as needed.
Selection for the twinning arrangement would be based on an initial screening



27
and prequalification invitation exercise conducted by WRO, followed by
invitation of detailed offers from a shorter list of 3 to 5 interested
consulting groups. Other technical assistance, training, local consultancies,
research grants and contracting to universities and NGOs would be arranged by
WRO in accordance with Bank guidelines.
3.09 Incremental Staff and Operatina Costs for Land Acauisition and Economic
Rehabilitation (USS1.2 M). The Credit would not finance operating costs,
staff salaries (except LAER, see below) and maintenance which would be
financed by GOTN. To assist with build-up of the organization required for
management and implementation of the LAER program, incremental staff and
operating costs for LAER would be financed by IDA on a declining basis (US$1.0
M; para 3.13).
3.10 Review of Contracts. All contracts for civil works, goods and equipment
valued at US$200,000 and above, and all consultancy contracts valued at
US$100,000 and above (US$50,000 equivalent for individual consultants) and all
single source consultancy contracts over US$100,000 equivalent, as well as the
first five contracts under each of the works, goods and consultancy categories
irrespective of the values would be subjected to prior IDA review. All other
contracts would be subject to random post review in the field by visiting
missions. This will result in about 50% of the project procurement being
subject to prior review. WRO is experienced with Bank procurement, both under
the ongoing NWMP project and the recently closed Periyar Vaigai project, and a
higher level of formal reviews by IDA would not have a significant impact on
procurement quality.
3.11 Procurement Manaaement. The following procedures for the WRCP's
procurement management were agreed at negotiations:
(i) except where may be specifically agreed by IDA, prequalification
procedures would not be used;
(ii) as a minimum, all bid invitations would be advertised in newspapers with
national circulation and shall contain in summary form the post-qualification
requirements. Bid documents shall be provided promptly upon request, upon
payment of the prescribed fee, and shall be sent by mail upon request;
(iii) Bids shall be evaluated, contract award approvals sought and granted
(including that of IDA, where required) and contracts signed, all within the
bid validity period, and a justification for any exceptions shall be forwarded
to IDA;
(iv) At time of bid opening, WRO would appoint (or retain) a suitably
qualified individual (the Evaluator) to prepare a signed and dated Bid
Evaluation Report (BER), following a format and content acceptable to IDA.
The BER will be prepared as expeditiously as practicable;
(v) A Contract Award Committee (CAC) for the WRCP, with constitution
acceptable to IDA, would be authorised to recommend the award of the contract
(subject where required to approval by IDA prior to award, para 3.10). The
Bid Evaluation Report shall be submitted to the CAC within seven working days
of its completion. The CAC members would sign a dated minutes of their
proceedings and decisions which would be kept on file, for possible review by



28
IDA and, where required, also furnished promptly to IDA for approval along
with the BER. (The CAC was established by Government Order in October 1994
and comprises the Secretary PWD/WRO, Secretary Finance and EIC, WRO.); and
(vi) WRO's quarterly reports (para 4.10) would contain summarized procurement
data including for each contract the dates of bid invitation, receipt,
evaluation, approval and signing, and the names of contractors bidding, offer
prices and firm awarded the contract.
3.12 The proposed procurement arrangements are summarized below:
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements*
(US$ million)
Total Project
National Force Consult.           Investment
ICB     NCB   Shopping Acc't  Serv's   NBF         Costs
1. Land                                                             0.7           0.7
2. Civil Works                   259.8              9.0                         268.8
233.8              8.1                        241.9
3. Vehicles                4.0              1.6                                   5.6
3.2              1.3                                   4.5
4. Equipment and          14.9     1.1      1.1                                  17.1
and Materials         11.9      0.9     0.9                                  13.7
5. Consultancies,
Studies, Training
(i) Imp. Supp't.                                           8.7    0.4            9.1
8 .7                 8.7
(ii) Policy Supp't                                         3.3                   3.3
3.3                  3.3
(iii) Capacity Bldg.                                       9.8                   9.8
9.8                  9.8
6. Incremental Opera-                                               1.2           1.2
ting Costs (LAER)                                                1.0          1.0
Total Project
Investment Costs*       18.9   260.9      2.7     9.0    21.8    2.3          315.6
15.1  234.7       2.2    8.1   21.8    1.0            282.9
Note: Figures in bold print are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
ICB: International Competitive Bidding; NCB: National Competitive Bidding;
NBF: Non-Bank financed (except as in para. 3.13 d).
* Excluding WRO recurrent costs which are funded by GOTN.



29
Disbursement
3.13 The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:
(a)   90% of expenditures on civil works;
(b)   100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local ex-factory costs or
80% of other local costs of equipment, vehicles and materials;
(c)   100% of expenditures on consultants'  (including NGOs') services,
training and studies; and
(d)   for the land acquisition and economic rehabilitation component,
90% of incremental staff salaries and allowances and operating
costs covering the period to March 31, 1997 (to end PY2), 80%
through March 31, 1998 (PY3), 60% through March 31, 1999 (PY4),
40% through March 31, 2000 (PY5) and zero for PY6.
3.14 Disbursements against civil works, equipment, vehicles and materials
contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent and consultancy and training
contracts exceeding US$100,000 would be fully documented (for individual
consultants the limit would be US$50,000 equivalent). For all other
expenditures, disbursement could be against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs).
Supporting documents for SOEs would not be submitted to IDA, but would be
retained by GOTN and made available to IDA staff during supervision (Annex 12
for Schedule of Disbursements). Disbursements against the NGO contracts for
LAER would exclude the maintenance grants (para 2.30) to be funded by
Government (US$0.4 million).
Retroactive Financing and SDecial Account
3.15 WRO has already commenced field activities related to the WRCP to
expedite project start-up. To reimburse GOTN for such expenditures,
retroactive financing would be applied to all eligible expenditures incurred
from July 1, 1994 provided that procurement procedures acceptable to IDA were
followed. Additionally, for completing the remaining (7%) balance works for
the link canal under the former Periyar Vaigai Irrigation II project, the
earlier date of November 1, 1993 would be applied (up to US$1.5 million).
Since December 1993, and earlier for the link canal, WRO has used Bank
procurement guidelines. The additional guidelines at para 3.11 would apply
from Credit signature. The total amount of retroactive financing, including
the link canal, would amount to up to US$11 million or about 4% of the Credit.
To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the
Reserve Bank of India with an authorised allocation of US$10 million. This
deposit is based on estimates of the project's financing needs and projected
IDA disbursements (Annexes 11 and 12).
Accounts and Audit
3.16 Project accounts, maintained by WRO, would identify all project
transactions on an ongoing basis, including contributions from GOTN, GOI and
the Credit. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI and GOTN that:
(i) project accounts, including the Special Account, would be maintained and



30
audited annually in accordance with sound auditing standards consistently
applied by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii)
certified copies of the annual financial statements and SOEs together with the
auditors report, which would comment separately on the SOEs, would be
submitted to IDA not later than nine months after the close of each GOTN
fiscal year (April 1 to March 31).
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MONITORING
Oraanization and Manaaement
4.01         The project would be implemented by Tamil Nadu's Water Resources
Organization (WRO). As the project and its contributing IDA and state funds
are supporting the overall program of WRO, project years, project monitoring
and physical and financial planning fit in with the GOTN fiscal year (April 1
to March 31). Project management would be the responsibility of the Engineer-
in-Chief, WRO (para 2.24) under the guidance of the Secretary PWD/WRO. WRO's
new organizational structure (para 2.25) is at Annex 2. Implementation
arrangements are in the Implementation and Supervision Plan at Annex 13. This
includes an Implementation Schedule, Implementation Responsibilities, IDA
Supervision Schedule, and Development Indicators at Attachments 1, 2, 3 and 4
respectively.
Training and Technical Assistance
4.02        The extensive reorganization and institutional strengthening to be
undertaken under the project would require substantial training and technical
assistance throughout the new WRO. Training and consultancy needs have been
prepared for each management unit and are detailed in their respective cost
tables. Each CE would be responsible for managing the specific training and
consultancy relevant to his management unit, but would receive administrative
support from a Training and Technical Assistance officer in the EIC's office.
Overall coordination and identification of training opportunities would be
provided by the CE, IMTI. The EIC would provide general guidance and balance
needs between WRO units. Training would focus on strengthening skills in all
engineering areas including operations and maintenance, water planning,
environmental management, design and construction, and on supporting skill
development associated with technologies or management techniques relatively
new to WRO such as financial management, programming and budgeting, critical
path scheduling, computerization, computer aided design, remote sensing and
management information systems. For consultancies, in order that know-how is
transferred to WRO staff, consultant assistance would be linked in all cases
to staff training through association of staff with consultant assignments and
interlinked formal training as practicable. National and international study
tours and temporary assignments would also be used to provide first-hand
exposure to new technologies and management techniques.
4.03        Consultancy arrangements would include small consultancies with
individuals or firms, but would be backstopped throughout the project period
with a "twinning arrangement" with an experienced consultancy group. All
consultancy selection would follow Bank guidelines. The twinning arrangement
is expected to be a consortium of several firms or specialist institutions,
combining a mix of international and local firms. The central skill areas,



31
seldom found in one firm or agency, would likely comprise all aspects of
irrigation engineering, water planning, and environmental management, and
hands-on irrigation agency management, particularly in O&M, general management
techniques and beneficiary participation. One of the firms or agencies would
be the lead partner and have overall responsibility for mobilizing the
consultancy and training support required. The contract would provide a basic
expertise and training input annually, including some core senior staff
providing continuity of visits, and access to other specializations and
training on an "as needed" basis. Selection would be through an initial pre-
qualification of interested firms, which would advise of any intended
partners, followed by short listing by WRO of 3 to 5 firms or groups of firms
for submission of detailed offers. A contract over the project period would
be agreed at the outset, with flexibility for annual variations based on an
annual review of consultancy and related training needs between WRO and the
consortium in consultation with GOTN and IDA. The above procedures would
provide the expertise required while limiting constraints frequently found in
India of obtaining individual clearances, especially for consultants and
training requiring foreign exchange. At negotiations, the above consultancy
and training objectives were confirmed. Suitably qualified and experienced
NGOs would be recruited for implementation of the LAERAPs (para 4.08), and as
community organizers for farmer participation and turnover (para 4.04). At
negotiations an assurance was obtained that any NGOs contracted under the
project would be selected according to criteria (Annex 18) agreed with IDA.
Manaaement of Farmer Organization  (Annex 4)
4.04        Special organizational needs are posed by the farmer participation
and turnover program, already being piloted but recognized by WRO as requiring
a major staff focus supported by NGOs and consultants for its success on a
wider scale. Organization and staff and farmer training for this is
intensively underway with assistance of a core team of WRO staff and a
consultant advisor. Farmer Organization (FO) would be implemented integrally
with system improvements and would come under the CE O&M for technical support
and monitoring, and under the respective basin managers and scheme level
executive engineers for field implementation. At both CE, O&M and basin
manager levels, a deputy CE will be charged with supervising the FO program.
The work program of IMTI has been adjusted to focus principally on training
for staff and farmers related to the farmer participation and system
improvement program (Annex 4, Attachment D). All O&M staff would receive
"appreciation" training, with more intensive training and consultancy support
for specialized FO teams and for the office bearers in farmer councils. About
15 FO teams would be deployed throughout the project period, each comprising 3
WRO staff and two community organizers (a man and a woman) and handling about
5000 ha per cycle (about 1 1/2 years per cycle typically, followed by less
intensive FO support to established water user associations). An
Institutional Advisor would supervise 2 to 3 FO teams. A consultant Senior
Institutional Advisor, would supervise the entire FO effort from the CE, O&M's
office. The Community Organizers and Institutional Advisors would be
recruited through local NGOs with practical field experience. The FO program
includes national and international consultancy support and provisions for
national and international training and study tours.
4.05        The farmer organization and turnover program would be intensively
monitored and evaluated throughout the WRCP period, incorporating lessons



32
learned from experience. This would commence with a targeted survey in PYI to
assess the state of affairs on specific criteria and to refine M&E criteria to
ensure meaningful qualitative indicators of impact (Annex 4, Attachment E). A
special review of the farmer oraanization and turnover prooram by independent
consultants would be undertaken at the end of PY2, sufficiently early in
project implementation to enable timely adjustment as needed. The WRCP's
annual reviews (para 4.11) would also have a special section on this
component. The above arrangements were confirmed at negotiations.
Management of Land Acauisition and Economic Rehabilitation (Annex 9)
4.06        The Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation (LAER) Cell
reporting directly to the Secretary WRO would be responsible for planning,
coordinating, monitoring and evaluating all land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation of project affected persons (PAPs) under the project. It would
also serve as the secretariat for a state level coordinating committee for
LAER under the WRCP. It would be responsible for contracting with NGOs to
carry out Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (ERAPs) for each subproject,
overseeing their work, and providing approval for the joint accounts to be
established under the ERAPs. The LAER Cell would be provided with adequate
funding to carry out its mandate.
4.07        At the district level the LAER Cell would be supported by a
Negotiations Committee and an Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance Committee
(ERGC). The Negotiations Committees have been provided the authority to
conduct negotiations with the landowners to establish a full and fair
valuation of land to be acquired for the project. The ERGCs would be
responsible for grievance resolutions and for monitoring the implementation of
the ERAPs.
4.08        The LAER Cell would contract one NGO per subproject to assist in
the implementation of ERAPs. Funds for the Rehabilitation Grants would be
deposited in joint NGO/PAP accounts established by the LAER Cell. The NGO
would provide assistance to each PAP in preparing and implementing individual
economic rehabilitation plans. The NGO would be responsible for certifying
that the Grants had been used for the purchase of productive assets or income
generating schemes, and would be subject to special monitoring procedures by
LAERO and annual auditing consistent with accepted standards. Approval to
withdraw funds from the joint account would be on the basis of three
signatures: LAER Officer, the NGO and the PAP. These arrangements and other
features at paras 2.26 to 2.30 and Annex 9 were confirmed at negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.09        WRO's Program and Budgeting unit (P&B), reporting to the EIC,
would be responsible for developing and operating a system of physical and
financial reporting to track project progress, maintaining a computerized
Management Information System (MIS) and coordinating preparation of annual
work programs and budgets.  Each management unit would be responsible for
providing P&B with required information and estimates. A project
Implementation Schedule and Key Project Performance Indicators are provided at
Annex 13, Attachments 1 and 4.  A Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit,
reporting to the EIC, would use P&B and other data to report on the progress
and benefits of the project. Indicators monitored would include:



33
implementation of the institutional strengthening, staff training and
development, physical progress and quality/capacity improvement by all units,
delivery of water and improved services, quality of annual maintenance, farmer
participation and turnover, cost recovery, agricultural growth and crop
diversification. The remote sensing capability to be built up under the WRCP
in IWS would be one of the tools used to monitor water management and some
crop data. In addition to regular data sources from line units, M&E would use
consultant surveys as needed. This would include a Baseline Survey (TOR at
Annex 10) covering agricultural data, household income and socio-economic
data, existing irrigation performance and water use undertaken by consultants
in 1995 as a basis for future monitoring and performance evaluation. At
negotiations, the TOR for the baseline survey and implementation details,
including agreement on its completion by December 31, 1995, was confirmed.
Additional independent monitoring and evaluation, or assessments on specialist
aspects of project performance and impact would be available from independent
agencies funded under the project's research fund (para 2.22).
Project Reviews and Reporting
4.10        WRO would be responsible for the internal reporting requirements
of the State and GOI (Annex 13 paras 19 to 29). This would take the form of
short quarterly progress reports and a comprehensive Annual Review. Action
Plan and Budaet (ARAPB), both prepared by the P&B unit under the EIC's
guidance. The auarterlv progress reports (Attachment 6 of Annex 13) would
comprise submissions by each implementation unit in WRO which would quantify
and compare progress with the SAR and the previous ARAPB, discuss shortfalls,
and propose measures to resolve any problems. An overview with summarized
data and a listing of decisions taken or recommended, based on each unit's
submission, would be prepared by the EIC's office. This would include a
commentary on the status of decisions/actions outstanding from the last
quarterly report, and a review of outstanding decisions related to any
recommendations by GOTN, GOI or IDA. The reports would be presented to the
Secretary WRO and copied to relevant state officials, GOI and IDA.
4.11        The ARAPB would be the main vehicle for annually taking stock of
project performance and future needs, for adjusting WRO's program as needed,
for budgeting by GOTN of WRO's Plan and non-Plan expenditures, and for review
and supervision by GOTN, GOI and IDA. For WRO it would provide annual
opportunity to assess its overall program, to propose adjustments as needed
and to make a consolidated plan and justification for its forthcoming
financing needs. The ARAPB would review for each component and responsible
unit the past year's achievements in terms of expenditure and physical targets
by quarter, and include a justified work program and proposed expenditure
budget for the forthcoming year. This would include: (i) description of each
year's works, schedule of activities, staffing requirements and distribution
of responsibilities; (ii) proposed expenditures compared with previous year's
expenditures; (iii) details on major civil works contracts exceeding
US$200,000 and for ICB for goods; and (iv) financing plan and source of
funds; plus special sections covering, (v) review of implementation progress
related to the institutional strengthening and policy reforms under the
project; (vi) detailed review and proposal of maintenance needs and
corresponding non-Plan expenditure requirements (para 2.34); (vii) the farmer
participation and turnover program; and (viii) progress of state water
planning under WRCRC and IWS.



34
4.12       At negotiations, the above project review and reporting
arrangements were confirmed including specific assurances related to the
following: (i) a draft ARAPB for the forthcoming GOTN fiscal year would be
submitted to IDA for review and comment by December 31 each year, commencing
December 1995. The GOTN approved ARAPB, taking account of IDA comments, would
subsequently be forwarded to IDA by March 31, and WRO would subsequently
implement the agreed action plan, including the timely provision of the
approved budget funds, in a manner satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) not later
than December 31,1997, GOTN would carry out jointly with GOI and IDA, a
detailed mid-term review of project progress (and possible need for
adjustments to components, implementation arrangements and policy reforms),
and thereafter implement its recommendations.
Supervision (Annex 13)
4.13        By integrating creation of management information and programming
and budgeting in the WRCP, the capabilities of WRO to program and monitor its
activities will be strengthened. The reporting arrangements above are also
designed to facilitate monitoring by GOTN, GOI and IDA, and to provide a
mechanism for integrating adjustments in quarterly and annual action programs.
IDA support (Supervision Schedule at Annex 13, Attachment 3) would typically
comprise a main supervision mission annually at time of ARAPB review,
supplemented by a shorter mid-year visit, and correspondence and clearances as
needed. In view of the institutional and technical challenges to be
undertaken under the project, GOTN intends to undertake a close monitoring and
supervision role itself, assisted by consultants. This would be through a
state-level "Supervision Committee" formed in April 1995 chaired by the
Secretary WRO and including the Finance Department, Land Development
Commissioner, State Planning Commission, two experienced invited members
(former WRO, other Government agency or business community/NGO) and the EIC.
The committee would meet at least quarterly to review WRO's quarterly reports.
The committee would employ a "Supervision Consultant" through a contract with
a national consultancy firm. The supervision consultants would assist the
committee, including two visits annually, overlapping with IDA supervision
visits, and provide extra support as requested by the Committee. Costs of the
consultancy would be reimbursable under the Credit. Consultant reports would
be to the Supervision Committee, and also made available to 0OI and IDA.
These arrangements were confirmed at negotiations and an assurance provided
that the supervision committee would be maintained for the duration of the
project.
V.   BENEFITS.  JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Project Benefits
5.01         The project would generate substantial and wide reaching
benefits. These range from the project's broader impact resulting from multi-
sectoral water planning, environmental management of water resources,
institutional strengthening, beneficiary participation, and refocusing of
public expenditures (para 5.04), to the specifically quantifiable impacts of
the project's two main investment components: the improvement of the existing
irrigation schemes, and the investments in scheme completions.



35
5.02        System ImDrovement and Farmer Turnover.  About 660,000 ha of
irrigated land (50% of the state's area under surface irrigation), comprising
some 0.7 million farm families (about 3.9 million persons), would benefit from
the WRCP's system improvement program.  Improved reliability of water
supplies, including improved timing of delivery relative to crop needs, would
benefit most farmers, with larger benefits for tail-end farmers who to date
often receive partial or no water. About 107,000 ha of land would change from
partial to full irrigation, and an additional 34,000 ha, presently not
receiving any water, would receive irrigation. Overall, the annual value of
crop output would increase by Rs 1,040 million (US$33 million), including a
170,000 t/annum increase in food grain production. Benefits by family would
vary depending on the existing status of irrigation in the command and their
position in the command. A typical family with one hectare presently
receiving unreliable irrigation would increase agricultural net income by Rs
2,100/ha. For farmers currently receiving no or very incomplete irrigation,
incomes would increase by an average of Rs 9,800/ha.
5.03        Scheme ComDletions.  The nine selected scheme completions would
augment the state's irrigated area by 31,000 ha and produce an incremental
agricultural output valued at Rs 380 million (US$12 million). Some 26,000
farm families would directly benefit from the investment, experiencing typical
income improvements of Rs 12,600/ha.
5.04        Non-auantifiable Benefits.  Substantial benefits would stem from
the project's institution strengthening and water planning activities, and
associated measures to create a sustainable and client oriented water service.
First, under the WRCP, Tamil Nadu will create a modern water resources agency
and supporting policy and institutional mechanisms to plan and manage water
from a multi-sectoral and environmentally-responsive perspective. The
scarcity of water resources in Tamil Nadu makes optimum water usage critical
to economic development. This cross-sectoral need is important to the
sustainability of development and the environment. Second, the project would
forge revised roles for Government and the private sector. The past
government-dominated approach would adjust to allow for active participation
of beneficiaries including progressive turnover of facility operations and
maintenance functions to farmers. The desired outcome is of a sustainable
infrastructure managed and maintained by local communities, and a client
responsive planning and investment machinery.  Cost recovery would be linked
with the new client approach, internalized and collected by farmers at lower
levels in the systems, and with annual reviews related to service costs
replacing the past politically-influenced process. Third, the WRCP
preparation has enabled a complete rethink of irrigation sector expenditure
priorities and their subsequent reflection in WRO's expenditure program. Full
funding of maintenance is to be the first priority, rehabilitation and
modernization of existing infrastructure the second priority, and viable
completions of existing schemes the third. A viable state expenditure
program, corresponding to the identified priorities, is reflected in the
project's ERR below. The institutional and financial planning measures
established under the WRCP would enable continuity of sound expenditure
planning and sub-project selection beyond the project completion date.



36
Economic Analysis
5.05        Assumvtions.  Economic rates of return have been estimated for
each of the project's investment components: the system improvement and
farmer turnover component (55% of project investment costs), and the scheme
completions component (29% of costs). The following assumptions are made:
all costs and benefits are in constant March 1994 prices expressed net of
identifiable taxes; physical contingencies are as in the project cost
estimates at para 3.01; reference prices for main crops and fertilizer are
based on estimated world reference prices adjusted to Tamil Nadu farmgate
values; costs and benefits are adjusted by the standard conversion factor
used in India of 0.9; project benefit and cost streams are extended over 30
years; benefits are derived from incremental crop production; the
opportunity cost of capital is 12%; and the project implementation period is
7 years. Assumptions, calculations used and detailed results are at Annex 14.
5.06        ERR and Sensitivity Analysis.  The economic rate of return for the
project is calculated as the combined ERR of the two investment components
(80% of project costs) and is estimated to be 17%. The ERR for the
modernization, rehabilitation and farmer turnover component is 19%, and that
of the scheme completions component is 15%. The selection criterion for
individual sub-projects was a rate of return of not less than 12% (Annexes 14
and 15). Benefits have not been quantified for the project's water planning
and environmental action plan, nor for institutional improvement expenditures
not directly related to the two production components. If the costs of these
items (20% of project costs) are included, but without ascribing benefits, the
rate of return would be 13%.
5.07        Overall, the project is robust to significant changes in costs and
benefits: benefits would need to fall by 30% or costs increase by 43% for the
ERR to fall to 12% (i.e. with a net present value of zero). Significant
departures from estimated costs and benefits are unlikely as costs are based
on actual field experience under PWD's construction program and the National
Water Management Project, and estimated benefits are realistic, having been
based on yield data measured by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and FAOCP
field visits. Sensitivity tests also assess the impact of shortfalls of
various kinds (paras. 5.08 to 5.10). For instance: if benefits lagged by two
years as a result perhaps of insufficient monitoring of implementation
activities, the project's overall rate of return would be 13%; if resources
for maintenance were seriously deficient after project completion, the overall
ERR would be 13%; or, if independence of farmer organizations is
substantially below expectations, the ERR would be 14%.
Project Risks
5.08        The first risk relates to the project's objectives to implement a
fundamental change in water resources management, covering issues from policy
and institutional changes to adjustment in expenditure priorities and field
activities. WRO will be continually challenged as it implements the project
and progressively adjusts and upgrades its skills to become a specialized
state water agency. Commitment of WRO, and strong political will within Tamil
Nadu to support WRO and its objectives, will be essential for the success of
the project. Recognizing this, preparation of the project has centered on
creating before project start-up, the basic institutional and policy features



37
important to project success. GOTN has undertaken a large number of decisions
and actions to this effect during 1993 and 1994/95, and formalized these in
official Government Orders. A number of actions, such as the preparation of
the state water policy, the institutional reorganization and the preparation
of the farmer participation component, have entailed extensive discussion
within Tamil Nadu involving many Government agencies, NGOs and farmers. As a
result, the actions taken and consensus that has been built to achieve those
actions will help launch the project with a sound base toward successful
implementation. The progress to date provides confidence that the Government
will continue (as it must do to ensure project success) to undertake the tough
but necessary measures to deepen the reform process. While it is recognized
that full achievement of the reforms is a desired outcome, the project would
still be considered a success if significant achievement (though less than
complete) is realized. This notwithstanding, risk of shortfall has been
reduced through a variety of monitoring and incentive mechanisms specifically
built into the project. Over time, such project measures will be reinforced
and significantly overtaken in importance as the client orientation of the
project takes hold and users become important as operators of irrigation and
as parties in state and basin water planning.
5.09         The second risk relates to the systems improvement and farmer
turnover component. Technical aspects have been implemented and proven on a
large scale - 150,000 ha - under NWMP, and implementation of the WRCP's larger
program is manageable due to the experience acquired under NWMP. The farmer
organization aspect is, however, innovatory and unique in India on this scale.
The intensive preparation effort and piloting of this component during the
past two years will need a continued drive throughout the project period. As
with the general institutional reform component above, continued levels of
commitment during project implementation that yield significant but incomplete
achievement of these institutional objectives would still represent successful
attainment of project objectives. To lessen risks of shortfall and to sustain
the efforts already being undertaken by the Government, intensive consultancy
and training support have been built into this program, which will also
mobilize community organizers from local NGOs to provide the intensive
assistance required. The project also contains provisions for special
monitoring and evaluation of the program during implementation, and a detailed
review of the farmer organization component in PY2, so as to allow for early
adjustments as needed based on the initial experience acquired.
5.10        A third risk, relating to general implementation capacity of WRO,
would be reduced by the management improvements integral to project objectives
under the institutional strengthening of WRO. Supplemented by special
measures to improve procurement (para 3.11), timely implementation of the
project's two main components is expected, since WRO (as the former irrigation
wing of PWD) has proven capability in management of works where procurement
and financial constraints have been resolved.
5.11        Proaram Obiective Cateaories.  The project is supportive of the
Bank's anti-poverty strategy. The project would improve the incomes and
living standards of small and marginal farmers - estimated to form some 70% of
beneficiaries - through improved and equitable distribution of water for
irrigation and domestic use. Employment opportunities for landless families
would also be substantially enhanced as labor needs are closely linked to crop
intensification and yields. For the urban poor, the project's planning



38
component would be important for future bulk water supply needs. The
project's emphasis on beneficiary participation would help ensure that
beneficiary needs are integrated in all decisions, efficiency is improved and
service quality sustained and affordable. Women, often under-represented in
irrigation management and also the primary users of domestic water, would
receive special client emphasis. To this effect, half of the village
community organizers would be women, and farmer organization arrangements
contain special provisions for women's participation.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01        At negotiations, GOTN submitted its detailed Policy Reform Program
(which outlines actions undertaken and planned actions regarding the state's
water policy, water planning, institutional reforms, expenditure
prioritization, maintenance funding, farmer participation and turnover, cost
recovery, land acquisition and economic rehabilitation, the environmental
action plan, and groundwater management) under a letter of Development Policy
(para 2.31) as presented at Annex 1.
6.02        At negotiations assurances were obtained:
(a)         from GOTN that any additional scheme completion investments under
the WRCP would be prepared and evaluated according to criteria agreed with IDA
and would require IDA's prior review and approval before selection (para 2.17
and Annex 15);
(b)         from GOTN that land acquisition and economic rehabilitation would
be implemented in accordance with a plan agreed with IDA (para 2.30 and Annex
9);
(c)         from GOTN that it would:  (i) provide annually, and make available
to WRO in a timely manner during each fiscal year the funds required for
satisfactory maintenance of all WRO's infrastructure, in order to sustain the
infrastructure in full operating order; (ii) provide the maintenance funds to
a separate maintenance works budget exempt from withdrawals for salaries and
wages; and (iii) WRO would prepare and submit its annual budget estimate for
maintenance to GOTN and IDA based on detailed command-by-command estimates
following an agreed reporting, programming and budgeting, and monitoring and
evaluation process (para 2.34);
(d)         from GOI and GOTN that they would implement a system satisfactory
to IDA for channelling the funds required for the project to the project
entities (para 3.04);
(e)         from GOI and GOTN that:  (i) project accounts, including Special
Account, would be maintained and audited annually in accordance with sound
accounting and auditing standards consistently applied by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA; and (ii) certified copies of the annual
financial statements and SOEs together with the auditor's report would be
submitted to IDA no later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year
(para 3.16);



39
(f)         from GOTN that it would implement a program satisfactory to IDA
for reducing subsidies provided to TNEB, and that TNEB would implement a
satisfactory program for improving its cost recovery and maintaining a sound
financial status (para 2.33);
(g)         from GOTN that NGOs participating in the project would be selected
in accordance with criteria agreed with IDA (para 4.03 and Annex 18);
(h)         from GOTN that a draft Annual Review, Action Plan and Budget
(ARAPB) for the forthcoming fiscal year would be prepared and submitted by WRO
to IDA for review and comment by December 31 each year, commencing December
1995; the GOTN approved ARAPB, taking account of IDA comments, would
subsequently be forwarded to IDA by March 31, and WRO would subsequently
implement the agreed action plan, including the timely provision of the
approved budget funds, in a manner satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12 and Annex
13);
(i)          from GOTN that by December 31, 1997, GOTN would carry out,
jointly with GOI and IDA, a detailed mid-term project review and thereafter
implement its recommendations (para 4.12); and
(j)         from GOTN that the state-level committee established for
supervising the project (para 4.13) would be maintained for the duration of
the project.
6.03        At negotiations understandings were reached on the following:
(a)         from GOI and GOTN that GOI would release three months anticipated
project expenditures in advance to GOTN, and that upon receipt of funds from
GOI, GOTN would transfer such funds, together with its quarterly counterpart
contributions, immediately to the project accounts of WRO (para 3.04), and
from GOTN on the administrative and financial arrangements for the Water
Resources Research Fund including GOTN's percentage contributions to the WRRF
account (para 2.23);
(b)         with GOTN, details of the Land Acquisition and Economic
Rehabilitation Plan (paras 2.26 to 2.30, 4.06 to 4.08 and Annex 9) were
confirmed; and
(c)         with GOTN, arrangements, scheduling and procedures were confirmed
for: (i) WRO's detailed organizational features (para 2.25 and Annex 2);
(ii) farmer organization arrangements including the review in PY2 (paras 2.12,
2.13, 2.36, 4.05 and Annex 4); (iii) the arrangements for procurement
management at para 3.11; (iv) the project's technical assistance and training
(para 4.03 and Annex 13); (v) monitoring and evaluation including completion
of a baseline survey by December 31, 1995 (para 4.09 and Annexes 10 and 13);
(vi) provision and contents of quarterly and annual reporting (paras 4.10 to
4.12 and Annex 13); and (vii) supervision arrangements including the state
Supervision Committee and the supervision consultancy (para 4.13 and Annex
13).



40
6.04        With the above assurances, the project would be suitable for an
IDA Credit of SDR 181.9 million (US$ 282.9 million equivalent) on standard
terms with 35 years maturity.
May 19, 1995
Agriculture and Water Operations Division
South Asia Department 2



IBRD 26167
77'                                     78'                                    79-                                    80-
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES
CONSOLIDATION PROJECT[-                                                                      - 
-13'         -         mig    WRO BASIN REGIONS SM
RIVER BASIN BOUNDARIES                           'J                                                                                   13-
.     DISTRICT CAPITALS                                                                  Vellore
STATE CAPITAL                                                                         -j
- - - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
STATE BOUNDARY
v          ;                        s     1        _    L    I         '~S~iogangI_/   '
KILOMETERS                   _                     .                           -       4    ;        urki_
RaOT lipr omli
0                50)              100                              r lchrm,,puri                                              'VA  t RAt TTA R
9'      0                30               60                                                                                                                       12'-
MLS          W~                                              r         {X                         _          <          Pondicherry
~~~ ^ \ /1 f \ - - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cuddaulore*
_   0 -   *_  _                        9 /        ~~~~~~~~Salemt     it                  -     
_ :Udocairmandrulamn 1  1                                                                        -
> r- ~~~~~~~~~Erode *\Sp\   ;
= 11'   rCoi,ii'bg;torrs                                 Li7 _   t                                                                        119
Tirunolveli       _,_        Tiruchirappolli           h
. b                       c lo Dindigu Iono *Pudukko"iai   nr  n
r-^    Modur                                                                               101A 1994
>             vil~~~uduna9<!r        v   s,99                  ,  T"? AKAhR AIAR 
8               \gt          *~~~~~~~~~ Tuticorin/
Tirunelveit
t    i                             ~~~~~~~~~~Th. bdvnrir, robn, o  -nwrinohn ono ony t6r infor-fi-o
v . ,  ,  .   Jl                   n  on S~J-  - hi. mop o'o nt imply, on ih p.t ol Th. Worlr 8-n
v &? ? ', . o s ~~~G-pv,, ony j,4- on lb. 4g1 fh oi ony hrrilwy, or ony
* 4 ~~~~~-or1 or -xpkn. of svcA b-d.roio..
Nogsrcoil1
77                                    78-                                     79                                     80
AUGUST I1994












