i  ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
"~ ~~      n l    n a a' LausWater iRescurces
r iQ.'   ons.rolcl aton Project
En2vironi-nenltal Assessrmernt
K It VS 'Report E'  X 28"53 it; k'h
Noveimnaber 19 93       Rescurc
I
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ?'t   o  'E 
U~~ 4"    IS  -mEL                              - lw4It4l4S7wN  --Y  -



-                                            Tamilnadu Water Resources
j                                            Consolidation Project
Environmental Assessment
i
3
|                                            Report EX 2853
November 1993
I
HR Wallingjford
.egbatcred Otficc: HR Wallitihgrird l,id. IHowbcry I'irk. Wnllingford. Oxfordshire. OXID 8BA. UK
Te1qtonic: 0491 835381 ItiicromtlionIal + 44 491 835381 Tclcx: 848552 HRSWAL G.
5                                            Facsiimi: 0491 832233 I:ileritialioial + 44 491 83233 Regisicrcd in England No. 2562099
HR Wallingford Lid is a wholly owned sulsidiary or IIR Wallingford Group Ltd.
EX 2853 2v9t t91



*                                  Contract
This report describes work commissioned in May 1993 by the World Bank for
completion In November 1993. The HR Job Numbers were TOR 1478 and
I                                 TVR 1557. This work was carried out by Dr P Bolton and Mr A W Hall,
Section Managers, Overseas Development Unit and Dr B B Sunderesen,
environmental consultant.
Prepared by            d......
(narne)                       (Jo~~~~~~~~~~~b litle)
Approved  by   ................
| Date  .2  .
!   HR Wallingford Limited 1993
e
p
EX2853 W1 1/9:3



Summary
Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project -
Environmental Assessment
Report EX 2853
November 1993
This environmental assessment has been prepared by HR Wallingford and
Dr B B Sunderesan in collaboration with the Public Works Department of the
Government of Tamilnadu. Field studies were undertaken between May and
July 1993 and the report completed in November 1993. The environmental
*                                 assessment gives an overview of the water resources sector of the state o;
Tamilnadu. 1t forms an integral part of the Water Resources Consolidation
Project and in some respects covers issues beyond the scope of that project.
A separate Executive Summary has been prepared for the World Bank.
Water resources are of prime importance in the state and the project integrates
I                                 environmental considerations  into agricultural and  water resources
development.  During preparation of the environmental assessment,
information has been provided to the preparation and pre-appraisal missions
I                                 of the World Bank so that specific components of the project take into account
environmental issues at the planning stage. An environmental action plan has
been prepared and this forms an integral part of the project.
The consultants wish to express their appreciation for the considerable
assistance provided by the staff of the PWD and all other govemment and
non-government organisations and individuals who have provided valuable
information and advice.
E
I
I
I
I
EX 2853 29t111D3



Glossary and List of Abbreviations
AED          Agricultural Engineering Division
anicut       Weir
|yacut       Irrigated land
CAD          Command area development (programmes)
cess         Water tax
crore        10.000.000
EA           Environmental assessment (general)
EAP          Environmental action plan
EIA          Environmental Impact Assessment (specific procedure)
*                                 FA           Farmer Association
FAO          Food and Agricultural Office
FC           Farmer Counr 'I
I                                 ghat         Mountain chain
GOI          Government of India
GOTN         Government of Tamilnadu
=                                 IIT          Indian Institute of Technology
IMTI        Irrigation Management Training Institute
IWS          Institute for Water Stuidies
I                                lakh          100.000
MEF          Ministry of Environment and Forests (GOI)
Metrowater   Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
MMWSSB    Madras Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board
NEERI        National Environmental Engineering Research Institute
NGO          Non-governmental organisation
NWMP         National Water Management Project
OFD          On-f3rm development (works)
panchayats   Local (village) councils
I                                PWD          Public Works Department
RBM          River Basin Management unri (proposed)
Rp           Indian Rupee
SIDCO        Small Industries Development Corporation
TNEB         Tamilnadu Electricity Board
TNPCB        Tamilnadu Pollution Control Board
TNWRCP       Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
TOR          Terms of reference
TWAD Board Tamrilnadu Water Supply and Drainage Board
UNDTC        United Nations Dept of Technical Cooperation for Development
WRC          Water Resources Control and Review Council
WRCP         Water Resources Consolidation Project
WRD          Water Resources Department (proposed)
Exchange rate:    US$ 1 = Rp 31.00 (November 1993)
l
i
EX 28S3 29/11 W3
l



Contents
Pago
Title page
Contract
Summary
Contents
PART A: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
I   Introduction .............                                       1
1.1    The setting .............   1
I                                            1.2  The context .............. 3
1.3 The project .......                                      5
1.3.1   Institutional strengthening component ......   5
i                                                   t.3.2   Irrigation rehabilitation and modernisation
component .........       ................  6
1.3.3    On-going minor schemes component ......  7
2      Regulatory procedures, legislation and linkages ....... ..  8
2.1    Environmental protection     ............... .         8
I                                          2.2    Water quality regulations .......     ............... 10
2.3    Irrigation and water resources regulations ..... ..... 11
2.4    Intersectoral coordination .......    ............... 12
3      Overview of environmental status in Tamllnadu ......... 13
3.1  Surface water   .                 .13
3.1.1    Tambaraparani Basin ..................      14
3.1.2    Vaigai-Periyar Basin .................. 15
3.1.3    Parambikulam-Aliyar Basin .............. 16
3.1.4    Bhavani Basin .............. .... 16
3.1.5    Cauvery Basin ............... ... 17
3.1.6    Pennajyar Basin ..................   18
3.1.7    Palar Basin ..........         ........ 18
3.2    Groundwater ..............            .......... 19
3.3    Water quality ........... ............. 20
3.3.1    Surface water ....................... 21
3.3.2    G,.oundwater ................. ...... 21
3.3.3    Water quality standards .......... ...... 22
3.4    Soil and land resources ....................... 23
I                                                   3.4.1    Soil and land use  .................... 23
3.4.2    Agriculture ........................  24
3.4.3    Soil conservation ..................... 25
3.5    Ecological resources ................... 27
3.6    Coastal resources ........           .......... 28
3.7    Energy, minerals and air ..................    29
3.8    Human resources ........             .......... 30
3.8.1    Tribal minorities ..................    31
3.8.2    Cultural aspects ..................... 31
3.8.3    Healtlh aspects ..................    32
EX2853 2Vt11t93



Contents continued
4      Environmental Issues arising from WRCP ..... ......... 34
4.1    Introduction ...............                             34
4.2    Catchment protection ......             ......... 35
4.3    Surface water allocation ......................36
4.4    Irrigation water management ................... 37
4.5    Groundwater ...................                          39
4.6  Surface water quality .40
4.7    Water qualty for the command areas .40
4.8  Groundwater quality .                                      41
4.9    River morphology and flooding .42
4.10 Energy .43
4.11  Coastal and estuary regions .                             43
4.12   Siltation of tanks, reservoirs and canals  ...........   43
4.13   Waterlogging and salinisation .45
4.14  Fisheries ............ 45
4.15 Wildlife .46 _
4.16   Agricultural weeds and pests ................... 47
4.17   Aquatic weeds .......              ............ 47
4.18   Community involvement ...............                    48
4.19   Community health ...............  49
4.20   Land acquisition and economic rehabilitation ..... ... 49
4.21    Construction activities .............. .......... 50
5      The role of non-governmental organisations ..........        .. 51
5.1     Farmers' Associations ..........       .............. 51
5.2    The role of women  .............         ............. 51
5.3    Other NGOs ............................... 52
5.4    Participation of NGOs in the WRCP  ......        ....... 52
6      Conclusions and Recommendations. ...... ........... 53
6.1    General sectoral conclusions .......       ............ 53
6.2    WRCP conclusion ..............          ............. 54
PART B: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
I      Introduction ...................................   59
2      Review of policy and institutional issues  ......       ........ 59
3      Institutional needs ................................ 60                    |
3.1    IWS Environment Division ........         ............. 60
3.2    WRD (Plan Formulation) Environment Cell ..... .... 61
3.3     RBM (Plan Formulatio;7 & Coordination) Environment                I
Cells .62
3.4  Equipment ......  ...  62
DX 2853 29111193



Contents continued
4     Role and functions of Uhe environmental units .......... 63
4.1    Policy and new legislation ..................... 63
I                                        4.2    Environmental assessment procedures/guidelines
and codes.                                      63
4.3  River basin plans .64
I                                        4.4    Data collection and monitoring .65
4.5    Eco-gardens and eco-restoration .66
5     Training and awareness building  ....................  66
6  Consultancy inputs .68
7    Applied research and development needs .69
8     Cost estimate for the EAP ................... 71
Tables
Table 1      Details of on-going minor schemes
Table 2      GOI recommended. Tolerance limi.s for inland surface
water
Table 3      Irrigability classes of water and water quality criteria for
classification of groundwater
Table 4      Tolerance limits for trade effluents
Table 5      Sedimentation of selected reservoirs/tanks in Tamilnadu
Table 6      Wldlife sanctuaries in Tamiinadu
Table 7      Cost estimates for the Environmental Action Pian
Figures
Figure 1     Tarnilnadu river basins
Figure 2     Tamilnadu hydrogeology
Figure 3     Annual rainfall
Figure 4     Rainfall from southwest and northeast monsoons
Figure 5     Groundwater exploitation in 1992
Figure 6     Elec'rical conductivity of groundwater
Figure 7     Major and medium irrigation schemes
Figure 8     Main soil types
Figure 9     Wiidlife sanctuaries and forests
Figure 10    Organigram of the proposed Water Resources Dept.
Figure 11    Organigram of River Basin Management Unit
Figure 12    EAP implementation schedule
Appendices
Appendix 1   Government of Tamilnadu Acts related to  water
resources and the environment
Appendix 2    Ministry of Environment and Forests Notification
Appendix 3    Proposed programme for Environmental Awareness
Building Workshop for Senior Staff of the PWDIWRD
I                                     Appendix 4    Issues to be covered in the code of good construction
practice
Appendix 5    References
EX 2BS3 2/1 1/13



I                                                                            _
I
I
U
I
I
I
IPART A:
I                          ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
I
U
I
I
FX 295  29111/9
U



l
1 Introduction
The Government of Tamilnadu, with the support of the World Bank, has
formulated the Water Resources Consolidation Project In order to improve the
management of the water resources of the state. The project aims to
Introduce a more rational and sustainable system of water use and
management throughout the state and represents a fundamental shift from the
U                                 previous emphasis on design and construction of new projects. The rationale
for this approach stems from an awareness that the ever increasing and
conflicting demands for water will result in a severe crisis unless steps aie
taken to improve water use and allocation. This was clearly stated in the
World Bank Aide Memoire (June 1993):
|                                     "The WRCP would support Tamilnadu's objectives to make better use of
its water resources. The objective would be to assist the proposed Water
Resources Department to adjust its activities and expenditures to the new
I                                     challenges of efficient water resources management. In the light of
Tamilnadu's water scarcity, there is a need to maximise the productivity
and environmental sustainability of land and water, improve planning, and
I                                     the allocation of water between agricultural and non-agricultural sectors,
upgrade existing irrigation, drainage and flood control and bulk water
supply infrastructure, and complete viable investments. Water users
|                                     need to become more involved in water management and maintenance,
and cost recovery improved.  Integral to these challenges wil be
institutional adjustments and improvements to enable these objectives to
be achieved."
This report is divided into two parts, the environmental assessment and the
environmental action plan. In part A, following the introduction and details of
the legal aspects in chapters 1 and 2, the environmental assessment gives an
overview of the water resources sector in chapter 3 and more specific issues
raised by the project in chapter 4. Chapter 5 reviews the role of the NGOs in
the project and chapter 6 gives overall conclusions. Part B of the report is the
environmental action plan and the aim of this is to ensure that environmental
enhancement is an in-built part of project implementation.
1.1 The setting
Historically Tamilnadu has been a prosperous region basing its prosperity on
a productive agricultural base. Beginning about 1.000 years ago a system of
tank irrigation was introduced to augment production and provide security
against the relatively short and erratic monsoonal rains. These tanks were
I                                 largely independent of each other and were managed and operated by the
local community in a way which conserved both the soil and the water
resources. Management groups and hierarchies became established, some
I                                 of which remain in some form up to the present time. Today there are 39,000
tanks in Tamilnadu. the majority of which remain 'rain-red': such rain-fed tanks
are fed solely by run-off from their own catchments. This represents an
-                                 average of one tank for every 1,400 of population.
_                                 During the British colonial period a major change took place : the ownership
-                                 of land and water was taken from the communities and vested in the
govemment directly or through the Zamindai system. Villagers no longer saw
it as their duty to maintain protective vegetation and to engage in regular taink
1                      eX 253 29 11u93



and canal desilting operations. Although ownership of land was restored at
Independence, ownership of water remains with the govemment (as describod
in Section 1.2 below). Communities, therefore, have not regained their  I
traditional attitude towards the conservation of their water sources. Added to
this, increasing rural population pressures both In the irrigated areas and in the
tank catchments, increasing demands for water by urban areas and industrles  I
and the release of increasing amounts of pollutants into surface water and
groundwater, have brought about a critical situation in some parts of the state
where existing water resources are already heavily committed and unlikely to  i
meet projected future demands even without the effect of siltation which is
reducing the availability of good quality water continuously.
Undoubtedly, management of water resources by government has brought
substantial benefits. A massive increase in irrigated area has been achieved
over the last 100 years without which the population could not have been fed.
(Although famine was common in the 19th century, there has been only one
notable famine in Tamilnadu this century, in 1952/53, which was fairly
localised. Droughts remain common but famine has been controlled). This
has been achieved by building large storage dams on major rivers as well as
anicuts (weirs), headworks and supply canals which not only feed irrigated
land directly but also feed water into cascades of tanks to ensure reliable
supplies are available to existing irrigated land. This is not without its effects:
only two of Tamilnadu's 32 large, medium and minor, east-flowing rivers (the
Tambaraparani and the Cauvery) can now be regarded as perennial. Many
of the rest flow only for periods of a week or two during the height of the  9
monsoons.
Groundwater, again used traditionally for centuries, is also heavily exploited in
many parts of the state with very little control over the numerous irrigation
wells which now exist. Indeed, over-exploitation is currently exacerbated by
the State Government's policy of providing free electricity for agricultural  |
pumps. In several regions this, combined with urban use, is now resulting in
intrusion of sea water into over-pumped aquifers.
Given Tamilnadu's current population growth rate of just under 1.5% per year
and the increasing expectations for water supplies of a richer urban population,
it is clear that the state faces a crisis which will worsen in the next few
decades unless urgent steps are taken to improve the water situation. Such
a crisis will affect not only the health and wellbeing of the population but also
the production of industry, the stabiliy of the regional economy and the
ecology of the natural environment. There is no doubt that wise water  I
management is the key to the future sustainability of Tamilnadu's economy,
society and environment.
In the light of the situation in Tamilnadu and the above p-oject objectives, the
environmental assessment (EA) has taken on a new dimension. It is no longer
simply a scrutiny of a specific project to discover whether some troublesome  I
impacts have been overlooked by the project planners; although this report will
also attempt to fulfil this traditional function of an EA. Far more important, in
this case, is to consider the project wilhin the whole water resources sector  U
and ask whether it is indeed likely to contribute to a more productive and
sustainable system of land and water utilisalion in Tamilnadu, whether the
necessary fundamental changes in approach are likely to result from the  |
project, whether there are any factors which need closer consideration if long-
term sustainability is to be achieved and what form of procedural and
2                      EX 2853 29111/93
l



administrative set-up will best help towards long-term sustainabllty. Clearly,
one project cannot resolvo agl the problems associated with the whole sector
and where it is felt that an issue is beyond the scope of the WRCP attentilon
will be drawn to this as it could assist the GOTN in formulating actions through
other projects or in its everyday operations.
1.2 The context
State Governments in India carry the responsiblifty for the development of
water and other natural resources within their state borders. The Central
Government becornes involved when the itwestment on individual projects
exceeds the level which can be supported solel't by state funds or when
proposed resource use has implications for more than one state (as is the
case with inter-state rivers).
In Tamilnadu, as in most other states, irrigation 13s been treated as a
completely separate activity from agriculture despite the fact that a significant
proportion of agricultural output relies on irrigation. This separation arises from
the fact that, until recently, the main government responsibility with regard to
irrigation was seen as the construction of new irrigation systems, Irrigation,
therefore, became the responsibility of the engineers of the Public Works
Department (PWD) whose other responsibilities include the construction and
maintenance of public buildings and flood and coastal defences but not roads
and highways.
Having constructed irrigation systems and reservoirs, the PWD was given the
responsibility for managing the release and distribution of water and hence
became the principal agency responsible for the management of both surface
_                                  and ground waters which became formalised in a series of Government Orders
and state legislation as described in Cnapter 2. Thus, in effect, ownership of
water became vested in the PWD on behalf of the State Government.
_                                  However, a variety of other departments have direct interest in aspects of
water resources development and use, the principal ones being:
i                                *   The supply of water and collection and disposal of sewage in Madras city
and neighbouring area is the responsibility of the Madras Metropolitan
Water Supply and Sewerage Board (Metrowater);
*                                  *   The development of water and sanitation for other urban areas of the
respective municipal authorities and rural communities is the
responsibility of the Tamilnadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD
Board):
j                                  *   The control and monitoring of pollution and, in particular, the enforcement
*                                      of effluent disposal standards is the responsibility of the Tamnilnadu
Pollution Control Board (TNPCB);
I                                  *   The development of water supplies for large industries is the
responsibility of the individual industries whilst that of smaller industries
is the responsibility of the Small Industries Development Corporation
(SIDCO);
The development and management of on-farm irrigation works (to areas
I                                      of about 1 Oha) is the responsibility of the Agricultural Engineering Division
(AED) under the Department of Agriculture:
3                      EX 28S3 2Wt1/j3



*   Individuals are free to develop wells and boreholes for providing
groundwater for domestic and agricultural use.
*   The Tamilnadu Bectricity Board (TNEB) Is required to supply free
electricity for pumping water for agricultural use provided that the wells
are not in certain prohibited locations: 
*   The TN EB is also responsible for the operation of all hydroelectric power
stations; and    r
*   The Agricultural Engineering Division (AED) of the Department of
A1,,iculture is responsible for soil conservation in river valley project  I
areas.
When water was perceived to be relatively plentiful, a fairly inforrnal system of
resource allocation was found to be adequate. The PWD, and in particular the
Chief Engineers for Irrigation and Groundwater, took the lead in ensuring that
competing interests did not conflict. However, this was always done on an
ad hoc, project by project, basis: there was no attemnpt made to introduce a
comprehensive approach to the management of the overall water resource.
If conflicts of interest arose, a simple priority rule was applied as follows:
(i) drinking water
(ii) irrigation
(iii) hydroelectric power                                               I
(iv) industrial and other users.
Navigation is not considered as there has never been a major water use for
navigation in Tamilnadu. Noticeably the environmental aspects of water do not
appear as a consideration. The need for a more comprehensive approach to
waler allocation and management is now acute with the increasing competition
which is arising between users.
Lintil recently, water resources investments in India as elsewhere have been
focused on large sii.;le projects often involving construction of a major dam
and storage reservoir. Several factors have now combined to change the
emphasis of water resources investment. First, the issues of resettlement and
environmental impacts arising from  major dam  projects have made it
increasingly difficult to design acceptable projects of this nature. Second, it
has been recognised that water resources management is becoming a key
issue in many countries and that a new integrated approach is needed to
replace the previous site specific project investment. Thirdly, in the irrigation
sub-sector, it has been accepted that large areas of existing irrigated land are
producing at levels far below their potential and the emphasis is now made on  I
finding ways of increasing agricultural production from these lands and
ensuring sustainability in preference to investing in further new projects.
The World Bank has a long history of support for specific water resources
projects in the agricultural sector in India and also supports the emphasis on
this more integrated approach. Although the Govemment of India is reluctant  I
to stop building major dams, which it sees as necessary for storing the highly
seasonal monsoon rains which the region receives, it does share the concern
that water resources must be managed in a more integrated and sustainable  I
manner than hitherto. In 1992 the Central Water Commission published
'Guidelines for Sustainable Water Resources Development ar" :Management'
4                       EX2BS3 2911tl93



which set the stage for a new phase of World Bank support for the water
resources and agricultural sectors in India to be called 'Water Resources
Consolidation Projects' (WRCP). In 1992 three states began to prepare the
necessary preparation documentation for such projects: Haryana, Tamllnadu
and Orissa.
1.3 The project
The Tamilnadu Water Resources Consoridation Project (WRCP) is a proposed
*                                 five year progranmme involving investments and expenditure totalling
approximately Rs 10 000 million (US $ 310 million). The project covers the
entire State and, among other things, it aims to:
*   introduce a more rational and comprehensive approach to water
resources planning and management which will prevent conflicts over
water resource allocation and environmental degradation;
*   improve the eff iciency of water use for irrigation through rehabilitation and
modemisation and improved maintenance so that increasing industrial
and domestic demands can be met; and
.   improve the long-term  sustainability of irrigation systems through
-                                     enhanced farmer participation in operation and maintenance.
3                                 The project includes three major components:
i)  the  rehabilitation. modemisation  and  improved  operation  and
maintenance of existing irrigation sub-projects including the completion
of work already begun under the World Bank's National Water
Management Project;
ii)  the completion of on-going or planned irrigation works on a number of
minor irrigation schemes; and
3                                 iii)  institutional strengthening, training and special studies aimed at bringing
about a radical change in the procedures for planning and managing
water resource use in Tamilnadu.
It is convenient first of all to discuss the changes which the project will bring
in terms of these three component parts which are elaborated below. The
institutional strengthening component, although not financially the biggest, has
the potential for bringing about the most positive far-reaching changes for the
water related environment and is therefore described first.
1.3.1   Institutional strengthening component
These are the changes planned within the WRCP which will, if successful,
bring about the more rational and sustainable use uf water resources required
to prevent conflicts in water use in Tamilnadu and environmental degradation.
A number of fundamental changes have been discussed between the World
Bank and the Govemment of Tamilnadu (GOTN), the main components being:
(a) The creation of a Water Resources Department (WRD) is proposed
comprising those parts of the PWD which were previously concerned with
U                                     water or irrigation. The WRD will have a new structure which will make
it administratively more efficient and will be headed by an Engineer in
Chief. A number of other changes are proposed including a review of the
5                      EX28I3 29t11J93
l



career structure and redeployment of engineers to achieve greater
efficiency.                                                       3
(b) The creation of four River Basin Management Units (RBMs) Is proposed
to assume responsibility for water resources planning and management
in the four hydrological regions into which Tamilnadu will be divided.  I
Except in the case of the Cauvery River, each RBM will be responsible
for more than one river catchment. The RBMs will be a part of the WRD.
(c) The creation of a Water Resources Review and Control Council (WRC)
was proposed as part of the project and was rapidly created by the
GOTN and established on 30 September 1993. This top level commifttee  I
will provide a forum for inter-departmental discussions over water
resources management, the formulation of policies and the regulation of
water abstractions and land use changes affecting water resources. The
WRC will be chaired by the Chief Minister who will be assisted by two
Vice Chairmen. It will have as a nodal technical support agency an
augmented Institute for Water Studies (IWS) which, among other
responsibilities, will provide a water quality data bank available for use by
all agencies and departments engaged in water resources development.
(d) A state Water Policy and Water Act are being formulated to provide a
framework for the activities of the WRC and the WRD which aim to give
the necessary legislative powers to achieve rational and integrated
management of water resources. The Policy and Act are at an advanced  I
stage of preparation. Similarly a Groundwater Act is proposed to provide
the necessary powers to control over-exploitation of groundwater
resources. The policy and Acts would have to be passed by the GOTN. .
The WRCP is designed to provide support for these important changes
particularly through training, institutional support and special studies. A  |
particular focus of the project will be the strengthening of the Institute for Water
Studies and equipping it to fulfil its new nodal role.
1.3.2   Irrigation rehabilitation and modemisation component
Experience of rehabilitation has been gained during the GOTN Command Area
Development Programme, the World Bank supported National Water
Management Project (NWMP) and other projects supported by the central
govemment and external donors. The WRCP proposals identify a two-stage
approach to irrigation rehabilitation and modernisation which will carry through
into sustainable operation and maintenance in the future.
(a) Stage 1 will focus on achieving equitable and reliable operation of the
inigation system so that each sluice off-take will receive supplies
proportional to the area served (usually of the order of 1 Oha). This will
entail some structural modifications to the canal network, the removal of
silt, weeds and other obstructions and the organisation of farmers into  I
Farmer Associations (FAs) below each sluice to take control of water
distribution and system maintenance. The cost of such works will be low,
of the order of Rs 4000 per ha. The work envisaged in Stage 1 is similar
to that undertaken under the NWMP but will involve farmers, through the
creation of FAs, to a much greater degree.
(b) Stage 2 will be introduced once Stage 1 is believed to be successfully
completed. In most cases, this will not be achieved for at least three
6                      EX285J 2g 1ui93



I E
years from the start of WROP but in the case of 7 projects which were
pan of the NWMP, Stage 1 Is considered to be virtually complete and
*                                     Stage 2 witl be started almost immediately. In Stage 2 a Farmer Council
(FC) will be formed at tank or distributary level (units of about 500ha).
These Councils will gradually take responsibility for the operation and
I                                     maintenance of the entire block including a considerable degree of self
financing with govemment support. The Farmer Councils will be
encouraged to identify further improvements which might be made to the
I                                     irrtgation system and Farmer Associations will consider the need for on-
farm development (OFD) works. For such works, WRCP funds will be
made available up to a level of approximately Rs 10 000 per ha, but
I                                    farmers will have to contribute a part of the money themselves before the
works are carried out. A particular emphasis in Stage 2 will be to identify
ways in which water use efficiency can be improved so that water can be
saved for other uses. This will include the introduction of fixed control
structures to evenly distribute water along the main and distributary
canals and canal upgrading including lining where necessary.
The ultimate intention is to reduce the involvement of the new WRO, compared
with the present PWD, in the management of irrigation systems at the tertiary
level leaving it free to concentrate on the maintenance and operation of the
main supply facilities. This component of the WRCP will not include any
projects in the systems supplied by the Cauvery River because there is an on-
going Tribunal considering the allocation of Cauvery Water between Tamilnadu
_                                and Kamataka and any works intended to modernise these systems might be
seen as a mnove to establish additional claims which might interfere with the
g                                lTribunal's work.
A total command area of approximately 650,000 ha will be covered by the
project. This will comprise seven systems, totalling 153.000 ha, which have
already benefitted from stage I work through the NWMP. A further area of
about 500,000 ha wi.l be taken up and benefit from both stage I and 11 work.
The environmental aspects of this component are discussed further in
Section 4.
1.3.3   On-going minor schemes component
The GOTN requested that funds be allocated under the WRC;P for the
completion of construction work for several minor schemes. The World Bank
appointed the FAOIC.P to carry out a detailed study of several minor schemes
located throughout the state which are either on-going or already planned and
sanctioned by the GOTN. At the time of writing the FAO/CP studies of these
schemes are nearing completion and it is envisaged that 12 sub-projects will
be technically, economically and environmentally viable and will thus be
included as part of the WRCP. Data for each minor scheme are given in
Table 1.
-                                The minor schemes are at various stages of implementation; in some cases,
such as Rajathope Kanar, the work is more than half complete, whereas in
others construction has not yet begun. Different actions are therefore required
for completion which includes construction of small storage reservoirs in some
cases so that the existing irrigated areas can be brought into reliable supply
systems as well as extending the command areas. New area development
t only totals about 2,070ha overall. The particular environmental issues related
to these on-goirig minor schemes are discussed in more detail in Chapters 2
and 4.
7                      EX 2S3 29111193



* N I
2   Regulatory procedures, legislation and
linkages
Several Acts of the Government of India and the Govemment ol Tamilnadu  U
relate to the water sector. Water is a state responsibility Including storage,
exploitation and water use but excluding inter-state rivers. A list of relevant
Acts is given in Appendix 1. These Acts could be grouped into those relevant
to environmental issues, such as the requirement for environmental clearance
for developmental projects; those relevant to the regulation of domestic and
industrial discharges into water bodies under the Pollution Control Board: and
those relevant to the use and apportionment of water and its application for
irrigation. It is better to discuss separately the relevant existing regulations on
the basis of environmental protection, water quality regulations and irrigation
needs as they relate to water as the central theme and to highlight the ways
in which multi-sectoral collaboration is currently achieved for each.
In addRion to the statutory regulations of the GOI, the World Bank Operational
Directive 4.01 (1991) requires that an environmental assessment is carried out
for Category A projects funded by the Bank. This includes most water
resources projects. This environmental assessment is for the water resources
sector of the state and thus covers the requirements of the project as well as  I
other sectoral issues beyond the scope of the project. It is intended that this
will provide a baseline environmental assessment for the GOTN when
considering future water resources projects as well as satisfy GOI and Bank  I
regulations for the project.
2.1 Environmental protection                                          I
All enactments relevant to the environment have as a basic theme the
protection of the environment in its totality which includes forests, flora, fauna,
wildlife, human habitat, surface and ground water bodies at source and usage  I
levels, land and air. The Environmental Protection Act, 1986 is an umbrella
act which encompasses all activities which provide for prevention of
environmental damage, punishment for episodal events such as the one that
took place in Bhopal, regulation of industrial locations, clearance for
developmental projects and the setting of standards for air, water and solid
waste releases. On the basis of this Act the Ministry of Environment and
Forests (MEF), Govemment of India, circulated new rules and regulations in
a Notification (Extraordinary) dated January 1993 [see Appendix 2] for
clearance of developmental projects of various categories but these rules are
still under discussion and have not yet been adopted. In addition to these Acts
and regulations the MEF requires that if any project leads to the clearing or
submergence of forest of an area exceeding 10 ha then those responsible
must replant an area of forest of twice the size after due inspection and
approval by the regional Chief Conservator of Forest (GOI).
According to current procedures, responsibility for environmental clearance is  I
delineated between the Government of India, the state governments and local
agencies. All the developmental projects which have large investments (over
Rp 1,000 million, US$ 31 million) and may have a direct or indirect impact on  I
air, water, land and coastal resources need a detailed EIA prepared by the
proponents and subinitted to the Govemment of India for scrutiny and
clearance. This is required at the planning stage. Such reports are scrutinised  I
by expert committees constituted by the MEF, Govemment of India forvarious
sectors or types of projects. The EIA is to be prepared using baseline
8                      EX 2853 29/1tl93
l



environmental data, identifying issues and quantifying impacts for each one of
the natural resources such as water, air, land, flora, fauna, wildlife, endangered
*                                  species, archaeological and cultural monuments and human settlements. The
procedure is elaborate wherein a rapid EIA encompassing data for critical
seasons, followed by a detailed EIA prepared over a period of not less than
I                                  12 months, are prepared by the proponents and posed before the expert
commfftee constituted by the MEF. The expert committee on scrutiny may
accept or reject them at the first instance itself or visit the sites proposed and
suggest modifications and give conditional clearance. The proponents will be
required to submit an effective environmental management plan at the
planning stage and follow up action with periodic inspections during the
construction and operation stages of the project. It is also necessary to have
clearance from the State Environment Committee. It is reported that projects
generally get stalled for want of detailed information from the proponents or
due to adverse impacts on human habitat, wildlife or archaeological and
cultural monuments.
The Central Water Commission has appreciated the environmental issues
relating to irrigation and water resources projects and has provided guidelines
for sustainable water resources and management. It elaborately discusses the
environmental issues, the methodologies for EIA, the sensitive areas,
I                                  weightages to be provided for ecology, environmental pollution, human
interest, physiochemical attributes along with socio-economic benefits accruing
to the society.
Under the new Notification (January 1993), before initiating any investigation
preliminary site clearance wilI be required from the Ministry of Environment and
I                                  Forests in the case of following projects if the investigation involves the cutting
of trees or drilling, digging or construction of any sort even at the time of
investigation.
(a) Mining
(b) Pithead thermal power projects
(c) Hydro-electric power projects
(d) Multipurpose river valley projects.
This Notification, reprinted as Appendix 2 specifies certain projects as
belonging to Schedule 1 under which clearance is required from the
Govemment of India. Those identified under Schedule 11 will require
environmental clearance from the State Government for which the Tamilnadu
*                                  State Environment Committee under the Chairmanship of the Chief Minister
considers the issues on merit and gives clearances. In this context it is
relevant to point out that the environmental clearance in the irrigation sector
I                                  for projects of up to 2000 hectares of command area (where costs are less
than Rp 1,000 million) is the responsibility of the State Govemment. All
irrigation projects with command areas above 2,000ha (or costs exceeding
Rp 1,000 million) need environmental clearance from the Central Govemment.
The Notification, paragraph 1, requires environmental clearance for expansion
or modemisation of any existing industry or new projects listed in Schedule I
or Schedule 11. The WRCP will rehabilitate and madernise, but not expand,
several existing command areas throughout the state, and this is not
specifically included in either Shedule. The consultants therefore sought
clarification from the MEF on how the Notification would apply in this case and
were informed that this report, which covers the water resources sector and
9                      EX 2B53 29111193
I



were informed that this report, which covers the water resources sector and
the WRCP would provide adequate environmental assessment for the project
and no further EIA would be needed.
For the completion of the on-going minor schemes environmental clearance
is needed from the State Environment Committee as they are all below 2,000
ha new development. This clearance has already been given for all those
schemes included in the WRCP. For four sub-projects forest areas of more
than 10 ha will be submerged and therefore, under the 1980 Forest
Conservation Act, approval is required from the Chief Conservator of Forests  -
(GOI). The identificaiion of the areas to be planted with forest is underway
and approval will be sought by the PWD.                               3
This report, which con.:iiders the current environmental status of the water
resources sector as a whole, fulfils the World Bank requirements for a
Category A project and meets the statutory requirements of the GOI and no
further EIA will be needed for the project.
2.2 Water quality regulations
The second category of Acts and Regulations relates to maintaining water
quality in all water bodies including surface water, ground water and coastal
waters. The Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 along
with all its amendments provide for the creation of Pollution Control Boards at
the central and state levels. The mandate given to these agencies is to
regulate the discharge of industrial effluents into natural water bodies, insist on  I
effluent control systems, monitor the same, set standards for effluent discharge
and punish violators. Accordingly a Pollution Control Board is functioning in
Tamilnadu as in other States of India which has specific rules and regulations,  I
the salient features of which are indicated below:
Salient features of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act 1974  I
and amendment of 1988 are:
-   Empowers the Board to lay down standards for sewagettrade effluent.
-   uirects that the consent of the Board has to be obtained for the
establishment of any industry and for the discharge of sewage/trade
effluent into any stream or well or sewer or on land.
-   Prohibits the pollution of streams or wells or sewers or on land by the
disposal of polluting matter not satisfying the standards for effluents.  _
-   Empowers the Board to collect samples of sewage/trade effluent from
any industry. ,
-   Empowers the Board to issue directives for the closure of an offending
industry or for stoppage of electricity, water or any other service.  I
-   Stipulates that contravention of the Regulations shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term of not less than one year and six months but  I
which may extend to six years and with fines.
-   Provides forthe levy of a cess (water rate) on specified industries, based
on the quantum of water consumed.
10                     EX2853 28U 2t13
l



As described in Section 3.3.1, the TNPCB also monitors the surface water
quality under GEMS (Global Environrmental Monitoring System) on behalf of
the Central Pollution Control Board to build up an inventory on water quality
status. This activity has been going on for more than a decade mainly to
establish the trends in water quality.
The State Govemment has also enacted the Madras Metropolitan Water
Supply and Sewerage Board Act 1978, and the Tamilnadu Water Supply and
Drainage Act (1971) which provide for the exploitation, conveyance, treatment
and supply of drinking water for the Madras Metropolitan Area as well as all
the other urban and rural habitations of Tamilnadu. These Acts provide for
collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater as well.  Rules and
regulations are given for the supply of water to meet various needs such as
domestic, commercial and industrial and to establish the rates of supply for
these sectors. At the time of exploitation of the resource, either surface or
groundwater, approval must be sought through the PWD as described below.
2.3 Irrigation and water resources regulations
As irrigation has been in existence historically and in an organised mnanner
since the Briish colonial era some of the Acts are more than 100 years old.
The Tamilnadu Irrigation Cess Act, 1865 provides for the costing of irrigation
water supply and the regulation of the same for irrigation purposes.
Subsequently, other Acts have been passed relating to the Irrigation Division
of the PWD and the rules and regulations provide for suitable apportionment
and costing of water for irrigation.
Operation for the release of water for irrigation is controlled by specific
regulatory Government Orders which have been brought together in the
Compendium of Rules and Regulations, Part 1: Rules for Water Regulation,
PWD, 1984.  The rnajor reservoirs such as Mettur, Lower Bhavani,
Parambikulam-Aliyar have been classified under Category 1 for which specific
Orders of Government are required to start and end releases.
Krishnagir and Amaravathi and such other smaller reservoirs fall under
Category 2 which are regulated by the Commissioner for Land Administration
on the basis of specific recommendation of the Chief Engineer (Irrigation),
PWD. All the other reservoirs fall under Category 3 where the pattern of water
release is decided by the Executive Engineer, PWD and the District Collector.
Separate regulations, dated 1985. undertheTamilnadu State Electricity Board
govem the operation of reservoirs for power generation. In addition, Part 2 of
the PWD Compendium mentioned above sets out rules for flood regulation.
A Government Order in the early 1 980s set out that all new projects requiring
institutional finance must make application through the PWD for confirmation
that the required water resources are available. All industries requiring water,
including those which are privately financed, must also apply to the TNPCB for
a certificate of approval for their effluent disposal procedures. Water resources
decisions are made by the Water Utilisation Committee chaired by the
Secretary PWD which has representatives from the Departments of Industry
and Commerce, Finance, Planning and Development and Municipal
Administration and Water Supply. However, only projects demanding more
than 1.0 million gallons per day (4,500m3td) go before the full committee.
Other requests are dealt with by the Technical Sub-Committee chaired by the
Chief Engineer (Irrigation) with representatives from the Departments of
11                     Ex2St3 21193



Industry and Commerce and Agriculture, the TWAD Board and the Chief
Engineer (Groundwater). Irrigation projects are not actually discussed In
committee but details have to be circulated to all the relevant departments.
2.4 Intersectoral coordination
Although the Acts and regulatory measures described are available, and
provide a sound basis for regulating pollution, the linkages between the various
departments involved in the water sector such as the PWD, the TWAD Board,
Metrowater, the TNPCB and the Departments of Agriculture and Industry tends
to be weak. At times this leads to conflicts betv. ten the various sectors not
only in the allocation of priorities for water supply but also in resolving any
disputes. Water quality deterioration may be monitored by the TNPCB and  U
regulatory Acts enforced; but feedback data to the Agriculture Departments
and PWD regarding pollution and deterioration in water quality which they can
use to assess its impact on crop production is not being carried out on a  I
continuing basis. Similarly in the case of siting of industries which involve the
TNPCB for environmental clearance, the Industry Department for industrial
license, the TNEB for power supply, the PWD and TWAD Board for water
supply as well as the Forests Department for environmental clearance
coordination is not effective and a rational and organised mechanism is
needed so that conflicts can be resolved at the time of the project proposal
ikself. Occasions are many when departments like the TNPCB and Forests are
not consulted prior to project clearance which has led to delayed action and
sometimes difficulties in getting clearance from the respective Ministries. Part
of the difficulty lies in the fact that the large number of Acts of the Govemment
of India and the Government of Tamilnadu and the regulatory measures at
departmental tevel have become difficult to comprehend. Engineers, in
particular, are not conversant with environmental issues and the requirements  _
for environmental clearance and many wrongly assume that environmental
considerations and inter-departmental collaboration are not important with
respect to irrigation and water resources projects.
Inter-departrmental collaboration has been attempted in a number of issues
related to water resources. One initiative has been the establishment of a
Review Committee for Reservoir Sedimentation Studies chaired by the
Agricultural Production Commissioner. This committee monitors the progress
of the reservoir sedimentation studies being undertaken by the Institute of
Hydraulics and Hydrology. Poondi, and makes recommendations to concemed
departments; for example, on the need for catchment treatment programmes.
To date no comprehensive catchment treatment programmes have been
undertaken but funds are available for treating the Vaigai catchment as part
of an existing World Bank project.
A more recent initiative, about which the consultants were able to obtain few
details, is the creation of a State Land Use Board chaired by the Member
(Agriculture) of the State Planning Commission. Its operational plan is still in
preparation but its original objectives include: to protect good agricultural land  I
from erosion, waterlogging, salinisation and urbanisation; to prepare soil
resource surveys; to undertake feasibility studies for medium and major
irrigation projects; and to prevent siltation in river basins and medium and  I
major irrigation projects.
It can be seen from the above description of the existing s;tuation that acts,
procedures and committees are in place to address many of the water
resources and environmental concerns of the state. However, in practice,
12                     EX2BS3 2Wit,93



there is often confusion and poor coordination especially with regard to water
resource allocation decisions. In addition, the present procedures provide no
rmechanism for undertaking long-term water resources planning. It is these
short-comings which have prompted the initiators of the WRCP to propose the
formation of a Water Resources Control and Review Council, to restructure
relevant parts of the present PWD into a Water Resources Department and
four River Basin Management units and to call for a Water Policy and the
introduction of a Water Act and Groundwater Act. These policy and
institutional changes are considered a major positive step towards improved
coordination and this will have a positive environmental impact as long as
these new institutions acquaint themselves with existing procedures,
institutions and inter-departmental committees and seek to work as closely as
possible with them.
3   Overview  of environmental status in Tamilnadu
Tamilnadu has 7% of India's population and 4% of its land area, but only 3%
of its water resources. Its physiographic features consist of coastal plains in
the east, central plains with outcrops of eastern ghals and eastern slopes of
westem ghats with pockets of westem ghat hills on the west, running north to
south.
The total available surface water is about 1261 thousand million cubic feet
TMC, (3.57 Mha.m  or 3.57 x 1010 m3) of which about 1050 TMC
(2.97 x 1010 m3) has been utilised for irrigation alone. Other uses such as
industry and community water supply account for about 105 TMC
(0.3 x 10 10 m3), making a total of 115S TMC (3.27 x 1010 m3). Pumping from
groundwater is estimated to be 425 TMC (1.21 x 10 10 m3). Undeveloped
sources for surface and ground water are meagre, and competing demands
from industries and community water supplies make water resources
management in Tamilnadu complex. At present the allocation of water
between the different sectors and users, both in terms of water rights and
decisions governing releases from reservoirs, is clearly demarcated but is not
necessarily in the best interests of rational resource management. This was
discussed in Chapter 2.
Replenishment of water resources is tlhrough southwest and northeast
monsoons. These benefit different regions of Tamilnadu by different amounts,
see Figures 3 and 4. In some areas only one of the two monsoons is
important whilst other areas receive appreciable rainfall from both. The
monsoon rains in Tamilnadu show considerable inter-annual variation making
surface water supplies unreliable even with the large amount of tank and
reservoir storage nuw available. Irrigation from wells has, therefore, increased
in recent years and groundwater has become an important, and in some
regions over-exploited, resource.
I
13                     EX 2BSi3 29/1113
I



3.1 Surface water
Tapping of surface water for irrigation dates back more than a thousand years
in history. Diversion weirs constructed across rivers, provided a loosely knit
canal system which filled the tanks constructed in low lying areas wih bunds.
There are 39,000 such tanks either fed from surface flows from major rivers
or from small rivulets.
Organised irrigation systems were developed during the British colonial era,
centred round the major rivers such as Tambaraparani, Vaigai, Cauvery,  I
Pennaiyar and Palar. The main features of such systems are: storage
reservoirs in the uplands on the eastern slopes of the westem ghats with
catchments in forest and plantation areas; and canal systems fed directly from  I
the reservoirs or from rivers through diversion weirs (anicuts) located in the
central plains and these systems ending in the coastal delta on the east.
The diversion of large volumes of water for irrigation from most rivers in
Tamilnadu has affected the morphology of the rivers themselves although
floods, which are the main channel forming flows, still pass for short periods  I
in most years. In many rivers, the morphology is further affected by large
quantities of sand which are extracted for building purposes. Although no data
are available to prove it, there is a belief amongst some engineers that this
sand abstraction is sufficiently intense to jeopardise the stability of structures
downstream through increased scour and to reduce the ability of the alluvium
to store the water needed by the many infiltration galleries which have been
constructed along most rivers. Licences are issued by the PWD for sand
abstraction. These state a minimum distance from excavation sites to existing
structures and a maximum depth (1.5m) to which sand can be dug.
Risk of flooding is an important factor for certain areas of Tamilnadu especially
along the coast where the flat land gradients make it difficult to drain away
direct rainfall during prolonged storms. Areas at particular risk are along the
coast from Point Calimere northwards (including Madras). In addition, floods
caused by high river flows are a persistent risk in the lower reaches of the
Vaigai and Tambaraparani river basins and along much of the Cauvery river.
Unlike other Indian states in the north, most of the irrigation reservoirs are
small or medium sized ones, except Mettur dam across the Cauvery. The   |
water resources environmental setting and reservoirs will be discussed basin-
wise as each river basin has its own distinctive environmental features and
characteristics. A map showing the locations of the river basins is given in
Figure 1.
3.1.1    Tambaraparani Basin
The Tambaraparani and its tributaries, located in the southern parts of
Tamilnadu. receive surface flows resulting from the southwest monsoon and
in some local areas, from the northeast monsoon as well. In general, the  _
control of surface water is by storage reservoirs located near the foot of the
hills on the eastern slopes of western ghats. Karayar reservoir of Papanasam
hydroelectric project is one of the earliest to be constructed for power
generation during the years 1938 to 1943. Subsequently Manimuthar reservoir
was completed in 1956 essentially as an irrigation reservoir. Several other
storage  reservoirs have been constructed across tributaries of the
Tarmbaraparani such as Karuppa Nandhi (1974), and Servalar (1986).
Adavinayagar is the latest to be taken up in this basin, which is under
construction, and is included amongst the WRCP on-going projects. The
14                     EX28S3 2/W1 W93



l                                                                                              E
essential features ol the catchment are reserve forests with steep hill slopes
and fairly good tree cover. Wildlife Is prevalent In most of the catchment
I                                  areas, In a few of the catchment areas wildlife sanctuaries are located
interconnecting several river valleys at local level. Mundanthurai (tiger) and
Katakkadu (lion tailed monkey) are two such wildlife sanctuaries.
In some of the local valleys, there are small plantations cultivating cardamom,
cloves and coffee. Coconuts are also prevalent. Soil erosion in the various
I                                  small river valleys is negligible and surface flows are free from contamination
in the upper reaches of the catchment.
In almost all the reservoirs, fish production is organised for producing
lingerlings in seed farms (along the shores) as well as for large-scale fish
production which is found to be highly productive. Leachates from runoff, such
as pesticides and fertilisers, are not being monitored but the general level of
such pollution will be minimal due to limited activities in the catchment area.
During 1992 there was an intense cyclonic storm during the northeast
rmonsoon resulting in heavy land-slides. This uprooted trees and boulders,
silted up some of the reservoirs and damaged hydro-electric power houses.
Servalar, Karuppa Nadhi, Rama Nadhi and Gadana reservoirs were amongst
those affected due to the flash floods which occurred during this period.
Except during the cyclonic storm of 1992 the surface flow is devoid of
substantial sediment movement and the water quality is fairly good. Almost
all the reservoirs store surface flows and divert the waters either via the river
or through canals to irrigation tanks which receive water as stated. The
regulation below the tanks for irrigation is left to farmer groups.
Water quality monitoring is being carried out sporadicatly for some physico-
chemical parameters such as pH, suspended solids, electrical conductivity,
chlorides, and sulphates. Sample collection and analysis are carried out by
the laboratory located in the Soil Mechanics Division of PWD in Madras.
A number of community water supply systems and a major scheme to supply
water to the industrial complexes in and around Tuticorin draw their
requirements from the Tambaraparani basin and release industrial and
domestic waste waters back, some of which have little or no treatment.
3.1.2    Vaigai-Periyar Basin
The Vaigai river originates on the eastem slopes of the westem ghats and
receives flow from the southwest as well as the northeast monsoons. A
number of small reservoirs such as Manjalar and Vaigai are located in this
basin which store water essentially for irrigation purposes. The Periyar, which
*                                  is a west flowing river located in the adjoining state of Kerala, has been
diverted through a tunnel into the Vaigai basin to provide additional flow for
cultivation in the command area of the Vaigai basin. This project was
*                                  completed as early as 1895. The catchment area is partly located on the
western slopes of the westem ghats (Kerala) and partly on the eastern slopes
of the western ghats (Tamilnadu). Two new reservoirs are being built across
I                                  smaller tributaries of the Vaigai, viz, Shanmuga Nadhi and Sothuparai, which
are proposed as part of the WRCP on-going minor schemes. The catchment
areas of the reservoirs are essentially reserve forests with very little private
I                                  land ownership and fairly dense tree cover. Wildlife is prevalent in all the
catchment areas. The water spread areas do not receive much siltation due
to the good vegetative cover in the catchments and are conducive to fish
15                     EX 2853 2W1193



production. In each of the reservoirs, fish production as well as seed farms
(fingerlings) are common. Vaigai reservoir, by contrast, Is located in the plains
where part of the catchment is eroded whilst the lands under cultivation are
mostly for dry-foot crops which result in added siltation.
The iirigated area is in the plains leading to the east coast of Tamilnadu.
Water from the reservoirs flows through rivers or canals filling up tanks to
stabilise the irrigated land (ayacut). Farm runoff from the command area may
contain pesticides and fertiliser residues as intense farming operations are
being carried out in the entire Vaigal basin. Water quality monitoring is being
done sporadically as part of the World Bank aided project on modemisation of
the Periyar-Vaigai irrigation system.
A number of water supply schemes, including a major scheme to supply
Madurai city corporation, draw from the Vaigai basin in different locations
Industrial demand for water is also met from different locations in the Vaigai
basin.
3.1.3   Parambikulam-Aliyar Basin
The catchment areas of small rivers located in the Anamalai hills receive the
bulk of their supply during the southwest monsoon and meagre flows during
the northeast monsoon. Most of the reservoirs are located in the hilly region
of the western ghats. The catchment area has a mixed land use pattem. In
some, the catchment area is essentially reserve forest with good tree cover.
But in the rest there are tea and other plantations. The Lower Nirar reservoir
had a catchment area with cincoan plantations which have been converted into
tea plantations with extensive removal of tree cover. Correspondingly, the
exposed soil is likely to silt up the lower Nirar dam considerably. This in tum
will lead to siltation in the Sholaiyar and Parambikulam reservoirs as well.
Nirar dam is located in the upper reaches of the hill area and the stored water
flows through tunnels to reservoirs located below.  Paramnbikulan and
Sholaiyar reservoirs have catchment areas with good tree cover producing
surface flows which are free from silt. Aliyar dam, located at the foot hills on
the eastern slopes of the western ghats, also has a good catchment area with
effective tree cover and siltation is not high. However, Thirumoorthy dam,
which receives water from all the other reservoirs in addition to its own
catchment, has a greater amount of siltation due to poor vegetative cover in
is catchment together with some barren pockets.
The command areas of the Parambikulam-Aliyar projects are essentially on
black cotton soils where the cropping pattem is on an altemate year basis
which provides for recharging groundwater and filling up wells in the
neighbourhood. The command area is, thus, distinctly differen. from those of
the Tambaraparani and Vaigai basins.  Cases of fluoride build up in
groundwater widely reported in the past have not proved to be significant.
3.1.4    Bhavani Basin
The Bhavani river, which is a tributary of the Cauvery, has a dam at Bhavani
Sagarwhich is essentially for irrigation purposes. It receives surface flowfrom
two valleys in the upper reaches of Nilgiris viz, Moyar valley and Kundah
valley.
Glenmorgan (1938), Sandy Nullah (1966), Pykara (1966), and Mukkurthy
(1956) are some of the reservoirs located in the hills of the Moyar valley. The
catchment areas of most of these reservoirs have good forest and tree cover
16                      EX28s3 29d11193



but In recent years Increased human actilvity has resulted In exposure of the
top soil. Sandy Mullah reservoir has two large Industrles located in the
catchment namely Hindustan Photo Films and Protein Products India which
discharge partly treated Industrial effluents into the river. The catchment area
also has Intense farming activities where potato, cabbage and othervegetables
are grown.  All these reservoirs are essentially for storage for power
generation In Singara power house located about 400 m below the lamns. The
tailrace water of Singerm power house is drawn through a flume to
*                                 Mayavakkandi reservoir which acts as a forebay reservoir for Moyar power
house located another 300 m below. Moyar runs into Bhavani Sagar reservoir
where water is fairly Iree from silt except that originating In the lower
catchment areas. Mudumalai wildlife sanctuary is located In this catchment
where reserve forest and good tree cover are prevalent.
The Kundah valley, on the other hand, has a series of dams: Upper Bhavani
(1969), Emerald (1961), Avalanchi (1961), Porthimund (1966), Parsals Valley
(1966), Pegrinahalla (1966), Kundah Palam (1 966) and Pillur reservoir (1966).
All these reservoirs are interconnected one below the other through tunnels
and penstock pipes for the generation of power. The catchments in some of
the areas are reserve forests but most of the other areas have tea plantations
and vegetable cultivation such as potato, cabbage and carrot, on a large scale.
*                                 Such agricultural operations expose the top soil and result in soil erosion which
gets reflected in heavy siltation in Pillur dam located at tho lower elevations
near the foot of the hills. About 30% reduction in the capacity of the Pillur
reservoir during the past 25 years has been reported, though the catchment
area of Pillur reservoir by itself has reserve forest and good tree cover. The
flow from Pillur reservoir reaches Bhavani Sagar through the river and siltation
in Bhavani Sagar has also been attributed to the causes enumerated above.
On the other hand, the Upper Bhavani and Makurthi reservoirs and catchments
have fully recovered and could be taken as model ecosystems with pristine
-                                 conditions.
Water is abstracted for industrial use from the Bhavani and heavy pollution due
to the Viscose Rayon and other industries has been repotted in this reach.
However, systematic water quality monitoring has not been carried out except
for sporadic monitoring by the TNPCB. The catchment area has diversion
dams across the river which have been in existence even during the British
period and the lower Bhavani Main canal is used to irrigate dry-foot crops.
Ultimately the drainage from the Bhavani flows into the river Cauvery.
An Environmental Assessment of the Bhavani river basin has been carried out
wherein the catchment, reservoir and command area have been assessed
criically for environrnental quality. This will serve as an example for future
replication by WRD and for training purposes.
3.1.5    Cauvery Basin
J                                 The Cauvery is an inter-state river having catchment areas in Kamataka,
Kerala and Tamilnadu. Bhavani is one of the tributaries of the Cauvery, the
basin characteristics of which have been discussed in 3.1.4. The Cauvery is
the main source of irrigation for about 9.34 lakhs acres (370,000 ha) in Tanjore
delta close to the sea coast. The potential flow in a catchment of about
2,000 km2 is around 250 TMC; (0.71 x 1010 m3) but due to disputes between
Kamataka and Tamilnadu, the allocation for Tamilnadu will depend upon the
decision of the Cauvery Tribunal. The bulk of Tamilnadu's irrigation and food
production depends upon the flow in the Cauvery and also the tributaries of
17                     EX2S 25 0t193



Ei R
the Cauvery within Tamllnadu. In addition 'o direct irrigation from canals
taking off from the river there are also tanks In the basin which get stabilised
from the storage provided in Stanley reservoir above the Mettur dam, located
just downstream of the border with Karnataka.
The Southwest monsoon in the hilly regions of Kerela, Kamataka and
Tamilnadu provides the bulk of the flow into the Cauvery basin through several
tributades. There are a number of storage reservoirs on the tributaries to the
Cauvery as well as two major reservoirs on the main river at Krishnarajasagar  I
(Karnataka) and Mettur. The storage reservoirs located at the foot of the hills
on the eastern slopes of the western ghats including Nilgiris, have esserlially
reserve forests and good tree cover. A few locations, as in the Kundah valley  I
and some reservoirs of Karnataka, have plantations and other activities in the
catchment. Correspondingly, soil erosion leading to siltation in Krishna-
rajasagar and Mettur is comparatively low. In other localised reservoirs
siltation may be heavy but details regarding the situation in Karnataka were not
available to the writers.
The Cauvery delta receives a fraction of its supply from the northeast monsoon
during the October-December irrigation season but the area, being coastal
plains with no storage reservoirs, drains into the sea after only partial use of
the rainwater in the canals.
Wildlife is prevalent in the catchment areas of the Cauvery as well as its
tributaries, the details of which have been discussed in 3.1.4. However, for a
complete picture of the Cauvery basin further knowlege would be needed of
the catchment area in Kerela and Karnataka which is beyond the scope of this
study.
3.1.6   Pennajyar Basin
Pennaiyar basin lies essentially within outcrops of the eastern ghats and within  I
the eastern slopes of the western ghats. which do not have dense vegetation
and forest cover as in the case of Vaigai and Tambaraparani basins. Most of
the areas have dry-foot crop cultivation, which leads to soil erosion during
rains. The high rate of siltation in the Krishnagiri reservoir (see Table 5) is an
indication to show the fragile catchment characteristics.
Further, the bulk of the flow is during the northeast monsoon (October-
December) with only part during the southwest monsoon. Most of the time
during the year, the river and its tributaries are dry, except during monsoons.
The forest ecosystem is fragile and there are very few wildlife except in
Shevray and Kolli hills.
3.1.7   Palar Basin
The Palar originates from the eastern part of Karnataka, from the outcrops of
the western ghats. The bulk of the flow in the river takes place during the
northeast monsoon with very little contribution during the southwest monsoon.  X
Most of the time during the year. the river is dry.
The catsnment area in this basin has a fragile forest ecosystem with very few
wildlife, except in the Shevray hills and Kolli hills, which are outcrops of the
eastern ghats. Rainfed crop cultivation is prevalent in the catchment, which
leads to soil erosion during rains. Due to extensive sand cover in the river  I
bed, subsurface recharge takes place during floods and little water flows into
l
1 8                     EX Z8S3 Z9t11U93
l



the sea. The Palar is marked by several anicuts across the river and has no
major reservoirs.
The prevalence of a large number of small and medium sized tanneries
adjoining the river course, has resulted in tannery effluents which are causing
impairment to groundwater quality. According to the Soil Chemist in the
Department of Agriculture, the effluent has already had a severe effect on
3.911 ha of agricultural tand in North Arcot District and a further 11.851 ha are
moderately affected.
3.2 Groundwater
There Is estimated to be approximately 1.4 million opemting wells in Tamilnadu
including several major integrated water supply, municipal supply and industrial
supply systems depending on groundwater. lhe Groundwater Division of
PWD calculates the groundwater potential for each of the 384 development
blocks into which the state is divided. On the basis of this calculation blocks
are designated as "dark", in which more than 85% of the annual recharge is
already exploited, 'grey", in which the proportion is 65% to 85%, and "white",
for blocks where less than 65% is utilised. In Januany 1992 there were 89
dark blocks, 85 grey blocks and 210 white blocks. Figure 2 gives a general
overview of the hydrogeology of Tamilnadu and the distribution of dark blocks
is shown in Figure 5.
This provides a snap-shot of the situation rather than an indication of long-term
trends since the calculation of groundwater exploitation is undertaken annually
and reflects rainfall and recharge during the year. Between 1980 and 1992
the number of dark blocks varied between 39 (in 1985) and 133 (in 1981).
Overall, approximately 60% of Tamilnadu's estimated groundwater potential is
now exploited; up from 46% in 1985. Whilst the WRCP will not have any
adverse impact on the groundwater it is necessary to discuss the issue in
some depth as this report attempts to cover the water resources sector
throughout the state.
Groundwater problems vary over the state and some particular problem areas
are outlined below.
The Madras region, which depends on groundwater, for domestic and
industrial needs, to a considerable extent, has been observing a fall of over a
metre in the water table during the last five years and to some extent saline
water intrusion has also taken place in the Minjur well field north of the city.
Although beyond the scope of the WRCP this problem needs to be addressed
by the Madras Water Supply project.
In Chingleput District a fail in ground water level was observed in Tiruttani,
Thiruporur, Kundrathur and Minjur blocks whereas in other areas, there has
not been an appreciable fall in groundwater levels. In Alangayam, Tirupathur,
Anicut, and Pernambet blocks of North Arcot Ambedkar District groundwater
levels have fallen in the range of 1 to 2 metres during the five year period
1986-1992.
The Chinnaselam, Kallakurichi, Virudhachalam and Kannapuram blocks of
South Arcot District have observed up to 7 metres fall in groundwater levels
over five years, which is alarming.
l
19                     EX 2ssa 29(11 193



EN   ~~~I-
Coimbatore, Periyar, Madurai and Ramnad Districts have some pockets where
groundwater depletion appears to be significant. Groundwater depletion has
been only marginal in Dindigul, Dharmpur, Tanjavur Districts during the past  I
five years.
Over-exploitation of groundwater carries two dangers: first, the falling water  |
table demands increasing amounts of energy to extract water for irrigation and
other uses; and secondly, depletion of groundwater often leads to deterioration
of the water quality especially in coastal areas where saline intrusion occurs.  i
Groundwater quality is discussed below.
Whilst the utilisation rate for groundwater is lower than that of the surface
water the problems of regulating groundwater abstractions are more complex.
At present there is no legislation to control groundwater abstractions except in
the Madras Metropolitan area and even here the authorities feel obliged to  U
compensate farmers if they wish to remove their right to pump from aquifers
required for supplying the city's water needs. Elsewhere, no attempt is made
to control abstractions by farmers operating existing wells and boreholes.
However, electricity connections for new pumps are denied to farmers digging
wells within specified distances of irrigation canals (distance depending on the
size of canal) and river banks. For larger consumers (municipal and rural  _
water supply schemes and industries) some control is exercised over new  '
schemes if the groundwater resources are not considered sufficient to meet
demand. This applies chiefly to government schemes which are denied
funding if the water source is inadequate.
The biggest obstacle to rational management of groundwater resources is the
present policy in the state of providing free electricity to agricultural consumers.  I
This means that groundwater abstractions cannot even be controlled by pricing
mechanisms for energy.  It also means that scarce water and energy
resources are being used uneconomically and unsustainably: it cannot be in  I
the best overall long-term interests of the region for water to be pumped.
sometimes from a significant depth, to irrigate low value crops, particularly
paddy. Some restraint has been placed on new connections for agriculture
and in 1992 only 40,000 approvals were made from the 6 to 7 year waiting list.
In addition, those wishing to have priority are now required to pay a connection
charge of Rp 25,000 plus an annual charge per hp per year and about 4.000
of the new approvals accepted this.                                    '
This is a complex p'oblem and whilst the GOTN have accepted the need to
revise the policy of free electricity, for both economic and environmental
reasons the issue is politically sensitive. Extensive discussions have been
held on this subject and a phased approach is recommended. It may not be
opportune to introduce pricing for existing users at the same time as creating
the new Water Resources Department as this could lead to acrimony and
mitigate against the work of the WRD. An initial step would be to withhold
approval for any new connections in 'dark or even 'grey' areas. any areas  I
within 10 km of the coast or where low value crops or deep pumping is
required and to introduce charges for all approved new connections. This
policy also has an implication for energy consumption as discussed in  X
Section 3.7.
20                     EX 2853 2911 ra93
i



l                                                                      N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
3.3 Water quality
3.3.1    Surface water
The TNPCB has an extensive water quality moniloring programme which is
centred around 3 advanced environmental laboratories, 3 District Laboratories
and 6 mobile ones. Much of the sampling is directed towards municipal end
Industrial effluent disposal points to enable TNPCB to meet its statutory
requirement to enforce effluent disposal standards (see Section 3.3.3). There
are also permanent monitoring stations for coastal and river water quality.
There are approximately 30 coastal water quality monitoring stations currently
maintained by the TNPCS where a range of chemical and biological
parameters are measured including pesticides and plankton. In addition,
sediment samples are also collected at some locations and tested for heavy
metal and faecal po'utants. The stations cover the entire Tamilnadu coast.
Some are located i.i river mouths, others at municipal and industrial outfalls
and others in coastal and offshore waters.
Sampling inland water quality in rivers is more difficult because the majority of
rivers are highly seasonal in their flow and remain dry for much of the year.
Pollutants released into the river channel at times when there is little or no flow
mainly percolate into the groundwater.
The exceptions are the Tambaraparani and Cauvery rivers which are
perennial. Here the TNPCB operates a network of monitoring stations, 7 on
the Tambaraparani and 18 on the Cauvery. Parameters monitored include
standard physio-chemical and biological indicators and the data eollected are
submitted to the Indian water quality monitoring network, MINAS, and to the
Global Environmental Monitoring network, GEMS. Sporadic water quality
monitoring also takes place in the Vaigai basin.
Samples are collected at six monthly or yearly intervals from some reservoirs
and sent to Madras where they are analysed after a lapse of several days
within the laboratory of the Soil Mechanics Division of PWD. Chemical quality
may not be affected due to the lapse of time but bacteriological and biological
quality would be affected. However the main objective of this programme is
to monitor the water's suitability for irrigation.
In some of the reservoirs odour problems due to hydrogen sulphide and
ammonia gases as well as fish kills have been reported. This could be
attributed to disintegration of organic matter from natural vegetation or due to
entry of pollution from industrial and domestic sources. Such problems have
been reported from hydro-electric power houses as well as irTigation reservoirs.
However, organised attempts to collect samples for identification of pollution
levels as well as the sources of pollution have yet to be undertaken.
It is likely that some of the reservoirs risk eutrophication due to the release of
nutrients from plantation and other activities. Nutrients, intense sunlight and
favourable agro-climatic conditions are conducive to the eutrophication of many
reservoirs, which may be one of the reasons for the smell and other problems
mentioned above. The environmental quality of many reservoirs is not being
monitored, either for water quality or eutrophication. A few research studies,
sponsored by the Ministry of Environment and Forests, have been undertaken
by Universities, such as the one on Ooly lake in Nilgiris by Madras University
and on Kodai Lake in Kodaikanal.
21                     EX2BS3 29' lIm
l



U
3.3.2    Groundwater
Monitoring groundwater quality is the responsibility of the Groundwater wing
of PWD using approxirnately 2,100 observation wells located in different parts
of the state. Chemical parameters are monitored to assess suitability for
irrigation or industrial needs. Bacteriological quality is not monitored under this
programme but the Department of Public Health has a drinking water     I
monitoring programme under which drinking water sources are periodically
examined.                                                              |
Pollution of groundwater due to the discharge of industrial effluents has been
studied in selected areas, in the Palar, Vaigai, Cauvery and Tambaraparani
river basins. In some locations, as in North Arcot District (Ambur, Ranipet,  I
Vaniyambadi, etc) tannery effluents discharged over a long period of time,
have resulted in deterioration in groundwater quality to such an extent that it
has become unfit for drinking and irrigation. Large tracks of well irrigated land  I
have become unfit for cultivation (see Section 3.1.7).
In some other areas salinity has increased due to saline waler intrusion as in
Minjur, north of Madras, Radhapuram and Sattankulam taluks of Nellai
Kattabomman District and coastal parts of Nagapattinan, Ramnad and
Chidambaranar Districts. Away from the coast, a number of recions also show
high salinity levels which are deteriorating particularly in Coimbatore and
Madurai Districts. A map showing measured electrical conductivity values in
groundwater is shown in Figure 6. Deteriorating groundwater quality is likely  -
to become one of the most important water resources and environmental  a
issues in the fulure.
In 23 locations, particularly in Ramanathapuram and South Arcot Districts,
small package water desalination plants have been provided for drinking water
under the Water Technology Mission promoted by the Government of India.
Technology is available for brackish water desalination by reverse osmosis but
the operation and maintenance costs are extremelX high; in the range Rs 40
to 100 per 1000 litres for outputs from 50 to 1Om /day. This is beyond the
reach of rural communities.
Little is known about the possible pollution of groundwater with agrochemicals
although a study in 1989 (UNTCD, 1989) found nitrate levels in parts of the
Tambaraparani and Pennaiyar basins above WHO recommended limits for
drinking water,
In the western part of the state groundwater displays very high levels of
fluorides.
3.3.3    Water quality standards
Water quality standards have been recommended by the Government of India
(CBPCWP, 1986) for different classes of water use [see Tables 2 and 3]. The
TNPCB has also set standards for trade effluents being released into inland
surface waters, into sewers, into coastal waters and on land [see Table 4].
These effluent release standards are enforcible by law and the TNPCB has the
power to enforce them, if necessary, by ordering the closure of a factory or
other enterprise.
In practice, the TNPCB is reluctant to harm economic activity and tries hard
to help industries attain the necessary discharge standards. In the case of
small enterprises, such as the tanneries in the Palar basin, the TNPCB
22                     EX2SS3 2DttUD3



attempts to promote combined treatment plants serving several unis. There
is, however, a backlog of existing industries still failing to meet the required
effluent standards although the TNPCB ensures that all new industries comply.
A more difficult problem is the discharge of sewage from urban areas since
many small municipalities do not have the resources to provide adequate
*                                 wastewater treatment.
3.4 Soil and land resources
*                                 Tamilnadu covers an area of 130 000 km2 on the southeast tip of India. Its
eastem and southern edges are formed by sea coast whilst its northern and
westem boarders lie in high land which separates Tamilnadu from its
9                                 neighbouring states of Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, see Figure 1.
Although in the south the boundary lies along the continental watershed
dividing the east-flowing from the west-flowing rivers there are a number of
rivers rising mainly in the districts of Coimbatore and Nilgiris which flow west
into Kerala and several rivers, the most important of which is the Cauvery,
which rise in Karanataka and Andhra Pradesh and flow into Tamilnadu. The
general picture, however, is of a region bordered by high land in the west and
north from which rivers flow in an easterly direction across a broad plain to the
sea. The major rivers are lapped extensively for irrigation, see Figure 7.
1                                 3.4.1    Soil and land use
The main soil types are black soils and red loams which are distributed
-                                 throughout much of the state with sandy coastal alluvium being found in some
coastal regions, see Figure 8. The soils are generally fertile and lack of
suitable soils is not considered a constraint to agriculture.
The soil resources of Tamilnadu do not show any widespread deterioration due
to the processes of soil salinisation or water logging. The Department of
Agriculture monitors soil salinisation through its regular soil surveys which test
X                                 980,000 samples annually in 29 soil testing laboratories. Although pockets of
salinisation occur in most districts, the largest areas affected are in coastal
regions with brackish groundwater and poor drainage. Three of these account
I                                 for 57% of the total area affected: Chengalpallu (85,000ha), South Arcot
(74,000ha) and Nagapattinam (77,000ha). Inland poor water management is
a cause of waterlogging and salinisation and the districts winh the largest areas
3                                 affected are Coimbatore (28,000ha) in the Parambikulam Aliyar Project and
Madurai (23,000ha) in the Vaigai basin. In total some 412,000 ha have been
identified as suffering from some degree of salinisation. Once identified, the
farmers are advised what remedial measures should be taken (such as
application of gypsum) and, if funds are available, they may receive subsidies
towards the cost. Under the WRCP parts of those inland areas which fall
within the command areas covered by the project will benefit from rehabilitation
and improved management which will reduce waterlogging and salinisation.
Current land use is largely determined by elevation, rainfall and water
availability. In 1990-1991 the land was used in the following ways (Director of
Statistics. 1992):
|                                 Forest                         16.5%
Barren and uncultivable        3.9%
Non agricultural uses         14.1%
Cultivable Waste               2.2%
Pastures and grazing           1.0%
Tree crops                     1.8%
23                     EX 2553 23tI 1t93



Current fallow                   9.6%
Other fallow                     8.0%
Net area sown                   42.9% (of which 18.9 % sown rnore than      U
once in the year.)
3.4.2    Agriculture                                                        |
Irrigation is important for agriculture in much of the state although of the net
area sown in 1990-91, only 42.5% was under irrigation. The following sources
of supply were used (as % of total area irrigated).
Government canals               XI.4%
Tanks                           22.4%                                       U
Tube wells                       7.2%
Shallow wells                   37.5%
Other                            0.5%                                       1
Rice is the dominant agricultural crop although it now accounts for only about
30% of the cropped area. The following table shows how the cropped area,
production and yield of major crops have varied over the 20 years up to
1990-91 (Department of Agriculture figures):
Crop           Cropped area      Production (Mt)      Yield (tlha)
l            ~~~~~(ha x 10Ob 
l_        _  1970711 1990    f 91t970-71   1990-91   1970-71  j 1990.91 0
Rice          2.64     1.86     5.01      5.78      1.9       3.1
Millet and    1.96     1.18      1.50     135       0.8       1.1 
cereal
Pulses        0.49     0.85     0.13      0.36      0.3       0.4
Sugar Cane    0.11     0.23      1.07     2.42      9.4      10.4
Grund Nut    0.99      0.96     0.99      1.18      1.0       12
Cotton        0.30     0.24     0.59      0.74      2.0       3.1
In all cases, except pulses and sugar cane, there has been a reduction in
cropped area over the 20 years but corresponding increases in yields have
meant that the total production figures for all crops except millet have risen
during the period. In the case of rice, the increase in yield from 1.9 tVha to U
3.1 t/ha is substantial. This has partly been achieved by increased use of
fertilisers. In 1990-91 the average application of fertilisers was 130 kg/ha and
that of pesticides was 0.5 kg/ha. Although the chemicals are rnaking a
significant contribution to yield, the levels are not sufficiently high to raise
concerns of pollution of soil or water as a result of their use except in places
where local rates of application are considerably higher. Nevertheless, this will
need to be monitored as use of chemicals is likely to increase. U
Livestock ownership is important. Tamilnadu has over 9 million cattle, over 3
million water buffalo, over 11 million sheep and goats and over 21 million  I
poultry.
As the following tables shows, almost threequarters of land holdings in
Tamilnadu are of less than 1 ha; a size which the government classes as
.marginal'.
24                       EX 2553 2W1 1193
I



Class     Size (ha)   Number of    % of    Total area   % of
holdings    holdings   (ha x 106)   area
_________         ~(xi  06M_   _ _ _
*                                    Marginal    c 1.0       5.85        73         2.12       28
Small      1.0-2.0      1.27        16         1.79       24
Semi-      2.0-4.0      0.62         8         1.69       23
medium
Medium     4.0-10.0     0.23         3         1.30       17
Large       > 10.0      0.03        0.4        0.57        8
Total                   8.00                   7.47
Forest of various types is found largely in the hills in the western side of the
state although patches of forest are also found in the plains and coconuts are
common in the Cauvery delta, see Figure 9. The distribution and types of
forest will be discussed in more detail in Section 3.5 below.
Social forestry can have a positive impact on erosion and there has been an
active social forestry programme in Tamilnadu for several years, one element
of which is the planting of acacia trees wkhin the water-spread area of tanks
to provide fuelwood for villagers. This is generally intended to occur only on
the margins of the pool but observations by the consultants and the reports of
others suggest that the planting of trees in a substantial proportion of the
U                                  water-spread area is common. Crhicism has been made that this imposes an
additional water demand on the tank, although data to quantify this are not
available and research is needed. The trees have also been criticised with
regard to sedimentation because they increase the rates of sediment
derosition and hinder desilting. Ecologically the trees are welcomed as
nesting sites for birds (Section A.15) but are said to hamper fishing
(Section 4.14). It is, therefore welcome that an intor-departmental research
committee has been established to look at the overall implications of tree
planting within tanks.
3.4.3    Soil conservation
One of the main threats to the productivity of the land, and also the
management of water, is erosion of soil leading to siltation of tanks and
storage reservoirs. These will be considered separately.
As stated in the Introduction (Section 1.1), the earliest tanks in Tamilnadu were
protected from the effects of sedimentation both by conservation of the
catchments and regular desilting. Most of the tanks are in lowland areas and
X                                  there is a constant pressure by farmers to occupy and clear the catchment
X                                  areas for cultivation leading to increased rates of erosion. This, combined with
relatively little desilting work in the last few decades has created a situation of
serious siltation in many of the tanks. Data are rather sparse since few tanks
have been accurately surveyed for siltation but PWD (1993) estimates on the
basis of a cursory study that between 20% and 40% of the original capacity
of Tamilnadu tanks is now filled with sediment. Surveys of tanks are the
U                                  responsibility of the Gaugings Division but only the larger tanks are surveyed
regularly. Unfortunately the data for these tanks contains a large number of
inconsistencies anc are not worth reproducing here.
25                      EX 285S 29111193



There are far fewer reservoirs than tanks; 65 are Isted by Director of Statistics
(1992). Of these, 23, which are presumably the ones which were thought to
be at greatest risk from siltation, were surveyed by the Institute of Hydraulics
and Hydrology, Poondi in the period 1975 to 1993, see Table 5. At the time
they were surveyed the age of the reservoirs ranged from 16 to 87 years and
their loss of capacity ranged from 1.1% to 58t% of the original capacity.
Ovemll, 17% of the total capacity of these reservoirs had been lost at the time
they were surveyed. This figure is rather meaningless, however, since 64% /
of the original capacity was provided by a single reservoir; the Mettur Stanley  I
Reservoir. More revealing is the annual rate of storage loss of individual
reservoirs as a percent of their original capacity as shown in Table 5 and
summarised below:
Rate of storage loss (0/6/yr)      Number of reservoirs            3
<0.1%                             2
0.1 - 0.5%                          10
0.5- 1.0%                           4
1.0 - 2.0%                          4
> 2.0%                             2
The rate of siltation thus varies considerably. In some cases the situation is
serious with a substantial loss of ber.ef it from the reservoirs due to the storage
capacity already lost. Six reservoirs are filling at more than twice the median
rate. In the case of the reservoir filling at the fastest rate (Kundah-Pallam
Reservoir), 58% of its storage had been lost in the 22 years up to its first
sedimentation survey; a rate of 2.6% per year. Many of the oldest reservoirs
were built in hilly areas with catchments which remain well covered in forest
to this day. These forests protect the soil and prevent high rates of erosion.
The biggest siltation problems are occurring in reservoirs built in the foothills,
on the edge of the coastal plain, where considerable clearance of vegetation
from catchments has occurred. Parts of the Bhavani river basin exhibits
particularly high rates of reservoir sedimentation and should be given a high
priority for remedial soil conservation measures.
To counter this, and restore the inherent productivity of areas in which loss of
soil has made land infertile, the government has a programme of conservation
under various micro-watershed management projects but there are no mnajor
catchment management projects as yet. It is estimated that of the 13 x 1 O6ha
land area in Tamilnadu, 3.65 x I 6ha (28%) is subject to soil erosion. This
does not include areas within the forest reserve lands which are the    U
responsibility of the Forestry Department. Since 1961, an area of 1.69 x 1 06ha
has been treated with bunds, check dams, stream training and other protective  U
measures.  This work is largely undertaken under the direction of the   U
Agricultural Engineering Division (AED). Farmers are expected to contribute
to the costs of this work, Rs 600-1,000/ha in the plains and Rs 6,500-
10,000/ha in the hills, but may receive subsidies to cover 25% or 40% of the  I
cost respectively. Funds are available for 1993/94 to treat 75,000ha most of
which will be in the plains. According to the Bhavani Basin Environmental
Assessment report (1993) there are 13 agencies involved in some aspect of  U
soil conservation in the state and thus action is fragmented.
26                      EX B53 2911 93



An early Issue to be considered by the WRO should be reservoir sedimentation
and the RBMs responsible for those basins with soil erosion problems should
give priority to finding solutions, However, there Is a danger that the RBMs will
just add to the fragmented institutional responsibilities and this must be
avoided. Under the environmental action plan (see Part B) funds are included
for a special planning study of soil conservation which should make clear
practical proposals for appropriate action as well as review the present
institutional responsibilities and make recommendations for consideration by
the WRC.
Siltation is not only a problem affecting tanks and reservoirs but Is also
important with respect to irrigation canals particularly those which take their
water direct from rivers without passing through a storage reservoir or tank.
Areas which are known to be particLularly prone to canal siltation are parts of
the Cauvery delta (Metro and Boniar channels), the Periyar main canal and the
Palar anicut, although quantitative measures of the severity of the problem are
difficult to obtain. The design and construction of sediment control structures
for these canals should form part of the rehabilitation component of the WROP.
3.5 Ecological resources
Though Tamilnadu is smaller in size than many other States of India, it has a
wide variety of flora and fauna in a wide range of habitats. Dry deciduous
forest, thorn forest, scrub, mangroves and wetlands occur in the dry tracks in
the plains and lower hills. Moist deciduous and wet evergreen forests with
sholas and grass land occupy the hilly regions mostly in the western ghats,
see Figure 10. The forests are rich in plant and animal life. Out of 35,000
species of green plants found in India. about 30,000 species are found in
Tamilnadu. Most of the important species of mammals are also found here.
Tamilnadu has 14 wildlife sanctuaries and 5 national parks covering about
12.5% of the forest area (see Figure 9). Two biosphere reserves, one in the
Nilgiris and another in the Gulf of Mannar constituted by the Ministry of
Environment and Forests, are also located here. A tiger reserve combining
Mundanthurai and Kalakkadu wildlife sanctuaries under 'Project Tiger" has
also been established. About 308km2 (1.4% of the total forest area) has been
brought under national parks. In addition 252,600ha (2,526km2) have been
declared as wildlife sanctuaries.
The WildPfe (Protection) Act 1972 and the Wildlife (Protection) Tamilnadu
Rules 1975 provide an effective management and conservation strategy for the
rich heritage of wildlife. Details of the wildlife sanctuaries in Tamilnadu are
given in Table 6. Most of the wildlife sanctuaries are located in the catchment
areas of reservoirs in the foot hills of the eastern slopes of the westem ghats.
Well organised catchment protection, soil conservation measures as well as
forest preservation and protection are necessary not only for the preservation
of wildlife but also to protect the storage of water and preserve the ecology of
the region. The Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 provides legal and regulatory
safeguards to support such conservation.
Natural inland fisheries are not significant in much of the state although special
cold water fisheries are found in the Nilgiris and major reservoirs and large
tanks are made productive through annual restocking. The total annual inland
fish production is 84,000t including estuary and brackish water areas.
Migratory fish such as eels and hilsa are no longer found in Tamilnadu
27                      EX 2853 2911113



although giant freshwater orawns occur in the Cauvery. Carp populations In
the Cauvery have, howeva3r, declined in recent years,
On the negative side, interaction between the biosphere and agricultural
production, in the form of weeds and pests, limits crop yields. For example,
rice paddy has 10 pests commonly found in Tamilnadu. The Department of  L
Agriculture through its 160 Plant Protection Officers closely monitors the
prevalence of pests throughout the state and prepares weekly bullelins, in
discussion with scientists from  the Tamilnadu Agricultural University,  I
Coimbatore. These identify the high risk pests in each District. The bulletins
are broadcast and are used by the farmers and Village Extension Workers to
guide control measures. In the past these have largely been through chemical  9
control but recently there has been a move towards integrated measures
including chemical, biological (competitor species) and physical methods (such
as light traps). Plant Protection Officers are also responsible for advising on
the control of rodents wlhich cause damage particularly to harvested crops in
storage.
3.6 Coastal resources
Approximately hall of Tamilnadu is bordered by coastline. The 1,000 km coast
represents one sixth of the total coastline of India. The coastal plain is flat and
exposed to the attack of the sea especially during cyclones which occur on
average two or three times a year causing localised and sometimes
widespread, flooding. At present the coastal protection works in Tamilnadu are  =
constructed and maintained by the PWD.
Marine fisheries are a significant source of income. In 1991-92, 300,000t of
marine fish were landed by an estimated 100,000 active fishermen working
from 440 marine fishing villages. 40% was caught from non-mechanised boats
and the remainder from mechanised and motorised boats (only 13% from the
larr,er motorised boats).
There is increasing concern in many countries about the possible effect of
marine pollution on fisheries and marine life.  A number of industries,
particularly around Madras, are located on the coast and discharge their
effluent, both treated and untreated, into the sea. Likewise, Madras and other
coastal towns discharge untreated municipal sewage into the sea. The quality
of coastal waters in Tamilnadu is monitored regularly by the TNPCB as
described in Section 3.3.1. A new area of concern at present is the industry
around the southern tip.
Apart from fisheries, the Tamilnadu coast supports other important marine life.
In the Gulf of Mannar a marine National Park has been established, including
21 small offshore islands, to protect the rare dugong population as well as
turtles, dolphins and other marine life. At the point of Calimere there is a
wildlife sanctuary wh:- h covers 1,700 ha of tidal swamps where water birds,
various mammals, turtles and dolphin are found. At other places along the
coast, particularly around the Cauvery delta large populations of birds nest and
roost around tanks and water bodies, both fresh and brackish.
The above examples, although important, are however somewhat isolated and
are not typical of the rnajority of this coastline which along much of its length
carries a significant human population and which has only small areas of  I
undisturbed mangrove and coastal swamps. In the norih, the coastal wetlands
are badly degraded. Until recently the coral around the Gulf of Mannar was
28                      EX 2653 2W9 11D3



mi, ed for cement production but this has now been stopped. Pearl cultivation
is coimmon in this area.
Madras is the largest and most importan! sea port in Tamilnadu carrying about
70% of the statek fore;gn trade. Of the other fouir ports the most significant
is Tuticorin which carries 12%. Together these ports account for the import and
export o foreign goods annually to the total value of Rs. 80 x 109 (800 crores)
equivalent to US$ 2,580 million.
There is a net northeriy littoral drift of sediment along much of the coast.
Around Madras, the construction of breakwaters has caused siltation of the
mouths of the channels carrying floodwaters through the city. Dredging
operations are, therefore, required to keep these channels and the port clear.
It is not anticipated that activities under the WRCP will effect the coastal
resources since the small marine discharges from most river basins do not
allow major transport of pollutants from inland and the only significant irrigation
in a sensitive coastal zone is in the Cauvery Delta which is excluded from the
project.
3.7 Energy, minerals and air
Tamilnadu's rural population depends heavily on fuelwood as a source of
domestic energy although, by the end of 1991, electricity had been provided
to 440 towns, 16,000 villages and 48,000 hamlets throuC!4out the state.
Hydropower stations are an important source of electricity to meet this
demand. In 1991-92 there were 24 hydro-electric stations with a combined
capacity of 1,945 MW producing 4.4 TWh of energy (20% of the total
production). Three thermal power stations with a combined capacity of 2,340
MW generated 8.5 TWh (40 % of total production). The other 40% of the
electricity was purchased from centrally operated and atomic power stations.
Energy consumption by the agricultural sector represents 27% of the total.
The remaining electricity is consumed by the industrial (42%), commercial
(6%), domestic (16%) and other sectors (9%).
It is not possible to discuss water resources in isolation from energy resources
particularly in Tamilnadu where 20% of electricity is supplied by hydropower,
27%. of electricity consumption is used to pump groundwater for irrigation and
much of the domestic energy used by rural households is supplied by
fuelwood. Each of these facts raises some potentially difficult issues:
*   can a balance be found between reservoir operating policies which
optimise the production of energy and those which optimise the
production of irrigated crops?
*   can groundwater abstractions be regulated to allow water tables to rise
and thereby reduce the amount of energy needed for pumping
groundwater?
*   can provision oi renewable fuelwood plantations be integrated into overall
plans for the management of catchments and protection of wildlife?
Other potential issues include the provision of cooling water for thermal power
stations, the effect of lignie mining on groundwater, the energy needs for
supplying clean water through piped systems and the energy requirements for
desalination plants.
29                     Ex28e3 2g,1U93
;



Discussions are in progress to address tie ,olitically sensitive issue of
introducing payment for electricity for pumping of water for agricultural
purposes. The need for appropriate measures has been recognised by the
GOTN but will take some time to resolve. In debating this issue It should be
realised that excessive energy consumption resuls in unnecessary pollution
from power stations. In the meantime some steps have been made to qontrol
new connections. This issue is also discussed in Section 3.2.
Tamilnadu is not rich in minerals. By far the most valuable mineral output is
the 11.8 Mt/yr of lignite from two mines in south Arcot district. This operation
also has water resources implications because large quantities of groundwater
have to be pumped to keep the open-cast mines dry. Tami;nadu also
produces 300,000 t/yr of crude oil, 400,000 tVyr of magnesite and small
quantities of bauxite and gypsum. Limestone is quarried in 8 districts the total
output being 4.8 Mt/yr. Most of this is used for the 4.5 Mt/yr of cement whic'l
the state produces.
Industries are located mostly in and around Madras, Coimbatore, Salem,
Neyveli, Trichy, Madura! and Tuticorin with cement factories located in different
areas. Accordingly, air pollution is limited to the industrial areas and also
urban centres with heavy automobile traffic. Air quality measurement has not
been undertaken as an organised programme in Tamilnadu except for the city
of Madras. Under the National Air Quality Monitori!g Network, three sampling
stations (residential, commercial and industrial) are located in Madras city
wherein air quality is being assessed for conventional parameters such as
suspended particulate matter (SPM), S02 and NO,. This programme has
been going on since 1978 and increasing trends in SO2 and NOx are being
observed in city locations. However, the concentration of SPM, S02 and NOX
are below the prescribed standards viz, 250, 150 and 150mg/l respectively.
In addition, TNPCB undertakes air quality monitoring in some of the industrial
locations where cement plants, thermal power stations and fertiliser plants are
located.
3.8 Human resources
The 1991 census showed Tamilnadu to have a population of 55.6 million of
which 70%o live in the State Capital, Madras, and the remainder are spread fairly
evenly through the other 20 administrative districts, at an average density of
428 per km2. The Nilgris is the most sparsely populated district with a
population density of 277 per krrm. In all, 66% of Tamilnadu's population is
rural. Statewise. the ratio of females to males is 0.972 although in Coimbatore
it is as low as 0.91. There is concern that female infanticide occurs in some
places.
The Working population is considered to be 24.6 million of which 23% are
cultivators, 32% agricultural labourers, and only 5% engaged in manufacturing,
repair and other industries. In other words. agriculture directly accounts for
55% of all workers excluding the jobs it supports in manufacturing, retail,
transport and the service industries.
The economy of the State only partly reflects this agricultural bias. Of the net
State domestic product of Rs. 250 x 109 (25.000 crores) less tnan 20% is
provided by agriculture while 25% is provided by manufacturing. In 1991-92
the overall budget for the State Government was approximately Rs.60 x 109
(60,000 Crores) of which 70% was allocated to development expenditure. The
30                     EX 2893 29I 1/93



following breakdown of the development expenditure budget shows only those
headings relevant to this report.
Heading             Expenditure 1991-92    % of total development
expenditure
Rs x IOP   Rs croiea
Medical and Public    3.4        340              7,7
Health
Water supply and      1.7        170              Y.8
m                                   sanitation
3                                   Nutrition             2.7        270               6.2
Relief following      0.3         30              0.7
natural calamities
Agriculture           7.0        700              15.9
Rural Development     3.2        320              7.2
Irrigation and flood  1.4        140              3.2
control
Energy               0.03         3               0.06
Industry and          1.1        110              2.5
I                                   Minerals
l  cience,             0.02         2               0.05
Tec!.nology and
Environment
Over the period of the 8th 5-year plan 1he proposed development expenditure
shows increased expenditure on agricultural, irriqation and, particularly, power.
The proportions are: agriculture (10.4%), rural development (4.7%), irrigation
and flood control (5.6%), power (27%) and industry and minerals (5.8%).
Engineers are responsible for much of the water related planning, development
and management in Tamilnadu. The PWD employed about 3,900 engineers
in 1992-93. Moreover, statistics indicate that 39,000 students were enrolled
in colleges of engineering and technology in 1990-91, over ten times more
than the nuinbers in agricultural colleges.
3.8.1    Tribal minorities
Only 1% (aoproximalely) of Tamnilnadu's population is recognised as belonging
to scheduled tribes. The main concentrations of tribal groups are in the hill
country, particularly in the Nilgris, Analnis, the upper Tambaraparani basin and
tile Jawadhu hills of the eastern   i its. Tribal mincriies will not be affected
by the proposed WRCP.
3.8.2    Cultural aspects
Tarni!nadu has a rich heritage of sites of historical, cultural and religious value.
and contains many ancient temples, shrines, forts and other cultural and
historical buildings and sites of great value. These are protected by the
31                      FX 2853 29/11/93



'NEN
Archaeological Survey of India and the GOTN Religions Endowment Board
and there are few known instances when such sites have been dostroyed or
submerged as a result reservoir and irrigation projects. However, temples
were affected by the Methur, Poondi and Bawanisar projects. Tamilnadu
promotes its cultural heritage to visitors through an active Department of
1Tourism and private tourist industry. The local population is also encouraged
lo visit dam sites by creating parks and gardens around thom. The WRCP will
not hlave any adverse impact on cultural, historical or religious sites.  3
3.8.3   Health aspects
There is a well established system of hospitals, dispensaries and primary
health centres in the state, one centre to every 30,000 of the rural pcpulation, 
as well as approximately 6 times as many (9,000) health subicentres. Of the
190 000 deaths by specified diseases amongst the 350 000 deaths in 1990,
'he following shows those diseases which are generally associated with water.
Disease                f   Number ot       As % of deaths by
l ___________________      deaths in 1990    specified diseases
Dysentery and Diarrhoea       9145               4.88
Typhoid                       578                0.31
Japanese encephalitis         170                0.09                3
Cholera                        19                0.01
Malaria                         0                  0
It is clear that the water-bome diseases, dysentery. diarrhoea, typhoid and
cholera are the main causes of concern with regard to fatalities arising from  U
water-related diseases. Officials of the Public Health Services believe that
much of the transmission of these diseases occurs in rural areas along the
banks of rivers and canals where people wash and drink polluted water. In
many cases an alternate source of safe water exists, but people use polluted  U
water while working in iheir fields since otherwise they would have to return
to their villages.
Not all of the improved water supplies available are free of bacteriological
contamination. UNTCD (1989) notes that many water supplies as well as
some piped rural supplies consvructed by the TWAD Board, use infiltration
galleries and wells. typica:ly 5-6 m deep, in the sandy beds of rivers. Many
such wells were found to be infected and although most systems had
treatment works, the report concluded that due to ineffective chlorination they  3
posed a health risk. There have been few studies of the bacterological quality
of shallow village well3 but a study was conducted several years ago of 100
deep b3reholes with handpumps in rural areas around Madras by the Centre
for .wvironmental Studies, Anna University for UNICEF. The study showed
that faecal contamination could occur even in such wells, particularly when
sited in areas of fissured granite. The King Institute in Madras monitors
drinking water quality both before and attor treatment.
Two water-related diseases whicth are major concerns in other places do not
occur in Tamitnadu: Guinea worm was eradicated in 1982 although a
surveillance programme is nmaintained to prevent its reintroduction from
32                      EX2853 2WI I=



neighbouring Andhara Pradesh; and schistosomiasis occurs in only one small
pocket In the whole of India, In Maharashtra.
Three mosquito-borne diseases require special mention. Malaria Is the most
widely recognised of the three and produced about 150,000 recorded cases
in 1991 and 1992. The malaria mortality rate is very low in Tamilnadu due to
the very low percentage of the parasite Plasmodium faiciparum compared to
the more common P. vivax and also to the effective treatment programme
which exists. In Tamilnadu only 8% of all cases in recent years have been
ascribed to P. falciparum compared to 60-70% in some of India's northern
states. As a result, for over three decades there were no mcorded fatalities
due to malaria in Tamilnadu although in 1991, four deaths occurred in Madras
and the following year a further death occurred in a coastal village.
Historically, Tamilnadu has suffered serious malaria epidemics. One occurred
in the period 1936 to 1942 when a large new area of irrigation was opened up
in the Cauvery Delta. The cause was ascribed to 'untidy irrigation' (Rao, 1984)
which was corrected by filling up borrow pits, realigning field canals, improving
bunds, rotational supply, chemical larviciding and introduction of larviverous
fish. Similarly in the period 1952 to 1960 an epidemic occurred along the river
reach downstream of the newly constructed Sathanur Dam due to the large
number of pools which formed in the river bed when no releases were being
inade from the dam. In some years the number of recorded cases exceeded
the total population!
There are two vectors of malaria active in Tamilnadu: Anopheles stephensii
breeds mainly in water sto,3ge tanks and is responsible for urban and per-
urban malaria: and A. culicifaces breeds mainly in clear sunlit pools and is
responsible for riverine and coastal malaria. The relative distribution of cases
between these three types is * urban, 60% (of which almost three-quarters of
the cases occur in Madras); peri-urban malaria, 10% ; riverine malaria 5%:
and coastal 25%. There was a ten-fold increase in the number of cases of
riverine malaria between 1989 and 1992 mainly in the districts of
Tiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Periyar (at Erode).
The main cause of coastal malaria appears to be the planting of coconuts,
cashew and other trees with a pool around them to trap water.
There is both active and passive monitoring of malaria by the Public Health
Service. Under the active programme at least 66% of the population is
screened each year. Control programnmes in the urban areas are under the
municipal authorities and focus on larvae control whereas the Public Health
Service is responsible for control in rural areas and uses the chemical
malathion as a house spray to kill adult mosquitoes. Such control is in
addition to the control provided by the thorough programme of treatment that
exists.
The second mosquito-borne disease of concem is Japanese encephalitis
which is transmitted by the Culex vishui group of r,mosquitoes. Unlike
A. culicifaces which tends to breed in rice fields only before the rice plants
appear, these Culex mosquitoes breed amongst the paddy crop at all stages.
Japanese encephalitis is a viral disease. The virus is common in pigs, and
even in humans only a small number of those infected actually develop
symptoms. However, once the disease becomes established, mortality rates
are very high; of the order of 60% of all cases.
33                     EX 253 2S9 1113



There is a fluctuating number of cases each year but, on average over the last
16 years, there have been about 150 deaths a year; the highest rate being  _
432 deaths in 1986. The main districts where Japanese encephalitis occurs
are South Arcot, Thanjavur, Tiruchchiapalli, Madurai and Tirunelveli. So far,
no overall control strategy has been established.                      f
The third mosquito-bome disease of concern is filariasis. Although rarely fatal,
f ilariasis can be severely debilitating and is difficult to treat. The vectors in this
case are Culex mosquitoes which favour stagnant and polluted water for
breeding. Hence, in the past, filariasis has tended to be more prevalent in
urban than in rural situations. However rural cases are increasing due to  _
water supply schemes without adequate drainage. There is an active
diagnosis and control programme which began in 1957 and now comprises 21
control units operating 42 night clinics in 43 urban centres. These units survey
about 1.1 million people per year of whom about 1% are found to be infected
with the parasite and 20% of these show signs of disease. The programme
of case detection and treatment is the main control method used but chemical
control of mosquito larvae is also used. Centres of transmission occur in most
parts of Tamilnadu.
There are a number of laboratories and research institutes in Tamilnadu with  3
expertise in vector-borne diseases: the Central Malaria Laboratory in Madras,
the Malaria Research Centre (ICMR) in Madras, the Centre for Research in
Medical Entomology (ICMS) in Madurai, various University departments and  3
the Institute of Vector Control and Zoognosis in Hosur. The last of these has
been recognised by WHO as a National Centre for training in vector control.
In addition, in Pondicherry there is a WHO assisted Vector Control Research
Centre.
4  Environmental issues arising from WRCP                              3
4.1 Introduction
The proposed scope of the Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project  I
was described in Section 1.3. From that description it can be seen that one
objective of the WRCP is to address the issues arising from water resource
utilisation and to bring about environmental improvements. The project's three  I
main components are to rehabilitate and modernise a large area of existing
surface waler irrigation; to complete several minor schemes already started
and to provide advice, training and institutional strengthening in orderto enable
policy and organisational changes to be introduced.
This chapter considers the environmental issues in the water resources sector  j
with respect to the different project components. Overall the project will have
a beneficial impact but the achievement of those benefits requires active rather
than passive intervention. The chapter considers whether there are any  -
additional adverse effects which may arise or any additional environmental
enhancements which may be achievable.
The largest project componient is the rehabititation and modernisation of  U
existing irrigation schemes in Tamilnadu, including further work on schemes
previously under the National Water Management Project. As described in
Section 1.3 the rehabilitation and modernisation work will be undertaken in two  _
stages. Stage 1 will focus on restoring and upgrading the main distribution
system to the extent necessary to ensure reliable and equitable supplies at
34                     EX 2853 28111193



sluice off-takes and the hand-over of operation and rnaintenance
responsibilKttos to Famners Associations (FAs) below the sluice, Stage 2 will
involve the creation of Farmer Councils (FCs) at distributary level and the
transfer of rosponsibilities for operation and maintenance to these FCs
including suc.h upgrading of the distribution system as may be agreed.
Together these stages will lay the foundation for long-term sustainability of the
i(rrgation systems.
Taking the command areas individually, a comparison of impacts and benefits
indicates that the effect of the WRCP will be environmentally positive since
improved water management and maintenance of the projects will be beneficiat
and little now land will be developed.
For the twelve on-going minor schemes which have been put forward for
inclusion in the WRCP some new construction is involved. For nine sub-
projects, additional reservoir or tank storage is being created and areas of new
irrigatedcommandarebeingdeveloped. Theterm on-going isnot, therefore,
meant to imply that these schemes, like the rehabilitation/modernisation
category, are already wholly in existence. The term is used to indicate that the
planning and design, and in sorne cases their implementation, had begun
before the WRCP was proposed and that they will now be taken under the
umbrella of the WRCP at the stage tliey have now reached. To the extent that
these schemes involve the construction of new dams, weirs, canals and
irrigation works it is likely that their environmental effects will be more
extensive than those of the rehabilitation component. However, this is a small
part of the overall poject.
4.2 Catchment protection
A major disadvantage of water resources planning on a piece-meal project by
project basis is that the upstream or downstream effects on water resources
of land-use changes and human activities within the catchment may be
overlooked. There are complex inter-relationships, some not sufficiently
understood for accurate predictions to be made at present, between land
cover, soil erosion, evaporation, runoff. infiltration and the leaching of nutrients
and agro-chemicals. Unless the whole catchment area of a river can be
managed in a comprehensive manner it will not be possible to protect the
quality and quantity of groundwater and surface water sources and to prevent
excessive sedimentation of reservoirs and irrigation channels.
Tamilnadu currently has an inter-departmental committee to coordinate
catchment treatment work for the protection of major reservoirs (see
Section 2.3) but no such coordination exists for protecting the large number of
tanks that exist.  Under the WRCP i is proposed that River Basin
Management units be created within the Water Resources Department,
overseen by the WRC. The proposed structure of the RBMs given in the
report of the Institutional Study clearly demarcates the Chief Engineer (Plan
Formulation) as having responsibility for coordination with other agencies at
the basin level.  With this arrangement catchment management and
conservation should be properly addressed in the future provided that there is
adequate montoring and data collection to provide a sound basis for decision
making.  However, as mentioned in section 3.4 there are numerous
Govemment agencies involved in catchment activities and consultation and
coordination must be effective if inter-agency conflict is to be avoided. The
issues are not straightforward since conservation activities designed to reduce
soil erosion are likely to increase rates of infiltration (and possibly evaporation)
35                      eX 2BS: 21 193



and, thus, decrease overall rates of surface water runoff. At the same time,
there may be a change in the seasonal distribution of flow so that flows during
the monsoon period are reduced but base-flow during non-rainfall periods are
Increased.
Provided that degraded catchments can be identified by the RBMs and that
agreement can be reached on suitable conservation measures to introduce,
there remains the question as to whether inter-departmental and inter-agency
cooperation is adequate, and funding available, to ensure that the chosen
measures are implemented. As mentioned above this already occurs to some
extent through the inter-departmental committee on reservoir sedimentation.
Under the project such links would, hopefully, be strengthened through the
RBMs and WRC, An important issue to be addressed early by the WRC is
constructive coordination with the AED, who have prirmary responsibility for soil
conservation, and other agencies involved in catchment protection otherwise
inter-agency rivalry could be detrimental to soil conservation measures.
Comprehensive management of tlhe catchmenl will also provide a basis for
addressing problems of eutrophication due to the leaching of nutrients and to
other water quality problems related to leachates from agro-chemicals and
other non-point sources of pollution. Downstream in the command area a
catchment-wide view of waterlogging, salinisation and flood inundations will
also be beneficial. For all of these a valuable tool to aid interpretation will be
the use of remotely sensed images. Enhancement of capabilities to interpret
and use remotely sensed images is one of the institutional strengthening
measures proposed under the WRCP.
Finally the protection and enhancement of flora and fauna will be more
effective if it can be seen as an integral part of the other catchment
management activities described above.
As demonstrated above, the WRCP has great potential for environmental
benefits in relation to catchment management. This has received attention in  f
the project preparation and emphasis should be given during project
supervision to ensure that these benefits materialise otherwise an important
opportunity may be lost or only partially exploited. In addition, following the
completion of the proposed soil conservation planning study (see Part B),  _
consideration should be given by the GOTN to fund soil conservation works
in selected basins.
4.3 Surface water allocation
Up to the present time, irrigation direct from canals or tanks has taken priority
over other surface water demands simply because industrial and domestic  U
demands were not developed. With larger reservoirs the situation is more
complex and rules have been established for day-to-day operation to satisfy
the various demands for which the reservoir was buikt: hydropower, irrigation,  |
domestic and industrial. Nevertheless, basin-wide long-term planning is
lacking; new projects are considered individually in the light of available flows
and existing demands. New industries are not even considered if adequate
water resources are not available but there is no information on the extent to
which this has constrained industrial developnent.
Under the WRCP the proposed policy and organisational changes are aimed
at creating a -system whereby surface water can be allocated according to an
agreed set of priorities and procedures, river basin by river basin and for the  3
36                      EX 28S3 29n 1193
l



]IEN1
state as a whole. A basic requirement for such allocation is improved data on
J                                 the available flows and on the available storage taking account of current and
future sedimentation losses as well as an ability to model complex multi-
storage supply and demand networks. These have been identified as
components which will be strengthened although the need to accurately predict
the future impact on reservoir operation ot sedimentation is not specifically
highlighted and would require modelling the sedimentation behaviour of
]                                  reservoirs.
The biggest challenge facing the WRCP is that, with an estimated 95% of all
surface water resources already committed, any increase in domestic,
i                                  municipal or industrial demand will have to be mu' from savings or cut-backs
in irrigation use. This issue must be addressed initially at a basin or state level
but must also be translated into appropriate action on individual irrigation
I                                  schemes. The IWS is responsible for preparing river basin plans and will face
the challenge of introducing a more effective way of managing the finite
surface water resources in Tamilnadu. This may lead to consideration of some
]                                  fundamental questions such as the wastewater reuse, necessity of imposing
restrictions on highly water consumptive industries, changes in cropping
pattems and possibility of alternative water sources. These questions are
discussed further in the environmental action plan.
The preparation of river basin plans looking ahead 20 and 40 years, as
proposed under the WRCP. will facilitate a more holistic approach to planning
and assist in highlighting the potential conflicts and problems sufficiently in
advance to allow these complex issues to be studied and attemative
responses developed and tested. The WRC also provides a forum in which
I                                  difficult policy decisions can be made. The changes proposed under the
WFRCP provide a much firmer basis for future water resources management
than the current situation altlhough the complexity of the problems should not
be underestimated and should be constantly reviwed by those responsible in
the new WRD and by the World Bank supervision missions.
1                                  4.4 Irrigation water management
It is anticipated that through the WRCP more reliable and equitable supplies
will be available for irrigation and, at the same time, water will be saved for
other uses. This is perhaps one of the most positive environmental aspects
of the WRCP.
|                                 Water conservation/saving is a priority for the GOTN in line with their
objectives of improved water resources management. PWD data for the
Tambaraparani basin shows that significant volumes of water previously used
d                                  for irrigation can be saved with the methods being implemented in the WRCP.
The Monitoring and Evaluation' task within the project will include performance
measurements to show the crop production per unit of water delivered: this
and other performance indicators are essential if water conservation is to be
given a high priority. In addition, the farmers must be made aware of this
priority. Field reports on three schemes which have been rehabilitated to
stage 1 level under the NWMP are being monitored and initial evidence shows
a significant reduction in water use (up to 34% on one scheme with crop yields
increased by amounts varying from 21 to 57%). More equitable distribution
has also been noted with tail-end farmers now getting more reliable supplies.
Farmer response to taking over maintenance of the system below 500 ha has
also been favourable.
37                      X28S53 2WU1V93



The quickest and most effective way to save water would be to change the
crop mix, however, this is outside of the direct control of the authorities.  I
Nevertheless, farmers are already aware of the conflict for water in some
areas and should be made to realise that unless water Is used more sparingly
reductions in Iheir consumption may be necessary. With incentives and
adequate support through effective agricultural extension they may adopt
alternative cropping pattems.
It is important to consider what use wil1 be made of the water saved. For the  I
Tambaraparani basin example cited above, it Is stated that water saved will be
used to meet urban water demands, in this case sufficient up to the year 2011.
In other basins, the savings appear to be earmarked to expand the area to be
irrigated. Those farmers operating from rainfed tanks, suffer from unreliable
single-season supply and wherever possible savings from improvements within
the command areas should benefit such farmers rather than allow for    I
expansion of the command area. At a state or river basin level the WRC and
River Basin Management units are being established to resolve this question
but at a sub-project level it is not clear what policy will be applied in the interim  I
period before the river basin plans have been formulated. By the time the
plans become available many of the sub-project allocation decisions may have
already been made and the Basin Manager's scope for flexibility much   I
reduced. To forestall this situation, provisional guidelines should be prepared
for immediate application,
As mentioned above, farmers often have wells within command areas which
they use to supplement canal supplies and to irrigate dry-foot crops in the dry
season. This is particularly useful in areas which have erratic rains from one
or other of the monsoons. At present there do not appear to be good data
showing the possible effect which canal lining and improved operation would
have on groundwater levels since reduced seepage and wastage is likely to
reduce recharge.  This in tum could lead to further depletion of the
groundwater as the farmers pump from a diminishing resource. On the other
hand rrora equitable distribution of surface water may reduce the need to
pump groundwater. Conjunctive use of water is discussed further in section
4.5 below. Measures to save water could have other impacts both positive
and negative on wildtife and community health and these are discussed in
Sections 4.15 and 4.19 respectively.
With respect to the completion of the on-going minor shemes it is necessary  =
to consider what implications each will have for the overall utilisation of water
resources of the river basin. In particular, any effects on the existing water
use downstream of any proposed dams or off-takes shoulc be made to ensure
that they do not adversely affect downstream users, sun.h as those drawing  I
water from infiltration galleries in the river bed for rural water supply schemes.
In the Sothuparai scheme, a large area (4,000 ha) of inango cultivation was  I
observed just downstream of the proposed dam site. This raises the concem
that impoundment of water may cause groundwater levels to rise and, since
mango trees are very sensitive to waterlogging, might disrupt this very
productive existing local enterprise. A PWD hydrogeotogist should study this
particular scheme before any work commences. In other cases, a rise in water
table around the dam or command area may be beneficial to well owners who
are currently suffering from steadily falling groundwNater levels.
38                      EX2S53 29t11193



4.5 Groundwater
The WRCP will not have any direct impact on groundwater as the project
concentrates on surface water utilisation. Groundwater is therefore discussed
in more detail in chapter 3 in relation to water resources in general.
Nevertheless, the project does include the proposal for a Groundwnter Act
which should be beneficial to the long term sustainability of the resource.
Groundwater use should also be included in the proposed river basin plans.
Some of the 1.4 million wells and pumps discussed in chapter 3, about 20%
of the total, are located within the command areas and in these areas there
could be an impact on project activities. In such locations the rehabilitation
works should lead to more efficient water use, however, the incentive to safe
waler may be negated by the farmers' access to free water by pumping.
Moreover, energy consumption may increase as the groundwater level falls
because of the reduced recharge owing for example to canal lining and less
seepage.
Used sensibly groundwater pumping in conjunction with surface water can be
of immense benefit to irrigated crop production by selecting the appropriate
source according to availability. For example, groundwater pumping could
allow early land preparation and seed germination prior to surface water
releases; protect against crop failure if rains are poor and the surface
distribution system unreliable in mid-season; and allow the cultivation of a dry-
foot crop in periods when no surface water is being released.
An obstacle to optimising the potential benefits of conjunctive use is that the
wells and pumps used to abstract groundwater are owned by individual
farmers who are unlikely to surrender their individual freedom of action either
to instructions from government staff or to the collective decisions of the
proposed Farmer Councils. This issue must be adressed by the new WRD
when drafting the proposed groundwater act as it seems reasonably certain
that Farmer Associations will not be able to control groundwater use amongst
farmner groups below each sluice outlet. During the planning of sub-projects,
the current level of dependency of farmers on groundwater must be
established so that the conjunctive nature of the irrigation supply is properly
recognised.
These are complex inter-related issues and better understanding is needed of
the ways in which catchment land use and irrigation practices affect the rates
of recharge so that the available groundwater resource is better used. It is
worth noting that the current practice of the PWD in assessing groundwater
potential annually by designating 'dark', 'grey' and 'white' blocks should be
replaced by a more robust set of parameters which indicate more reliably the
long-term state of exploitation of groundwater in particular blocks and the
deviations from long-term trends produced by annual variations in rainfall and
abstractions. Within the WRCP groundwater levels will be included as part of
the Monitoring and Evaluation task which will facilitate improved planning. In
addition, given that groundwater use is an important water resources concem
in the state, a study of groundwater potential and conjunctive use has been
included in the environmental action plan.
It is essential when considering groundwater utilisation to set water quality
alongside resource availability. For the purposes of this report, however, water
quality issues are considered separately in the following sections.
39                      EX 2853 29/11/93



4.6 Surface water quality
The monitoring and control of surface water quality are primarly the
responsibility to TNPCB and, therefore, sepamted from the functions of water
allocation and use which are under other agencies. However, the PWD,
through the Executive Engineer Soil Mechanics, maintains its own periodic
monitoring of water quality in reservoirs to assess suitability for irrigation and
the Department of Public Health Services (through the King Institute) monitors
drinking water quality on behalf of the TWAD Board and other water supply
agencies. Other agencies, such as the National Environmental Engineering
Research Institute (NEERI) also collect water quality data. What is currently
lacking for most rivers is a basin-wide overview of pollution sources and supply
points for various categories of water user so that areas where there is a high
risk of chemical or biological contamination can be identified and measures
taken to minimise the risk In the Cauvery basin, however, a basin-wide
overview is in progress under the Cauvery Action Plan funded by the Ganga
Action Pban Board.
The main problem with the effluent control procedures currently used by the
TNPCB is that there is a single standard for elfluent quality for a narticular
method of disposal (see Table 4). In the case of river disposal, these do not
vary according to the flow in the river so that problems of downstream or
groundwater pollution may occur in periods of low or zero flow. Similarly,
biological activity in reservoirs may stimulate eutrophic or anaerobic processes
exacerbating the effecis of low quality discharges.
It is anticipated that the WRCP will improve the authorities' ability to manage
surface water quality in two ways. First, a centralised data archive will be
created within the IWS in which data from the various agencies undertaking
water quality measurements will be brought together, processed in a common
format and made accessible to intending users. Where necessary existing
data gathering will be strengthened to provide an adequate water quality
monitoring network. Secondly, the RBMs will study the overall water resources
of individual river basins and will be in a position to make assessments of the
interactions between effluent discharge points and water abstraction points and
between river flows and water quality.  The WRCP does not seek to
strengthen the legislation for water quality regulation but the current legislation
and the abilhy to enforce it through the TNPCB appear to be adequate
provided that the resources and political will are there to tackle suco Droblems
as municipal wastewater. It is hoped that the resources and politiv-al will may
be forthcoming through the proposed WRC but this remains to be seen.
Certainly if it strengthens the linkages between TNPCB and the proposed
WRD this in itself will improve the prospects for better water quality
management in future.
4.7 Water quality for the command areas
The principal effect of the WRCP on water quality at the level of individual sub-
projects is expected to be a greater degree of monitoring and control of
harmful chemical and biological pollutants resulting in sustained crop
production into the future and reduced pollution downstream. As with water
availability many of the issues can only be tackled at the state and river basin
levels.   Nevertheless, in preparing plans for individual sub-projects,
assessment of current water quality and prediction of any future changes that
may effect its suitability for irrigation are necessary. Bearing in mind the
observation in the earlier section that conjunctive use should be recognised,
40                      EX2853 29/111I3



this water quality assessment must also include an assessmont of groundwater
quality in the co.nmand area.
Pollution and increased salinity of water are likely to become more significant
threats to the future sustainability of irrigation In Tamilnadu. Types of local
situations which may threaten Ihe sustainability of irrigation through water
quality changes are:
*   Where industrial or municipal expansion is planned which might lead to
point source pollution:
*   Where the surface water supply contains a significant proportion of
drainage water from olher irrigated land;
*   Where the salinity of groundwater Is high either naturally or through
processes of salinisation or saline intrusion; and
*   Where conditions in storage reservoirs are such that eutrophication and
H2S production can occur.
Reconnaissance stuidies in preparation for each sub-project must include water
quality testing of appropriate samples (a mninimum sampling strategy is
necessary) as well as identifying potentially hazardous situations, as listed
above, and recommending a suitable ongoing monitoring programme for each
situation. An assessment must also be made of the likelihood that irrigation
practices and non-point source pollution from the irrigated land or from the
human settlements around will result in adverse water quality downstream or
in the groundwater.
4.6 Groundwater quality
I                                   As with surface water, monitoring of groundwater quality is undertaken by
various agencies utilising groundwater for different ourposes and by the
TNPCB which is concerned about the pollution of groundwater by effluents.
*                                   The most comprehensive monitoring is that undertaken at 2,100 observation
wells by the Groundwater Division of PWD whose main concern is the
suitability of groundwater for irrigation. The problems which affect suitability
for irrigation are high concentrations of mineral salts (as indicated by high
values of electrical conductivity, see Figure 6) and pollution by industrial
effluents (as has occurred in the Palar Basin, see Section 3.1.7). Both of
I                                   these can lead to poisoning of soils and hence the loss of agricultural land and
production. Water quality problems also affect domestic and industrial users
of groundwater which are generally more sensitive to a wider range of
I                                   parameters than irrigation. A particular difficulty is to monitor the large number
of village water supply wells to detect any pollution by disease pathogens.
*                                   At present the most serious aspect of groundwater quality is the deterioration
due to increasing levels of salinity. This occurs in inland areas due to irrigation
with poor quality groundwater and inadequate drainage provision; and in
coastal areas due to over-pumping of aquifers allowing gradual intrusion by
sea water. A number of studies of saline water intrusion have been
undertaken by the PWD and artificial recharge has been studied as a means
of arresting the problem but its viability has not been adequately demonstrated
I                                   to date. The mosi effective means of control remains that of regulating the
rates of abstraction to sustainable levels (see Sections 3.2 and 4.5) but this is
not yet achievable.
41                      Ex2853 29,11/93



The WRCP will assist in the management of water quality in several ways:
*   assist In tho drafting of a Groundwater Act;
*   establish a central data archive and expand the current monitoring
network to ensure that adequate data are available;
*   create RBMs with a mandate to look comprehensively at the quality and
quantity of surface water and groundwater abstractions and develop
plans for their sustainable management: and
*   provide a mechanism at state level (through the WRC and IWS) to
identify particular problems such as saline water intrusion which may
require specific study and the development of appropriate control
strategies and policies.
As noted earlier, in the short terrn, the prospects for ;egulating groundwater
abstractions for agriculture are slim. Nevertheless, water quality may be one  I
way in which some degree of control can be exercised. Farmers may be
prepared to accept regulations prohibiting the use of groundwater in areas
where the quality has fallen below particular thresholds or which are in danger  I
from saline intrusion since they will recognise the need to protect the soil from
degradation.
4.9 River morphology and flooding
The regimes of all the rivers in lTamilnadu have been substantially altered by
human activity: the regulation of flows in reservoirs; the abstraction of flows for
irrigation and other uses and, in some cases, the diversion to other river
basins; the construction of aniculs, offtakes, well-points, bridges, dikes and
other structures; and the extraction of sand for building.
Although flood warning systems have been developed and regulations govern
the abstraction of water and the extraction of sand, there have been no
comprehensive studies of the interaction of these various human interventions
with such effects as: channel morphology and the stability of hydraulic
structures: recharge rates and storage capacities of aquifers in the river
alluvium and surrounding areas; flood frequencies, propagation rates and
areas of inundation; and the potential for pool formation which would favour
mosquito breeding.
The WRCP does not specifically address the types of problem outlined above
but by establishing the RBMs it creates organisations under which data
collection and comprehensive studies could be undertaken. The proposed
National Hydrology Project will address such issues more directly. In most
cases further information is needed on the nature and extent of such problems
before specified actions can be recommended. However, the prediction and  I
control of flooding, the maintenance of a reliable flood waming system and the
enforcement of appropriate flood zoning regulations should be part of the
RBMs mandate from their inception.
The particular issue of dam safety with its implications for flood risk
downstream is being addressed under a separate World Bank project and
under the WRCP all dam design will be reviewed by the dam safety panel. The
risk of damage to structures due to seismic activity is considered low in all
parts of Tamilnadu,
42                     EXZ15W 9t1Y93



4.10    Energy
Energy is discussed fully in chapter 3 as the linkages between energy and
water resources constitute an important sectoral issue in Tamilnadu but is not
covered specifically by the project. Although the WROP will not have any
direct impact on energy use, as pumping does not form part of the project, it
will have an indirect beneficial environmental impact. Energy consumption
should be reduced through pressures to revise the policy of free electricity for
farmers and improved management of irrigation water within the command
area may reduce the need for tailend farmers to install wells. The Tamilnadu
Electricity Board will be represented on the WRC and therefore better
coordination should be possible between those charged with formulating
j                                  Tamilnadu's water resources policies and those formulating energy policies.
It is thus hoped that the project will be a catalyst for solving the interconnected
issue of groundwater exploitation and energy supply.
4.11    Coastal and estuary regions
As discussed in Section 3.5 there are important coastal resources in
I                                  Tamilnadu which must be protected, although much of the coastline is now
substantially changed by human activity, and coastal defenses are needed
against regular attack by tropical cyclones. In addition there are two active
I                                  estuaries remaining, the Cauvery and the Tambaraparani with important
mangrove ecosystems. Although coastal protection work is one of the current
functions of the PWD, it does not feature in the WRCP.
No decision has as yet been made on the responsibility for coastal protection
and coastal zone management fcllowing the formation of the WRD. Apart from
the two estuaries named above, the management of Tamilnadu's surface and
groundwater resources can have very little influence on what happens in the
coastal zone. Nevertheless, the types of data and activities required for
coastal zone management are similar to some of those required for water
resources management: collection of water quality and sediment transport
data; monitoring and protection of particular ecosystems; and calculation of,
and protection against flood risk. In this respect it may be preferable to
I                                  include coastal protection work under the RBMs. Similarly the WRD should
be made responsible for coastal zone management, however, close liaison will
be required with the Ministry of Environment and Forests and other interested
authorities. This must be considered carefully by the GOTN when organising
the WRD.
4.12    Siltation of tanks, reservoirs and canals
The project attempts to reduce the impact of siltation both by promoting
enhanced catchment conservation work and by introducing a system of
I                                  maintenance which will ensure that tanks and canals suffering heavy siltation
are regularly desilted. In sub-projects reliant upon large storage reservoirs the
issue of storage loss through sedimentation is one which will best be tackled
1                                  at the river basin level. However, for many sub-projects the rate at which tanks
and canals fill with sediment is one which is vially important in relation to the
on-going cost of maintenance and, in extreme cases, the sustainability and
viability of the system.
It has already been noted in Section 3.4.3 that little data exists on general
rates of storage loss from tanks due to siltation. This, together with the local
variability of erosion rates, makes individual assessment of the severity of tank
siltation for each sub-project a necessity. This need not be through capacity
surveys: other indirect methods of assessing the extent of siltation may be
43                      EX 2SS 29, V93



more appropriate and should be set-out In guidelines for sub-project planners.
From such observations, and in discussion with the local community, an
assessment has to be made as to whether the siltation rates are unacceptably
high given the resources available for desilting. Ideally a scale showing the
severity of the siltation problem should be developed so that sub-projects with
particularly high rates of siltation can be identified. A similar approach is also
needed in respect of canal siltation, although here, since desilting may have
taken place regularly in the past, understanding the balance between sediment
deposition rates and the effort spent in sediment removal is particularly
important. This understanding cannot be achieved without close dialogue with
the community. Community involvement in diagnosing environmental problems
is discussed further in Section 4.18.
Assuming that sub-projects with high rates of siltation can be identified, Ihere
is still a need to consider what, if anything, can be done about it. The AED is
actively involved in micro-watershed treatment projects. At present the link
with PWD in collaborating to select areas for treatment on the basis of the
severity of tank siltation rates is weak. The situation is better with respect to
reservoirs since an inter-deparimental Review Commitlee for Reservoir
Sedimentation Studies makes recommendations as to which catchments are
in need of priority treatment. This kind of collaboration enabling fhture micro-
watershed management activities to be targeted in the catchments of tanks or
anicuts where serious siltation has been identified would be beneficial and the
creation of the RBMs under the WRCP would facilitate this. The question is,
however, wider than that of collaboration to reduce sediment yield. More
research and discussion is needed as to the most appropriate forms of land
use and land treatment since measures which produce the maximum reduction
in sediment yield are also the ones most likely to reduce rates of runoff. In
other words, siltation may be reduced at the cost of a reduction in available
surface water resources. IWS is currently doing research in runoff from tank
catchments and further research of this nature is needed.
In planning sub-projects other options to control canal siltation could also be
considered such as the provision of structures for sediment exclusion or
sedimnent removal. Sediment control must be rigorously sustained after
rehabilitation since uncontrolled orifices are being introduced to replace gated
sluices and, with these structures, siltation will severely affect the equity of
distribution.
With maintenance activities to clear silt it is necessary to determine where the
silt will be disposed. Large amounts of sand are extracted from river beds for
building and it is likely that some of the sediment taken from tanks and canals
will find a commercial market even though it will contain a wider range of
sediment sizes than river sediment. The commercial opportunities should,
therefore, be examined before disposal on land or into river channels. In
several schemes farmers have expressed their willingness to desilt tanks at
their own expense in order to have access to the silt which, they believe,
enhances the soil quality. Unfortunately, such initiatives have, in tt.e past,
been prevented by PWD officials who have been unnecessarily legalistic in
applying a Government Order stating that only the PWD should desilt tanks.
Certainly, this confusion should be removed before the WRCP begins.
However, a policy for land disposal of sediment is required which should take
account both of the dangers (destroying habitats for wildlife, raising the levels
of fields taking them out of command, creating mounds which could become
unstable in subsequent rain) as well as the opportunities (to enrich the soil with
44                      EX 2653 29/t V3



lLIN
nutrients and to fill In druinago hollows and pits loft by earlier construction
activities). The filling of hollows ond pits may bo particularl benolicial in the
control of water-related diseosos (Soction 4,19).
4.13    Waterlogging and salinisatlon
Waterlogging and salinity Are relatod and often result from poor draliage,
whether natural or man-made. Excossive application of i,rigation vwater,
inequitable distribution and poor maintenance will causo such problems.
Present evidence indicates that wolerlogging and salinisationi e,o no'$ major
problems in Tamilnadu, other thani that in coastal regions caused by irrigating
with groundwater contarninated by saline intrusion.
There are pockets of watellogging inland in the Tambaraparani command
areas and areas of solinised soils In botlh the Voigai basin and the
*                                   Parambikkulam Aliyar Project. The possibility that land has been affocted by
these processes or that it is io danger from them  must, therefore, be
considered during the design of eachI sub-project. A relatively small number
||                                  of soil samples taken at localions indicated by farmers as suffering low yields,
may be adequate to provide an initial scope of ilte problein of salinisalion and,
*                                   in addition, couIld revoal if other forms of toxicity are affecting the soil.
*                                   Likewise, discussion wilti farmers to identify areas of poor drainage and study
of water levels in wells, again in discussion with farmers, may indicatc the
probability that there is a risk of waterlogging or that groundwater levels are
becoming unacceptably high. In both cases recommendations arising from
each situation should be made by sub-project planners as to the need for
additional drainage works and an appropriate lovel of long-term monitoring.
*                                   The WRCP will improve water managemrent, rehabilitate canals and drains and
lead to improved maintenance of the command areas. Experience from the
NWMP and from projects in other countries demonstrates that improved water
management results in a more equitable distribution of water between the tail
and head of the system and less wastage of water. In addition, improvements
to the drains should reduce waterlogging at the tailend. These project
activities will thus directly reduce waterlogping ano salinisation and will thus
have a strong positive impact on the environment.
|                                   4.14    Fisheries
The fisheries potential of tanks is constrained by the fact that most of them
drain dry each year. Breeding communities of fish can, therefore, rarely be
I                                   established and any fish production must depend on annual restocking. Even
in reservoirs, annual restocking is normal since many only retain a small
amount of water in dead storage by the end of each year and, in such districts
I                                   as South Arcot, even the largest reservoirs are dry for upto four months a
year.
3                                   A number of other factors influence the likely productivity of tank fisheries.
Firstly, the right to grant fishing licences is vested in the Fisheries Department
for all 'Provincial tanks (designated 'A) and comes under the authority of the
|                                   panchayat for most other tanks (classed as 'B'). The Fisheries Department
recognises the need for long-term investment and grants 3-5 year licences to
fishing cooperatives but panchayats issue licences, if at all, only on a vear by
|                                   year basis.
l
45                      rx zas3 W119Z1s
l



ReliabilIty of stored wrIter is also necessary. Tc achieve reasonable returns
tho tank should nol be omptied below an agrenci mninimum lovol for at loast 3.4
mortlis. Whilst this need is rocognised by the PWD, irrigation requirements
are paramount and premature einptying my occur. Even 3-4 months is really
too short to provide a sensible yield and thie Fisheries Department would prefer
longor but in many tonks the short rnonsoort and tho Irrigation needs of the
crops do not allow lonqer.
The timing of the tank filling may also cause difficulties for fish production  U
since fingerlings are generally raised by the Fisheries Department In May,
dictated by the natural sporning behaviour of the fish, but some tanks do not
fill until September or October.
Finally, to ensure that lish do not escape, inlet and outlet protective devices
are fitted to the tanks. These, howover, are often resisted by villagers.
Due to the above constraints there are a limited number of successful fisheries
projects in irrigation tanks.   However. discussion with the Fisheries
Ciepartment, the panciayat and the villagers to assess the potential in
individual sub-projects as part ol the stub-project planning process will be
wornhwhile.
In the 'Farmer Organisation' report for the WRCP it was recommended that
fishing rights be veslerl in Farmer Councils. In view of the experience of the
Fisheries Departrrent with Ihq poor relLurns normally achieved from tanks
currently under the control of panchayals this recommendation should be
discussed moro fully wi'h all parlies before being implemer.ted.
4.15    Wildlife
In the established irrigation schemnes covered by lhe project, the opportunities
for enhancing wildlife or the possibility of harming it are rather limited but not
negligible. In India it is forbidden to establish a new project within 5 km of a
rese.trve forest or within 25 km of a wildlife sanctuary. These rules do not apply
to existing projects but provide a useful guide as to potential wildlife sensitivity.
If a sub-project is found to infringe either rule the Department of Wildlife should
be consulted as to ai iy measures they might recommend to minimize the effect
on the reserve or sanctuary of the rehabilitation work and the on-going
operation of the scheme.
Within the project area itself, the areas most beneficial to wildlife are likely to
be the tanks, the river and canal banks and the paddy fields and. whilst the
project will not have any direct impact, the PWD staff should be sensitive to
wildlife needs. In several schemes in b,uthern Tamilnadu, irrigation tanks
have become major roosting and nesting sites for migratory birds. There are
several species for which Tamilnadu is the only place in India where their
breeding season coincides with the period when there is plentiful water in the
tanks. The main requirement is for trees around the tanks in which to nest.
The birds feed on fish in the tank and on small creatures in the surrounding
paddy fields. When the Wildlife Department recognise a tank as having a
significant bird population it is designated a sanctuary and the PWD passes
the tank into the control of the Forestry Department. This does not affect
PWD's exclusive right to control releases of water but enables the trees to be
protected and also prevents any fishing from taking place. PWD rernains
responsible for tank bund and sluice maintenance but the Forest Department
regulates (but does not prevent) silt removal mainly to protect the trees from
46                      EX 2M 291 1/3
l



damage. Tho numbor of tanks protocted in this way has been increasing in
I                                  recent years and sub-project planners should discuss with the Wildlife
Department and farmers Ihe potential for tanks under study to be developed
as bird sanctuaries in this way. In particular, certain lanks which no longer
serve a useful Irrigation purpose could readily be utilised and the proposed
environment cells within the RBMs should monitor this.
The other type of wildlife which the Wildlife Department has sought to protect
around certain rivers and irrigation systems is crocodiles. In this they have
been less successful than with birds; a projecl in the Cauvery Delta suffered
badly during floods and has been abandoned. There are also obvious
dangers in developing crocodile colonies too close to human habitation.
4.16    Agricultural weeds and pests
*                                  The control of agricultural weeds and pests is an ongoing necessity to ensure
sustained crop production from all agricultural land, both irrigated and rain-fed.
It requires active development and testing of new control rneasures and
*                                  strategies to respond to new threats and requirements. Integrated pest
management is becoming increasingly important in the drive to reduce the
costs of agrochemical inputs to agriculture and reduce the potential effect of
I                                  agricultural runoff. Day to day advice on weed and pest control is provided to
farmers by Village Extension Workers and active programmes of research into
new  methods of control are being undertaken by the Department of
I                                  Agriculture's Plant Protection Officers in collaboration with the Tamilnadu
Agricultural University at Coimbatore, see Section 3.4.
Although it may not be relevant to go into great detail about weed and pest
problems in planning  WROP sub-projects, it is recommended that local
communities are asked about the most serious threats to their crops, the cost
of control measures used and their effectiveness. In this way, if a particular
problem exists it can be discussed with the Department of Agriculture.
4.17    Aquatic weeds
Aquatic weeds are one of the causes of deteriorating performance in irrigation
and drainage systems and therefore one of the reasons why on-going
maintenance is required. In general weeds are less of a problem in many
*                                  Tamilnadu systems than might be expected because the flows are seasonal
resulting in partial or complete destruction of weed colonies in periods when
tanks, canals and drains are dry. However, the floating weed water hyacinth
*                                  (Eichhornia crassipes) has established itself in systems of different types
throughout Tamilnadu and is able to survive desiccation or to rapidly
recolonise from upstream when flows return. The one area where aquatic
I                                  weeds are known to be present in significant amounts in Tamilnadu is in the
Thanjavur Delta where a plant of lpomoea species (locally known as Seemai
Kattamani) is very common both in irrigation and drainage channels. Since
I                                  non of the WRCP sub-projects lies in the Cauvery basin, this particular
problem is outside the scope of this part of the report. A more general threat
is the invasion by terrestrial weeds, shrubs and even trees into many irrigation
3                                  canals.
The WRCP will improve maintenance of the command areas which will
ameliorate the problem  of aquatic weeds and thus improve irrigation
performance and the environment. However, to ensure that the benefits are
long-lasting, information must be collected at an early date on existing or
potential aquatic and terrestrial weed problems affecting channels, the current
47                     EX 28S3 2WlI 93



method of their control (if any), Its cost and its effectiveness, so that options
for sustainable aquatic weeod mainagement can be considered as part of the
maintenance planning. Woed scientists can assist in providing guidance on
the most cost-effective maintennnce strategy for different types of woed: the
method, frequency and timing of cutting to optimise control.
4.18    Community Involvement
Community involvement is an important aspect o. the rehabilitation and
modemisatlon work to be undertaken under WRCP and Is one of the key ways
of ensuring sustainability.  Studios have been undertaken on Farmer
Organisation and Operation and Maintenance wlhich form the basis for this
aspect of the project. Further work was done by PWD, and the Worid Bank
pre-appraisal mission. The proposal for former organisation Is based on
previous experience, both in the state and elsewhere. The objective will be
to form Farmer Councils who will have responsibility for the 0 & M at the
distributory level covering areas of approximately 500 ha. The executive board
of the Farmer Council will comprise three members of the sluice committee,
one of whom will be a woman farmer, Thie sluice committee (or Farmer   e
Association) covers an area of about 40 ha. Thie project concentrates on
forming an organisational structure at the distributary level rather than the
tertiary, or sluice command level. This is an ambitious programme and farmer
consultation and involvement will be a pre-requisite for success. Farmer
management is not new and there is a long history of farmer associations in
the tank areas. During implementation it will be important to capitalise on this  I
past experience.
A phased introduction is proposed with reconnaissance carried out by IMTI
(Irrigation Management Training Institute) aher which a detailed assessment
will be made by the PWD staff. Farmers will be consultedl at this stage and
any existing organisational arrangements will be studied and taken into
account. The PWD will be assisted by a social worker for each scheme. The
PWD will then organise a long series of meetings with farmers to explain the
new o & M responsibilities of the FC. A joint management stage will follow
before turnover is completed. During implementation flexibility will be needed
and the PWD should avoid imposing a fixed theoretical model for the Farmer
Councils as existing arrangements and attitudes vill vary throughout the state.
It should also be recognised that the timeframe for completing the turnover will  =
vary between schemes.
The project has made provision for farmer consultation and this should be
adhered to during implementation. Given the history of farmer management
in Tamilnadu and with experience gained from previous projects since 1974,
this aspect of the project can be successful. However. community involvement  i
is essential and a rigidly imposed programme and time-frame should be
avoided.
From information available to the consultants tribal people will not be affected
in any way by the project activities as none of the sub-projects lies within or
close to areas inhabited by tribal people.                             3
4
l
48                      EX 2s8329/t W3~
l



4.19    Community health
The WRCP Is expected to have a beneficial effect on human health by
providing greater security of Income and food supplies to the rural population
living in the areas of Ihe sub-projects and hence improve their nutrition.
Nevertheless, there are a number of water-related diseases which are of
concarn In Tamilnadu and the issue of whether incidence of these wili be
increased or reduced by the WRCP must also be addressed, The main water-
related diseases are discussed fully in Section 3.8.3.
There are two groups of diseases which must be considered: those related to
domestic water supply and sanitation and those which are transmitted by
mosquitoes. Diseases in the first group are the more significant in terms of the
number of cases and the number of fatalities. The inhabitants of irrigation
schemes are one of the groups at highest risk since, alil,ough they may have
safe water supplies in their villages, they often use the plentiful water from
nearby canals, tanks and rivers if it is closer and more convenient. It is,
therefore, recommended that during the planning of sub-projects the
Department of Health is contacted to determine whether there is an unusually
high incidence of water borne diseases such as dysentery, diarrhoea, typhoid
and cholera in the region and also that details be obtained as to the adequacy
of the domestic water supplies for the scheme inhabitants. If a problem is
found to exist it may not be possible to use the WRCP funds to rectify it but
at least the PWD can work with the agencies responsible, the Department of
Health and the TWAD Board, to see if a solution can be found.
In the case of the mosquito-borne diseases, lle evidence available at present
ME                                 suggests that the improved water management practices which will result from
the WRCP should lead to a reduction in the incidence of these diseases.
Nevertheless, as in the case of water-borne diseases, it is recommended that
-                                  in each sub-project the Department of Health is invited to evaluate the risk
from malaria, filariasis and Japanese encephalitis in the region and to discuss
with the proposed WRD any conitrol measures which might be applied wihin
the irrigation system.  The filling of pits and drainage hollows and the
introduction of larviverous fish are examples of measures which could be taken
up within the WRCP. Additional research and pilot studies will be required to
verify the effectiveness of any measures which may require substantial
changes to be made in the irrigation or drainage systems or in the scheduling
and management of water, since engineers will find it difficult to justify such
changes unless the benefits have been clearly demonstrated.
4.20    Land acquisition and economic rehabilitation
This is not an issue for the rehabilitation and modernisation component of the
WRCP since the area of land to be irrigated and the land needed for the
irrigation works and inifrtistructure witl not change appreciably during the work.
Where canals are realigned the experience from the NWMP project has shown
that the local community readily appreciates and accepts this as a necessary
improvement to their benefit. If water saved by more efficient irrigation is used
to expand the irrigated area new land may be brought into command but in
most cases it will be land which is already farmed less intensively either for
rain-fed or groundwater irrigated crops.
For completion of the on-going minor schemes studies have been undertaken
by a specialist consultant and by the FAOICP. with the assistance of the PWO,
and visits have been made by World Bank staff and the consultants. This has
confirmed that the WRCP will not involve significant disturbance of settled
49                      EX 28S3 2W11193



areas and resottlement issues will not arise. Some localised land acquisition
and associated economic rehabilitation measures will be required where new
infrastructure works pass through existing farms. However, this will be modest
and over the whole slate it is estimated that only about 700 ha of farm land will
be affected. As work has started on soma of the schemes the process of land
acquisition has already commenced.
Under the WRCP institutional arrangements for land acquisition will be
improved. Coordinating commitlees end special units will be established within
the PWD to ensure that a full and fair evaluation is made of land value and
compensation due. It is noteworthy that a recent initiative by the Land
Acquisition Commissioner will perrnit greater flexibility in valuation which will  i
include not only market value but land productivity and accessibility to
transport and other amenities. There will also be an acceleration in the
process for payment, which is often the mnost frequent cause of dissatisfaction.  -
The institutional arrangements are described in the report on the Land
Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Program (LAERP) which has been
prepared in association with the GOTN.
An Economic Rehabilitation Action Programme is under preparation and this
will focus on programmes for economic advancement and poverty alleviation
with priority given to those famillies affected by infrastructure works. This
should include those who are not landowners but who have been earning theit
living from the affected areas. This provides tIhe opportunity for environmental
enhancement with respect to land use. Waste land which is out of command
would be improved by planting fuelwood trees, shade trees, fruit trees or
horticulture although care will be needed not to plant too close to canal banks
or irrigation structures. Also, for this small-scale income generation activity
effective involvement of the community, rather than government officials, is
necessary and it is suggested that assistance is provided by local NGOs so
that grasssroots participation is achieved. This is a good initiative which is  U
socially and environmentally beneficial.
As mentioned in chapter 2 there are a number of statutory requirements which
must be observed with regard to land acquisition.  For example, any
submergence of forest of more than 10 ha must be compensated by planting
twice the area of new forest in a location agreed with the Forest Department.  I
This has been examined by the consultants and four minor schemes will
require approval from the Chief Conservator of Forests (GOI) and this is
discussed in chapter 2.                                                 I
4.21    Construction activities
Many environmental impacts result directly from the methods and practices
adopted by the construction contractors. Some are short-term in their effect
but others can be more long-lasting. For the WRCP the works wilt be
generally small. however, construction of dams for example could be disruptive  d
to the local community and environment. It is therefore recommended that
under the WRCP a Code of Good Practice for Construction is prepared and
that, if possible, this is agreed with the contractor and included as part of the
contract to undertake the work. The main issues that should be addressed by
the code are site safety, the health of the workforce, sources and disposal
sites for construction materials, control of pollution and environmental
conservation. This is discussed further in the environmental action plan.
50                      EX28D3 29WI1/93
l



I~~~~~~~~~~I
5   The  role of non-governmental organisations
5.1 Farmers' Associations
Tamilnadu has a long history of activities of Farmers' Associations in different
river basin irrigation systems some of which are more than 100 years old (for
example, the Kadambar Tank Farmers' Association, Tambaraparani).
Farmers' Associations have been in existence mainly to protect their interests
when drawing water from tanks with command areas ranging from 100 to
2,000ha. The PWD supplies water through-canals up to the end of distributary
canals being 10 to 50ha of command. In areas where ayacut has been
stabilised by supplying water to tanks which were in existence even prior to the
commencement of organised irrigation systems, the farmers have organised
themselves to take care of their interests on a cooperative basis.
In the command areas of tanks where Farmeis' Associations are prevalent
they voluntarily subscribe to the association and during liarvesting a part of the
produce is given to the association as their contribution. The associations,
which have been in existence and working fairly satisfactorily in several of the
command areas in the Cauvery, Vaigai-Periyar and Tambaraparani irrigation
systems, have established the following rules:
(a) Equitable distribution of water among farmers in the command area.
(b) Protecting the crops and fields from minor thefts, grazing by cattle, etc.
(c) Impounding cattle in their own locked sheds and charging a fine for
violation of grazing into private lands.
(d) Representing, to the irrigation officials, problems associated wilh tank
maintenance and canal and sluice discharges.
Under the WRCP the creation of farmer organisations and turnover of a
greater share of 0 & M to farmers is a major objective. In carrying out this
task the relevant WRD staff and consultants should involve existing Farmer
Associations and benefit from their experience. In forming farmer groups
attention must be given to a system for resolving possible conflicts, for
example between the WRD and the farmers or between different farmer
groups concerning water availability.
5.2 The role of women
In recent years the Tamilnadu Women's Welfare Department, through their
extension workers, have been motivating the women in rural areas, particularly
those who come from farmers' families, to form an association among
themselves. The Block Development Agricultural Extension Officers, Women's
Welfare Associations and the Block Development Officials have been able to
mobilise women in some of the areas to constitute Farm Women's
Associations. Extension workers and specialists in agriculture, nutrition and
public health provide lecture demonstrations to the women regarding use of
fertilisers and pesticides, other allied activities such as poultry, sheep breeding,
silviculture, etc.
Avinasilingam Home Science Institute tor Women (deemed university) has
been undertaking courses for several extension workers focusing on rural
women and encouraging them to form women's welfare associations.
51                      E X2853 2Dl11193



Activities promoted by the university extension servico include nutrition, public
health, family planning and small activities like tailoring, Improved farming
methods and better storage of agricultural products. This work is being carried  -
out in several villages in Coimbatore District. Gandhigram Rural University has
also been involved in encouraging women to form women's associations with  I
activities similar to those indicated above.
The project proposes to involve women on the Farmer Councils and the WRD
engineers responsible for farmer turnover should seek guidance from the  U
above organisations.
5.3 Other NGOs
There are many NGOs which have an educational or campaigning role related
to the environment such as the CP Ramaswami Environmental Education,
Centre, the Madras Naturalist Society, INTACH and the Worldwide Fund for  I
Nature. However, the level of activity in such NGOs often varies drarnatically
depending on the people who are in them at any given time. The most active
NGOs are community based organisations olten found in city areas addressing  -
quite specific, local environmental concerns.  There are also various
developmental and missionary NGOs which are active in Tamilnadu,
particularly in the area of community health.                          u
In addition to public or community based NGOs, there are some important
academic and research organisations which have a wide knowledge of water  I
resources and environmental issues and many of these, being separate from
state government departments, are free to provide an objective assessment
of the implications of water resources decisions and the need for new
initiatives and policies. Such groups include: the National Environmental
Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) which has a zonal laboratory in
Madras; the Centre for Environmental Studies, Anna University; the Centre for
Water Resources, Anna University, the Central Soil and Water Conservation
Research and Training Institute, Nilgiris; and various departments of the
Tamilnadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore. These lists are only indicative
and are not intended to be exhaustive.
5.4 Participation of NGOs in the WRCP
Although much has been written about the creation of new Farmer Councils  I
in the command areas, the WRCP would be incomplete without providing an
institutional mechanism for active participation and involvement of existing
farmer NGOs in the planning, execution, operation and maintenance of   I
irrigation systems. In this effort a detailed study regarding the functioning of
the various Farmeis' Associations is being undertaken simultaneously with the
environmental assessment. It will not be prudent to have one uniform pattern
of farmers' organisation for the state as a whole as there will be about 2,000
formed and the problems at field level are quite different and the socio-cultural
attitudes of the farmers, community norms, religion, and exposure to modem  I
concepts vary depending upon the group. It would be necessary to study tbe
existing patterns in other parts of the river basin of the proposed projects anod
encourage other areas to form farmers! associations similar to the ones which  I
are active within the river basin area. It may not be conducive, nor would it be
effective, if the perceptions and method of functioning of a Farmer Council
association in the Cauvery system were introduced to the Parambikulam Aliyar
Project system as the characteristics and problems are distin-tly different.
52                     EX 28W3 2gJ 1j3



On this basis NGOs, commencing from villages or groups ol villages building
up to block levels and district levels. should be represented In the planning,
and Implementation of the project and the River Basin Management units
should coordinate closely with them. Input of ide.As from active farmers'
associations will be effective in Impleinenting decisions particularly on cropping
patterns and allocation of water during scarciy periods and also in maintaining
a continuing dialogue with irrigation officials at all levels,
It will also be prudent to encourage the participation of existing women's
farmers! associations in as many locations as possible for which greater efforts
and encouragement wilt be required. In recent years quite a large number of
i                                  rural women have been exposed to education up to school levels. In addition,
the national literacy mission has also been encouraging rural women to take
to literacy classes. In the next 5 to 10 years quite a large number of women
I                                  in rural areas, parlicularly farm workers, will become educated at least up to
school level: able to read and write and also understand newspapers and
pamphlets. Increasingly, the mass media will be used to convey messages
i                                  about methods of irrigation, allocation of priorities for crop production and
alternate employment opportunities during non irrigation periods such as
poultry, fish farming, etc.
It should be emphasised that most of these activities should not be entrusted
solely to governmental agencies or government departments. Irrigation and
Government officials should play a catalytic role and leave the initiatives,
action and promotion of various activities to the people themselves through
farmers associations and other NGOs. In recent years NGOs also have a
good back up with a number of specialists such as sociologists, economists,
teachers and engineers. A large number of government officials, from the
senior level to the clerical level in various offices. have been retiring from
service and have settled in rural areas. Almost every village will have retired
*                                  officials from Government, army or other organisations and their knowledge
and expertise is being increasingly recognised and the role of NGOs is starting
to be recognised and promoted through various water-related activities.
Another aspect of NGO involvement in the WRCP is that of public watchdog
providing scientific and public scrutiny of the decisions of the Water Resources
I                                  Department. To avoid conflict over environmental issues the IWS and RBMs
should liaise with NGOs, including those from research organisations, in order
to correctly guide the WRC in technical decisions (see Part B).
6 Conclusions and Recommendations.
6.1 General sectoral conclusions
In addition to the project specific conclusions which are discussed in
3                                  Section 6.2 below there are general conclusions relevant to the water
resources of the state. The GOTN, and in particular the new WRD, should
take these into account in future planning and preparation of river basin plans.
Water is a heavily used resource and little potential exists for the development
I                                  of new sources of supply other than interstate water transfer and desalination.
It will have to be well managed and conserved if future demands are to be met
and conflicts between agriculture, industry and domestic use avoided. The
I                                  WRCP promotes a more holistic approach to water resources management
and is a start to improved water use but it cannot resolve all the sectora
environmental issues.
53                      EX2853 29111/3



Although groundwater throughout the state is not fully exploited there are
areas of over-exploitation which are increasing. Groundwater utilisation is thus  F
potentially the most critical water resources issue for the state. New policy
initiatives are required in order to regulate groundwaler exploitation and this
has been addressed in the shorn term by the proposal in the WRCP for a
Groundwater Act and for restrictions on new electricity connections to
agricultural users. The present policy of free electricity to agricultural users will
have to be changed and this is recognised by the State Govemment.
However, it is a sensitive political issue and therefore a phased introduction of
pricing will be necessary. The situation should not be over-stated and the
consultants support a gradual phased resolution of the problem which will be
greatly facilitated by the creation of the Water Resources Control and Review  I
Council under the WRCP. A low tariff should be introduced initially followed
by progressive increases until the full electricity costs are recovered. In
addition, it could be counterproductive to introduce such an unpopular measure  I
at the same time as creating the WRD. It could mitigate against the
introduction of new ideas by the WRD and farmer conlidence and cooperation
may be compromised.                                                     I
The main environmental issues of concern for the sector are deterioration in
water quality and soil erosion in some basins. None of these problems are  I
severe througlhout the state but there are locations where some problems are
becoming acute. For example, in the Palar basin industrial pollution of ground
and surface water by the tanneries needs to be regulated. Soil conservation
measures are needed in parts of the Bhavani and other basins to prevent
siltation and thus prolong the life of some reservoirs and reduce irrigation
maintenance costs. In addition to preventive measures such as statutory
regulation, innovative research is needed to explore more efficient water use
and the possibility of wastewater reuse.
In the WRCP a research and development programme is included as part of
the environmental action plan. The purpose of this is to study these sectoral
issues more thoroughly and to devise solutions before they become serious
problems. In this way the WRCP will make a major contribution to resolving  I
longer term sectoral environmental problems.
6.2 WRCP conclusion                                                     |
The WRCP is an environmentally beneficial project which provides for
significant changes to the institutional arrangements in the water resources
sector and the rehabilitation. modernisation and improved maintenance of the  I
irrigation system comprising several sub-projects which have been in existence
for almost 100 years. The project will address a number of water related
environmental issues and thereby achieve overall environmental enhancement.  I
In particular it will strengthen the environmental management capability within
the state water resources sector. It will lead to a more sustainable system of
irrigated agriculture and improved water resources utilisation. The project is  I
thus in line with the principles outlined in the Dublin Statement on Water and
Sustainable Development issued after the International Conference on Water
and Environment in Januaty 1992.                                        3
To achieve environmental improvements the proposed WRD, which will be
responsible for project implementation, must embrace the in-built institutional
framework provided so that the staff fully appreciate the need for protecting
and preserving environmental quaiity. A risk with the WRCP is that the WRD
will be staffed by engineers with Ittle knowledge of the environmental or social  3
54                      EX2Ms3 11 1193
l



-                                  issues related to water resources monagemont.  It Is important that
consideration of environmental issues is not construed as a necessary iivil to
clear the project but as a basic requirement to promote the well-bolni and
enhancement of society as a whole. It is often felt by irrigation enginears that
environment assessment is unnecessary since Irrigation per sc is beneficial to
society. It is seldom understood that there can be other environmental impacts
which may or may not be positive and in their totality may even be negative.
Attitudes are changing slowly and stalf are beginning to understand that by
tackling environmental issues at the planning stage and providing for mitigating
or remedial measures at the construction phase the process will be cost
effective and promote environmental quality without causing delays to
*                                  implementation. It is also important that staff appreciate that EA is a statutory
requirement meant to safeguard socielal welfare rather than to promote the
interest of any one section of society. Often farmers are also unaware that
I                                  their actions may be environmentally unsound. To minimise this risk a training
programme is recommended so that engineers and farmers are made aware
of environmental issues. A trainiing and awareness building programme is
*                                  therefore included in the environmental action plan together with funds for
inputs from specialist consultants.
The consultants have examined the three main components of the project and
conclude that they will have a positive environmental impact. However, to
ensure that implementation leads to enhancemenl, rather than being simply
benign, a proactive approach is needed. This will ensure that the intended
benefits of the project are realised and the opportunity is taken to exploit the
potential for further environmental enhancement. Each project component will
bring some benefits and these are discussed separately below. In relation to
_the olicy and institutional chancies proposed under the WRCP, the project
offers the following potential benefits:
U                                  *   Improved coordination of departmental activities and the creation of River
Basin Management units which will allow catchment management to be
undertaken comprehensively. This could be stressed more strongly as
one of the project's objectives.
*   Through the RBMs and the creation of a Water Resources Control and
I                                       Review Council procedures concerning the allocation and management
of surface water will be improved and water conservation measures
introduced. Section 4.3 highlights, however, a numberof questions which
-will have to be resolved in the course of time.
_                                   *   Improvement in the regulation of groundwater abstractions is anticipated
by the project but this may be constrained, particularly in the short term,
by political difficulties which such regulation would create. This also
applies to some extent to the control of groundwater quality.
I                                   *   Better coordination between departments and improved monitoring will
benefit surface water quality although the particular problem of controlling
urban wastewater will require political will and resources beyond the
scope of this project.
*   Individual issues linking energy production and consumption and water
I                                       resource utilisation will be addressed through the project and in the long-
term closer liaison between energy planners and water resources
planners will be beneficial.
55                      EX2O53 28w111v3



When reorganising the PWD, the GOTN should designate a single body
as responsible to oversee coastal zone managament,
In relation to the component for rehabilitation and modemisation of existin-
irrigation schemes and their future operation and maintenance, the following
environmental benefits and opportunities have been identified:
*   Water supplies to farmers will be made more reliable and equitable and
water is expected to be saved for other uses. This will have a strong
positive environmental benefit. A number of complex questions have
been identified such as the conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
and the environmental action plan (EAP) includes a research programme
to address some of these questions.
*   The quality of irrigation water supplies will be more carefully monitored
and controlled if suitable procedures are followed during sub-project
planning.
*   The impact of sedimenitationt on tanks and canals will be reduced by
improved maintenance but more work should be done on soil
consc rvation, here too, several important questions will need to be  3
addressed (see Section 4.12) and the EAP includes a special study and
research programme.
   Waterlogging and salinisation and the control of aquatic weeds within the  i
command areas will be improved through rehabilitation and improved
maintenance.
*   The project is expected to bring about a high degree of community
involvement in the management, operation and maintenance of irrigation
schemes which will ensure long-terrn sustainability. However, the project  I
proposals are ambitious and flexibility and sensitivity to farmers views will
be necessary during implementation if this benefit is to be fully realised.
The involvement of NGOs will be beneficial and this should be     I
encouraged by the WRD.
*   Community health is likely to improve through improved nutrition and food
security as a result of rehabilitation of the irrigation schemes but close
liaison with the Department of Health is recommended to identify
opportunities to control water-borne and mosquito-borne diseases. A  I
representative of the Health Department should thus be included in the
WRC.
In relation to the completion of on-qoing minor schemes many of Ihe issues
are similar to those discussed above for the rehabilitation component.
However, as new works are involved there are specific requirements for
environmental clearance.
*   GOTN environmental clearance has been given for the minor schemes
and Central Government approval is not required as the new area   I
developed is less than 2,000 ha in each case, these sub-projects are
therefore cleared as environmentally acceptable. However, for four of
these schemes small areas of forest will be submerged (see Table 1) and  I
clearance is therefore required from the Chief Conservator of Forests.
!
56                     EK 285~3 211,93



This requires Ihat an area double the size of that submerged is Identified
I                                       for planting of trees and the costs included as part of the scheme.
It is recommended that a Code of Practice for Construction be developed
9                                       and introduced into construction contracts to address the issues of site
rn                                     safety, the health of the workforce, the sources and disposal sites for
construction materials and the control of pollution.
*                                  As discussed in Section 2.1 the consultants understand that, given the scope
of the project, this report will fulful the requirements for environmental
clearance and no further specific environmental assessment is neeJed.
*                                  However, the WRD and the Bank, w^hen reviewing sub-project and minor
scheme designs should check environmental aspects as well as technical.
J                                  Based on the above conclusions an Environmental Action Plan has been
prepared and is outlined in Part B of this report. The EAP aims to assist the
govemment in achieving the project's potential for environmental
I                                  enhancement. Moreover, although environmental conisiderations have been
fully taken into account at the planning stage, commitment is olten lacking
*                                  during implementation. The EAP should help to maintain the momentum.
5
U
l
1                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~57  EXzB53 291119n3



I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ik,
m-
m
I
I
I
I                    PART B
I                     ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
I
I
I
I
I
U
U
I
58             EX 2BS3 29111193
I



l
I Introduction
As discussed earlior the WRCP has an overall positive environmental impact
and with proper management will result in an improvement in the quality of the
environment.  To capitalise on this opportunity for enhancement the
environmental action plain (EAP) outlines the issues to be managed in order
to ensure that they are covered during implementation and not just at the
planning stage. The environmental action plan Is also designed to assist the
new WRD in building in environmental awareness and skills at its creation thus
ensuring sustainability beyond the completion of the project.
The conclusions given in the environmental assessment are used as a basis
for the EAP which has two main elements:
the institutional changes necessary for carrying out the required
actions, and
the activities to be performed and the cost of these actions.
The EAP provides a framework by which the concerned Tamilnadu authorities
can ensure that enhancing the environment is a    ed and through which
engineers and other experts learn to appreciate the positive aspects of
environmental issues and come to realise that this is a natural part of their
duties. It forms an integral parl of the WRCP.
2 Review of policy and institutional issues
The WRCP will introduce substantial policy and institutional changes in a
number of areas which are significant to environmental sustainability and puts
forward other policy needs which the effective implementation of the EAP
requires.
The establishment of a Water Resources Department and creation of four
River Basin Management Units will greatly facilitate the achievement of more
effective water resources management in Tamilnadu. This marks a clear shift
away from the concept of construction, inherent in the old Public Works
Department, towards management. This philosophical shift will perhaps be the
most significant factor in achieving environmental sustainability in the water
resources sector. The GOTN intends to create the WRD by April 1994, that
is before the project starts.
In addition to the Water Resources Department, a Water Resources Control
and Review Council (WRC) was established on 30 September 1993 as a top
policy making committee. It comprises senior staff from various govemment
organisations and will set policy guidelines for the WRD. The importance
accorded this Council by the Tamilnadu government is reflected in the decision
to have the Chief Minister as the chairman. The existing Institute for Water
Studies will act as the secretariat for the WRC and will thus have an important
advisory role. For this, and for technical reasons, the Consultants have
proposed that an Environmental Division be established in the IWS. Any
environmental issues at policy level could thus be addressed directly by the
WRC. Similarly, for the WRD and the four River Basin Management units
59                     EX2835 2211193



environmental cells will bo establistiod to roinforce the Imporlance ot
Environmental issues nl tho0 local lovel.                              I
Under the WROP a Water Policy and Wator and Groundwater Acts will be
dralled which will leud to environimental benefits In the longer term. This Is  3
progressive and Tamilnodu will perhiaps be the first state in India to take this
step. In thIe slhort term, strict adherence to the Axisting Acts and Government
Orders (as described in Chapter 2 of Pant A) will help to ensure that the
rational apportionment and protection of surface waters and the protectioln of
river catchments is achieved and tlhe newly created environmenmt inits will be
responsible for ensuring the these statltlory requirrments are fully met.
Preparatory work has already started on these doct.rTonts.
3   Institutional needs                                      __
In order to carry oul responsibililies regarding the environment an Environment
Division will be created in the IWS and Environment Cells in the hoadquarters
of the WRD (Plan Formulation Division) and In each of the four River Basin
Management utnits. Organigrarmr are shown in Figures 10 and 11 which show
the position of the environment units within tile proposed WRD and RBMs.
The proposed institutional nc3ds have been di cussed and agreed with the
consultants preparing the Instiltulional Report for the World Bank and with
the PWD.
Staff for the Environmental Division and the Cells will be drawn mostly from
within the ranks of existing PWD staff, few of whom have environmental
engineering or similar qualifications. Appointments should be made on the
basis of whether applicanis have an active interest in environmental issues
and are prepared to put in the considerable efforl needed to make themselves
better acquainted with the breadth and complexity of the subject area. A  I
training programme is proposed in section 5 below so that the PWD engineers
can  become  knowledgeable  in  water related  environment issues.
Exceptionally, it is recommended that 5 chemists and biologists/bacteriologists  I
at AE level are redeplo:ed from another Government Department such as
agricuhure, or recruited as no suitable staff exists within the PWD and
retraining is not feasible.
3.1 IWS Environment Division
This will be headed by the Assistant Director (Environment) with the rank of
Execulive Engineer. He will be assisted by four Assistant Executive Engineers
and two Assistant Engineers one of whorn will be a data analyst. The Division
will be the top policy and advisory unit within the WRD for matters relating to
the environment. The Division, through the Director of IWS. will advise the
WRC on all environmental matters. This is the apex organisation and expert
advice will be necessary as well as an in-depth understanding of the rules and
regulations. of the GOTN and the Central Government as well as international
organisations. The environment covers a wide range of diverse topics and the
IWS staff will not be experts in many of these, consequently WRC will appoint
an External Advisor to give advice on environment matters to the WRC in the  I
short term until the IWS can fulfil this role. The Advisor will work closely with
the Ast. Director. Specialist consultancy services may also be required from
time to time and the Ast. Director should maintain a database of expert  I
consultants in different fields who he can consult on various issues.
60                      EXa283 attiis3



The IWS Environment Division will liaise and consult with other state and
central goVornment organisctions in thC somp field, as well as with NGOs and
concerned Individuals. This is vital to the satisfactory performance of the IWS
particularly as it will be advising top policy makers who must be kept Informed
of potentially sensitive environmental problems or areas of conflict with other
agencies.
The preparation of guidelines, procedures and codos will be the responsibility
*                                  of the IWS Environment Division as well contributing to new policy documents
or legislation. It will also liaise with other units of the WRD to see that the
recommended procedures are followed. ElAs will be reveiwed before they are
*                                  presented to the WRC for approval. During implementation of the WROP the
environmental impact of the project will be monitored by this Division which will
also assist the World Bank supervision missions as required.
A data bank of surface and ground water quality information will be maintained
by the Environment Division and a data analyst will be responsible for this.
Finally the Environment Division will manage the research programme and
special studies and liaise willh IHH and universities as necessary. They will
also liaise with IMTI concerning all training related to environment.
3.2 WRD (Plan Formulation) Environment Cell
An Environment Celt will be established as part c  he office of the Chief
Engineer (Plan Formulation). It will be heeded by an xecutive Engineer who
will be assisted by two Assistant Executive Engineers and two Assistant
Engineers. This will be the main functional wing of the environmental units
within WRID. It will be responsible for ensuring that all projects or activities
carried out by the WRD are in accordance with statutory requirements. If an
EIA is required the Cell will prepare TOR for the work to be carried out by
I                                  consultants and will supevise and review their work. If central govemment
clearance is required completed ElAs will be presented to the IWS for review
and submission to the WRC prior to submission to the MEF. However, if
environmental clearance is required only from the State authorities this could
be obtained directly by the CE (Plan Formulation).
|                                  The Cell will provide feedback to the IWS on procedures and guidelines so
that they can be updated based on experience. The head of the Cell will work
closely with the IWS to ensure that no environmentally sensitive work is carried
out by WRD without prior clearance from WRC and the statutory authorities.
The Cell will also be responsible for preparing mitigating measures or propose
alternative solutions to the designers should this be necessary. The Cell will
I                                  coordinate with the River Basin Managers to get feedback on activities at the
field level and to ensure that field staff carry out appropriate measures to
achieve environmental enhancement under the WRCP, The Cell will
contribute to drafting the proposed water policy document and new legislation
such as the water and groundwater acts. This cell will play an active role in
the awareness building programme at the field level.
E
61                      EX2553 29/1U9



3.3 RBM (Plan Formulation & Coordination) Environment
Cells
At the field level recoonsihilily for monitoring onvironmental quality will be
within the RBMs, Foul river basin managernent units will be formed and each
will have an Environment CoIl ulinder the Chief Engineer (Plan Formulation &
Coordination). The staffing for Ihese cells will be the same as for the WRD
(Plan Formulation) given above witi the addition of one chemist and one
bacteriologist/biologist for each RBM. If tie services of an ecologist are
required, consultants or university staff will be appointed for a fixed short term
input. This unit will systematically monitor waler quality, both surface and
goroundwater, and report any episodal pollution events which affect water
resources. The Cells will interact with Farmers Councils' and local NGOs and
other sectoral agencies such as TNPCB and AED with respect to relevant
environmental issues within their basin, The RBM Cells will be supported by
field and mobile laboratories for systematic monitoring of water quality of
reservoirs, rivers, drains and canals. The laboratory will also collect data from
other agencies such as TNPCB and the Directorale of Health. To avoid
duplication of data collection and laboratory analysis this will be done in
coordination with other responsible units witliin the RBMs.
The laboratory facilities should be adequate to allow soil and water sampling
for conventional physico-chemical and biological parameters stipulated under
water quality standards. In addition periodic monitoring will be rerquired, for
example when fishkills or pollution incidents are reported. The staff of the
Cells will be required to participate and assiLt external experts or consultants
in any special studies. ElAs, or research work relevant to the environment.
The RBM Cells would also be responsible for creating and managing the eco-
gardens and ecologically restored areas described in Section 4 below.
An Advisory Group of different local experts will be formed to advise the four
River Basin Managers and the Environment Cells concerning local
environmental issues. The experls will be from other government departments
such as Health, Wildlife, Forests and AED and also from Universities and
NGOs.
3.4 Equipment
In addition to provision of adequate laboratory facilities, a limited amount of
equipment will need to be purchased to facilitate the work of the various
environment units. A powerful desktop PC and peripherals will be required by
the IWS for the water quality data bank and other data storage requirements.
A computer for each of the environment cells would also be required although
the capacity could be less. One jeep type vehicle is needed for each unit for
field measurement. As environmental work will be new lo many of the staff it
is recommended that a library of appropriate books and journals is
eastablished at the IWS.
l
I
62                      EXZ1153 29111193
l



I                                 4   Role and  functions of the environmental units
The various duties of the difleront environment units within tlho proposed WRD
hava beeen outlined above. In order to effectively porform these duries the
role and functions of these units must be clear. This section gives an outline
of the different activities that will be performed under the EAP. It should not
be considered exhaustive but the main tasks to be undertaken are highlighted
Including development of procedures etc, use of consultancy services,
monitoring and data co'lection and coordination.
4.1 Policy and new legisation
The various environment units will actively participate in preparing the Water
Policy and Water and Groundwater Acts which are proposed. As action Is
likely to be taken at an early stage, and in some cases before the WRD is fully
corstituted, the existing IWS should engage environmental specialists to
prepare comments on any draft before it is submitted to the WAC. An early
draft of the Water Policy has been prepared and includes some environmental
considerations but should be sirengthened. Also, priorities for water use need
to be clearly stated with domnestic water given prominenco followed by
agriculture and industry.
4.2 Environmental assessment procedures/guidelines and
codes
A great variety of appruaches to environmental assessment have been
devebped and tested some of which have been adopted as statutory
procedures by various governments. It is therefore necessary to establish
what forms of assessment are required and/or appropriate for use within the
WRD. It will be one of the first tasks of the IWS Environment Division and
expert assistance should be sought to ensure that the procedurt s and
-guidelines meet Government of India and Tamilnadu state regulations. The
Central Water Commission has published guidelines and these should serve
as a model. The procedures should clearly outline responsibilities and indicate
the conditions under which different actions are needed, such as for Central
Government approvals for new works. Responsibilities for liaison with outside
organisations should also be stipulated. For the sub-projects and minor
schemes included in the WRCP statutory clearance has already been obtained
and no further EA is required. Howeve.. a set of procedures should be
established for future projects of this type. Where a full SIA is not required an
internal WRD environment procedure should be established to ensure that
environmental issues are fully addressed at the design stage.
Guidelines should be prepared for the full ElAs and Environmental
Management Plans which may be required by the Central Government under
the 1993 Notification (see chapter 2 Part A) and to meet any other statutory
requirement.  A different set of Guidelines may be needed for the
environmental assessment required as part of the basin plans compared with
those for specific projects.
Although not strictly an assessment procedure, it has been recommended in
Section 4 that a Code of Good Construction Practice be developed and
incorporated into future construction contracts particularly any still to be
awarded for on-going minor schemes. As part of the Action Plan, it is
recommended that IWS seek expert assistance to develop such a Code. The
63                     EX 28S3 2gi tug



main issues which the code of practico should addross are outlined in   _
Annox 4.
These procedures and guidelines will not become fixed for all time and one of
the responsibilities of the Environmental Division of IWS will be to monitor the
application of these procedures and, where necessary, propose amendments.
All intemal WRD procedures and guidelines need to be approved by the WRC.
This is a key element of the Environmental Action Plan as until such
procedures are adopted other sections of the WRD are unlikely to give
adequate attention to EA.
4.3 River basin plans
When preparing River Basin plans environment issues should be addressed.
The recently completed Bhavani Basin environmental assessment and the
soon to be completed assessment of the Vaippar basin will provide models for  I
those carrying out the studies. Basin plans should address non water related
environment issues such as impacts on wildlife, healti, tribal minoritites etc
and take full account of water quality problems as well as water use. Some  I
issues which should be addressed when preparing such plans are given
below:
(a) Is wastewater reuse feasible?  Appropriate technological innovations
should be investigated to determine if wastewater can be treated for
industrial use and industrial wastewater treated for iirrigaton use.  9
(Several examples of irrigation using wastewater from particular industries
already exist in Tamilnadu but the total aiea is small). Introduction of a
reuse system on an extensive scale may require major changes to
existing water distribution systems (canals, tanks etc) and wastewater
collection systems.
(b) Is it appropriate to develop a policy of zoning for industrial and urban  -
developments vis-a-vis irrigation and what improvements in water quality
monitoring would such a system require?
(c) Should restrictions be imposed on certain highly water consumptive
industries? (A table showing examples of water use in selected existing
industries in Tamilnadu is given below).
Industry         1991-92        Unit water       Total water
Production       demand        demand (106m3)
Sugar          1.66 x 106t        30Ukg              35
Textile        78.8 x 106m        401m               3.2
Paper          0.199 x 106t       300Ukg             60
Fertilizer     1.338 x 106t        81/kg             11
(d) Will the need to save irrigation water lead eventually to the need to  U
restrict the irrigation of certain crops or change cropping patterns in
particular seasons and how could such restrictions be introduced with the
cooperation of farmers?                                           I
64                      EX2153 2D/W1t93



(e) Given thial surface water supply varies stochastically and domesticl
I                                      industrial demands arc relatively constant, how can Irrigation demand be
controlled season by season to make best use of the varying amounts of
*                                      water available?
(f)  What measures are available to control the rapid growth of domestic/
urban demand particularly in relation to personal washing and water-
3                                      borne sewage?
(g) What potential is there for developing alternative water sources,
particularly the desalination of brackish groundwater? (see Section 3.3).
(h) Are inter-basin transfers wilhin the state or inter-state feasible and what
are their environmental implications?
(i)  How can public and political participation in the above complex decision
making be provided in such a way that the interests of all groups are
considered and potential conflicts minimised?
(t)  How can the conjunctive use of surface and groundwater be developed
I                                       to conserve surface water and avoid excessive exploitation of
groundwatet ?
|                                  4.4 Data collection and monitoring
Data collection and monitoring are essential to ensure sustainability and to
prevent environmental degradation both at the river basin and state level and
at the individual sub-project level. On the other hand, monitoring is costly and
the effort may be useless or even harmful unless the quality of the data
collected is reliable. It is. therefore, necessary to establish what will be an
adequate, cost-effective and reliable monitoring programme for studying the
environmental aspects of water resources development in Tamilnadu. Another
means is to make maximum use of remote sensing technology and to present
data in an accessible form using a geographical information system, GIS.
It is important that duplication of data collection is avoided and that different
disciplines which may require different data or different densities of recording
*                                  agree on a comprehensive programme. For the new WRD it is proposed that
responsibility for general data collection will be under the office of the Chief
Engineer (Design and Construction) which will be linked to the IHH. A
National Hydrology Project is now in preparation by the World Bank and data
collection will also be considered under that project.
3                                   It is possible that conflict and duplication or ommission will result if this is not
carefully planned. Therefore, it may be wise for the new WRD to seek expert
assistance to review data collection and monitoring early in the project. This
I                                   review would examine the sources and types of data currently being collected
and those required (including environmental data). It would assess the present
methods of data collection and analysis, recommend institutional
|                                   responsibilities, and where necessary recommend changes and additional data
needs. Recommendations should also be made on the possible applications
of remotely sensed data and to propose appropriate ways of storing and
presenting all the collected data, including possible GIS applications. The
organisation undertaking this review should work closely with those preparing
the environmental assessment procedure for river basins since the data needs
for undertaking such assessments are likely to cover all the issues for which
65                      EX 2853 2911U93



l
monitorlng at a basin or state levol will be noeded. Also the data specialist
can advise those drafting tho assessment procedure on those sections of the  |
procedure which refer to the setting up of programmes to monitor Issues which
are thought to be potentially serious. Such data can then be fed into the
central data base. It is proposed that tho IWS (Environment Division) maintain
a data bank for ground and surface water quality data and therefore they
should be consulted on this issue.
The laboratory facilities withiln the PWD and throughout the state should also  U
be reviewed and consolidated if possible. Mobile laboratories should be made
available for the RBM Environmental Cells to enable the rapid collection of
water quality data for Identifying and monitoring potential pollution sources. It  I
is also recommended that each RBM Cell is equipped with a field level water
quality monitoring kit.
4.5 Eco-gardens and eco-restoration
The major expenditure wilhiin the WRCP will be for the rehabilitation and
modernisation of Ihe existing command areas. Whilst this is environmentally
beneticial there are other aspects ol the ecolorical system outside of the
command areas which requires rehabilitation. As part of the EAP it is
proposed therefore thiat in each area covered by a River Basin Management  I
unit a sample area will be selected for development as an ecological system
garden for training and demonsiration to non-environment specialists, farmers
and schools from the command area. An eco-garden will have a 5 to 10 ha  9
plot comprising local tree and plant species and varieties of wildlife. In
essence it will be a miniature park as real life parks are few.
As for the eco-gardens, in each RBM area an area which is ecologically  U
degraded would be selected for restoration as part of the EAP under the
project, This would involve the selection of a suitable area and suitable local
community and restoring the area to its natural state by, for example, 
qualitative soil improvement work. promotion of vegetative growth, prevention
of waterlogging and improving land and water quality.  Following initial
implementation the restored area could be administered by a Farmer Council  U
which would benefit from the fuelwood and other outputs.  However,
assistance would be provided to help the FC to maintain the area on a   5
sustainable basis for demonstration to other communities.
5 Training and awareness building
It is assumed that no new staff will be recruited. However, as most staff to be
redeployed will have had little experience of environmental issues considerable
training will be required. The proposed training would include short and long
courses in India, short courses overseas, attendance at seminars and
conferences and an awareness building programme. It is also proposed that
courses on the environment are given at IMTI with visiting lecturers from
various specialist organisations including visiting lecturers from overseas. A
provisional programme is shown in Figure 12. All training will be coordinated
by IMTI who will have overall responsibility for training under the project
although IWS will be closely involved in planning the programme.
F
66                      EX 2853 ZV119s3 _



Tlhere are two aspects to the environmental training required under the WRCP:
training to establisih and maintairi tho capabilities of the Environmental Cells
and the Environmental Unit and the wider training and awareness building
required for other members of the WRD and Farmer Councils.
The initial staff requirements and responsibilities of the proposed
Environmental Cell and Environmental Division are given in Section 2.2 above.
Once appointed, the staff will require training and, since their responsibilities
begin immediately, it will not be possible initially to take them away for training
courses of more than one or two weeks. It is, therefore, recommended that,
for the first year, on the job training be provided to those of Assistant
Executive Engineer grade and above in two ways: first, by working with the
consultants preparing the various procedures and reports described in this
lchapter; and, secondly, by undertaking a programme of short visits to
appropriate agencies and institutions in India. Mixed groups of three or four
staff could visit thie Ministry of Environment and Forests, New Delhi, the
Central Pollution Control Board, NEERt, The National Forest Management
InstilLite. Buphal, The Forest Research Institute, Dohradun, the Central Soil
and Water Conservalion Research and Training Institule, Ooty and others to
be determined later.
The proposed institutional link for technical assistance discussed below will
provide expatriate experts. This will allow review missions to be undertaken
at regular intetvals providing continuity for the support and on-going training
of the WRD staff. The organisation providing the link will also offer practical
training overseas through short visits.
An urgent need was identified for a short awareness building course to be run
for all senior WRD staff in relation to the WRCP. A proposed programme for
such a workshop is given in Appendix 3. It is recommended that it takes place
in the first year of the project. The awareness building workshop should also
be run for more junior staff and Farmer Councils during the five year project
implementation period.
Once the WRCP starts, a rolling programme of training and awareness
building is needed for all WRO engineering staff, Longer programmes of a
week or more will be needed for those planning and implementing individual
sub-projects, preparing basin plans or responsible for supervising operation
and maintenance activities, whilst shorter awareness building courses will be
needed for other staff. It is inconceivable that the WRCP can achieve the
sustainable and environmentally enhancing management of water resources
which it seeks to achieve unless each member of staff is aware of the issues
and of how histher activities and decisions relate to those issues.
It is recommended that expert assistance be provided to develop training
courses and materials appropriate to the needs of the WRD. In time these will
be developed and modified by IMTI. A target should be set that all those
directly involved in sub-projects and basin planning should receive initial
training before the end of the first year of the project. More specialised
courses on such subjects as pollution monitoring and control may be provided,
in this case either directly or through the TNPCB, to staff directly involved in
schemes or river basins where water quality problems are particularly severe.
l
|                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~67   EX 2as3 29/11



Technology transfer and collaborative implementation should be a normal part
of consultancy services and research and devolopment activities, Therefore,
training should not be taken in isolation as h will be closely linked with these
activities.
Some overseas technical assistance has been recommended for tmBining,
consultancy and research and it is proposed thal an institutional twinning
arrangetnent be established with an overseas organisation. The terms of
reference for such twinning would require the provision of training, (including
providing short courses in India and providing training overseas), technology
transfer, consultancy services and contrbuting to the research programme.
However, care is needed in selecting the appropriate overseas institution in
order to avoid the appointment of a few generalists instead of numerous
experts. No single organisation can provide all the required expertise therefore
the TOR should stipulate thal partnerships should be formed in order to cover
the breadth of expertise needed. Also, association with an appropriate local
organisation should be compulsory. Such a twinning arrangement could cover
other aspects of the project as well as environment but it is strongly
recommended that any design and construction consultancy work is let
separately as the nature of the work is very different.
6  Consultancy inputs
Consultancy services will be required to assist the staff of the IWS
Environmental Division and the other Environmental Cells. Most of the
consultany services will be short term and provided by local specialists,
however, funds have been included for up to 15 months of overseas expertise
to assist the WRD and local consultants on specialist matters. As suggested
in section 5 above this could form part of the duties under a twinning
arrangement. A particular need for the first two to three years of the project
will be the appointment of an Expert Advisor (or Advisors) to the WRC. The
Advisor would be retained by the WRC on a part-time basis to cover all
environmental matters. The Advisor would work closely with the Ast. Director
(Environment) of the IWS who whould eventually perform this function.
Some of the tasks to be covered by the consultancy services would be:
*   to assist IWS in the development of procedures, guidelines and codes for
use by the WRO;
*   to assist WRD in the preparation of TOR for environmental impact
assessments for new projects;                                      |
*   to carry out environmental impact assessmer,ts and management plans
as may be required to meet the statutory requirements of the central or
state government;
*   to assist in the development of training and awareness building
programmes and to offer training as part of their consultancy work;
*   to provide advice on the research programme and technical support to
'he research activities mentioned in section 7 bc!ow; and
68                      EX 2853 29/1ttl3



l                                                                       N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
to participate in formal courses or at seminars for WRD and other staff
on water resources development during the project to ensure
dissemination of information and to involve and inform field staff from
outside Madras,
In addition to the above consultancy inputs, which will be mostly short term,
two special studies are recommended for inclusion in the WRCP. These will
be carried out by local consultants with short advisory inputs from overseas
*                                  consultants, if required:
*   A soil conservation planning study which will determine the locations
within the stale where priority should be given for soil conservation and
make recommendations for institutional risponsibilities of the numerous
agencies involved in this work such as the RBM units of the WRD, the
U                                      AED, Forest Dept and others. The planning study should give clear
guidelines for the consideration of the WRC and a plan of action for the
implementation for soil conservation measures in the state.
*   A study ol groundwater pollulion in the Palar basin: This study would
investigate the effect of industrial effluents on crop production and
I                                      propose methods of improvements, including policy as well as technical
solutions. The study should make clear proposals for action which may
be included as pail of the WRCP.
7 Applied research and development needs
An active applied research effort, interacting effectively with the Environmental
Division of IWS and with the other Environment Cells and other units of the
proposed WRD, such as IHH. is essential to resolve the long term sector
environmental issues. An important consideration at this stage is not only the
subjects to be studied but also the manner in which research studies are to be
selected, commissioned and managed.
Financial and other resources can easily be wasted on research if those
commissioning it are not properly aware of what has been studied already,
both locally and further afield, and are not conscious of the need to invest to
bridge the gap between labo,-tory studies and prototype systems. Thus, both
in selecting priority areas for research and identifying the precise focus for the
research, it is necessary to involve a well-informed group including both those
of an academic background and those of a practical background. A Research
Advisory Committee comprising representatives from Anna University, IWS and
IIT already exists and has responsibility for coordination and advice on
research matters and could fulfil this role. However, it would be advisable to
expand the committee members to include a more specialised environmental
group such as NEERI to advise on environmental research priorities.
In the past, with internationally funded projects where research has not been
given high priority, ceitain associated research activities have been funded
from other budgets which are unconnected with the project. Whilst this can
benefit the sector, there are occasions when the project officials have no say
in the formulation of the research which prevents researchers from responding
to the principal issues of concern to the project. Even where the interested
party also controls the finance it is still difficult to manage diverse research
projects in such a way that timely and relevant results are obtained. Underthe
69                      EX 2853 2W111193



WRCP. a proportion of project funds will be allocated for a research
programme which will include environmental aspects.  The Advisory      i
Committee should review the detailed research proposals which should be
prepared and presented by the IWS, who will be responsible for overall
coordination of this programme altliough other agencies may also be involved
in carrying out the research.                                          -
Several subject areas have been idenlified, during the preparation of this
report, and they are listed below. The subjects are described broadly and  -
more focussed objectives will need to be specified before work commences.
Care must be taken to avoid duplication as some of these topics may have
already been studied.  Also, the research should be directed towards   _
identifying practical solutions and act as catalysts for future projects. The
research should be collaborative between the IWS or IHH and Universities or
other specialist institutes. The research will be mostly locally based but funds
have been included for some external support, through the twinning
arrangements, both for techinical assistance and for specialist equipment.
*   Catchment Processes and Interlinkages: The on-going ODA funded
research with IWS would be extended to include the impact of
interlinkages between different calchment processes and in particular the
socio-economic aspects of catchment management and the benefits of
catchment management on upland dwellers. This will be based on the
Vellar basin as a pilot catchment;
*   Remote Sensing and the use of GIS for Environmental Assessment and
Management: The Bhavani basin would be studied to determine the
uses of RS/GIS for improved catchment management including reservoir
sedimnentation monitoring. catchment soil erosion, mapping and
monitoring salt affected areas and modelling lake ecosystems;
*   Groundwater Utilisation: determination of a parameter set for monitoring
groundwater trends in order to improve upon the present "dark' area
delineation. In addition existing data would be used to study conjunctive  I
use of surface and groundwater and the relationship between
groundwater recharge and  irrigation  modernisation including an
assessment of benefits and costs of groundwater use for agriculture  U
compared wilh industry/domestic use,
*   Wastewater Reuse: development and pilot testing in the Vaigai basin of
plants for reusing wastewater for industry, agriculture and artificial
recharge of groundwater, including assessment of public health dangers
related to low quality water, particularly with respect to pesticides. It is
understood that Metrowater have done some work on this and should be
involved in the study; and
*   Reservoir Environmental Quality: Analysis of eutrophication of upland
reservoirs and the impact on irrigation schemes using three diffrent types
of reservoir: uncontaminated, polluted and silted. This would include an
assessment of prophylactic measures for qualitative improvement.
.
70                      EX 2s53 zWI 1na



8  Cost estimate for the EAP
A detailed cost estimate for thie EAP is given In Tablo 7 and summarised
below. The total cost will be Rp 105.7 million (USS 3.41 million) of which
Rp 36 million (US$ 1.15 million), that is 34%, will be foreign exchange costs.
Table 7 also gives a breakdown of the cost ovor the project implementation
period. A summary of Ihe costs by category of expenditure is given below:
Total Cost
llotem                             Rp (laokh)            USS'OOO
Equipmont                               261                   842
Works                                   440                  1,419
Local consultancy                       435                   435
Overmoas TA (twinning)                  111                    379
Local trcnlming                          62                   200
Ovorseca Training                        42                   134
1,057                 3,410
An implementation schedule is shown in Figure 12 together with the estimated
I
expenditure tar each project year.
m
71                         EX 2853 21Vttht93
!



V
U)
a)
_        an  _          Iii   el I    I    I 1           I    I I N  III I I i I *  in             _      _     _



Table 1  Details of on-going minor schemes proposed for inclusion
in the WRCP
! ~          ~~~ -  ----------                                               ------ 
Name of minor scherno Basin                  Command Arca (hi)         Ara affected (ha)     People alfected (No)
-  Nowi Existirg | Totni   Forest] Form   Other   < 50%    betwoon 60
_____ -                                     a1  1  and 100%
Rajathops Kanor       Palar                0       219     219        7      19      4         0             1
Morthana              Palar               0      2870    2870       37      46      49         0           70
Polgalyar             Kodayar           202        286     488        0    1II       7       116          318
Nambiyar             Namblyar          152       1129    1281        0    130    133       563           204
_         ~~~~Kodumnudlyar        Nambiyar          193      1924    2 1 17     '13    105      so      I15             0
Vndaku Pachlyckr       Tombrmpctrani   jG6I       1039    1800        .       .       .        .
Adavinayonor          Tomboarpamrnt      9S      2178    2276        1 4    72       6     33        _ 
Sothupari             Vnignl                                         1 5    25       4      28G             9
Schanrnuga Nndhl      Vaigal            66           0     664        2    106       16     438           134
Athikulum             Valgal(7)                                       0      13      0        G0             0
Moravamongalam        Vaigai              0      2100    2100         0     25       5
Tirupathur Big Tank   Valgal                                         0      19      0      285             0
TOTALS                                 2070      11745   13815       SS    671    273       1795          736
. Information not available at time of study.
-             Sources: PWD, FAOICP and Consultants studying lnd acquisition.
.
U
EX 2ass 29/a11'53



Table 2   GO! recommended tolerance limits for different water uses                                                                                     -
.. _                                                                                                        _      .   __                       .      U.....   .... 
A    ~          Wn> A     cn  D""'w                                 |               |
[~~~~~~~~~~~s  ChclAus tle | Unwh                                                                                                 3 1
p1H                                                       0     bt        05i             0,.8 6 .0          0dt.6         1.04.b
OD O(MIN)                                 MOAt              t               6                4               4
BOD t5 DAYE, 2OC)                         ngA               2                                t                                                        _
TOTAL COLIFORMS (MAX)                 MPNltoo              60              500 S000                                                                   _
COLOUR                               HAZEN UNIT                             t00 tW  .0 
ODOUR                                 ODOURLESS            YES
AtASTE                                TASTELEIW            YES
T DS                                     mm                600                             I SWoX                           21W0
TOTAL HARDNESS                        mnln jcaCo,_ 20_                                                        _I
LEAD                                     nl        _
MAQNESIUM                                 mgIl             100
COPPER                                      l.S 156
IRON                                                       O'Sl  o 5
MANGANESE                                mgI               0.6
CHLORIDE9                                mgI               250                              00D                              G00
FLUORIDES                                "VI               I'S               s               i 'S
CYANIDES                                   V"S             006            005             0o0S
SELENIUM                                  Moll              .        ,        .
CADMIUM                                   mgiI                                             0.01
BORON                   _                   f_                                                                                2
ARSENIC                                   rgl'                              0,2             0.2
PHENOLS                                   mgIl                             0.005           0.W5                    _
CHROMIUM                                  mgiI                              0s              0.05 
SULPHATES                                 -0.                                               400                             100
ANIONIC DETERGENTS                       n1n            -
ALPHA EMITTERS                             lI                              10_
BETA FMITTERS                                                 0drr_
FREE AMMONIA                              tt. _                                                              12
ELECTRtoAL CONDUCTIVITY                 lin*o                                                               1000            2250
CAT 2SCI
FREE 00,                                  mn.                                                                 6
OILS AND GREASE                           MO                                                                 0.1
SAR                                                             X                                                              l_X2G 
Water us elauses
A.    Drinking water vource without convemlonatl Irealrnent but oiler dmir,ec.on.
B.    Outdoor bnihkqg (opgannied).
0.    DCinhki %.Ier cource wvih oorwenlionnl ltohlIenI foCowed by disirdecton. 
D.    Propgat^ion el vAld hbo and tIkerles.
E.    IrIgilli. idurial coling and conrioled wasite dlsaoal.
EX 2i53 2W1 V13



NC
Table 3    (a) Irrigability classes of water
Electric conductance of water micro mhos/cm, 2500              CLASS
100 to 250                                                      Ci
250 to 750                                                       C2
750 to 2,250                                                     C3
_            2,250 to 5,000                                                   C4
5,000 to 20.000                                                  Cs
I            Sodium absorption ratio (SAR) of water
Less than 10                                                     Si
10 to 18                                                         S2
T able 3    (b) Water quality criteria for classification of groundwater
*  Water Class         [   ECiw (ds/m)    |  SAR (m moles/l)y    J  RSC (meq/l)-
-  Good                         < 2                   s 10                < 2.5
Marginally saline             2-4                  s 10                 < 2.5
Saline                        > 4 __               s10                  < 2.5
High SAR saline               > 4                   > 10                <2.5
Marginally alkali I           < 4                  > 10                2.5-4.0
Marginally alkali 11          <4                   < 10                 > 4.0
Alkali                  =     -                     > 10                > 4.0
_          *   Electrical Conductivity, EC = 1.538 TDS
Total Dissolved Solids, TDS, in ppm
I          *-  Sodium Absorption Ratio, SAR = Na / ( Ca + Mc) (m moles/l)*'
Residual Sodium Carbonate, RSC = (HCO3 + C03) - (Ca2 + Mg2,) (meq/l)
I
EX 2853 2g,1/g3t9
I



Table 4    TNPCB  tolerance limits for trade effluents__
Discharge into                                  3
Characteristics     Inland surface   Public Sewers  Marine coastal area    On land for
water     l              l                    j  irrigation           3
Colour and odour
Suspended solids         100            600        a)  for process          200              3
(mgA)                                     waste waters
100                         I
b)  for cooling
water effluents
10 percent
above total                 l
suspended
matter of
influent cooling
water
Particle size of    shall pass 850                 a)  Floatable solids      .      |
suspended solids    micron is sieve                    max. 3mm
b)  Settleable solids                     j
max. 850
micron
Dissolved solids-       2100            2100                               2100
inorganic     mg/I      2100                                               2100
pH                    5.5 to 9.0      5.5 to 9.0       5.5 to 9.0        5.5 to 9.0
Temperature IC      40 at the point  45 at the point  45 at the point
of discharge      of discharge
Oil and grease mg/l      10              20                20               10
Total residual            1                                 1
chlorine      mg/l  _
Ammoniacal               50              50                50
Nitrogen (as N) mg/I                                                                          3
Total Kjeldahl           100              -                100
Nitrogen (as N) mg/l                              _
Free Ammonia              5               -                 5
(as NH3)      mg/l
Biochemical              30             350                100              100              I
Oxygen Demand (5
days at 20C) mg/l  _              _
EX 2863 2Wt 1193



TablQ 4 Continued
Discharge into
Characteristics       Inland      Public Sewers     Marine coastal      On land for
surface water                        area            irrigation
Chemical Oxygen        250                               250
Demand       mg/l
Arsenic (as As)         0.2            0.2               0.2               0.2
mg/*
I            Mercury (as Hg)        0,01            0.01              0.01              0.01
mg/l                                               _
Lead (as Pb) mg/I      0.01            1.00              1.00              1.00
Hexavalent             0.10            2.0               1.0               1.0
chromium
(as Cr6+F)    mg/I
Total Chromium          2.0            2.0               1.0               2.0
(as Cr)      mg/I
Cadmium (as Cd)         2.0              1.0             2.0               1,0
*                          m g/I       ._         _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ __m_
Copper (as Cu)          3               3                 3                 3
mg/l _
Zinc (as Zn)  mg/l      1               15                         15      15
Selenuim (as Se)       0.05            0.05              0.05              0.05
mg/l
Nickel (as Ni)          3               3                 3                 3
_  mgtl                                    .           _
Boron (as Ni)           2               2                 2                 2
mgA
I          rPercent Sodium            -              60                                  60
_ mg/I  __   _   _       _  _   _  _       __  _   _   _
Residual Sotium          -                                .                 5
Carbonate   mgA                                      ._____
Cyanide (as CN)         0.2            2.0               0.2               0.2
mgA                                 .                     .       -
Chloride (as Cl)       1000            1000                                600
mgA
Fluoride (as F)        2.0             15                15                2.0
3   rre/E _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
EX 28S3 29/11/93



Table 4  Continued                                                                                   [
_____________              Discharge  into                                      F
Characteristics        Inland    | Public Sewers  I  Marine coastal  I  On land for
surface water                         area             irrigation 
Sulphates (SO4)         1000            1000               1000              1000
Sulphide (as S)          2                                  5                  2
Pesticides             Absent          Absent             Absent            Absent
Phenolic                 1               5                  5                  5
compounds
(as CH5OH) mg/I                                                                         l
Radioactive materis_      _                                                                       l
a. Alpha emitters        l0o-            1017 0o I o.8
(pcmim)                                                                                          I
b. Beta emitters         1o-6            10 06'                               1 o6-,
(,4clml)
EX 2853 2911113 |



Table 5    Sedimentation of selected reservoirs/tanks in Tamilnadu
Namoe of Reservoir/    Original capacity   Present capacity    Loss (m 3xl 0)   Sedimentation   Annual
=    Tank                     (m3xl 06)        (M 3xl 06)     and age (years)       (%)        storage
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _j_ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___  __________  ___________ __ ____ __  loss   in   %
1 st Phase surveys (1975.193S5)
Krishnagiri Reservoir   68.200 (1957)   47.183 (1983)    21.017 (26 yrs)      30.8         1.19
- Sathanur Reservoir    234.828 (1957)             =              _
Vaigal Reservoir      194.785 (1958)    172.380 (1983)    22.405 (25 yrs)     1 1.5        0.46
Aliyair Reservoir     108.260 (1962)    107.110 (1981)   1.150 (19 yrs)        1.1         0.06
Upper Bhavani         101.148 (1965)    97,480 (1985)    3.668 (20 yrs)       3.6          0.18
_   I Reservoir
Emerald-Avalanchi     156.750 (1960)    145.700 (1981)    11.050 (21 yrs)     7.1          0.34
Reservoir
Kundah-Pallam          1.534 (1960)     0.646 (1982)     0.838 (22 yrs)       57.9         2.63
Reservoir
Pegumbanullah         0,919 (1966)      0.629 (1962)     0.290 (16 yrs)       31.6         1.97
Reservoir
-     sPalar Reservoir     44.400 (1966)     27.129 (1982)    17.271 (16 yrs)      38.9         2.43
Mettur Stanely       2708.760 (1934)   2175.432 (1983)   533.328 (49 yrs)     19.7         0.40
Reservoir
2nd Phase Surveys (1985.1995)
Amaravathi            117.163 (1958)    100.321 (1986)    16.842 (28 yrs)     14.4         0.51
Reservoir
Thirumoorthy          54.800 (1966)     51.210 (1987)    3.590 (21 yrs)        6.6         0.31
Reservoir
Willington Reservoir    71.460 (1924)   54.342 (1991)    17.118 (67 yrs)      24.0         0.36
(2nd capacity
survey)
Berijam Reservoir      2.195 (1911)     1.804 (1987)      0.391 (76 yrs)      17.B         0.23
0ai ur Tank            7.040 (1919)     6.860 (1986)     0.180 (67 yrs)       2.6          0.04
Parsons Valley        16.422 (1966)     12,700 (1988)    3.722 (23 yrs)       22.7         0.99
Reservoir
EX 2B53 29tt 1/93



Table 5    Continued                   _
Name of Reservoir/    Original capacity   Present capacity    Loss (m3x106)   Sedimeniation   Annual    I
Tank                   (m3x1 0)          (m3xl 0)       and age (years)      (%)        storage
loss in %
Kaveripakkam         41.730 (1902)     35.749 (1989)    5.981 (87 yrs)       14,3        0.16
Reservoir
Porthimund           60.109 (1966)     57,456 (1990)    2.653 (24 yrs)       4.4         0.18
Reservoir
Ponnanair Reservoir    3.388 (1974)    2.540 (1990)     0.848 (16 yrs)       25.0        1.56
Ooly Lake                              0.989 (1992)               -
Veeranam Tank         40.805 (1923)    26.464 (1991)    14.341 (68 yrs)      35.1        0.52
(Anicut)
Upper Reservoir       16.197 (1968)    10.033 (1991)    6.164 (23 yrs)       38.1        1.65
(Periyar)          _
Pechiparai Reservoir   150.270 (1971)    144.772 (1992)    5.498 (21 yrs)    3.7         0.17
Mukurthy Reservoir '
Manialar Reservoir    13.759 (1967)    10.688 (1992)    3 371 (25 yrs)       22.3        0.89      _
Surveys undertaken by Institute ot Hydraulics and Hydrology, Poondi
Survey work in progress
IE
I
EX 2883 211M9



I  Table 6   Wildlife sanctuaries in Tamilnadu
Location                   Area In hectares    Type of forest                  Wildlife
Mudumalal                      32100           Moist deciduous                 Elephant, Gour, Sarnbar,
Panther. Tiger, etc
Mukkoorthy                      7846           Primarily grass land            Nilgris Thar, Sambar,
interspersed with sholas       Jungle Cat, etc
eand brooks
Anamnlal                       95860           Varies from dry deciduous       Elephant, Gour, Tiger,
to semi-evergreen,              Panther, etc
evergreen and montane
wet temperate
*      Srivilliputhur                 48520           Dry dociduuus with patches      Grizzled ginnt squirrel.
*      Grizzled Squirrel                              of tropical evergreen           Elephant, Lion-tailed
Sanctuary                                                                      macaque, etc
Calakad                        22350           Wet evergreen lo trcpical       Lion-tailed macaque, etc
*___________________   dry  deciduous
Mundanthurai                   56738           Dry deciduous to tropical       Tiger, Sloth bear, etc
evergreen                       (Part of Project Tiger)
Guindy National                 282            Dry evergreen scrub and         Black buck, Chital, etc
I      Park                                           thorn forest
Vedanthangal                     91            Tank with dry                   Birds including Herons,
and Karikili                                   evergreen scrub and thorn       Pelican, etc
forest
Udayamarthanda-                  45            Tank with scrub                 Birds
puram Bird
E    | Sanctuary
Kangirankulam                   190            Lake wilh groves of trees       Birds
Chithangudi and
fl     Vetlangudipatti
*    | (Ramnad Dt)
I Vallanadu (Chi-                 1641           Scrub forest                    Blackbuck. etc
dambaranar Dt)
Pulicat Lake                   15367           Estuary with trees              Birds
I   [ (Chingleput Ot)                  __
Point Calimere                  1726           Mangroves and tidal             Flamingoes, Black bucks, etc
(Tanjore Dt)                                   swamps
I Gulf of Mannar                623            Marine                          Dolphins and Marine Life
Marine National             (21 Islands)
Park (Chi-
dambaranar Dt)
Arignar Anna                    510            Dry deciduous                   Mammals. Birds and Reptiles
Zoological Park
(near Madras)
I
EX z3s3 2SU1 U93
I



Table 7   Cost e-stimates for the Environmental Action_Plan                                                 -
{Item                                                   Oty        Rote       Total       Cost       FE (% 
(Rp lakhs)  (Rp lakhs)  (US$'000)
'.   Equlpmaht 
1.1  vehicles                               No       5           3         15          48            0
1.2  computers                              No       6           2         12          39          100
1.3  field & laboratory equip.              No       4          24        9G          310          100
1.4  mobile laboralory                      No       4          20         80         258          100      I
1.5  bulldng works for labs.                No       4          12         48         155            0
1.6  IWS library                            No        1         10         10          32          100
2.  Demonstration prolecis                                                                                       I
2.1  eco-system gardens                     No        4         20         80         258            0
2.2  eco-resoration                         No        4         90        360         1161           0
3.  Consulting services
3.1  local consultancy & NGO support       mths      60          0.5       30           97           0
3.2  consultants for special studies       mths      80          0.5       40          129           0
3.3  overseas consultants (twinning)       mths      15          4.5       68          218         100
4.  Research & Development
4.1  coltaborative studies with univ. etc.  No        5         13         65         210            0
4.2  overseas support (twinning)      Lump sum                             50          161         100      I
(il. equipment if required)
5.  Traininq_
5.1  overseas short courses                 No        7          4.5       32          102         100
5.2  overseas seminars/conferences          No       10          1.0       10           32         100
5.3  Post-graduate courses in India         No       10          4.0       40          129           0
5.4  short courses in India                 No       20          0.6       12           39           0      I
5.5  awareness building/networking    Lump sum                             10           32
TOTAL COST                                                 .                  1057        3410
F.E. Cost                                                                      357        1150         34%
Notes:
1.   Staff costs are excluded as staff will be redeployed and no additional recrukment
is expected.
2.  The twinning arrangement would cover items 3.3. 4.2 and part of 5.1.
3.   A review of laboratory facilities and equipment will be needed before new  F
purchases are made in order to rationalise the present system. Items 1.3 to 1.5
are therefore indicative only.
EX 28S 29/1 1193



n
a)
a}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
. -
0)
ImI                                          I IIIII                      I    1         I     I     I      III I   I    IIII               I               I      I              I            I      I       I



RIVER BASINS OF TAMILNADU
B. No. 1  i al m                                                                                         Ein
Madras
paw
-   Agnar
Vulwar 
Apiar                          r  in                  Nh
Flun                 KAR &A                  $ 6NA
*   1. Uadras    7at2   Ss42   1130    tN2S        10. Valpl               774t    77 t    900    6.97
2 Palbr         17S7   10B74   .940    10l03         11. G43                                  0
Vos2                                                                          - 3
4       t3855   1214t    920       11.1~   t4.   Trnl             tS8t    1551     990     1.48
R                           BAINtS
2. t813                 1781S167   8.90    1J00    .1. _                          483     480389   77      3.Z73,
1. Tondiar            3837   :i637   1250 4l5           12.  Vaa6                       2         0
Figure 4.P1naya             385    211       2     1.1        ..139                           139     60      10
5 Vliar854 85                        90s1441T~Wl                               42      1       10      60
6 n~ gY890 470                         90       ~        1.Nmlr16                        51      90      16
KUtALA ~  ~      ~      ~     6.KndVaIa               53      53 170         26
9. ICoitakarlar  1813D181 a     80     1.8 TootalN-    130389g  Noma  N22m7
I  SOURCE: PWD                                                                                   HG WIND akdAODvADAAe
Figu   Nrne 1 lBet ae  nanI   nw                   g              ae fBWsSO  naaI    rm                   -ri
_M_   Tam_______o__ No



HYDROGEOLOGY OF TAMILNADU                                                         ANONMA                      -.S 
HYDMROCHIMICAL COIDITIONS
Ebelriol conductivity In
-   Mar omho ie t 250C
Fresh ground waler overlain by
**.  Surtasaline watkr
Ground waterf Is sal614ine t all letis
J Yq lsexcept loal patches
KARNATAKA
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
KERALA
HYDROGRAPHY
.~'River I Stream vAth direction
Of (low
.  .Surface water dIvid
.0-isohySt in cm                                                                     mlpm
GROUND WATER HYDROLOGY
B -ourdary of ares at Ar'- slan flow
Water table contour In m atbe iwt-S'
N ~  ~     ~    ~         e                                                                Manner ' 
Scale. Io.0o
INDIA               I CEAN                  .
AGE GROUP           LITHOLOGY                    HYDROGEOLOGICAL CONOITIONS    GROUNDWATER POTEtMAL
1. POROUS FORMATION
(uncontoildated & eml consolidated)
A. Unconsolidatled   Ouaternary   Recent & Okler Alluvium Clay.        Fairly thick but discontinuous confined   Umited jo moderate yield pro$-
Formation                      silt, sand, gravel. peleW. c I  J    to semlontined aqulfers down to      pects 5 to 150 m'touf
rmg rcorti  beach sao4 ed            150 m.bg.l.
Laterite                            Moderately thick but dUcontinuous    Umited yield prospects
confined to semiconfined aquiter.   < 50n,lhour
down to 30 rn.b.g.I.
lB. SemI.consolIdated  Tertiary    Ten4rles-Marine crelaceous            F,irly thick but discontinuous aquifers   Moderate to large  Ield prospects
Formation         Mesozic    sand slone, shale etc.                 down to S0C m.b.g.i.                 50 to 200 mrIhour
Gondwanas.eend stone.  ale.          Fairly thIk butl  scontinuotis snultut  LImited vtnld prolets uo to
Ilmd stone etc.                       own to 20' .n bi g.!      o           mlhnour
C. Consolidated                                                     11. FISSURED (ConsolIdated)
Formation
1) Mets sedi.     Pre-carnbrlan Gnelssatcon,plex&associated   =     Ground water restricted tO 60 rn, depth   Umited to moCderate yield pros.
*mentorles                   basic & ultrabasic Intrusives;        weathered residium, fractutes, zones    pects uplfto 0 m or
(Post-Archaean.)                     havng secondary porosity
_   i) Basalrystalilnee       Archuean             SOtRCE: CGWB                                               HG WING ITWAD fMADRAS
Figure 2
I



Andhra Pradesh
                100 k0
t  -1-   1                      _         ,.t-         ~~~~~~~~~~Madras
;~~*,r*b_ ,3 ~Voll'ore>
l  -      {      ~             1      Cuddalore
1500  1000     i
2500
------                   ~~~~~750
5   9      < //                / ~~~~      ~~Erode|\
:Z  eCoimbatore                                                    Bay of Bengal
OTrichy
I                      o&\15~~~0 1 00
c,,/ ~~Madura! 
l   i    $   ~Kerala        2                           
I82           X0\e00
lji: \   .r1        )G ulf of  M annar
oil    /Isohyets in millimetres
AWY11 *YPA
I        Figure 3  Annual rainfall
l
l



rr,       0           rrSAndhra Pradesh  /                                                            Andhra Pradesh '
c         alOOkmis                                                        0Cm
U)
|_|                                                                |    KanrkKarnataka  Karnataka
.,
z            _ 
(0
350~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Kerala   /Kerala                                                                              60
45
South - West Monsoon                                           North - East Monsoon
(June to September)                                            (October I i December)
1W         Mr WM vM                      we -  -  -  ---                              -  - I                      m  --  



Andhra Pradesh
0        50km.
/' aS'2                       Madra
Karnchipuram
Karnatak            /harmapurl
C" ed aIore    Bay or  Bonngal
_   (   Ooty            |  4i~~~~~Erode               r  
l                                              Tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ichy
l      i  Jezr)             t                      t ~~~~~~~     ~    ~ ~~~~Pudukott   I
|   ji               ,  @       n i *~~~~~~ Madurai     
Kerala     ! 
!._,                       /        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Palk Bay
_   I            .,   sil             f        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gulf of Mabnar
|  \   /  lirunelveli
l     < .f                     1                   <  Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dark areas where
Ngercoil                              > 85% of groundwater exploited
A|5dIpiPA 
I    Figure 5 Groundwater Exploitation in 1992



j\..[
Andhra Pradesh
0               lOOkms                   ' V.\ ,r                   adr
2D000                               2000 :| 
3000     a          N     Arcot g4                   
<  Dharmapurl                                                      U
Karnataka
s~~~~~~
*)CoimT6W ore*
(,                                    a         Dy~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"oal I
59 | J , Pa~~~~~~~~~~lk Svtri 
Kerala, 
0           rs~~~~~~amanatha             Z 
f\4'   ~Guffof Wnnar   ff>4000 Bad        Wate
X    /   w W                    li ~~~~~~~~~~~~>3000 Poor   iatoar
9xanyakumari  _/               m  ~~~~~~~~>2000 Marginal Irgto
/                    ~~~~~~~Measured inlOOO0 Microrhos /cm
Note: for potable USe water should be  
less than 1500 microhos I cm
Figlre 6  G;roundwater quality in Tamilnadu (1992)                           AKV-W



I
| ................ ~~~~Andhra Pradesh_JA
l O .............. lOOkms ,  
Karnataka    ,                                     g
Bay of Bengal
.i~~~~A                                      Pal Stra,ita]a    7|
<          f       ~ ~~~~Madura    /                 akSri
Kerala,                           \
Figure 7 Main Irrigated Areas
i~~~~ <j uffMna



Andhra Pradesh            ,,                     r
0                 lOOkms                                             ,@    ;r
zlz"
Karnatakca     It
Bay of Bengal
%'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Figure 8  Main Soil Types                                                  |~~~~~~~Sol tpe
Red steisi
Lateridc soil 
-                   ~~~~~~~~~~Black soil
Deep red loam 
Red sandy soil  3
Red loam
?..River alluvium  3
Figure 8  Main Soil TypesI



Lk
3                                                           Andhra Pradesh
o                 1 OOkms
Karnataka
U             Mudumalai  .
_             ._.-a        ;. m   ; | ;^P-  Sale
--                                                                        B (0  +  ;>  jay of Bengal
Coimbatore
~xA aimalal 
Keraia                                \(
Gulf of Mannar
M   Wildlife Sanctuaries
\   Forest Areas
*                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AH,I1.g9VPA
!         Figure 9  Wildlife Sanctuaries and Forest Areas



21
CaI
0                                                       Enginer in Chief
-I
CD
3                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Monitor &
O                                              iWS              <-                 |  Evaluation
(0
X                              | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Project Otlicr  .
0
0
OD                                      Deig gln ||1IRgltion      | Krisha |
0.                  Formulation     |                                       O&M |                              Suppy
D 1
CD
0
I- .                                                    - '-   -                                                -- -   -  - -
I     | Basin Region -. Co-ordination    Basin Region   Co-ordination  Basin Region    Co-ordination   Basin Region   Co-ordinationi
zD           1        | Committee I         2 C       Committee           3          Committee          4          Commiftee
(A   l      lMadras                I      Trichy   |                    Pollachi                   Madural
ZD~~~~~~~~~~~~ --                          -I-
ID.__ 
_ __  __ __ _ _ __  _



l_ I11    11   I           I                           lm :n  uI                       -       -       -       -       -       m _             -
In
Tl
c
0
River Basin 2
Manager
m                                                                            Trichy
Riter Basin
I  ----          Co-ordinat ion
-o                                                                           I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Committee
O                Plan,Formulat(on                 Design and                         Operation and                 Administration
(a              |and Co-ordination               Construction                         Maintenance
ii   iI   PP Cell    PP Cell      P&DDiv  P&DDiv P&DDIV
C   .11 I  Thanjavr    Tiruttiurai  Trkhy    Salem     Erod
oD              Middle Cauvery                   Lower Cauvery                      Upper Cauvery                 Bhavani
-'                Circle Office                   Circle Office                      Circle Office              Circle Office
w   ~~~~~~dh                                  TafvrSalemErd
Ca
X                          ~~~~~~~~ ~~~Cauvery                                            Tarnk
3                      ~~~~~~~~~Devehptment Circle                                   Modemisation Cirl
3                          ~~~~~~~~~~~Thanlavur                                           Tr chy
(D
2. _



Project years
Item                  0     1    2    3    4    5
1  Institutional changes                                               _
(creation of Env. units)
2  Procure equipment                  _
3  Consultancy
Local                            -    -                 -
Overseas (twinning)   ,          mm         m _
4 Training
Overseas short courses                 -
Overseas seminars etc
Postgraduate in India            -     4 ''
Visits & short courses        .
in India
Awareness building                -               -
5 Special studies
6  Research programme                 _             _
7  Eco-gardens and                            m      -
eco-restoration work
8  Preparation of procedures etc
9  Review of water policy    I     *,,
10 Preparation of Water ,
& Groundwater Acts
WRCPExpenditure on EAP      .   613 1,162  724  505  406
Us $ '000
Figure 12  EAP Implementation Schedule
U



I
LS
l
I
i
-                            Appendices
I
I
I
I
i
U
I
I
I
I
I
EX 2853 2g11 1193
I



.~~~~~
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I                                  Appendix 1
n                        ~~~~~~~~~~Governmnent of Tamilnadu Arts related
I                                  to water resources arnd the environment
I
I
I
I
I
EX 2B53 311 1193
I



U~~~~~
Appendix 1 Government of Tamilr*du Acts
related to water resources and the
environment
1.  Madras City Land Revenue Act, 1851
2.  The Madras Compulsory Labour Act, 1858
i                                     3,  Tamllnadu Revenue Recover Act, 1864
4.  Tamlinadu Irrigatlon Cess Act, 1865
5.  Tamilnadu Land Revenue Assessment Act, 1875
6.  Tamilnadu Municipal Police Act, 1878
7.   Nilgiris Game and Fish Preservation Act, 1879
8.  Tamilnadu River Conservancy Act, 1884
9.  Tamilnadu Canals and Public Ferries Acl, 1890
10. The Land Acquisition Act, 1894
11. Tamilnadu Irrigation Cess (Amendment) Act, 1 900
12. Tamilnadu Land Encroachment Act. 1905
13. Madras Estate Land Act, 1908
14. The Indian Electricity Act, 1910
1S. Tamilnadu Land Revenue Assessment (Amnendment) Act, 1914
16. The Madras Town Planning Act, 1920
17. Madras Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923
18. Land Acquisition Amendment Act, 1923
19. Bhavani Reservoir Irrigation Cess Act. 1933
20. The Periar Irrigation Tanks (Preservation) Act. 1934
._ j                                   21. Madras Irrigation Cess (Amendment), 1940
22. Tamilnadu Irrigation (VoluntAry Cess) Act, 1942
23. Tamilnadu Irrigation Works (Repairs Improvement and Construction) Act. 1943
24. The (Tarnilnadu) Irrigation Cess (Amendment) Act. 1945
25. The Land Acquisition (Tamilnadu) Amrendment Act. 1948
26. The Tamilnadu Irrigation Tanks Improvements Act, 1949
27. The Land Acquisition (Tamilnadu) (Amendment) Act, 1953
I                                      28. Mattur Canals Irrigation Cess Act, 1953
29. Tamilnadu Irrigation (Levy of Betterment Contribution) Act, 1955
30. Interstate Water Disputes Act, 1956
31. Tamilnadu Requisitioning and Acquisition of Immovable Property Act, 1956 as
modified to 01/12/1973
32. Tamilnadu Panchayats Act, 1958
33. Madras Irrigation Works (Ccrnstruction of field bothies) Act, 1959
*                                      34. Tamilnadu Land Improvements Schemes Act, 1959 as amended
35. Land Act4uisition (Tamilnadu) (Amendment) Act, 1961
36. Madras Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess Act, 1963
I                                      37. Tamilnadu Water Supply and Drainage Board Act, 1971 as amended
38. Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act of 1974 (Central Act) as amended
39. Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1977
40. Madras Metropolitan Waler Supply and Sewerage Act, 1978 as modified
*                                      41. Tamilnadu Revision of Tariff Rates on Supply of Electrical Energy Act, 1979
42. The Environment (Protection) Act, 1986
43. Madras Metropolitan Area Ground Water (Regulation) Act. 1987.
Er Xo  2U1U93



I                                                                                                                  N
I
I
I
I
Appendix 2
Ministry of Environment and Forests Notification (1993)
K
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
EX 2853 29/11/9
I



5                                       Appendix 2  Ministry of Environment and Forests
-                                                           Notification
5                                       New Delhi 29th January 1993
(Under Section 3(1) and Section 3(2)(v) of Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and Rule
5(3)(a) Environment (Protection) Rules 1986 on Environment Clearance).
I.   Whereas considerable adverse environment impact has been caused due to
degradation of the environment with excessive soil erosion and water and air
pollution on account of certain development activities, thereby engendering not
only the destruction of natural resources like orests, mangroves, wetlands, rivers,
lakes. genepool reserves and vegetation cover which is last dwindling In large
fl                                           parts of the country bul also affecting the health and very survival of living beings
*                                            both animal and human.
And whereas it is neccssary to protect and improve the quality of environment by
controllirg pollution ol air, water and soil along with biotic pressure on natural
resources, which is so intense that our natural biological and genetic wea'th Is
threatened with severe damage.
AN.d whereas certain development projects should be carried on within the
tarrying capacity of the eco-system throughi judicious location beyond defined
clrtances from eco-systems which will otherwise come under stress, so as to
-,                                           ensuie that dsvelopmental activity takes place in harmony with the environment
and improvement thereof;
|                                           And whereas the aforaised goals can be achieved only by careful assessment of
a project proposed to be located in any area, on the basis of an Environmental
Impact Assessment of each project and the necessary Environment Management
I                                           Plan for the prevention elimination of mitigation of the adverse impacts right from
*                                           the inception stage of the project.
Now. therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause
(v) of sub section (2) ol section 3 of the Environment (Protection Act 1986 (29 of
J                                             1986) the Central Government hereby directs that on and from the data of the
final publication of this nolification under clause (d) of sub rule (3) of rule (5) of the
Environment (Protection) Rules 1986 the expansion or modernisation of any
I                                             existing industry or new projects listed in Schedule I or Schedule 11 shal not be
undertaken in any part of India. unless it has been accorded environmental
_                                             clearance by the Central Government or as the case may be, the State
*                                             Government concerned in accordance with the procedure hereafter specified in
the notification.
*                                        2.   Not withstanding anything contained in Schedule 11 any project proposed to be
-                                             located within 1o kilometres of the boundary of reserved forests or a designated
ecologically sensitive area. or within 25 kilometres of the boundary of national
park of sanctuary will require environmental clearance from the C 3ntral
*                                             Govemment.
3.   Not wihstanding anything contained in Schedule I and 11 the Central Government
in- the Ministry of Environment and Forests may review the environmental
I                                             clearance given to any project by any State Government if:
(a)  Written representation is received by that Ministry against such clearance
|                                                  from the affected parties or
l
EX 2ess 29/t1m3
l



(b)  It is prima facie evident that environmental imperative and norms specifled
by that Ministry have been ignored by the State Government concerned   U
while giving such clearance.
4.   Procedure for seeking environment clearance of project.
(1)  Any persun who desires to undertake any project in any Industry or project listed
in Schedules I and 11 shall submit an application to the Secretary, Ministry of
Environment and Forests, New Delhi, where environmental clearance is required  I
from the Central Government, or to Environmental Secretary of the State
Government concerned, where the environmental clearance is required from the
State Government. The application shall be made in the proforma appended to
this notification and shatl be accompanied by a detailed project report which shall,
Inter alia, include an Environmental Impact Assessment Report and an
Environment Management Plan prepared In accordance wilth the guidellnes issued
by the Central Government in the Ministry of Environment and Forests.
(11)  In case of the following site-specified projects:
(a)  Mining:
(b)  Pit-head thermal power stations;
(c)  Hydro-electric power projects: and
(d)  Multi-purpose river valley projects.
A preliminary site clearance will be required from the Central Government in the
Ministry of Environment and Forests before Initiating any investigation involving
cutting of trees, drilling, digging or construction of any sort temporary or
permanent. The said site clearance will be granted for the sanctioned capacity
and will be valid for a period of 5 years from commencing the construction.
(Ill) (a)  The detailed project report submitted with the application shall be evaluated
and assessed by the Impact Assessment Agency of the Central
Government or, as the case may be of the State Government in
consultation with a committee of Experts. having a composition as specified
in Schedule Ill to this notification,
(b)  The said Committee of Experts will have full right of entry and inspection of
the site or as the case may be, factory premises at any time prior to, during
or after the commencement of the operations relating to the project.
(c)  The Impact Assessment Agency will prepare a set of recommendations
based on technical assessment of documents and data fumished by the
project authorities supplemented by data collected during visits to the site
or factory, interaction with affected population and environmental groups.  I
The recommendations and the conditions subject to which environmental
clearance is given may be made available to concerned parties. The
assessment shalt be completad within a period of 3 months on receipt of the  U
requisite documents and data from the project authorities.
(IV) In order to enable the Impact Assessment Agency concerned to monitor the
effective implementation of the recommendations and conditions subject to which
the environmental clearance has been given, tihe project authorities concerned
shall submit a half yearly report to the concerned agency.
EX 2853 29l 1193



5.   Any person interosted to filing any objection against the proposed directions
contained In this no1il1cation, maiy do so In writing to the Secretary, Mlnistry of
Environment and Forests, Paryaveran Bhovan, CGO Complex, Lodi Road, New
Delhi within 60 days from the date of publication of this modification In the Official
Gazetto.
R Ralamani Secy, (E & F)
l
3
l
U
I                                                                                                       X2   14



Schedule I
List of Projects Requiring Environmental Clearance from the Central Government.      I
1.   Atomic Power
2.   Thermal Power
3.   Multi-purpose River Valley Project
4.   Ports, Harbours and Airports
S.   Railway line; (involving acquisition of non-railway land)
6.   Refineries
7.   Fertilizers
B.   Pesticides and Insecticides
9.   Petrochemicals                                                                  I
10.  Explosives and Accessories
11.  Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (excep' formulations)
12.  Production of plastics
13.  Rubber Synthetic
14.  Asbestos and asbestos produce
15.  Sodium or Potassium Cyanide
16.  Primary mettalurgicat industries (Zinc, Lead, Copper, Aluminium and Steel)
17.  Integrated Steel Plants
18.  Tyres/tubes of trucks, jeeps, cars and other heavy vehicles
19.  Alkalis (Na OH)
20.  Integrated Paint Complex
21.  Man-made fibres (Synthetics and Semi Synthetics, Rayon, Nylon and Polyester)
22.  Storage batteries with lead processing
23.  Incineration plants for hazardous waste and chlorinated hydrocabons)
24.  All projects with threshold criteria above those specified in Schedule 11.
X
rcx283 lnU9
l



*                                                                               E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Schedule II
*                                      List of Projects Requiring Environmental Clearance from the State Governmnent (Subject
to the provisions of para 2 of the modifications).
3                                      Nature of Projects
1.  Ceramics
2.  Coal Washery
3.   Briquetting
4.  Carbonising plant
5.   Engineerlng (Tubings. Castings, Rolling Mills)
6.  Ref ractories
7,  Pipelines (RCC, steel, seamless)
S.  Calcium Carbide
9.  Carbon black
10. Reprocessing lubricating oil
11. Glass
12. Drugs and pharmaceuticals (Formulations)
U                                      13. Electroplating
14. Storage Batteries (Non-lead processing)
15. Alkalis (Na2 Co3 and CaCo3)
16. Plastics Processing (HDPE, LDPE, LDPE PVC, PP?. etc)
17. Tyres/tubes of two-wheelers and cycle -ickshaws
18. Retreading of all types of tyres
19. Paints (Varnish. Coal Tar Chemicals, Pigments)
*                                      20. Dye Single Industry
21. Soaps and detergents
22. Food Processing (Meal, Fish, Animal Products)
I                                      23. Milk Processing
24. Paper Products
25. Incineration Plans for non-hazardous wasle
26. Hydro-electric power
*                                           (a)  New projects                           Up to 10MW
(b)  All power houses to be located on existing
dams witlh already embedded penstocks    Up to 10MW
I                                      27. Cement                                       Up to 200 TPD
28. Steel Plants                                Up to 50,OOOTPA
29. Leather Tannery                             Up to 5.000 Skins PD
30. Distilleries                           Up to 150 KLD
*                                      31. Sugar                                        Up to 4.000 TPD Cane
32. Texture                                     Up to 500M ts/d
33. Pulp, Paper and Newsprint              Up to 33,000 TPA
I                                      34. Dye Intermediates                            Up to 5 TPD
35. Thermosets Phenol and Urea formalde hyde Up to 5.000 TPD
36. Acids                                       Up to 500 TPD
37. Vegetable Oil Processing               Up to 500 TPD
I                                      38. Foundries                               Up to Rs 20 Crores
39. Communications                              Up to rls 20 Crores
40. Tourism and other projects within 1 km
I                                           of HTL of sea coast locations or with
an elevation of more than 1000 m            Up to Rs 5 Crores
41. Irrigation                             Up to 2000 hectare
5                                      42. Mining                                       Up to 5ha lease
43. Roads (in Himalayas or involving
Forest Land)                               Up to 5 kms length
I                                      44. Industrial Estates                           Up to 100 Units
45. Industrial Township (new and expansion)   Up to 5000 dwelling units
E
r x 2953 29n tl93



Schedule IlIl 
Composition or the Expert Committees for Environmental Impact Assessment
The evaluation and assessment of development projects at the Central or State lovel  -
will be undertaken by Expert Committees consisting of technical experts In each
development section constituted as under:
1.   An outstanding and experienced ecologist or environmentalist or technical
professional In the relevant development sector having demonstrated interest in
Environment Conservation and Sustainable Development.
Expert Members:
Members with M Tech/PhD in the relevant field and long experience including at least
8 years experience in environmental management in relevant sectors:
2.        Eco-syslem Manager with Systems Management and Modelling Experience
3.        Air Pollution Control
4.        Water Pollution Control
S.        Flora/Fauna Survey and Management
6.        Water Resources Management
7.        Land Use Planning/Biological Reclamation of Degraded Lands
8.        Conservation and Protection of Aquatic Life
9-10.     Ecologists (2)
11.      Social Scienlist with experience of rehabilitation of project oustees
12.      Specialist witlh background of economics and project appraisal
13-14.    Subject Area specialists in relevant development sector
15.       Representative ot NGO/Environrnental Action Groups
16.       Representative of Impact Assessment Agency at Centre/State
Note:     Experts inducted will serve in their individual capacities except those
specifically nominated as representatives.
EX280 2W1 V93



ANN2XURE
APPLICATION FORM
*                                       1.  (a)  Name and address of the project proposed:
*                                             (b)  Location of the projects
Name of the place:
District, Tehsil:
!                                                  Latitude/Longitude:
-                                                  Nearest Airport/Railway Stn:
(c)  Alternate sites examined and the reasons for the site proposed:
2.   Objectives of the project:
3.  (a)  Land requirement:
Agricultural land:
Forest land and density of vegetation:
Other (specify):
(b)  (i)  Land use in the catchment/within I Okms radius of the proposed site:
(ii)  Topography ol the area indicating gradient, aspects and altitude:
(iii)Vulnerability to erosion:
(c)  Pollution sources existing in the 1 Okm radius and their impact on quality of
_                                                  air, water and land:
(d)  Distance of the nearest National Park/Sanctuary/Biosphere Reserve/
Monuments/Heritage site/Reserve Forest:
(e)  Rehabilitation plan for quarries/borrow areas:
(f)  Green belt plan:
(g)  Compensatory atforestation plan:
!  4.   Climate and Air Quality:
(a)  Windrose At site:
(b)  Max/Min/Mean annual temperature:
*                                             (c)  Incidence of inversion:
(d)  Frequency of cyclones/tornadoes/cloud bursts:
(e)  Ambient air quality data:
(f)  Nature and concentration of emission of S3M Gas (CO, CO2 so2 N2) from
the project:
5.   Water source and waste disposal
(a)  Water balance site:
(b)  Lean season water availability. water requirement:
I                                             (c)  Source to be tapped with competing users (River. Lake. Ground. Public
Supply):
(d)  Water quality:
(e)  Changes observed in ground water in the last 15 years and present
changing and extraction details:
(f)  (i)  Ouantum of waste water to be released with treatment details:
(ii)  Quantum and quality of water in the receiving body before and after
disposal of Solid Wastes:
(g) (i) Details of reservoir water quality with necessary Catchment Treatment
Plan:
(ii)  Command Area Development Plan:
*                                        6.   Solid Wastes
(a)  Nature and quantity of solid wastes generated to be disposed:
I
5X2S5 2S11119



(b) Solid waste disposal method to prevent further pollution of air, water and
land:
7.   Noise and Vibrations
(a)  Sources of noise and vibrations:
(b)  Ambient noise level:
(c)  Noise and vibration control measures proposed:
(d)  Subsidence problem if any with control measures:
8.   Power requirement indicating source of supply: complete environmental details to
be furnished separately, it captive power unit proposed:
9.   Peak labour force to be deployed giving details of:
-    Health sta:us through preliminary screening of workforce - labour and staff
both:
-    Endemic health problems in the area due to waste/soil bome diseases;
-    Health care system proposed:
10. (a)  Number ol villages and population to be displaced:                       3
(b)  Rehabilitation Master Plan:
11.  Risk assessment report along with Disaster Management Plan:
12. (a)  Detailed Project Report:
(b)  Environmental Impact Assessment Report:
(c)  Environmental Management Plan:                                          I
13.  Details of Environmental Management Cell:
14. Details of air and water quality monitoring stations to be set-up:            I
I
I
U
Ox 2863 2911tt93
I



U~~~~~
I
I
I
I
I
I                              Appendix 3
Proposed Programme for Environmental Awareness
I                              Building Workshop
I
I
I
U
I
I
U
U
-X 2BS3 2WI IW
I



Appendix 3 Proposed Programme for
Environmental Awareness Building
Workshop
Title:    Environmental Issues - Appreciation
*                                       Participants:   A.  Chief Engineors/Superintending Enginoers/Senior Executive
_                                                          Engineers
B.  WRO Execulive Engineers/Asi, E.E.Ast. Engineers
C.  Farmer Council leadors
Format   Each session will be led by at least one resource person knowledgeable In
the particular subject area but there will be a strong emphasis on dialogue
*                                                and discussion with parlicipants encouraged to relate each topic to their own
experience.
Duration  One or two days
Course   1.  Introduction to ideas of environmental enhancement, impacts and
sustainability.
-                                                 2.  The holistic nature of environmental issues and key issues relevantto
the WRCP.
3.   Environmental acts, rules and regulations, the environmental
procedures adapted for the WRCP and the institutional framework
established for the WRCP.
-                                                 4.  Social and health-related issues and the role of public participation.
5.  Ecological issues (forests, fisheries, wildlife, flora and fauna) and their
*                                                      relevance to societal welfare.
6.   Specific issues relevant to the particular group.
3                                       Resource people and contributors
*                                                 *   Members of the Environmental Cell and Environmental Division
.
*   One or more consultants
*    Experts drawn from government departments, universities andlor
NGOs.
EX 28S3 29t1U93



:                                                                                                                            EN
i
I
I
Appendix 4
Issues to be covered in the Code ol
I                                             Good Construction Practice
i
U
I
I
EX 2853 29/11,g3
I



Appendix 4 Issues to be covered in the Code of
Good Construction Practice
Site safety: The IWS should be aware of what regulations, if any, govern the safety of
workers on construction sites in India and to include these within the code.
The health and well-being of the work-force: It is well known that temporary populations
of labourers are particularly susceptible to disease for various reasons: their water
supply and sanitation facilities may not be adequate- their houses may be of temporary
materials which encourage rodents and other pests: the density of the housing will be
high facilitating disease transmission; and their resistance to locally prevalent diseases
may be low. It is, therefore, essential that the contractor undertakes to provide
adequate water and sanitation facilities for the entire worldoree from the start, that
financial assistance is given to the Department of Health to enable it to screen the
health of the workers on their arrival and at regular intervals and that a temporary or
mobile clinic be provided which is accessible to them. Costs for any additional health
provisions should be included in the construction budget.
Sources and disposal si:es for construction materials: It is not uncommon in the
construction of small dams and irrigation systems to leave behind a large number of
open pits from which construction materials were taken and also dumps where solid
waste such as oil drums and rejected construction materials are left. These sites
disfigure the landscape, are a danger to people, particularly children, are potential
breeding sites for disease vectors and pests and may provide a source oa pollution. In
many cases, careful planning can help minimise their worst features and a mechanism
for obtaining prior approval for them from the WRD should be speciiied in the contract.
It is recommended that the WRD consuh both the Department of Health and the
Departments of Forsstry and Wildlife prior to giving approval, the latter to explore the
potential for creating a suitable habitat for wildlife once the construction is complete.
The control of pollution: The dumping of solid waste is a possible source of pollution.
Construction sites are sources of a variety of different forms of pollution: the pollution
of surface and groundwaters by chemicals or by untreated sewage effluent; the
generation of heavy sediment concentrations in rivers; the creation of unacceptable
levels of dust and noise. particularly around batching plants. The most appropriate way
to curtail these sources of pollution through contract restrictions and regular monitoring
by the proposed Environment Cell within the RBM and TNPCB should be investigated
in preparing the proposed code of practice. Total control of such pollution may not be
feasible but means to reduce it by as much as is practically possible in the context of
these construction contracts, should be sought.
Conservation: Contractors should be required to conserve the surrounding environment,
commensurate with the work to be done, and precise site boundaries should be fixed
to prevent unnecessary violation of surrounding land.
EX 2853 2Drt VD3
l



5
I
Appendix 5
I                              References
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
EX 2B63 20Y11 i
I



Appendix 5  References
General references on the environmental issues related to water resources development
hin Tamilnadu are rather limited. The following are cited in this report.
Central Board for the Prevention and Control of Water Pollution (1986) Proceedings of
WHO sponsored meeting on, Strengthening National WNater Quality Monitoring
Programmes and the Role of UNEP/WHO/GEMS Water Project in their Development.
New Delhi.
|                                       Central Water Commission (1992) Guidelines for Sustainable Water Resources
Development and Management. New Delhi.
Director of Statistics (1992) Statistical Hand Book of Tamil Nadu 1992. Department of
Statistics. Madras.
Institute tor Water Studies. Findings. Recommendations and Achievements of IWS,
Madras. Misc. Report 7/93.
Int. Conference on Water and Environment. The Dublin Statement, Dublin, January
U                                       1992.
Moorhouse I. Maintenance Study for the Tamilnadu WRCP. August 1993.
Ukundan, T M (1988) The eri system in Tamilnadu. In, Proceedings of Seminar on
er Resources Management, CPR Environmental Education Centre. Madras.
P ounr, N W and Rao. P S. Institutional Study for the Tamilnadu WRCP. July 1993.
Publij Works Department (1993) Proposed Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation
Proje- Status Report and Approach Paper. PWD, Madras (January).
lao, T R (1984) Anopheles of India. Malaria Research Centre. New Delhi.
Sunderesan, B B. Environmental Assessment of Bhavani River Basin, September
1993.
UNTCD (1989) Water Resources Management Studies in Tamil Nadu. UNTCD. New
I                                       York.
World Bank (1993) Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project Preparation
Mission: Back-to-Office Report. July. Confidential.
I
I
SX 2893 29t1t/93
l



