Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13506-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
ANNEXES
MAY 19, 1995
South Asia Department II
Agriculture and Water
Operations Division



INDEX OF ANNEXES
Annex  1    Policy Reform Program                                             1
Annex  2    Water Resources Organization - Institutional Reforms             15
Annex  3    Water Planning, Allocation and Management                        38
Annex  4    System Improvement and Farmer Turnover                           43
Annex  5    Scheme Completions                                               84
Annex  6    Tamil Nadu State Water Policy                                   107
Annex  7    Environmental Action Plan                                       114
Annex  8    Water Resources Research Fund                                   131
Annex  9    Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Plan               134
Annex  10   Baseline Survey Terms of Reference                              159
Annex  11   Project Cost Tables                                             162
Annex  12   Schedule of Disbursements                                       214
Annex  13   Implementation and Supervision Plan                             215
Annex  14   Economic Analysis                                               239
Annex  15   Criteria for Preparation and Selection of Investments           275
Annex  16   Maintenance, Water Charges and Cost Recovery                    279
Annex  17   Water and Agriculture in Tamil Nadu's Economy                   283
Annex  18   Criteria for NGO Selection                                      302
Annex  19   Documents Available in Project File                             303



Annex I
Page I of 14
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Letter of Development Policy
(Letter of November 1, 1994 from Government of Tamil Nadu)






Annex 1
Page 2 of 14
N. HARIBHASKAR, I.A.S.                                      SECRETARIAT
CHIEF SECRETARY                 "                    MADRAS - 600 009
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU 
Letter No. 60256 / WRI / 94  Dated: 1st. November, 1994.
TO
Mr.Heinz Vergin,
Director, India Department,
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.20433
USA.
Sub:Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project Policy
and Institutional Reforms.
I am pleased to confirm Government of Tamil Nadu's keen
interest in improving the management of the water sector and the
productivity of irrigated agriculture, and the commitment that we
place on achieving this with assistance of the Water Resources
Consolidation Project (WRCP).
Tamil Nadu's Water resources are scarce and the state's
future   development  will  depend  on  the  best  planning   and
allocation of water between sectors and efficient use by the main
sectoral users, especially agriculture. Comprehensive planning
of water use on a river basin basis and across sectors is
required.    For  agriculture,  the  state's  main  water   user,
productivity  from  irrigation must be  increased.   The  state's
objective is to increase yields and production of food grains and
increase production of high value diversification crops so as to
improve incomes in rural areas and assure production of food
staples, while ensuring sound environmental management and the
growing water needs of non-agricultural users.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 14
To achieve these aims, GOTN has embarked upon a vigorous
programme to create a specialist water and irrigation agency for
the state and to adjust policies associated with water planning
and allocation. Under the WRCP the actions already undertaken
will be further followed up. Summarised below in two attachments
is a listing of actions already undertaken in preparation for the
WRCP (Attachment I), followed by a listing in matrix form of
additional actions intended to consolidate these reforms with
assistance of the project (Attachment II).
YO          ely,
CHIE   ECWE1TARY.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 14
ATTACHMENT I
ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN BY GOTN
1.   State Water Policy: A Tamil Nadu State Water Policy has been
prepared in line with the National Water Policy (GOI, 1987), and
issued by Government Order Number 716 dated 13.7.1994. The State
Water  Policy  emphasizes  management  of  water  as  a   unitary
resource:   by  river  basin,  conjunctively  for   surface   and
groundwater,   integrating  environmental   management,  planning
holistically for all uses of water and prioritising water
allocation  to  maximise  productivity.   Under  the  Policy,  in
addition to creating the institutional capability to handle water
planning and allocation described below, the state intends to
establish legislation for regulating groundwater; improve the
efficiency and productivity of existing water infrastructure;
improve hydrological monitoring; establish regulatory measures to
protect against over extraction of groundwater; prepare flood
control, drainage and drought management plans; review and
rationalise water rates including the principle that users should
pay for services to ensure economic and financial sustainability;
and undertake a major drive for participation of beneficiaries in
the water sector.
2.   Water  Planning:  GOTN has taken all  measures  required  to
establish the institutional features for multi-sectoral water
planning on a river basin basis. A Water Resources Control and
Review Council (WRCRC), chaired by the Chief Minister, has been
created (G.O.Ms.No. 1404, dt:30.9.93) to make decisions on State
1



Annex 1
Page 5 of 14
Water planning and allocation. The Institute for Water Studies
(IWS) -has been made "Nodal Agency" for state water planning and
Secretariat of the WRCRC (G.O.Ms.No.578 dt:7.4.93), and the
position of head of IWS upgraded to CE level (G.O.Ms.No. 586
dt:10.4.93).   The  IWS  work programme  and  staffing  has  been
adjusted to handle its new responsibilities and to prepare basin
and state water plans.
3.   Institutional   Reform:   Following a detailed institutional
study and the recommendations of GOTN's High Powered Committee, a
specialist "Water Resources Organisation" (WRO) has been created
through bifurcation of PWD into the WRO and a separate branch
handling non-water related activities, and decision taken to
reorganise    WRO   around   functional    specialisations    and
decentralisation   along   river   basin   lines   (G.O.Ms.No.279
dt:29.3.94).   WRO  is to be headed by an  Engineer-in-Chief,  in
full charge of all of WRO's activities and answerable to the
Secretary, PWD (Orders will be issued shortly). Reorganisation of
WRO   is   underway   following  the   recommendations   of   the
institutional study.
4.   Expenditure Prioritization:       In line with the state water
policy and the objectives under the WRCP, GOTN intends a new
prioritisation for WRO expenditures, emphasising intensified use
and sustainability of existing infrastructure and upgrading of
WRO capabilities. Commencing with the completed 1994/95 budget
exercise and for all future years, GOTN will assure funding to
WRO in the following priority order: {i) upgrading of WRO's
institutional capability under the WRCP and full required funding
2



Annex 1
Page 6 of 14
for   O&M  of  existing  facilities;  (ii)   rehabilitation   and
modernisation of existing facilities; (iii) viable investments to
complete existing schemes; and (iv) viable new investment. Also,
(v) criteria and a screening process for selection of future
investments in the water sector have been developed based on
economic viability (ERR of 12%), justification within a basin
plan and the state's overall plan, hydrological, environmental
and   social   assessment,  and   conformity   with   established
engineering standards.
5.   Maintenance  Fundinq:    GOTN is  committed  to  maintaining
water sector infrastructure. To recoup on the unsatisfactory
situation of earlier years, O&M funding was increased from
Rs.120/ha in 1992/93 to Rs.200/ha in 1993/94 and to Rs.265/ha in
the current 1994/95 fiscal year. The 1994/95 provision includes
an average of Rs.150/ha in separate budget accounts exclusively
for maintenance works expenditures, corresponding to the needs on
works expenditures for 1994/95 worked out by WRO. GOTN will
ensure  that  maintenance  works  funding  needs  are   similarly
provided in full and timely fashion in future years, based on an
annual  command-by-command  programming,  budgeting  and   review
process.
6.   farmer Participation and Turnover:   Based on its historical
experience and pilot efforts over a number of years, GOTN is of
the view that sustainable and high yielding irrigation must
,involve beneficiaries in planning and management. Preparation of
the WRCP has provided the opportunity to develop a state-wide
3



Annex 1
Page 7 of 14
approach- to be progressively implemented in association with the
scheme rehabilitation and modernisation program - to involve
farmers in scheme management, and to turnover operations and
maintenance of improved distributaries to farmer organizations.
Vigorous staff effort, consultancy,training, farmer organization
activities and piloting have been implemented over the past year
in preparation for this drive. As further experience is gained,
the programme will be adjusted as needed. A model Memorandum of
Understanding and By-laws for farmer councils will be approved
by the GOTN (orders will be issued shortly).
7.   Cost  Recovery:   Water charges to farmers (basic  rate plus
irrigation cesses) average between Rs.200-210/ha and thus fully
cover maintenance works needs (Rs.150/ha in 1994/95) and about
80% of all recurrent expenditures of WRO including establishment.
while these rates are amongst the highest in India, GOTN has for
some time been interested in simplifying the structure of rates
and  providing closer linkage with the costs of water supply.   A
Water Rates Rationalization Committee, established in 1987, will
be making recommendations further to a detailed ongoing study.
On conclusion of the committee's work, GOTN is interested in
creating a permanent apparatus to annually examine water rates to
enable adjustments over time as appropriate, for industrial and
commercial  rates  as well as for agriculture.   Rates  for  bulk
water supply for industrial and commercial use were increased by
over   six-fold  in  1991,  and  agricultural  rates  have   been
periodically adjusted through increases in the irrigation cesses.
An opportunity is also present, through farmer organizations, to
4



Annex 1
Page 8 of 14
progressively internalise revenues collection and expenditures at
the levels of the operating systems and to eventually adjust to
volumetric supply and charging arrangements linked to service
costs.   As  discussed  below, such and other  measures  will  be
considered   and,  as  appropriate,  introduced  in   line   with
experience  gained  with  the  systems  improvement  and   farmer
turnover progtalnme and on the basis of an established permanent
capability to annually examine rates and provide recommendations.
8.   Land  Acquisition  and  Economic  Rehabilitation:   GOTN  is
committed to ensuring that project affected persons under the
WRCP are as well off or better off than their previous situation.
This will be based on implementation of Land Acquisition and
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (LAERAPs) for each of the
project   sites,  including  use  of  adjusted   procedures   and
allowances  to  ensure the welfare of the  PAPs.   The  following
decisions and actions have been implemented: (i) to strengthen
institutional   capability,  a  Land  Acquisition  and   Economic
Rehabilitation   Directorate   has  been  established   for   WRO
(G.O.Ms.No.138 dt:15.2.94), together with a state-level co-
ordinating  committee  and  district  committees   (G.O.Ms.No.908
dt:24.8.94) (ii) Land valuation by negotiated settlement has also
been decided on (G.O.Ms.No.128 Feb 11, 1994) as this allows more
speed and flexibility in determining compensation levels based on
full market value and transaction costs for purchase of fully
equivalent agricultural land. A Government Order will be issued
shortly,  covering   the   following:  (iii)  The  definition  of
project affected persons has been adjusted to now include
5



Annex 1
Page 9 of 14
landless PAPs (encroachers, sharecroppers and tenant farmers);
(iv) experienced and field oriented NGOs with familiarity of the
localities concerned will be usd for field implementation of the
LAERAPs including assistance to PAPs with negotiated settlement,
land purchase, provision of rehabilitation and asset maintenance
grants, training and all facilitating aspects for economic
rehabilitation; (v) economic rehabilitation arrangements for
marginal farmers have been adjusted to enable provision of
productively comparable land-for-land or, at the PAP's option,
for usage of a Rehabilitation Grant for creation of productive
assets at a rate of Rs.14,000/ha of dryland lost or Rs.28,000/ha
of irrigated land; (vi) an Asset Maintenance Grant will be
provided to PAPs at the rate of Rs.500/family/month applied from
date of takeover of the land by WRO; and (vii) decision has been
taken to target available rural development programmes to LAER
sites, and to implement a fisheries development programme for
PAPs at LAER sites. Finally, (viii) an IAS Officer will be
appointed to head the LAERO, (Orders will be issued shortly) and
this position will continue to be headed by an IAS Officer for
atleast the first three years of the project.
9.   Environmental Action Plan: Following the recommendation of a
Sectoral    Environmental   Assessment   (November,   1993),    a
comprehensive Environmental Action Plan (FAP) has been drawn up
for  implementation  by   WRO.  The  EAP   will  fully  integrate
environmental management in planning, investment and management
of the state's water resources. The EAP includes: strengthening
of    environmental   monitoring   and   analysis    capabilities
6



Annex 1
Page 10 of 14
(establishing environmental units in IWS, CE, Project Formulation
and at basin manager levels, creation of a State Water Resources
Data Center) including staff training and consultancy; measures
to control groundwater abstraction including establishment of a
Groundwater Regulatory Directorate, preparation of groundwater
legislation and introduction of metered provision of power;
procedures to improve environmental screening of investment
proposals;   eco-restoration  of  catchments;  establishment   of
construction code of practices; and special studies, monitoring
and   demonstrations   in  groundwater   utilisation,   catchment
interlinkages,   soil  conservation,   sedimentation,   reservoir
environmental quality, wastewater reuse, pollution and health
hazards.   An  environmental sub-committee has  been  established
in the WRCRC to oversee the EAP (G.O.Ms.No.939 dt 31.08.1994).
7



Annex 1
Page 11 of 14
Attachment II
B. ACTION TO BE UNDERTAKEN
---------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Si.i                 Action Points                   I Implementation
No.'                                                        Period
1. :INSTITUTIONAL UPGRADING                          '
1(i)  Formally approve the internal              :November 30, 1994
:reorganisation of WRO to create functionally
,specialised units and decentralised line units at
:the basin level and establish staff functions in                   :
:the office of the EIC for Administration,
:Programme Budget and Accounting; and Monitoring
:and Evaluation.
:(ii)  Establish a Ground and Surface Water Data   :December 15, 1994
'Centre.
:(iii) Establish a nucleus Groundwater Regulatory    G.O.Ms.No.992
:Unit, to be initially attached to the office of   : Dated 20.09.1994
:the C.E.,Ground and Surface Water Data Centre.
'(iv)  Establish posts for Project Officers for   'December 15, 1994
:specific projects or funding institutions.
'(v)  Establish a Water Resources Research Fund   :January 15, 1995
( WRRF ) and a Research Advisory Committee to
:guide the WRRF and announce GOTN's intention  to
:provide matching grant ( pro rata at 33% of
:disbursements received under the project ) to an
:interest-bearing bank account in the name of the
IWRRF to build up the capital of the WRRF for
:eventual self-sustaining status.
2. :BASIN AND STATE WATER PLANNING
'(i)  Complete "Rapid Basin Assessments" exercise   March 31, 1995
;for all of the state's river basins.
:(ii) Prepare a "Framework Water Resources Plan"  !December 31, 1995
:for Tamil Nadu state
,(iii) Establish Basin Water Planning and        :December 31, 1995
:Allocation Committees at basin levels, headed by
,the Basin Managers.
:(iv)  Complete detailed River Basin Plans for all ' March 31, 1998
:river basins and prepare a State Water Plan.
:This will be followed by progressive updating of
:the basin and state water plans.
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1
Page 12 of 14
------------------------------------------------------------------------__
S1.:                  Action Points                      Implementation
No.:                                                  '      Period
3. :MAINTENANCE FUNDING
'(i)   Provide annually to WRO the full funds          From 1994-95
:required for maintenance of WRO irrigation,
:drainage, flood control and bulk water supply
:infrastructure to sustain the infrastructure in
:full operating order.
:(ii)  Funds will continue to be provided to
:separate and protected maintenance works budgets
:exempt from withdrawals for salaries and wages.
:(iii) The maintenance works provisions will be
:available to WRO from the beginning of the fiscal
:year so as not to impede maintenance works
:activities.
:(iv)  WRO will submit annual budget estimates for
,maintenance based on detailed command-by-command  :
:estimates following a reporting, programming and
:budgeting and monitoring and evaluation process
:enabling sound planning, budgeting and monitoring
:of its maintenance programme.
4. :IMPLEMENTATION OF ON-FARM DEVELOPMENT (OFD) WORKS
!Implementation of On-Farm-Development works in        From 1994-95
Tamil Nadu will henceforth follow the lower
:investment cost model developed for the WRCP ,
:whether implemented with WRO or Agricultural
:Engineering Department (AED) assistance . The new
'model primarily involves farmer investment, with
:assistance from the state confined to provision
:of the outlet structure, topographic survey,
:construction of profile  structure, and extension
:assistance. In the WRCP commands AED's activities
:will be restricted to the five commands where it
:is already active ( Lower Bhavani, Periyar
'Vaigai, PAP, Sathanur, Sethiathope). In these
:five commands, AED and WRO would both provide
:assistance to farmers for OFD works, and
:activities would be coordinated with WRO's work
:on main and distributary systems through the WRO
:executive engineer for the command concerned.
:The implementation effectiveness of these
'arrangements would be reviewed annually between
:WRO and AED.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Annex 1
Page 13 of 14
Si.:                  Action Points                        Implementation
No.',                                                           Period
5.  WATER FEES
'(i)   GOTN will establish a Water Service Charges : March 15, 1995
Committee (WSCC) reporting to the WRCRC charged
:with preparation of an annual status report and
:recommendations on water fees for all uses of
:water (to be issued by December 31 of each year
:including 1995)
'(ii)  issue the recommendations of the Water Rates:  June 30, 1995
Rationalization Committee
'{iii) the report of the Water Rates                 !December 31, 1995
:Rationalization Committee and/or the 1995 report
:of the WSCC would include analysis and
:recommendations related, inter alia, to:
:simplifying existing rates, providing a mechanism
,for adjusting rates over time in line with
:service costs, recommendations for introducing
'volumetric charging to established farmer
'councils, recommendations for providing farmer
:councils the option to collect the service fees
:due to government including retention of part of
:fees as a collection incentive, and
!recommendations for introducing direct provision
:of collected fees to the O&M Bank accounts of
:individual schemes.
.(iv)  prepare a state model in computerised            June 30, 1996
:updatable form for assessing service costs and
:revenues in all sectors to assist in the WSCC's                         :
,work.
6.  LAND ACQUISITION AND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION
'(i)   the staff strength of LARRO will be brought :December 15, 1994
'to full capacity
'(ii)  following the completed socio-economic        :
:surveys / LAERAPS for Poigayar and Nambiyar,
:socio-economic surveys and LAERAPs for Mordhana,
Sothuparai and Adavinainarkoil are scheduled to
be completed by                                     :October 30, 1994
'And for the remaining two sites - Gridhamal II
'and  Vadakku Pachaiyar  by                          .January 31, 1995
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



Annex 1
Page 14 of 14
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__-
Si.:                 Action Points                  a Implementation
No.:                                                      Period
-- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - -   :------------------
7. !ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION
'Following the establishment of the environmental
:units in IWS and with CE, Project Formulation
:(G.O.Ms.No.84 Dt.28.1.94):                      :
:(i)  Implementation of the Environmental Action  :From September '94'
:Plan as per the separately furnished EAP  schedule:
*~~                                                    a
'(ii)  Establish State Water Resources Data Center :December 15, 1994
:in WRO for measurement, collation, storage,     ,
:retrieval and dissemination of hydrological data  '
related to surface and groundwater hydrology
:covering both water quantity and quality aspects
:(subsequent strengthening of the Center would be
:through the National Hydrology Project).
:(iii) Establish environmental cells at basin    :December 31, 1995
:manager levels.
8. :GROUNDWATER MANAGEMENT                          '
Hi)  the Regulatory Directorate to produce a     , June 30, 1995
:first set of recommendations regarding interim
'measures and associated GOs to implement
:tightened control of ground water exploitation
:and development.                                                  a
:(ii)  recommendations in (i) to be implemented by :December 31, 1995
a                 a
:(iii) draft legislat-ion regarding groundwater  :December 31, 1996
:management to be prepared and submitted by WRO to                 :
:GOTN for consideration.
a-----------------------------------------------------------a-------------



-15 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
rAMIL NAOU WATER RESOURCES CONSOI1OA rION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL MODIFICATIONS
Introduction
1. Water resources planning, development and management is becoming
more and more complex requiring constant change in organisational structure
and the use of advanced technology. Tamil Nadu Water Resources
Organisation created from the farmer irrigation wing of PWS in Marcn 1994,
must adapt to these changing conditions in order to be effective in fulfilling its
objectives for the people of the State. The present organisation nas numerous
lines of authority and its functional capabilities are diffused throughout the
organisation. Because of the intertransfers between irrigation and buiidings
and because of the frequent transfers without regard to functional expertise
there is a marked lack of specialisation to meet the challenges of a
technological world. In addition, other administrative functions are not
specifically assigned, overlap with one another, or do not exist. Certain
management concepts such as programme budgeting, cost accounting,
monitoring and evaluation, and a management information system need to be
established and/or strengthened. An Institutional Study conducted in 1993 by
PWD, assisted by Consultants, and subsequent evaluations have resulted in
an action olan to modify its present institutional structure involving
organisationai, policy, and precedural cnanges. The new organisational
structure for the WRO is shown on Attachment I Attacnment 2 contains
functional descriptions of various organisational units in WRO.
2. Responsibilities of WRO. The WRO is responsibie for planning, daveioping
and managing the state's water resources for irrigation, bulk water supply,
drainage and flood control. The WRO will have an expanded role by advising
the newly formed Water Resources Control and Review Council, developing
and maintaining a State Water Plan, involving Farmers in irrigation operation
and maintenance decisions, tuming over certain responsibilities to farmers,
strengthening environmental management, managing a new land acquisition
and economic rehabilitation structure, establishing and maintaining a State
Water Resources Data Centre, and establishing a regulatory mechanism for
use of groundwater.



- 16 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
Organisational Concepts
3 The new organisation will allow more effective and efficient planning,
development, operation and maintenance of water resources in the state with
increased support in programme budgeting and accounting, management
information system, monitoring and evaluation, staff specialisation, training and
computer and communication technology. The W~RO wol organise to more
clearly delineate lines of authority, functional areas of responsibility, and staff
support responsibilities  In addition there will be more emphasis on
communicating  management expoctations  with  regard  to  authority,
responsibility and accountability .The WRO will now be in a better position to
execuie dis programmes effectively particularly at the basin leve,.
4 Management: Proper management will be crucial to the effective execution
of work. Managers wiil be carefully seiectea anc irainea although in thle iuture
potential managers will be trained in management "fchniques orior to
seiection. Because of the importance of management ana the time and funds
required for adequate training, the top managers, will have at least two years
remaining before retirement. The manager will be conversant with the various
WRO functions and will be able to communicate easily with all sectors -
employees, peers, Government Officials, farmers, other water users, state
agencies, environmental interests, media and the public. At the time of
selection the person will have at least two years remaining before retirement.
The Engineer in Chief, as the administrative and technical head of WRO, will
be highly experienced in several , of not all, of the WRO functions and aue
consideration should be given to those individuals who nave worked outside
the State of Tamil Nadu. The auaiifications or thie Caiei tng;neer wiil inciude
oxpenence in one or more of the WNRO  8.nctions rplanning, daesgn,
construction, operation, maintenance) with field ana t,eadauarters office
postings. All Chief Engineer posts will be of eaual rank. The 1.ngineer in Chief
will decide ail selections and postings at the Superintendaing Engineer and
below.
5. Administration: Elements in Administration wiil support ail acbvtiues in WRO
which include personnel, training, and procurement of computers and other
office equipment and supplies. Thiis will remove the burden from the functional
and line managers and allow them to focus in their own responsibilities. .An
eariy assignment will be to prepare job doscr.ptions ror ail WRO employees
starting with the Engineer in Chief



- 17 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
T. rraininq: Fraining will be forecasted and buageted  v mwans o. an  liiu3i
training programme consolidated from requests ot thoe 'NRO organisational
units. Once approved, the programme is transmitted to iMTi wnich wiil have
the responsibility of either providing or providing access to trainmng c!asses.
Liberal use will be made of colleges and universities and private training
institutions. IMTI will also arrange for study tours. rop level managemnent
training courses will be initially conducted by persons axperiencod in training
water managers.
7. Programme Budget and Accounting: This office will consoiidate ail budget
requests from WNRO units and provide the system for tracking expenditures to
measure programme progress. The system wiil be able to determine when cost
estimates are likely to be exceeded so that corrective action can be taken. The
system wiil also be used to support irecommenoed fund-transfer between
projects. 'rhe office will establish and maintain an MIS system.
8. Monitoring and Evaluation: Monitoring of activities in WRO wiii be the
res'ponsibility of the executing unit and wtill be conducted by comparing
progress with planned objectives. The Monitoring and Evaluation Office wili
evaluate the monitoring efforts, the progress of the various WRO programmes,
the benefits of completed projects, and the performance of organisational units
within WRO  and provide the Engineer in Chief and other managers with
recommendations.
9. Planning: Planning is divided into two organisational areas -nstiti.e for
Water Studies and the planning units at tha Chief Engineer and 3asin
Manager levels. The IWS is responsible for preparing basin assessments and
preparing and maintaining a State Water Plan which will serve as a general
water resources plan for the State. The 'WS will have support elements
consisting of economists, sociologists, environmental specialists, and
hydrologists to perform general basin type analyses.The detailed olanning
activities will be the responsibility or ooth trie Chief Engineer, Plan Formulation
and the Basin Manager. The Chief Engineer (PF) will conduct the major and
more complex studies and prepare reports on various schemes, programmes
and projects that may be self initiated or by request. The Chief Engineer (PF)
will also have support elements but those eiements wiil be providing detailed
evaluations such as applied hydrology. The Basin will also conduct planning
but on a smaller and more routine scale. The Basin Managers olanning wil be
accomplished consistent with the procedures and standards set forth by the
Chief Engineer (PF).



- 18 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
10.  Design:  The Chief Engineer, Dlesign, R'esearch, .2nd Construction
Support is responsibie ior ine adequacy oi aii designs cornpieied within WRO.
The Chief Engineer will cerform the design, approve the designs of others, or
delegate the authoriiy to design to those engineers the Chief Engineer nas
determined to be qualified. All changes in designs must be agreed to by the
Chief Engineer (DRC).
11. Construction: ronstruction will be managed in the Basin Managers
organisations. Technical adequacy, standards and assistance will bo provided
by the Chief Engineer (DRC). Quality control will be directed by the Basin
Manager and its effectiveness will be evaluated periodically by the CE (DRC'.
12. Environment: Environmental Units will be established in the Institutn for
Water Studies and the office of the Chief Engineer, Plan Formu3ation. An
environmental Unit will also be assigned to each Basin Manager 'he
environmental Units will provide environmental analyses,evaluate Proposals for
environmental   effects, and  monitor environmental tromplianco  71e
Environmental Units will be responsible for the engagement o? consultants for
environmental work. Environmental Cells assigned to the basins will perform
more limited environmental analyses but wiil monitor environmenial activities in
the basins. The Cell will also conduct water quality tests and submit results to
Basin Manager, Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centro, and
others as required.
13.  Data Coliection:  All types of d;ata will bie collected by various
organisational units in WRO. Engineering data will be coilected by Basin
Manager in most cases and either used in the Basin Office or supplieci to .ne
functional Chief Engineer. Ground and Surface Water data will be collected by
field units of the Data Centre anid transmitted to -he Data Crntre for variricaizon,
archiving and publishing. Data collected in the basins should be iMade
available to the Basin Manager as soon as it is collected, betore verification. it
the Basin Manager requests it. The Data Centre will provide processed data to
others upon request.



19 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
14. Project Officers and Coordinawors: There W2ii be C.ruSilStanceas wileie .ne
=ngineer in (Thief will 'reed l.o ostablish a Pro;ect or (,)ordlnation Officer. For
exampie, a funding institution ,nay raquwe a c2(!adn iivel ;iricer ior the
purposes of coordination, consolidating progress reocrts, meetings with tire
funding agencies, and generaiiy -e-ing aware o-, aJ ikhe activities in Tihe iunced
program. an other instances where the tngineer in Chief mnay wish to track
cosely a special projeci or a project ;n which he has a specihic interest, ie nias
the option of appointing a Project Officer to monitor the project or programme.
These Officers monitor, report progress, rnake inecommendation, etc. to the
Engineer in Chief but they have no authority to manage or direct the execution
of the work. Execution of the work is the responsibniliiy of the Basin Manager
or other line officer. A project Officer will also administer the Water Resources
Research Fund by convening meetings of the Research Advisory C"mmittee
and providing them research proposals for discussion.
15. Ground Water Reaulation:  The WXRO   n', estabfish t4te Groundwater
Regulatory Unit whicn willi be iniiialiy acaaneaa o hae office oi the Ciiei
Engineer, Ground and Surface WVater Resourcas Data (Centre. The Unit wwil
form the nucleus for a Giound Water iDireciorate wiilch will b)e estabiisineu iaier
as the duties of the Unit expands. Trle Unit will initialiv evaluate opportunities
for regulating ground water withoou legislation such as pumping by other state
agencies, requests for financial assistance recwring Government approval
and pumping activities which cculd ne --striczeQ  under zhe Environmenltal
Protection Act. The Unit wouild forward recommended Government Orders
through the Engineer in Chief to ihe Gover-nment for approvai and impiemeni
those Government Orders. The Unit will, at the same time, prepare detailed
information regarding the benefits of reguialion icr eventual dissemination to
the public. The Unit wiil prepare general legislatior for mranaging groundwater
which could consist of reagisteringhiconsinrg drillers, identifyinC spe-cfaic areas
needing groundwater management and establishirn  a system of permits for
drilling wells and pumping frorn the grounawaLer. GIound water regulation
should apply only to those areas with s-ecified grousndwater problems or
probiems anticipated in the near fuiture.



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 1Iof 6
TAN.ff l,NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
ORGANIGRANI
ISECRETARYI
E                                     RWROO
LAND ACQUIJSMON
AND ECONO.MIC
REHABILITATION
C   ENGNNEERIIN CHIEF E
DIRECTOR_.- 
A NRSUATIE OF WfATER S   .DIES                      FEG&UE&LTORY |
|         ~~~DIRECTOR      
IIRRIGAI'ION- CMANAGEMENT TRAINING lrUCTlN                                              RES( L-ISDA-1      T
IPROJECrTOFFIIC~ERS 1                                              _      MO)NITORING & EV ALUA4TiON  CO
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROGRAM4M ING
(As Required)                                                               B _.,DBUDi, ri'nG:
~~~~ 117X     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CU1st- 1 -iG.~ 
I , ~~~~~-                                                1                             _*   .f    aa_
CHIEF ENGINEER              CHIEFENGINEER                     CHLEF ENGINEER               CHIEFLF iGINEER
PLAN FORMUL.ATION           o DSif-o'- iZESE.ARCHc              DPE'-,I-JON &            tillaS.!.r';.
CC'XSTRUCTI;(ON SU-PPOR-i           \L%AlNTro:NN--kNE         RESC`UI<CLS jl',!:T,e, L v-rfr E
CHIEF ENGINEER                 CH[EFi-FNGINEER                 e}Ifff 'F E};CJEER             C h I F h77>-E;
REGIUION - I2                                                 iR;'R.iC;-23 ILC( -                           1
MADRAS             -IR  i'- --'Oi.iA_. i___i-
L )  _.



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
CHIEF ENGIEER
PLAN FORMTLATION
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IC A   X
E-NGr1\LERRNG &   EKVIRONMNTSOCIO-ECONOMIC          PROJC           REPORT      SPEIAL-
I HYDRLOGY                       AGRONOMfY        PLANIGPREPARATION   ST(UDIE1,S



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
fCHIEF ENGINEER           l
DESIGN, RESEARCH & CONSTRUCTION SUPPORT
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
SAFETY OF          | 0  CTON      | NINSTITUTE OF
DESIGNS    D.MIS & O0IliER      SlUPPORT         HYDRAULICS &    MACIERY
STR9CTRE S               ,HYDROLOGY
SOILS &         DESIGNS         l'OLICIHES          CONTRACT
1)ROCEDLTURS &      ADNIFMSTRTATION        PROGRESS
STANDAkRDS          & QUA,'LIT            REPORTS
CONTROL



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 6
CHF EN:GNEER
I NTERSTATE               OPERATON               WORKSHOP         FARMERS
WVA1ER                       &                 & STORES      ORGANISATIONY
M.M US rN- NANCE                      &-.T%-O TNOER
OPERATIONS          SI.EClAV               [ATENANCE  |VV
ANALYSIS  JJTENANCE



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 6
CHEF ENGIER
STATE GROLN-D AND SURFACE UVATER RESOL-RCES DATA CENIR
DAT& REPORTS   |     (DRILLING) 
CIRCLE            CIRCLE                  CIRCLE             CIRCLE
NRAS               RC                     MA D     U         POLLACH



Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
BASIN
I   MANAGER    |
f-HIEFE\GINEER)
PLAN                 DS5G\      | N              OPERTVI-ONN
FORMULATION                &                             &                 ADMINISTRATION
& COORDINATION'        CON STRUCTION                   AIN\TENANCE
TERRITORL-kL           TERRITORIAi.                       TAN-K                   SPECIAL
CIRCLE                 CIRCLE                       MEODERNIlSATION             PRO.IECTS
CIRCLE                   CIRCLE



- 26 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 12
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
FUNCTIONAL DESCRIPTIONS OF UNITS
IN
WATER RESOURCES ORGANISATION
A.     ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF
1.     Develop  nission,  goals and objectives  for  the
Water Resources Organisation.
2.     Establish  policies necessary for  effective  and
efficient organisation.
3.i    Establish   effective   management    information
system.
4.     Establish   a  system  to   periodically   review
organisational performance.
5.     Ensure  that environmental, land acquisition  and
economic      rehabilitation,      and       farmers
organisations and turnover concerns are resolved.
Administration Unit
1.     Establish,   review  and   update   establishment
policies and rules.
2.     Develop  and  maintains official records  of  all
personnel.
3.     Develop    recruiting,    posting,        promotion,
retirement and training orders.
4.     Establish a public information cell to distribute
information to the media, public and others.
5.     Establish  a training cell to formulate  training
policies, review and report status, progress and
performance of Organisation training program, and
consolidate  Organisation-wide  annual   training
programmes.



- 27 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 12
Programme Budgeting and Accounting Unit
1.     Administer programme budgeting and cost  account-
ing system.
2.     Prepare annual budgets.
3.     Allocate funds to WRO organisational units.
4.     Coordinate  preparation  of  cost  estimates  for
budget.
5.     Develop reporting format for reviewing and  moni-
toring programme progress.
6.     Develop   and  maintain  management   information
system.
7.     Develop,   maintain,  review  and   update   cost
accounting codes.
8.     Prepare management reports.
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
1.     Review and report on organisational functions  of
WRO and their effectiveness
2.     Provide adequate information on a macro level  of
the   progress  and  benefits  of   ongoing   and
completed programms
3.     Audit WRO records as necessary to ensure  compli-
ance with established standards
Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Cell
1.     Reports to the Secretary, PWD.
2.     Plan, coordinate, monitor, and evaluate all  land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation (LAER)
for WRCP.
3.     Contract  with NGO's to implement  Rehabilitation
Action Plans.
4.     Serve  as  the Secretariat for  the  state  level
Coordinating Committee.
5.     Supported  by  the Negotiating Committee  and  an
Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance Committee
at the district level.



- 28 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 12
Project Officers
1.     Appointed by EIC to track and report progress to
EIC on special projects or programmes which are
of vital or critical importance to EIC or are
requested by funding Institutions.
2.     Officers   have  no  authority  to   direct   the
activities to which they are assigned.
B.     INSTITUTE FOR WATER STUDIES
1.     Serves   as   Member-Secretary  for   the   Water
Resources Control and Review Council.
2.     Prepare  basin assessments in  coordination  with
Basin Managers and other government agencies for
all river basins in the state.
3.     Prepare  statewide framework plan based on  basin
assessments.
4.     Prepare and update State Water Plan.
5.     Provide policy and advice to WRO on environmental
matters.
6.     Staff, equip, and maintain remote sensing labora-
tory and GIS for WRO.
7.     Utilise  advanced computer technology  for  river
basins system analyses.
8.     Establish statewide planning standards.
C.     IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING INSTITUTE
1.     Assist  WRO  in identifying  training  needs  and
developing  training strategies to meet  WRO  re-
quirements.
2.     Provide for  broad based training programmess for
WRO  with  particular emphasis on  operation  and
maintenance,  system  modernisation  and   farmer
turnover programmes.
3.     Maintain and disseminate to WRO management  units
a listing and data of training programs available
both domestically and abroad.



- 29 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 4 of 12
4.     Provide  data on ongoing and  completed  training
sessions   to  EIC.
D.     DIRECTOR, STATE GROUND AND SURFACE WATER
RESOURCES DATA CENTRE
Water Resources Data Centre
1.     Initiate,  set  and  maintain  data   collection,
verification,    dissemination   and    reporting
standards in accordance with National Criteria
and Standards.
2.     Collect,   verify   and   publish   surface   and
groundwater data and meteorological data.
3.     Review  data collection networks for adequacy and
modify as necessary.
4.     Report  verified  data to  the  National  Surface
Water  Resources  Data Center  and  the   Central
Groundwater Board.
Basin Water Resources Data Collection Units
1.     Install and maintain data sites.
2.     Read and record data from surface water gages.
3.     Measure and record groundwater levels
4.     Make and record meterological observations.
5.     Collect  water samples and send  to  laboratories
for water quality analyses.
6.     Monitor   and   verify  field   data   collection
procedures.
Regulatory Unit
1.     Prepare  draft  legislation  for  regulation   of
surface and groundwater.
2.     Determine potential areas of groundwater  regula-
tion without legislation.
3.     Develop a public information programme to  inform
the public and other interested parties on the
need for regulation.



- 30 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 5 of 12
E.     CHIEF ENGINEER, PLAN FORMULATION
Engineering/Hydrology
1.     Identify specific data needs from Basins.
2.     Conduct engineering analyses.
3.     Evaluate alternative engineering solutions.
4.     Conduct applied hydrology studies.
5.     Perform preliminary designs and estimates.
Environment Cell
1.     Perform  environomental  review  of  projects  to
comply with Environmental Protection Acts and
Regulations.
2.     Provide expert advice to WRO management units.
3.     Conduct water quality analysis.
4.     Plan    for    environmental    mitigation    and
enhancement.
5.     Provide  environmental clearance from  Government
of Tamil Nadu.
6.     Periodic  reviews  during operation  and  mainte-
nance.
Socio/Econ/Agronomy
1.     Conduct sociological studies.
2.     Conduct benefit cost analysis and impacts.
3.     Analyse agricultural prices on a macro basis  and
make available to farmers.
4.     Analyse land acquisition impacts.
5.     Analyse soil conditions for agricultural purpose.
6.     Periodic evaluation of benefits.
7.     Review  and update economic criteria for  project
evaluation.



- 31-
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 6 of 12
Project Planning
-1.     Establish  planning  data  base,  standards   and
periodical review.
2.     Preparation   of  preliminary   and   feasibility
studies of specific projects/programmes.
3.     Coordinates   planning  activities   with   Basin
Manager and other Chief Engineers.
4.     Reviews planning reports prepared in basin.
5.     Supervise WRO drilling program.
Report Preparation
1.     Prepares  narrative  tables, charts,  graphs  and
assembles reports.
2.     Provides  for review of reports and summaries  bv
all appropriate parties.
Special Studies
1.     Prepares  analyses, studies and reports,  usually
not leading to specific schemes, of particular
concerns   such  as  conjunctive  use,   drainage
relief,  recharge potential, sea water  intrusion
and pollution.
F.     CHIEF ENGINEER, DESIGN, RESEARCH AND CONSTRUCTION
SUPPORT
Designs
1..    Establish, review and update design standards.
2.     Designs  all features  including  rehabilitation,
tanks,  modernisation,  safety  of  dams,  civil,
mechanical, electrical in WRO except those dele-
gated to basins.
3.     Furnishes   feasibility  designs  to   CE   (Plan
Formulation).
4.     Final responsiblity for all designs in WRO.
5.     Prepares technical  secifications.



- 32 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 7 of 12
6.     Prepares   feasibility  and  final  designs   and
specification estimates.
7.     Prepare  designers  operating  criteria  for  all
structures.
Safety of Dams & other Structures
1.     Establish  statewide  standards,  in  cooperation
with the Central Water Commission GOI, for dam
safety measures.
2.     Develop proposals for dam safety deficiencies.
3.     Monitor adequacy of designs, design reviews,  and
quality control of large dams and other large
structures.
4.     Monitor  and  report  status  of  operation   and
maintenance manuals, designers operating criteria
and standing operating procedures for all large
dams and other major structures.
5.     Ensure preparation of emergency action plans.
Soils and Concrete laboratory
1.     Engineering geologic evaluations.
2.     Aggregate and soils testing.
3.     Concrete mix design and testing.
Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology
1.     Respond  to  requests for solutions  to  new  and
recurring problems to designers and users.
2.     Conduct  special studies in  applied  hydraulics,
such as river scour, calibration of weirs, and
energy disipation structures.
3.     Conduct   special  modeling  in   flood   control
studies.
4.     Conduct  sedimentation surveys in reservoirs  and
tanks.
5.     Construct  and evalulate hydraulic models of  new
and innovative structures.



- 33 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 8 of 12
Construction   Policies, Procedures  &  Standards
1.     Develop,  review and update general  construction
policies and procedures.
(a) Field   construction   staffing   and    mobility
requirements.
(b) Training.
(c) Inspection.
(d) Laboratories.
(e) Reports.
(f) Tendering procedures.
(g) Mode of payments.
2.     Develop, review and update standards.
(a) Tender documents.
(b) Claims (normal & disputed) and additional work.
(c) Inspection reports.
(d) Payment vouchers.
(e) Completion plans.
(f) Laboratory tests.
(g) Construction scheduling.
Contract Administration & Quality Control
1.     Review tender documents.
2.     Assist basins in complex, construction problems.
3.     Assist in problems with contractors.
4.     Review    design    for    design    unit        for
constructability.
5.     Recommend  changes  in designs due  to  differing
site conditions.
6.     Ensure  quality control procedures and  standards
are implemented.
Construction Progress Reports
1.     Assemble all monthly construction reports in WRO.
2.     Prepare   consolidated   reports  for   EIC   and
Programme Budget office.
3.     Review reports for deviations from the  programme
schedule and inform contract administration unit.



- 34 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 9 of 12
Machinery
1.     Provide all heavv equipment for construction  and
operation and maintenance.
2.     Assist construction and operation and maintenance
in assessing equipment needs.
Workshop & Stores
1.     Establish standards for design and maintenance of
gates and related structures.
2.     Design and fabricate gates and related structures
based on data from design units.
3.     Install gates and related structures.
4.     Repair gates and related structures.
G.     CHIEF ENGINEER, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
Operations
1.     Develop policies, regulations and  standards  for
reservoir and delivery systems.
2.     Co-ordinate    with   Environmental   Cell        on
operational issues.
3.     Assist  basins in preparing operations plans  and
standing operating procedures.
4.     Review and approve basin operation policy.
5.     Advise  CE  (Plan  Formulation)  on   operational
issues for new studies/schemes.
Special Analyses
1.     State  of  the  art systems  analyses  for  river
basins.
2.     Environmental  impacts of  river/delivery  system
operations.
3.     Develop drought plans.
4.     Affects of floods on delivery system operation.



- 35 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 10 of 12
5.     Adequacy of communication systems.
Inter State Water
1.     Analyse interstate water transactions.
2.     Assemble data on inter state water impacts.
3.     Evaluate issues in disputes.
4.     Coordinate with Basin Managers.
Maintenance Standards
1.     Develop   review   and   update   standards   for
maintenance of facilities including those turned
over to Farmers Organisations.
2.     Develop preventative maintenance procedures.
3.     Develop procedures for review of maintenance.
Review of Maintenance
1.     Maintain maintenance records statewide.
2.     Schedule   review   of   maintenance   of   basin
facilities turned over to farmers.
3.     Identify  and  resolve  common  and/or  recurring
deficiencies.
Farmers Organisations and Turnover (FOT)
1.     Ensure maximum possible participation of  farmers
in irrigation management including operations and
maintenance, implementation of rehabilitation!
modernisation, and new schemes.
2.     Establish  and update necessary legal and  policy
criteria in support of the FOT program.
3.     Ensure  the  integration of  system  improvements
with farmer participation.
4.     Ensure that resources in terms of funds,  trained
staff,   consultancy  assistance,   and   support
services are available.
5.     Maintain  systematic  socio-economic  and   other
relevant data on the formation and functioning of
FOT.



- 36 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 11 of 12
6.     Ensure,   through IMTI, that training  needs  for
FOT program are met.
7.     Ensure linkages between WRO and other  non-  gov-
ernmental agencies to meet needs of manpower,
training and FOT program implementation.
H.     BASIN MANAGER
1.     Develop goals and objectives for the Basin.
2.     Establish priorities of work.
3.     Establish adequate quality control measures.
4.     Ensure sound environmental, land acquisition  and
economic rehabilitation, and farmer organisation
and turnover programs.
5.     Maintain public participation program.
6.     Coordinate    basin   activities    with    other
Departmental units, other governmental agencies,
water users, and the public.
7.     Maintain appropriate interstate relations.
8.     Establish Basin Advisory Committees.
Plan Formulation and Coordination
1.     Collect  data for planning  of  projects/schemes/
programs.
2.     Analyse   data   and  perform   engineering   and
hydrologic analyses for inclusion in reports.
3.     Plan  and complete reports on projects  and  pro-
grammes in coordination with CE (Plan Formula-
tion) and other WRO units.
4.     Perform   environmental- monitoring   and   data
collection and eveluate specific field problems.
5.     Conduct water quality tests in laboratories.
6.     Coordinate closely with other Tamil Nadu agencies
te.g. Agriculture, PCB, TWAD, Metro Water).
7.     Coordinate  with farmers and FO on  new  schemes.



- 37 -
Annex 2
Attachment 2
Page 12 of 12
8.     Determine land acquisition requirements.
Design  and Construction
1.     Collect  design data for basin designers and  for
CE (Design, Research and Construction) (DRC).
2.     Transmit  certain  designs  to the  CE,  DRC  for
review and approval.
3.     Monitor, assist and report to Basin Manager  con-
struction activities in the basin.
4.     Review all quality control measures in the basin.
Operation and Maintenance
1.     Assist   in   preparation   of   operation    and
maintenance plans in territorial circles.
2.     Furnish operational data to plan Formulation  and
Coordination   division  for  use  for   planning
purposes.
3.     Schedule  review of maintenance  in  coordination
with CE (O&M).
4.     Negotiate  Memorandums of Agreement with  FO  and
implement FOT programme.
Territorial Circles
1.     Perform day-to-day operations and maintenance.
2.     Coordinate      with    farmers    and       Farmers
Organisations.
3.     Coordinate with other water user organisations.
4.     Prepare,  record  and provide  to  management  in
coordination with the collector(s).
5.     Manage  the Divisions responsible  for  sub-basin
activities.
Additional Circles
1.     Performs construction administration.
2.     Performs other duties  as prescribed by the Basin
Manager.



- 38 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Water Planning, Allocation and Management
General
1.    The  Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) will
introduce a more rational and sustainable system of water resources
development in the State of Tamil Nadu. At present water resource developments
are taking place across the State in a piecemeal manner on a scheme by scheme
basis. Coordination amongst the different agencies involved in the development
of water resources is also minimal. Recognizing this major drawback, GOTN
established during the course of preparation of this project (in September
1993) a coordinating body called the Water Resources Control and Review
Council (WRCRC). This council is chaired by the Chief Minister with the
Minister for PWD(WRO) acting as one of three vice-chairmen. All GOTN
departments concerned with the development and use of water resources in an
environmentally sustainable manner are represented in this council. An
environmental committee will be set up under the WRCRC to ensure adequate
emphasis on environmental protection and enhancement in the development of
water resources in the State. Institute of Water Studies (IWS) has been
appointed as the Secretariat for the WRCRC. Tamil Nadu is a water scarce
State. Water demands of various sectors have to be met in an optimal and
coordinated manner to make the best use of the limited water available. In
order to achieve this, developments will have to be analysed in the context of
a river basin or sub-basin. A State Water Policy (SWP) in line with the
National Water Policy (GOI, 1987), has also been prepared by GOTN. The SWP
recommends basin planning as an essential prerequisite for further
development. IWS has been appointed as the nodal agency for State Water
Planning. Basin and State water planning activities would be carried out by
the Institute of Water Studies (IWS) which comes under the Engineer-in-Chief
of WRO.
2.    General guidelines developed by the CWC are being adopted in preparing
River Basin Plans. The basic approach consists of estimating total water
availability in each basin/sub-basin at the beginning of each planned period
and matching it with the total demand - irrigation, hydropower, domestic,
industrial, livestock, fisheries, environmental, recreation, etc. Water
availability is computed on the basis of the water resources of the basin and
resources from outside the basin transferred to the basin. The demands are
based on the socio-economic status of the basin. In assessing the resources of
ungaged basins, standard techniques would be used. Requirements for additional
hydrometeorological stations would be identified Similarly, appropriate
techniques would be employed to estimate the groundwater resource availability
categorised by differing quality ranges. GIS (Geographic Information Systems)
Technology would be used in preparing data and presenting results. Simulation
models such as catchment response models, reservoir operation models and
optimization techniques using linear and dynamic programming would be adopted
to evaluate development options and investment scenarios. Recommendations for
allocation of resources over the plan period will be arrived at based on these
studies. Following the preparation of a basin development plan, management
strategies would be developed. Real Time Computer Aided Management Systems
similar to that prepared by the Indian Institute of Technology for the
Thambaraparani Basin would be developed for all the basins. Such systems will
assist the field operators in more timely and wiser decision making in regard
to bulk water supply operations.



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 5
3.     Planning horizons of 5 years, 10 years, 25 years and 50 years will be
used. The 5 and 10-year plans will be short term plans whilst the 25 and 50-
year plans will be longer term plans. In each basin, potential for additional
storage and other water management and conservation techniques would be
examined including groundwater artificial recharge and water harvesting. Given
the tight water situation in Tamil Nadu, the Basin Plans should also explore
the technical and environmental viability of non-conventional resources such
as reuse of waste water and rainwater harvesting. For inter-State riverbasins,
flows available to Tamil Nadu at entry point of the river system to the State
would be considered in determining water availability. The plan prepared for
such basins would also provide the necessary tools to negotiate further inter-
State transfer of water.
4.    Basin plans should include needs for establishing minimum flows required
during certain periods of the year for environmental purposes and to maintain
certain water quality standards. They should also consider the very high
degree of reliability required for drinking water supplies even during drought
years. A 'Drought Water Plan' should be developed for each basin along with a
normal plan where 1 in 50 or 1 in 100 year drought conditions are estimated
and measures outlined for restriction of preselected water deliveries to meet
critical needs. Drought Water Plans would provide the necessary tools to
rapidly respond to critical and emergency drought situations.
5.    The State of Tamil Nadu is drained by seventeen river basins varying in
size from 1,670 sq.km (Kodayar Basin) to 44,010 sq.km (Cauvery Basin) .
Thirteen basins are contained within the State while four basins including
Cauvery Basin are inter-State. The total surface and groundwater resources are
estimated to be 24,864 million cubic meters (MCM) and 25,291 MCM respectively.
With a population of 55.6 million (1991 estimates) the per capita water
availability is about 900 cu.m which is less than a quarter of the national
average of 4000 cu.m. About 95% of the surface water resources and about 65%
of the groundwater resources have already been developed, primarily to meet
agricultural needs.
6.    Preliminary water resource assessments of twelve basins have been
carried out by IWS since 1983 either on its own or with technical and
financial assistance from UNDP. Rapid assessment of water resources of the
remaining five basins is currently under way. The work carried out so far
covers basin physiography, geology, meteorology, hydrology and hydrogeology as
well as appraisals of existing irrigation and other schemes. Assessment of
water resources is based on measured data in about ten basins - short period
historic gauged data in five basins and data measured at dams and diversion
weirs in five other basins. The remaining seven basins do not have any
measured data of any kind. This deficit is to be rectified through the
proposed National Hydrology Project (NHP) to be financed by the Bank. The flow
measuring network would be improved under the NHP through the installation of
100 additional gauging stations (at present there are only 33 gauges in the
State). Irrigation water demands are based on crop water requirements computed
using the modified Penman method with assumed overall irrigation efficiency of
60%. Domestic and industrial water demands are based on certain assumed growth
rates in these sectors.
7.    In addition to the above, IWS has carried out Water Resources Management
Studies for three basins in conjunction with UNDP. Three more basins are
currently being studied. These studies focus on various management strategies
in a basin and include recommendations on the improvement of existing schemes
and on the implementation of new schemes. Basin water balance is computed from
a computer simulation model consisting of a tank irrigation module,
river/reservoir module and a regional groundwater module.



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 5
B.    Activities described above for basin planning can be carried out by IWS
with suitable technical and other assistance from the project. Water planning,
allocation and management capabilities of GOTN will be upgraded through
improvements to the physical, financial and human resources of IWS.
Institute for Water Studies
9.    Planning, allocation and management of GOTN's water and related land
resources capabilities will be improved by activities at basin and State-wide
(or macro) levels in a manner which will assist political and administrative
decisions about overall resources occurrence and use including future
regulatory aspects. While planning capabilities will also be improved at
project specific (development and operations) levels, this Annex focuses on
macro-resources planning requirements. Basin planning responsibilities,
including compliance with the following schedule, have been given to the
Institute for Water Studies (IWS) headed by a Director (Rank of Chief
Engineer):
(a)   31 March 1995        Completion of rapid assessments of 5 remaining
basins not yet subjected to a water assessment.
(b)   December 1995        Preparation  of a State wide "Framework Water
Resources Plan" based on basin assessments
(12 detailed together with 5 rapid assessments).
(c)   March 1998           Complete preparation of detailed "River Basin
Plans", basin by basin and preparation of a detailed
"State Water Plan".
(d)   1999 and beyond      Maintain updated State Water Plan by basins
thereafter.
Work plan details by specific river-basins are given in Table 1 of
the Project Files.
10.         The IWS will act as the Secretariat for the recently established
Water Resources Control and Review Council (WRCRC) and, therefore, have direct
access to the State's principle water policy implementation body. The WRCRC
is chaired by the Chief Minister. In addition, the charter of IWS, as the
nodal agency for State-wide (basin by basin) planning, will be supported by
institutional arrangements that require assistance (in carrying out basin and
State Planning) from the CE Plan Formulation and CE Basin Managers in each of
the four regional (composite) basins that cover the entire State.
Environmental planning will be an integral part of Basin activities, hence,
the State water planning process. Therefore, the WRO has established
environmental cells, respectively, within IWS, under each of the four Basin
Managers and under the CE Plan Formulation. In addition, the IWS is assured of
inter-departmental cooperation in its role as the State's nodal water planning
agency, by the establishment of inter-departmental liasion/coordination
officers for such purpose within each of the other directorates, boards and/or
departmental agencies that are members of the WRCRC. (Project File Table 2).
11.         Achievement of the macro-planning goals of the State will also be
supported by the establishment of a State Water Resources data Center (WRDC)
within WRO headed by a Chief Engineer. The WRDC will be responsible for
operation of a modern system for collection, assimilation, verification and
dissemination of surface water and groundwater data and associated water
quality for both resource bases. These data will be made available
expeditiously to all users within the State, including basin managers and
project - specific planners as well as inter - departmental agencies
responsible for multi-purpose water planning and utilisation (urban,



-41 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 5
industrial, village, energy, environmental, agricultural, etc) through modern
communication and computer based systems. The WRDC will be staffed from within
existing staff and administrative resources of GOTN. Establishment of the
WRDC and all related improvements will be funded under the proposed National
Hydrology Project.
12.         In order to carry out its WRO and State-wide responsibilities, the
IWS will be strengthened by additional at staff positions, as identified in
Table 3 of the Project File. There are currently 57 professional and technical
staff. AdditiQnal staff positions will provide a total of 96 professional and
technical staff at IWS. Specific expertise will cover the following principal
disciplines: engineering, geology, geophysics, hydrochemistry, environment,
economics, sociology, legal, computer and other scientific-technical and
administrative disciplines. The Director, IWS, has been sanctioned at Chief
Engineer level. He has also been given authority to submit budget requirements
directly to government without routing through another CE office (G.O.(D) No.7
PW (RZ) dated January 10, 1994) as had been the case in the past, which
should enhance and expedite management of IWS.
13          Fulfilment of the IWS/WRCP planning mission requires that
Geographic Information System (GIS) and Remote Sensing (RS) capabilities are
established for carrying out time-bound basin planning objectives. Thus,
fully functional units in these technical specialities will be established
within the IWS. Establishment of a GIS unit will provide capability to
generate analyses, monitoring systems and maps based on digitally interpreted
data covering many basic planning parameters. Placement of the current Remote
Sensing Unit (formerly under the PWD's Groundwater wing) and staffing and
equipping it with a full range of interpretive capabilities (photo and
digital), under IWS will establish the necessary basin planning capabilities;
however, substantial Training and Technical Assistance will be needed to make
the staff and new equipment fully operational in terms of its assigned
planning responsbilities. The investment in Training and Technical Assistance
is sizeable as serious effort is needed to meet the State's urgent planning
requirements and the long term benefits would be substantial.
TraininQ and Technical Assistance
14.         Summary estimates of IWS staff requirements (comprising short and
long term course) for "Training and Study Tours in Foreign countries" are
given in Table 4 of the Project File and of Staff needs for "In-service
Training in India for the Technical Personnel of IWS" is given in Table 5.
15.         Training proposed in foreign countries comprises 3-month (short
term) courses and study tours resulting in a total of about 105 months of
professional staff training in Basins and State water planning, hydrological
networks, river simulations, reservoir operations, flood regulation, GIS
applications, remote sensing, groundwater modeling, conjunctive use,
artificial recharge, environmental assessments and applied economics. Six
month (long-term) courses would include training in surface water, remote
sensing, ground water assessments for which a total of about 120 months of
training is estimated (see Table 4 of the Project File).
16.         In-service training program in India for technical personel of IWS
is summarised in Table 5 of the Project File. Training includes: computer
applications in hydrology; geophysical, geochemical and photogeology;
environmental science (post graduate level); and, river basin planning at the
Central Training Unit, Pune. Other institutions that would carry out in-
service training would be: IIT Madras, Anna University; NIH-Roorkee
University; NRSA -Dehradun; NEERI, Nagpur and CWPRS, Pune. A total of 244 man-
months of training of which 90 man-months would be at post graduate level-
would be taken up over the 7 - year project cycle.



- 42 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 5
17.         Technical Assistance would be provided for IWS in the form of a
long-term technical assistance package or "Twinning" relationship with a
capable international organisation or company having access to expertise
covering the entire range of technical disciplines required (as estimated in
Table 6 of the Project File).
Summarv
18.         WRO's targetted areas of improved planning capabilities are
summarized below: multi-disciplinary strengthening of staff through
comprehensive training and technical assistance programs; establishment under
IWS of GIS and remote sensing units; adoption of a comprehensive EAP including
establishment of an Environmental Cell under the Director, IWS, for intensive
coordination with other WRO environmental cells (5 in number) under the four
Basin Managers and CE Plan Formulation; active participation of the River
Basin Managers in the planning processes; direct support from and coordination
with groundwater units under CE Plan Formulation; improved water quality
monitoring and evaluation State - wide through improved laboratory facilities
under the BAP; immediate access to high quality surface and sub-surface
hydrology and meteorology data through planned establishment of the WRDC under
the Bank-financed NHP; development of capabilities in computer - based
technologies such as river basin hydrometeorologic and groundwater and
reservoir modelling and access to all affected agencies of government through
IWS's role as Secretary to WRCRC and through assigned coordinators who would
assist the planning effort on a day to day basis.



- 43 -
Anex4
Page 1 of 22
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS AND FARMER TURNOVER
Introduction
1.    The increasingly high opportunity cost of irrigation water poses a
challenge to the Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN). Water must be used more
productively in agriculture and the starting point for the government and the
farmers is reliable, equitable, and sustainable services. Through the System
Improvement and Farmer Turnover (SIFO) component of the Water Resources
Consolidation Project (WRCP), the Water Resources Organization (WRO) of the
GOTN will provide for structural improvements of the irrigation system to
enhance reliability and equity. To ensure sustainability, the WRO will also
promote active participation of farmers in system improvements and in its
Operations and Maintenance (O&M). This Annex will describe the SIFO component
and will present the technical, financial, and institutional features
necessary for operational effectiveness of the project.
Background
2.    Tamil Nadu has a long tradition of irrigation development. The earliest
large-ocale diversion schemes built along 'modern" lines date back to the
second century A.D., while small-scale irrigation from tanks and wells has
existed far longer. The current era of government-constructed irrigation
infrastructure dates from the latter half of the 19th century when the British
Colonial government established the Public Works Department (PWD). The PWD
undertook construction of now irrigation systems, as well as repairs to
village tanks. New projects generally entailed the amalgamation of existing
locally-managed tanks or diversions into a single larger system managed by the
PWD. The management trend has been one of steady centralization under the
PWD, and a concomitant lessening of farmers' management responsibility.
3.    As the government has assumed increasing responsibilities for allocation
of water and for the development and operation and maintenance (O&M) of
irrigation systems, there have been growing pressures to provide ever
increasing financial resources for both plan and non-plan budgets. Unable to
meet these demands for resources, O&M budgets have been stretched to the
extent that systemic deterioration of the physical infrastructure has taken
place.



- 44 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 22
4.    Initial corrective measures were introduced in the 1980. through a
systematic program of rehabilitation investments to restore some of the
largest systems to their original performance levels. World Bank financing
for this effort included the Periyar Vaigai Rehabilitation Project and the
National Water Management Project (NWMP), an umbrella project covering seven
schemes, with start-up activities in several others throughout the state.
Both these projects have focussed on rectifying the physical deterioration
caused by deferred maintenance, with attendant improvements in system design.
5.    Under the WRCP, the need for rehabilitation will be addressed as an
opportunity not only to meet the original design standards, but also to
modernize and reorient the system to meet the new demands of agricultural
production. The project seeks to improve system performance through three
important elements:
a)    Infrastructure improvements in the system from the head of the
main canal to the sluices including structural repairs, changes in
regulatory structures, and works for the restoration of design
canal capacity in line with: (i) an operational plan prepared in
association with farmers; and (ii) a system of water control
designed to deliver water in proportion to command area below the
structured level;
b)    Enhancement of staff skills of specialized O&M units within a
reorganized WRO in the formulation and implementation of
operational plans and in the formulation of a maintenance program
aided by the introduction of a number of modern technologies and
management systems. These will include computer aided design,
wireless and electronic communication, remote sensing, and basin
management; and
c)    A new type of public-private partnership through intensive farmer
participation in planning the above infrastructural improvements
and through decentralized management of the irrigation system with
farmers' organizations taking full operational and financial
responsibility for O&M of the system, typically below the
distributary or minor, covering about 500 ha.
6.    The WRCP integrates these three elements as mutually reinforcing
components, learning from previous Bank experience that it is important not to
pursue the design and implementation of these elements independent of each
other. For instance, rehabilitation investments without adequate attention to
system management or farmer participation have, in the past, resulted in the
construction of civil works without financial and institutional
sustainability. Under the WRCP, the rehabilitation and modernization of the
system will be contingent on farmer interest and agreement to turn over O&M
responsibilities below the structured level to farmer organizations.
Similarly, cost recovery efforts through farmer participation in past Bank
projects have yielded few results where inadequate attention was paid to
system improvements to ensure reliable water flow, especially at the tail



- 45 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 22
outlets. In WRCP, the implementation of a program of reliable and equitable
water service will be accompanied by financial and management participation by
farmer..
7.    WRCP-financed physical improvements, coupled with a new management
partnership between farmers and the WRO, will set the stage for a new era of
irrigated agriculture in the State. Eventually, the WRO will be able to
negotiate contracts with farmer organizations for a set proportion of
available water. There are opportunities to explore volumetric delivery and
pricing of water. Further improvements in design can follow from farmers'
interests and the demands of diversified agriculture in the State.
System deficiencies
S.    The WRO provides irrigation services to a Culturable Command Area (CCA)
of over 2.2 million ha in Tamil Nadu through major and medium schemes (about
1.5 million ha) and minor schemes (0.7 million ha). Many of these schemes are
old and have been proposed for rehabilitation and modernization under the
WRCP.
9.    A detailed assessment carried out by the WRO with the assistance of
national and international consultants in preparation for the WRCP pointed to
several deficiencies resulting from deasign errors, operational gaps, and the
long neglect of O&M, contributing significantly to the unreliable and
inequitable distribution of water and poor irrigation services. Among the
deficiencies are:
a)    Design problems.  Inadequate capacity of main canals,
distributaries, and minors due to design and construction errors
(Vaigai; Parambikulam Aliyar; Kodayar); wrong alignment of
channels, passing either too close to the river (Vaigai) or hill
(Parambikulam Aliyar); improper entry conditions causing eddies
at offtakes of main canals and distributaries (Lower Bhavani);
excessive number of control structures requiring manual
adjustments at unrealistically short intervals (Sathanur);
inadequate surplussing arrangements (system tanks).
b)    Structural and maintenance problems.  Damaged or deteriorated
masonry structures including outlets, and cross drainage
structures (almost all schemes); corroded check gates and rusted
hoists; slips and slides of canal slopes (Parambikulam Aliyar,
Lower Bhavani); damaged undertunnels (Lower Bhavani, Kodayar);
constrictions in waterways (Kodayar);
c)    FLow Constraints.  Heavy siltation (Palar, Poiney, Cheyyar,
Vaigai); heavy seepage in main canal and distributaries
(Parambikulam Aliyar, Lower Bhavani, Kodayar); weed growth
(Vaigai); damaged lining (Kodayar, Parambikulam Aliyar).



-46 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 22
10.   The cumulative effect of these system deficiencies is unsatisfactory
water management and water control. This is reflected in low operational and
conveyance efficiency and unreliable supplies in all segments of the canal
system. In many-existing schemes, 20 to 30 per cent of the command, mostly in
the tail reaches do not receive water with another 20 to 30 per cent receiving
only partial supplies. The overall water supply plan at the project level is
based on "water duty" estimated from experience. Often, crop needs,
especially in their critical stages, actual area to be irrigated, varying
precipitation in the subcommands at different times during the season, and
actual conveyance and operational losses in different parts of the system are
not considered. WRO's assessment also indicated insufficient field monitoring
of operational plans, of water levels and water flows.
11.   Fazuer Participation. The assessment noted that consultation with
farmers in formulating or monitoring operational plans was inadequate, as was
farmer participation in planning and designing improvements above the sluice
gate. Presently, farmer participation is limited to a few government selected
representatives of farmers at scheme level for finalization of water
deliveries from the main canals or in deciding the opening/closing of water
supply. Similarly, farmers are not involved in discussions and decisions
regarding O&M of the main system, branch canals and distributaries except
when there are serious breakdowns in water supply.
12.   There is a linkage between design problems, lack of farmer participation
and maintenance problems. Inadequate capacities, or improperly designed
structures can result in unplanned water delivery and structural failures,
canal slips, erosion and increased siltation. Similarly, failure to bring in
the end user -- the farmer -- to the design process and in the management of
O&M instills the attitude that the government is solely responsible for
operation and maintenance. And the absence of consultation with farmers in
formulating operational plans each season sets the stage for water thefts,
damage, and further disruption of the schedule when water supplies are short.
13.   The physical deficiencies pervasive in Tamil Nadu's irrigation schemes
are symptomatic of deeper-rooted problems of staff skills, and centralized,
top-down management. Addressing the physical ills besetting the system
through rehabilitation and modernization must, therefore, as in the WRCP, be
accompanied by management changes and training changing the relationship
between the WRO and farmers into a management partnership. The WRCP would
facilitate the process of reorientation within the WRO through system
improvements, farmer organization and turnover, and agency restructuring.
Infrastructure improvements
14.   The system-level objectives of the WRCP are to restore or enhance design
and construction standards, improve operational efficiency, and maintain the
system in an excellent operating condition to meet the growing demands of
reliable and equitable water supply.



- 47 -
Annex4
Page 5 of 22
15.   Two stages of irrigation system improvement are addressed by the
project. Stage I refers to irrigation systems where there has been no recent
structural improvement of the main system. Physical work will focus on
rehabilitating the main system to ensure proper water flow to all secondaries,
and some improvements to the secondaries as well. Stage II refers to
irrigation systems that have already received basic improvements in the main
system as, for example, in the NWMP. Under the WRCP, these Stage II schemes
will undergo modernization to improve operations throughout the system,
including some work at the field channel level. Integrated with the physical
improvements of both Stage I and Stage II will be organizational activities to
establish a 3-tier structure of farmer associations. Through these
organizations, farmers will assume full management responsibility for O&M at
the distributary level and assist the WRO on main system operational planning.
A.    Stage I : Ensuring Reliable and Equitable Water Service and Farmer
Participation. The main objective of Stage I investments is to
ensure reliable and equitable delivery of water in all sections of
the irrigation system and at the heads of each distributary, minor
and sluice offtakes. Additionally, flow management within the
distributaries will be simplified through the use of proportional
dividers. Farmers will be consulted and actively associated on
all phases of the improvements, including the setting of
priorities for work below the distributary head. Farmer
organization will run concurrently with the physical improvements.
Completion of Stage I will be defined as completion of the
physical works, and assumption of vigilance responsibilities at
the distributary level by duly registered Farmer Councils (FCs).
1)    Key elements of Stage I improvements will include the
following:
a)    Physical improvements.  Based on cost estimates of
several schemes in Tamil Nadu, limited investments
averaging about Rs. 5,300 per ha (ranging from Rs.
4,000 to Rs. 6,800  per ha in different schemes) for
priority works will be carried out in the main and
secondary levels of the system.'   Below the sluice,
on-farm works averaging about Rs. 750 per ha are
planned.   A new design feature that will be
introduced under the project is the "structured
system' concept. New water control structures will be
inserted or the existing ones upgraded, to deliver
proportional flow to all segments of the canal below
Rs. 4000 per ha was estimated on empirical grounds on the basis of
field studies for 9 of the 10 schemes selected for Stage I improvements. For the
remaining scheme, Vaigai, where the main canal was heavily damaged during recent
floods, the investment needed is about Rs. 6,800 per ha.



- 48 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 22
the structured level -- usually head of a
distributary, sometimes a minor -- without manual
regulation below that level. The objective is to
ensure delivery of water at all offtakes below the
structured level in proportion to their command.
b)    Farmer organization and turnover.  The process of
dialogue with WRO regarding Stage I improvements
within the distributary will be accompanied by
organizing efforts to establish FCs at the
distributary level or around a suitable hydraulic unit
(generally about 500 ha of command area). Councils
will be registered societies and will assume full
management responsibility for O&M within the
distributary, and will assist the WRO in main system
operational planning. By agreeing to assume
distributary-level management, the farmers can (1)
request further improvements under Stage II and (2)
ask for information about the entire canal system
operation. Details of the farmer organization and
turnover (FOT) activities are given in the following
section.
c)    Operations and maintenance.  New emphasis will be
placed on O&H both within the reformed structure of
the WRO at the basin and scheme levels. Budget
allocations for maintenance works will be set to
ensure the sustainability of project-financed
improvements. A new monitoring and evaluation system
will be put in place based on flow and water level
measurements, crop data, remote sensing techniques,
and training in monitoring and evaluation. Maintenance
equipment will be upgraded and new procedures
implemented to ensure effective utilization of the
equipment. On the operations side, a consultative
process will be introduced by which project staff work
with farmers through an Apex Committee at the scheme
level, as well as through individual FCs, to set
operational plans for each season.
2.    Sequence of Physical Improvements
a)    The sequence of physical improvements will be confined
to the main system (i.e., the main and branch canal.),
for about two years. Within the distributary, the
overall objective will be to provide a structured
network capable of delivering water to all offtake
proportionate to command area once the
distributary/minor is opened (Box 1). Upon completion



- 49 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 22
of the physical works, the main responsibility of the
WRO will be to ensure the allocated rate of flow of
water at the head of the structured network,
distributary or minor as the case may be.
Responsibility for managing water distribution below
the structured level would be transferred to FCs, as
discussed later in this section.
b)    The major schemes covering about 400,000 ha to be
taken up for Stage I works are shown in Table 1
attached. An additional 40 minor schemes covering
about 100,000 ha are shown in attached Table 2.
Schemes improvement plans will be based on detailed
designs and cost estimates derived from field visits.
Attachment A shows the proposed schedule of
investment, presented by scheme and by year.



- 50 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 22
-   >  - >-   - ,,   >..>   ,   .   >..>   ..,   ,:, .,  , ~ ~~....  . ...   .....     ,,... .->   > , , -.     :.  , ,   ,, 
-.scu~dtvI  tunall "'""  b""i:azyo                           ii           " 'oto  'tubr      ''l be prisd skalofae aas
.SX''S-:-S-si"5:'.~~~~~~~ . ... . .....,,,k''
-~~                1n    mc  wirawlabe.  naind-<- toaiemitnz   o w-c le s a-- dscagsi
-n duration of supply.  ssolation   ts to operae di ...a.dal sytuat    O O  .w.o.u.t...a.......ld s
- - mmt rncta provide t  .. .x ....pob.ytl..a                        .a........sb.yol    o  whm.    w : :- .  n.eed.....
,,.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Blw the SM,S,d .':: :'
in                    0.    ft..                      OFF
The su    sMi~~mpl      thamo  o  the Po   aawiwl  eai  io   10me prniAl;                           ...a ()poprca,e
s[ar,Snctw .Regulated
M    Main canci   network~-                                          ,ewof
I~ ~~~ d A/                                       I              Lve
canaL         Stuctured        /                     _ _ _ - \            Cross r:gulotar/'2uck
neStwrkcue                 _       ~       ,               Mecsu.errcnt struecur,
a - Branch ccnci                                                                                     M  \ P0-Proportional
- Oistributry                                                                                                distributor
SO - Sub-distributory                            /                                                        OF-Open flume*
m    Minor                                      /                 - M                                     SM-Semi module
I   _i;[7/    \   \        \    \          ~~~~~T C -Ti clltuster
IrTC                   \ternctive:
m    -Gc:ed control structures/                        /                         \p  outLet with
duck bill weir                                        -:p constict ou t letew
~-Una:ted  c.-ntraL  structures                                                                            c          s ;   I 
FIG. 1 -SCHEMATIC   DIAGRAM    OF   STRUCTURE-D  !,RIGATION    NETWORK



- 51 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 22
B. Stage II: Improving Conveyance Efficiency
1)    Stage II physical works are aimed at improving conveyance
efficiency and water control throughout the system, from the
main canal down to the field channels. The first set of
schemes (Table 1) selected for Stage II in the first year
have begun the process of system improvements and
rehabilitation/ modernization investments under the ongoing
NWMP. Under the WRCP, these systems will receive selective
lining in critical reaches of the main canal, regulators and
some masonry structures. Flow measuring devices (automatic
stage recorders) will be provided at the head of major
distributaries to facilitate an eventual adoption of
volumetric supply of water. Other structures -- aqueducts,
diversion structures, pickup weirs, anicuts -- will be
repaired as per needs determined scheme by scheme. The
average cost of these improvements would be about Rs. 6000
per ha.
2)    The success of the proportionate dividers referred to
earlier depends on effective maintenance. Issues related to
maintenance to be addressed during Stage II include:
effective methods of deweeding; lining to prevent
proliferation of weeds; measures to reduce recurring
expenditures on sedimentation; and protection of completed
works from accidental or deliberate destruction. These
issues will be resolved in discussions between farmers and
the WRO. Where cost effective solutions are not evident,
research and development will be supported.2 In addition
to the civil works in Stage II, flow measuring devices with
automatic stage recorders will be provided to encourage
measurement of water supply and, in the long run, to
facilitate volumetric supply. In cases where lining results
in change in the design geometry of the canal prism and as a
result, water levels, suitable modifications or remodelling
of the corresponding masonry structures (regulators,
bridges, offtake and flumes) will be pursued in the project.
Distributary-level lining will be carried out only where FCs
are willing to contribute 20 per cent of the total cost
prior to the start of works.
2 The WRCP will support research and study programs of the Institute of
Hydraulics and Hydrology, Poondi; the Institute of Water Studies, Taramani; and
the Irrigation Management Training Institute, Trichy; and the Tamil Nadu Water
Resources Research Fund described elsewhere in this report.



-52 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 22
3)    Five of the seven Stage II schemes will be taken up for
coverage under the FOT program in the first year of the
project (see Attachment B). Some of these schemes have
already begun to see indications of a more reliable and
equitable water services, yet distributary level works
remain to be done and hence are good candidates for the POT
program. The two remaining schemes, Tambiraparani and
Kodayar, will be taken up for FOT in the second year of the
project.
16.   System Tan*s.  Tanks are typically monozone earthen bunds built from
local soil with one or more surplussing arrangements. The water spread is
relatively large, with large fetch causing considerable wave heights. The
maximum height of tank bund is even up to 7 m. Most of the tanks are located
near villages. In case of breach, some tanks located near habitats can create
a potential danger to the population, as for example in the Ramnad Big Tank in
Vaigai System, Kadamba in Tamraparani System. During the cyclonic rainfall of
late 1993, many of the big tanks in Periyar Vaigai and elsewhere were
breached. Reasons were encroachment on the design flood lift to raise the
F.T.L.; inadequacy of the surplussing arrangements causing overtopping; lack
of maintenance, resulting in vertical depression in the tank bunds at
locations where cart tracks were made by villagers; and breach of a tank in
the upper reaches causing a chain reaction of breach in all the tanks located
downstream.
17.   The project will support renovation of some 80 system tanks once
detailed studies on some aspects of breaches and a review of design parameters
are completed. The review will include: assessment of the present approach of
calculating peak floods by empirical methods and its replacement by a more
rational alternative; stability analysis of upstream slopes (sudden drawdown
condition) and downstream slopes (heavy downpour condition, steady seepage
condition); provision of rock toe at downstream slopes; provision of
upstream rivetment; determination of the correct storage capacity of tanks by
accurate surveys; and provision of inclined filters at the downstream hearting
zone.
18.   Link Canal and related vorks in Periyar Vaigai.  In addition, the
project will also support rehabilitation/ modernization works in the Periyar
Vaigai system financed under two previous Bank credits, including completion
of the link canal in the Periyar system; construction of by-pass channels to
existing tanks; and capacity adjustments in offtake and masonry structures;
and repairs to four breached tanks.
On-farm development (OFDI works
19.   OFD provides the last link between the irrigation system and farmers'
fields through the construction of structures below the sluice, as for
example, watercourses and field channels. The project will support the
State's program of OFD works with changes from present practice. Under the



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 22
WRCP, farmer organizations will decide on the need for OFD and assistance for
OFD will be extended only in outlets where FCs are organized. The WRO would
undertake topographical surveys, delineating the water course/field channel
alignments and construction of masonry/concrete structures or profile walls at
critical locations, spaced at about 75 to 100 meters. The rest of the field
channel system would be constructed by farmer organizations with their own
funds. Technical assistance, where necessary, will be extended by the WRO.
The cost to WRO would be about Rs. 700 per ha, as against the more than Rs.
3500 per ha as per present practice, where the government bears the full
burden of the OFD works.   With the start of the WRCP, the OFD model described
above will be Statewide and replace other existing approaches. The WRO's
share of the OFD works will be carried out by its own staff or contracted out
to other agencies such as the Agricultural Engineering Department (AED) or the
FCs.
Standardization
20.   Structures will be classified on the basis of their functional
requirements and identified by a specific code number: (i) flow measurement
structures (flumes); (ii) flow control and regulation structures (head
sluices, baffle distributors, undertunnels); (iii) cross drainage and related
structures (eg., aqueducts, syphons, drops); (iv) safety structures (eg.,
escapes, surplussing weirs in tanks); (v) service structures (eg., road
bridges, bathing areas); (vi) water level control structures (long-crested
weirs, cross regulators, composite regulators, and (vii) flow proportional
dividers.
21.   The glossary of terms used in investigations, planning, design and
construction of project works would follow the latest version of standards
published by the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) for river valley projects.
Publications of standards or practices of the Central Water Commission,
Central Bureau of Irrigation and Power (CBIP) and of international
organizations applicable to project works would also be consulted. Standards
of the Indian Road Congress of the GOI would be consulted for the construction
of project bridges. Specification of materials and works will be reviewed and
revised where necessary and the new versions will be furnished to the Bank for
comments before undertaking works. The procedures to be adopted for carrying
out repairs of rehabilitation works would be site specific. Nevertheless, the
relevant guidelines contained in well-known publications (e.g., CWC, ICID,USBR
manuals) would be used.
Farmer oraanization and turnover
22.   Three Important features of the WRCP approach to farmer organization
are:
a)    Implementation of organizing efforts will be closely integrated
with physical improvements to be funded through the project.
Existing O&M staff (Assistant Engineers, Work Inspectors, and
Laskars) of the WRD will steer the organizing efforts to ensure



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 12 of 22
coordination during the implementation phase, and after turnover
is effected.
b)    Organizing activities will cover three levels -- on the tertiary
level (sluice commands); the secondary level (distributaries); and
the scheme level. Turnover of O&M responsibilities at the
distributary level and below will result in cost savings to WRO
over the long term, as well as in improved O&M.
c)    The terms and conditions of turnover will be spelled out in a
written contract -- Nemorandum of Understanding (MOU) -- between
the WRO and the newly created distributary-level FCs.
The turnover program will be applied initially to five schemes, totalling
70,833 ha, which have already completed Stage I physical improvements under
the NWHP.3 In two of the schemes, Amaravathy and Sathanur, pilot organizing
efforts have already been initiated. As soon as the FOT work is well underway
in this first round of schemes, successive rounds of organizing activity will
be initiated in the last two of the seven NWMP locations, in all major schemes
awaiting Stage I improvements, and in those minor schemes and project
completions where there will be infrastructural improvements at the
distributary level or below. The sequence of schemes to be taken up for the
FOT program year by year is shown in Attachment B. The underlying logic in
planning the sequence of coverage is that it is evolutionary, gets
progressively intensive, is linked to the sequence of physical works, and
allows for a "learning approach" for the WRO.
23.   Structure and function of farmer organizations.  A three-tier farmers'
organization will be implemented consisting of local sluice level
organizations, distributary level FCs, and scheme level Apex Committees. The
first tier of sluice level organizations (20 to 40 ha) will be formal or
informal. In many cases, indigenous sluice level organizations already exist
in the field. By tradition, these organizations have assumed responsibility
for water management below the outlet hiring local staff for O&M purposes.
Payment is usually in cash or in kind. Since indigenous sluice level
organizations may already exist and function well, there would be no need to
impose formal structures. Where necessary, though, they can be formalized
through registration.
24.   The focus of WRO's organizing activities would be at the distributary
level (about 500 ha) where FCs will be established. Each sluice level
organization will elect three representatives (including one woman
representative) to form the distributary level FC, a formally registered
organization under the Societies' Registration Act. A federation of all FCs
within a scheme command will form an Apex Committee that will have an advisory
role in main system operations.
3 The  five  schemes  are:    Amararathy,  Sathanur,  Cumbum,  Marudanadi,
Sethiathope.



- 55 -
*                                                       Annex 4
Page 13 of 22
25.   The function of the FCg will be:  (1) to provide an organized forum for
WRO-farmer interaction; (2) to maintain and protect the distributary canals
and structures that have already been improved under NWMP, or that will be
improved under WRCP; (3) to ensure equitable water distribution among the
sluice outlets;' and (4) to assist the WRO in planning system operations.
Following the formal turnover of O&M responsibility to the Councils, all costs
of OEM will be borne by farmers (e.g., for canal desilting or deweeding).
Sluice level organizations, whether informal or formal, will manage water
services below the field outlet. The function of the Apex Committee will be to
participate in scheme level consultations on inter-distributary matters and on
issues related to scheme level water management and FC.
Financina arrangements
26.   irrigated farmers in Tamil Nadu are already paying land taxes to the
Revenue Department which are nominally about the same as the O&M expenditures
of the WRO, including both works and establishment costs. When actual
repayment rates (around 80%) are calculated, farmers' real payments are
roughly equivalent to the agency's recurrent costs. Under the WRCP, farmers
will be asked to share a larger proportion of the total management burden than
is currently the case. Most of the increased burden will be "in kind", that
is, through participation in the activities of management (attending meetings,
keeping records, monitoring water levels, adjusting flows, resolving disputes,
etc.). However, there will also be increased financial costs to farmers. To
ensure a minimal level of 0&M funding below the distributary level, each
farmer will be required to contribute Rs. 250 per hectare (Rs. 100/acre) for
deposit in a fixed-deposit, interest bearing account under FC control. The
annual yield of roughly Rs.30/ha from this account will be supplemented by
additional collections from the members if O&M costs exceed the interest
income. These financial provisions will be a condition for signing a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the WRO and the FC turning over
distributary O&M to the FCs.
27.   The Government is examining the possibility of an additional tax to be
on all farmers directly benefiting from project improvements, with a rebate
offered to farmers who collectively agree to assume management responsibility
for their respective distributary canals. The tax will likely take the form
of a "betterment levy" for which there is ample local precedent, the logic
being that farmers who receive unusual benefits from new infrastructure should
contribute to the cost. In the context of turnover of O&M to FCs, the
'modernization levy' will bring additional revenues to the government while
providing an incentive to farmers who satisfactorily discharge their O&M
responsibilities.
28.   In addition to bearing the O&M expenses below the distributary (or
structured) level, the farmers will contribute 20 per cent of the costs of
lining works in the distributary or minor in Stage II. The rationale here is
that lining is often the most expensive and desired intervention to increase
conveyance efficiency. However, it is also often poorly implemented and
maintained.   The demand for contributions from farmers is expected to ensure



- 56 -
Annex 4
Page 14 of 22
that the right priority will be accorded to this improvement, that selective
rather than full lining would be undertaken, and that careful attention and
farmer monitoring would follow. In addition, as already noted, farmers will
contribute in-kind to the completion of OFD works.
Lecal basis
29.   The formal registration of FCs and other farmers' organizations in the
WRCP will be as per the Tamil Nadu Societies' Registration Act, 1975. The Act
provides for a democratic framework for farmers' organizations and their
governance, including registration, periodic elections to management
positions, transparent sharing of information among the members and for the
formation of federations. The office of the State Registrar of Societies will
receive annual reports and audited financial statements from the farmers'
organizations.
30.   There is no comprehensive act in Tamil Nadu (as in the case of the State
of Maharashtra, for instance) for irrigation and drainage management.   In its
absence, the Societies Registration Act will provide the framework for
incorporation. A Government Order will be issued to the WRO prior to the
start of the project requiring the establishment of farmer organizations and
declaring the decision of turnover of management below the structured level
from the WRO to these organizations. The legal transfer of management
responsibility (not including the transfer of ownership rights over assets)
will be defined through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to be signed
between the FCs and the WRO. Sample contents of an MOU are shown in Attachment
C. The MOU will specify the obligations and benefits of the transfer
arrangement; the conditions under which the Council will engage in Joint
Management of the distributary during a transition period of 3 to 9 months;
and the conditions for full transfer of O&M responsibility.
31.   The State Water Policy recently approved by GOTN will emphasize the role
of farmers in water resources management and the policy of management turnover
to provide a general policy umbrella for WRO's actions. The Tamil Nadu
Panchayati (local governments) Act, currently under revision, is unlikely to
affect the irrigation sector specifically, but will support broad efforts to
induce local participation.
The Process of oraanizing farmer councils
32.   The process leading to O&M turnover is presented in this section in
three phases: (1) assessment, (2) organizing, and (3) joint management,
leading to turnover. The process of organizing and turning over O&M
responsibility will be basically similar for all schemes coming under the
WRCP, regardless of whether the particular scheme is undergoing Stage II
improvements (the case of the seven systems improved under NWMP) or are
starting fresh, under Stage I improvements. In either situation, the process
of organizing farmers will precede any construction activities at the
distributary level or below. The logic for this approach in to ensure that



-57 -
Annex 4
Page 15 of 22
farmers provide inputs into the design of improvements being carried out and
are committed to maintaining them once under their O&H responsibility.
33.   Plans for Stage II improvements to the distributary canal and below
would be agreed with the FC, following a joint diagnosis of system
deficiencies carried out by means of a walk-through. In cases where the FC is
yet to be formally registered, agreement will be obtained from informal FCs.
Plans for Stage I improvements at the distributary and below will be discussed
with farmers as an integral part of the organizing process. A listing of the
improvements to be implemented under Stage I will form part of the provisional
MOU to be drawn up jointly by WRO and farmers, with the help of the FOT team.
This provisional MOU will serve as a common reference point in discussing the
mutual roles of the Council and the WRO. The MOU will be finalized at the
earliest once the works begin. The WRO will seek and record FCs' opinion on
satisfactory completion of works.
34.   Throughout the period of the project, FOT teams would be deployed for
work with farmers; 15 FOT teams will be deployed in the initial years with
subsequent adjustment in numbers as required. The FOT team will be supervised
by an Assistant Engineer (AE) and will include a Works Inspector (WI), and a
Lascar. Each team will cover about 3000 ha per year. The teams will work
with some starter farmer organizations, some advanced, and some "difficultw
ones. Good FOT team performance and well functioning FCs will be recognized
through annual awards and other incentives.   In any given distributary, the
time from assessment to turnover is anticipated to take between 12 to 18
months, but organizing efforts will not begin in all distributaries
simultaneously. A two-year period is planned for each round of organizing
activities, and once the project is fully underway, two rounds would be under
implementation simultaneously (see Attachment B).
a)    Assessment Phase (about 3 months): The FOT team will be trained at
IMTI prior to taking the field. The team's initial activity will
be to arrange participatory walk-throughs of each distributary,
along with WRO project staff and farmers, to begin a dialogue
about priority improvements. Other tasks during this phase
include compiling a list of actual farmers and the landholders, a
detailed map of the official and actual command area (including
unauthorized water use), and a rough assessment of the
organizational capacity of farmers in each distributary area,
including information on any existing formal or informal
organizations. Each team will be assisted by a trained male and
female social organizer, to assist in the Assessment and
Organizing phases. Additionally, a cadre of experienced
Institutional Advisors will be deployed to guide the FOT teams and
provide advice to senior project staff regarding the
organizational efforts and the turnover process. The social
organizers and institutional advisers will be recruited as
consultants. A major information and education campaign will be
launched in this phase with the assistance of IMTI to provide an



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 16 of 22
appreciation of the process for senior managers of the WRO and to
offer specific information on costs and benefits to farmers.
b)    OrganizIng Phame. (4-6 months):  The FOT team, with guidance from
the Institutional Advisor, will begin a long series of informal
meetings with farmers throughout the command to discuss issues
related to turnover. The women social organizers will meat with
women farmers and encourage their participation in both the
sluice-level and distributary-level organizations. A provisional
MOU will be drawn up as a reference for discussing the details of
the Council's eventual rights and responsibilities. Pending
formal registration, a provisional FC will be organized by the FOT
team. The WRO will consult with the FC concerning any
modifications to ongoing distributary-level improvements (Stage I
works), and negotiate the detailed terms of the MOU for transfer
of O&M responsibility. Once the O&M fund is collected, the MOU
can be signed.
c)    Joint Management Phase. (3-9 months): During this phase, the FCs
will learn how to manage the distributary. Farmers will work
closely with WRO field staff to understand how to read water
levels, and how to maintain the new improvements. With help from
the AE and other WRO staff, the Council will also develop an
operational plan for water distribution. Prior to formal
turnover, a test of the water flows will be conducted to ensure
that the physical facilities are in order. The WRO Executive
Engineer will then formally turn over responsibility to the FC.
35.   After the official turning over, WRO and the FC will discuss further
improvements to the distributary that can be implemented under the WRCP as
Stage II improvements. The AE will work with FCs to encourage the formation of
a project-level Apex Committee of FC presidents. The WRO will consult the Apex
Committee regarding main system improvements, interdistributary issues and
problems and requests for Stage II improvements. Well functioning Apex
Committees will be rewarded with a modest office-cum-training facility at the
scheme headquarters location.
ODeration and maintenance: clans and practice
36.    Infrastructural improvements and farmer participation described in the
preceding section will address some of the system deficiencies noted earlier.
These changes will be accompanied by an emphasis on O&M. The WRO's O&M program
will be managed by basin managers in four regions. A central O&M office will
provide specialized services to maintain standards and review criteria of
performance. The functions and expectations of the specialized unit and that
of the basin manager are described elsewhere in this report.
37.   To begin with, O&M in the entire system would be the responsibility of
the WRO. Later, as FCs are formed, registered, and funds collected for O&M,
the responsibility for O&M of distributaries/minors and below would be turned



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 17 of 22
over by the WRO to FCs, while the WRO retains control over the headworks and
main system. operational plans will be developed in consultation with farmers.
This, of course, cannot be a one time exercise and would be reviewed every
year between the-WRO and the apex committee of the FCs.
O&M mechanization
38.   The restricted period available each year for maintenance and scarcity
of labor during the agricultural season point to the need for mechanization.
The WRO's O&M staff will be strengthened in their capacity to improve their
O&M practices by the procurement of selected equipment like excavators, rock
breakers, clam shell, crawler tractors, tipping trucks and back hoes (Table
4). The equipment would be shared for construction works on by-pass channels
or rented out to FCs at a concessional rate to speed up the desiltation works.
At the same time, purchase of vehicles -- jeeps, cars, motor cycles, bicycles
-- would improve the mobility of the staff including those engaged in FOT
(Table 5). Communication would be improved through the use of mobile radios.
39.   Three new regional workshops will be constructed at Madras, Trichy, and
Aliyar. The Madurai workshop will be strengthened. The workshops will be
well equipped; two fabrication workshops will be established at Trichy and
Madurai.
Financina O&M
40.   The GOTN has gradually increased its annual budget for O&M and has
allocated funds separately for works portion and staff at the beginning of
each financial year. The funds are allocated to each executive engineer on a
quarterly basis through letters of credit drawn on a commercial bank.   The
budget for financial year 1994-95 is Rs. 265 per ha on an average of which it
is estimated that Rs. 150 per ha is for works portion.
41.   Under the WRCP, each structure and canal reach will be inspected
annually and budget will be provided to meet the requirements of full funding
of maintenance.   Importantly, the funding requirement will be based on
specific and objective scheme level performance assessments. To assist scheme
staff in preparing the O&M requirements, a maintenance manual indicating
guidelines for carrying out repairs and an asset register for each scheme in
which inventory and state of assets registered annually will be prepared.
Consultants, whose terms of reference are to be agreed upon with the Bank,
will be appointed to assist in the preparation of these manuals and registers.
42.   FCs will take over OhM functions of the part of the system below the
distributary/minor head and maintain it. To this end, they will use the
interest from the fixed deposit collected from each farmer on entry into the
FC. In addition, they will organize special projects for immediate repairs to
the system under their management control if the situation warrants it. The
GOTN will consider whether a portion of any charges levied on farmers for the
rehabilitation/ modernization improvements as a result of the WRCP could be
shared with FCs. Conditions for such sharing would be a well-functioning FC



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 18 of 22
with a proven record for at least one year of effective O&M in the system
turned over to their control.
43.   Budgetary procedure.  Tamil Nadu has established a satisfactory
arrangement for the preparation of the budget and allocation of O&M funds for
different schemes. The CE (Irrigation) at Madras coordinates all activities,
obtaining government approvals and allocating the funds to SEs and EEs
responsible for O&M in the various schemes.
44.   The budget process starts early, usually in August, in the financial
year (April-March). The SE (O&M) in a scheme reviews the proposals presented
by the EE in August and, in turn, submits his proposal to the CE (Irrigation)
in September. The CE : (i) finalizes the revised budget for the current
financial year after taking note of the progress made on O&M, expenditure
incurred ad the balance amount needed for the coming months; and (ii)
estimates the budget needed for the next financial year. He then submits his
proposal to the Secretary, Finance through the Secretary, PWD every September.
The Secretary, Finance informs the PWD of the final budget allocation for
every scheme in November/December. Information on the budget for the
following financial year is conveyed to the CE after it is voted in the State
legislature in February/March. The CE informs the SE/EEs of their budgets.
The EEs are authorized to incur expenditure on O&M through letters of credit
issued by the Finance Department, on a quarterly basis, supported by a
recommendation of the CE. The early allocation of budget has helped the EEs
in planning their O&M works without difficulty. However, the problem was the
amount of funds provided in the past.
Training
45.   The largest training effort will be the preparation of the WRO staff to
meet the challenges of the new thrust on O&M and farmer participation. In the
case of the latter, a major training effort will be launched with IMTI as the
nodal agency. IMTI will involve other training and research institutions and
NGOs in Tamil Nadu as well as private consultants with experience in farmer
organization.
46.   FOT Training. The FOT training program would include:  appreciation
workshop for senior managers and project staff; specific skill building
workshops for the FOT team and for FCs. Details of the training programs
planned and their proposed schedule is in Attachment D. The FOT program will
also provide IMTI an opportunity to develop a systematic set of instructional
material for farmer organization that could be of great use to Tamil Nadu and
of some interest to other States in India. Resources have been provided to
develop case studies and teaching material as well as for collaborative
initiatives with other institutions involved in farmer organization and
related efforts such as Anna University, Gandhigram, and the Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 19 of 22
47.   In view of the importance of the training effort in the success of the
FOT, it has been agreed with GOTN that it is of the utmost importance to
infuse stability and strength to the institution.   In the past, although IMTI
was set up as a training institution, not all staff or directors posted there
were motivated by the training function.  Directors have been posted for short
periods of time. Staff on deputation from other departments have not been
allowed to stay for more than three years if they wished to, and if IMTI found
them to be good. A 'core" group of faculty was chosen some five years ago but
is yet to be so designated. To rectify this situation, it has been agreed
that a "corew faculty group will be designated and that the full complement of
faculty will be recruited. Where it is not possible to get staff on
deputation, contractual and consultancy arrangements will be tried.
48.   Irrigation Management Training. The project would also support training
in the following areas:
a)    Management skills -- IMTI at present offers a series of training
courses for supervisory skills. These course will be reviewed
with consultancy assistance as part of the project and redesigned
an necessary. In addition, IMTI would enter into a collaborative
agreement with a reputed management training institution to offer
a condensed program of management skills for those already at, or
are about to move into, senior management level.
b)    Performance assessment -- Irrigation managers would be trained in
system diagnostic techniques for application to their own field
settings. IMTI would continue its training programs on this
subject, using material from its ongoing collaborative program
with IIMI, Sri Lanka, which could be expanded.
c)    Equipment operator and maintenance training -- as part of the
purchase contract for new equipment and vehicles, suppliers will
be asked to provide operation and maintenance training to
mechanical staff in WRO. As for specialized maintenance of
electronic communication, data processing and computer equipment,
initial training will be provided by suppliers as part of purchase
contracts, to be followed up at IMTI.
d)    Water control, distribution and measurement -- training of staff
in this area will be provided by IHH, Poondi and by consultants
from the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and CWPRS, Puns.
0)    Maintenance of drainage channels -- The canal and drainage O&M is
part of the same organizational hierarchy in Tamil Nadu. The CZ
(O&M) and river basin managers will arrange for training in O&M of
drainage channels, including annual workshops with the assistance
of consultants. Annual training budgets and plans will be
provided by each basin manager for this purpose.



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 20 of 22
f)    The project will support national and international study tours on
selected topics from the above list of subjects.   These tours
will be planned as part of an annual program of training, and
reviewed each year during the formal annual review.
Monitoring
49.   The GOTN will set up a systematic program of monitoring the Systems
Improvement and Farmer Turnover component of the project. Performance
indicators for the component are suggested in Attachment E.
50.   Systems Improvement. Apart from the operational plan, O&M performance
will be evaluated annually, in association with FCs. Annual reports for each
command will be published by basin managers. The report will detail O&M
achievements, actual and budgeted expenditures, and planned performance
targets for the next year.
51.   The project would support the use of modern monitoring tools.  For
instance, sensors at critical locations will be used to monitor levels and
flows in the main canal systems. Remote sensing data will be used to monitor
impact. These data can be processed in near real time to provide estimates of
crop acreage, crop condition, optimum design for crop cutting experiments,
crop yield estimation and overall system performance.   Annual monitoring can
lead to evaluation of system performance through the years to identify areas
requiring intensive follow up action. Concurrent monitoring through the season
could provide early indications of moisture stress or crop damage for
corrective action. Surveys for all WRCP schemes will be carried out during
the first year with the assistance of the National Remote Sensing Agency
(NRSA) at Hyderabad, Anna University, Madras and IWS in WRO. IWS would
gradually develop capacity in remote sensing techniques and undertake
increasing responsibility in the application of such techniques for improving
water resources management in the State.
52.   Farmer Turnover. The GOTN will also establish a program of monitoring
farmer organization and turnover. Indicators include assessment of inputs,
process and output. To complement the quantitative indicators, qualitative
assessments are also necessary. It is too easy to be satisfied with "numbers
of farmer organizations registered" without verifying whether these are
"paper, organizations or are "real" organizations where farmers know they are
members and are aware of rights and obligations. For this purpose, the
following have also been agreed to as monitoring devices : (1) The Basin
Manager and the CE (O&K) will visit a sample set of sluice organizations,
farmer councils and apex committees at least three times a year to get direct
feedback from farmers about progress. These field visits will be in the
nature of rapid assessments;   (2)  meetings of institutional advisors who
will assist the FOT teams will be convened every month at the basin level to
obtain their views on issues and operational problems; (3) IMTI's visits to
the sites to assist FOT teams will also be used as a periodic source of
information for basin managers and the CE (O&M) to gauge progress in FOT.



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 21 of 22
53.   In addition to these methods, every annual review of the project as a
whole will provide an opportunity to adjust original plans according to
current experience.
Risks
54.   The WRCP represents a significant shift in the government's approach to
water resources in general, and irrigation in particular. Whereas decisions on
system improvements so far in the State have been made in a top down fashion,
under the new arrangement, farmers will work with the WRO to determine the
best course of action. Some aspects of irrigation management, particularly
main system management, will remain within government's exclusive purview, but
even here farmers have legitimate interests in making their voices heard.
Similarly, below the distributary, farmers will have exclusive management
responsibility, with the WRO assisting in and monitoring farmers, performance.
55.   The public-private partnership required to make the new arrangement
function well calls for new kinds of skills and a markedly different attitude
on the part of both government and farmers. There is an inherent risk that
public bureaucracies may not easily undergo the necessary transformation. It
is also important to retain the autonomy of internal management of farmer
organizations so that they are not subject to bureaucratic and political
pressures. Much also depends on the stability and performance of key
institutions such as IMTI that will undertake a major training effort in both
the Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover activities.   The project will
address this risk through: (1) policy commitment to the SIFT program; (2)
specific administrative action to translate the commitment into action,
including decisions in the case of IMTI, to introduce stability and
consistency to its training programs; (3) training programs aimed at
engendering an understanding of the management logic underlying the new
arrangement, and imparting new skills, particularly in farmer organization and
turnover; (4) a transparent process of farmer organization in which existing
departmental staff steer the process with support from NGOs and specialists in
the field; (6) frequent monitoring and evaluation of the new arrangements so
that WRO staff remain well informed of progress and are challenged to propose
solutions to the inevitable difficulties of the SIFT component (See Box 2)



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 22 of 22
~~~~.    ......   .  . ,    .-
--  .  -   -  .   - -  - -  ~Box-Z --
-:Fes Organzat.o: ri-k re duct-o;pr;:;-n
It is recognized tiat th6 Famer. Organization i Trovet program canot bh tad  bli -i :
-;. mul for al 'emsad caions.'"Y It 'sntsil to forse all th :oil attiinl    hw  :~
fdrinug f implmntaiox nd:tO suiWMa vaiety ot oalcidtin n  neds  xor tis uros, a tea u  op
56.  There are :ther triks. Som ma  ve the fm          z      eff
;-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..' .. . .     .     .    ,Q,a".'...;-
entirely as a means of cost recovery.  This view does not adequately take
incentives for farmers into account. Farmers' responsibilities should be tied
to service improvements and hence a transparent program of infrastructural
upgradation is a necessity. The promotion of a systematic scheme-by-scheme
program of system improvements and O&M budgeting to be implemented under thi
WRCP would go a long way in mitigating this risk. There is also the danger of
inappropriate government subsidies for OhM or for OFD, although the GOTN has
agreed that the WRCP's OFD model would be applicable throughout the State.
Efforts to maintain this model must be made during project implementation so
that competing approaches that  emphasize subsidies are not supported.  The
tnnual Reviews of the project will offer an opportunity to assess progress in
the SIFT component and to take corrective action.



- 65 -
Annex 4
INDIA                                  Table I
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Modernization Component
Stage I and stage ll Schemes
Serial Number                 Name of the Scheme      C.C.A (Hectares)
Stage I Schemes
(Major,Medium,Minor)
1                        Cheyyar Anicut            14,337
2                               Chittar              9,644
3                         Lower Bhavani            83,974
4                              Manjalar              2,169
5                        Minor Schemes             97,885
6                           Palar Anicut           32,786
7                    Parambiculam-Aliyar          174,553
8                        Poiney  Anicut              9,350
9                       Thirukovilur/Ellis         14,342
10                             Tholudur             14,915
11                               Vaigai             54,153
Sub Total                                                508,108
Stage ll Schemes
(Major And Medium)
12                          Amaravathy              22,384
13                             Cumbum                 8,099
14                              Kodayar             36,836
15                         Marudhanadhi               2,665
16                             Sathanur             18,217
17                            Sethiatope             19,466
18                        Tambaraparani             45,282
SubTotal                                                 152,949
Grand Total                                                661,057



- 66 -
Annex 4
Table 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT---
Rehabilitation and Modernization Component
(Stage I -- Minor Schemes)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-
Si.      Namre of the Scheme                   C.C.A.(Hectares)
No .
1     Kullursandai Reservoir.                    1040
2     Gatananadhi Reservoir.    -                1200
3      <Karuppanadhi Reservoir.                  1170
4     Manrimukthanadhi Reservoir.                1620
5     Pambar Reservoir.                          1620
6      Vidur Reservoir Project.                  1300
7     Thumbalailalli Reservoir.                   8so
a     Vem lakkottai Reservoir.                   3280
9     Yaniar Re,-rvoir.                          3460
10     Gunderipallam Reservoir.                   1010
11     SulagiriChinnar Reservoir.                  710
12     Siddharmalli Reservoir.                    1700
13     Nleyyar Project.                           '5 0
14     7loppayar Reservoir.                       2160
15     Ponniniar R-servoir.                        740
'16    Golwarp vat ti Resarvoir.                  2980
*17    Kalvoy Sadayaneri Channel                   715
18     Kasarigullihalla Reservoir.                1620
19     Kodiveri Anicut System.                    9916
20     Gomrukhi Reservoir.                        2020
21     Ramanadhi Reservoir.                       c000
2-J     Y@arattupl. lam Reservoir.                1210
23     tUppar Reservoir.                           7-0
24      Yaradhamanadhi Reservoir.                  180
25     Ctiinnar Reservoir.                         760
26     Krishn,nairi Reservoir.                    3640
27     Palar Porandalar                           4080
28     Psr2apalar Reservoir                        4-70
29     Echambadi Anicut                           Z530
30     Yvirudhachalam Anicut System.              4340
31     Manimuthar Reservoir.                      3400
32    lNandiar Channel system.                    4030
3-     Nand,an Channel.                           2040
34      Mrniar Project..T.N. Protion)             2460
35     Sariguni River System.                    10820
36     Gundar System                              1660
37     Barur Tank System                          2590
38     Thandarai Anicut System                    5830
39     Mehanathur System                          2450
40     Virusuliar River System                    1180
Total ...                                97885



- 67 -
Annex 4
Attachment A
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Modernization Component
Investment
Program                         Rs.('000)
SNO  SCHEIE      YEAR1      YEAR 2 YEAR 3   YEAR 4 YEAR 5  YEAR 6  YEAR 7 TOTAL
stagel
1 Cheyyar    1400       8400   14300   17100 11400   11000  3000  66600
Chittar    0          3800   11000   15000 9500    4000   0          43300
LowerBhavani 0        52000  83500   95500 65500   30500   10000 337000
Manjalar    8540      2245   2683    0       0        0       0      13468
Minorschemes0         21000  30000   60000 90000   100000 167000 468000
Palar      1000       18400  31600   38100 28400   28300   18000 163800
Parambikulam 0        118000 175000  249000 238000  135000 120000 1035000
Poiney     1400       4500   11900   13300 9500    1000   0          41600
Thirukoilur   0       13100  18400   17500 4000    0          0      53000
Tholudur    41900     14000  21700   19500 8000    0          0      105100
Vaigai     1000       61000  90100   100800 69400   39300  7000  368600
Sub Total   55240     316445 490183  625800 533700  349100 325000 2695468
stagell
Amaravathy  83700     23600  35800   39000 20000   18600  8100  228800
Cumbum     11630      2780   7410    9520  16315   5640   5235  58530
Kodayar    9700       53600  65800   53600 51900   51300  7000  292900
Marudhanadhi 10760    4075   2300    1540  0          0       0      18675
Sathanur    21550     15400  38500   46000 37150   16500  12640 187740
Sethiatope  20500     28900  32300   27100 16000   9400   2200   136400
Tambaraparanr7000     64570  75794   68523 42119   15020  6365  279391
Sub Total   164840    192925 257904  245283 183484  116460 41540 1202436
0
PeriyarVaigai 7000    70000  60000   0       0        0       0      137000
VHF        0          7000   7000    7000  7000    7000    1000  36000
Grand Total 290080    586370 815087  878083 724184  472560 367540 4133904



- 68 -
Annex 4
Attachment B
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
FARMER PARTICIPATION SEQUENCE



FU  I I PROGRAM                                                                                                                                                             Art- A     n Nra.
..~~~~~~~~~ -                    -    -   -   -    -    -    -.......... -    -    -   -    -. - . -    -   -   -    -    -    -  -  -   -    -    -   -  .. -    -    -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - I - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
s I                       Projcct                           2      Arrea             Year I             Year              Year 3              Year  4             Year S   ; Wrar b                     fear  7
No                                                                                                                                         '
....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -.. -   -... -.... -..... ..... -... -   -     -    -                ...... .        -    -   -  -    -  -    -    -    -  -  -    -    -  -    -    -    -    -   -    -    -  -   -   -:  
I    Pa    .al      .1 I                                                                                                                                  .4  A I    a   ouje       
*        a                                                                              
.                            .                    .                  .         .        .  .          .                                                                                   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - -            - - - - -           -            - - - - .            . . . .-            - - - - -        
n:                                                     .:                                        :.:--                                                       -:
:           :   ~~~~~15000 :    30000                     1 0000              1 3ooo:000                       :OO   39553
2    t aw k, t    614sav.911i  Po 03e( I                           8 19   4                                          6
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                   - - - -..  .  .           .    .
:sae                                                  :                              :                  :          :                           :                          - 
3   'Vdiqa i  1't    jCCt                                          5 4 1 It 1
I*-                        ' '- - - -  -  ._              _
:::                                                                                                     15000' 30000 30 1000 2D                                    WOOD  :              9143
2  :Ptla    Aunicut  aVste'                                          2 12796                     -
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                              . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ...  .  .  .
312000             11000               100796 '              9
~~~~~~~~~~*              a          .                   .                            a        .         a. ..  .
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . . .    .
S   *Clrya1  Xnicul  System                                          7         :9                                    : 3 
.  .   *                                                     -   -   -    -   --
2000   :             5000 2500 39                 2 le
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -.                          
6                                                         ai,t    System   9a50   :                                                      :
4:PaIaa  Asaicut                   u                 ,         3216                                                                            3000               10  ;                  350
tIChillaz                                                           9600                                                                a ,
:                          :                     '                  :        3~~~ ~ ~~~~ ~ ~~~~                                      ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~200  3200  1200  '
a    lIholuduii  Aii*0it7 1190C
5000               5000                4900'
5t   tt a n j a I a                                                                               a 2 2 0 0
: ~     ~         ~        ~~~~~~~~ ~ - :-   -  -     ---  -  -  - ~-    - : - - -
1000               1200 :::::
*                   a                    a                  a                  a                   a              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-       ---- - - 
:                                                    aoj}     89454                     a                       S4200  49400               89100               a1000              7004               57670
,,         ---       --                   ..   .       -.........- .-.-         ...     ----      -   -  -   -   --    -   -   -  ---          --   --    -       --   - -  -   -      ...''...............~  ~'   ~~    'a                                   rtl
a  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~94
*  a          a                  a                 I                   S                        -4                             S                  a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                      
*  a  a    a                   a                                                         S                   a                                           a'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
*  S        a                  a                  *                   S                                                                             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r



0    ...   -   -   -     --           --                                ....                                      . ....  .......     .........   .    .    ........
Si               Piolect                    rea       vear I       Year        Vear I      Year 4    weas S         Vear        Wear  7
I IaruhaAhiPojca26
*                                                                          a           a            a *         S       
*~~~. a. . .   .                                                                      ..   a. _                                  a....        
I   Ambua  Valley Project                    3099
---w--~~------         ------    ---
4000 :      2010        2099
a  ----a.a                                     a           a :                      a
aNarudhaanadhi Proecst            a      2665aaaaaaaa
4~~ ~  ~ ::------- Syte                                                        :                        :           :
---------------- --:--------
3 :Soiriwathop  AnojcuSse                  223866
:         :~~~~~--- --------- --- 1- -- :-:-:-:
*000        5900               :            :6:
- -- --  --@-----------    ----                 -- --:
a                                    aaarapanaa Sys tm  383                                                                                             I
: a           a--- I                                     ----- - - -   -    a           a ----
'                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IlOU0  170000      1000 IU0  38i   
]                                    -    @ ~~~~~~~~~-- -- -- --- -    -- -- -- -- --  -*o
S                                  Sehihp  Anicu   ayte                                            a            a                       a
I                                   :avthaau   :roir  a                                                          :           :            : eta027a
,                   ,             ,      2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000 ,  000 , 86217..                        
a        .        S*1                           a .2a                                             a           a .  .a.
a--- a-a-a -                                                 .         .        .         .         .         ..- .. ..... ..............
X alono               1700D a                                       *           a
:~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3U :                                  oo           00 :  :uo :          :    33   :            :
I a  rt a
rto



FO I  I PROGRAM                                                                                                               Area  In Ha.
Sl                 ProIect                       Area         Year  I       Year  I   : Year 3           Year  4       Year 5        Year  6        Year
110:                            ~~~~~                                                             ~ ~ ~ ~~~~:  :  :  ;  j
--    - --aa -a-                                                                                                                              a         -a-- - - --- :
*Compiraion  (On-Going)
~~~~~~*           *                     a      .             ,                    a               - .. 
:Shanamaqanadi Project                  '        661'                , : 
*              .                            a *           .             .                            a       
664
-. - . -   .. -     -     -    - - - - - - - - - - -
2 :Kodtamadiar  Reservoir                           '1                                                             :
a                                       a              a:                                                                            2000:           117:
*~~~~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~       ~     ~       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ .  a . . a             
I jVadakku  Pachayar  Reservoir  :                 1780                 a              a             a             a
a  a  a          a             a             a             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I    
a' a                     a              a             a              a             a             :      ;;80:
4  :Solua pparai Reservoir                          965  a              a              a             .             a              a             a
a  a  a         a              a             a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~                   965:
S "Poigaivar  Reservoir                    .        46d                                a ,                          a j
*     a              a             a              a             a              a             :       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~488:
6 laukkangqadi Reservoir               j        42Iaa                                                                                                       ai
7 'Adaviaiainarl,oil Reservoir-                    2 227 6j'j'''
'        j                             j              j             j             ''     ~~~      ~ ~~~~~~            ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~816  1 460j  
8                                          aaAaaicua across Grida  :  :
:near AtiRiikulas                               1 266:,:
!              a             a266'*         a             j              a             i 266
9 :Rajiaaopekanar  Reservoir                       221                  a              a             a              a                           a              a
219'
*  a       a              a             a             a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ..       
*1  aavAanala   lan                         a       I      a             a              a             '              i          6 
INabiar Restrvoir                                                       a 128a                        a 
|2  'Ih:ropp*lllu  '  I121  *         ,                                           '             i     ~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~              ~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1052  2 2 9  '>2 
a                                           a 4ordlianaaResarvoi l  267                                              a.           ra
lolal             _          21)124  '       4355) '           O  '           O             O  '      30liO, a000 a                7 a9a'
*                       - .             a              a             a              a             a             a              a             *              a



-72-                              Annex 4
Attachment C
Page I of 5
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
MOU between Water Resources Organis.ation and Farmer's Council at
Thip  deed  of  Memorandum  of  TlriHrstanrling  executed
betwer'n the Chairman on behalf of tlie .................... council
at Distribtitory/Branch/Channel .taking off
from .....eft/Right Main Canal
of .................. Project in ..........               Taluk.
District, hereinafter called the "Counril' which expression shall
unless excluded by or repugnant to the subject or context include
his succ,essors in Office and assigns of the one part and the
Executive Engineer ............... Division of the Water Resources
Organisation   on   behalf  of  the  Government   of   Tamilnadu,
hereinafter  ralled .............. which expression shall  unless
excluded  by or repugnant to the subject or conttPxt  include  his
successors or assigns of the other part;
WHEREAS, it has been decided to carry out the Operation
and Maintenance of the irrigation system at the level of distrib-
utory and systems below it in the State of Tamilnadu jointly by
the Council of Farmers and the water Resources Organisation of
Governm-nt of Tamilnadu and, upon satisfactory completion of  the
4a id  ji-nt management phase, to hatd .ve-r the management of  the
distributory  and the systems bel'r; it t, the Cnruncil of  Farmers
by turning over.-
AND  WHEREAS, it has been decided to provide a  written
understdnding between the Council and the Water Resources Organi-
sation on the activities, to be carried out by both the  parties,
during  the phase of joint management and turn over by  means  of
the following Memorandum of Understanding
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
Part I   Preliminary
(1)        In  this Memorandum of Understanding, unless  there  is
anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)  "Apex   Council'  means  the  federation  of  all   the
Couincils;
(b)  "Council' means the association of farmers;
(cl  "Joint Management" means the Operation and  Maintenance
of  the irrigation system at the level of  distributory
and systems below it in the State of Tamilnadu carried
out  jointly  by the Council and  the  Water  Resources
Organisation   of  the  Government  of  Tamilnadu,    as
specified in Part II below;
(d)  "Turn  Over' means the point in time when  the  Council
assumes  full  responsibility  for  the  Operation  and
Maintenance  of the irrigation system at the  level  of
distributory  and  systems  below it in  the  State  of
Tamilnadu, as specified ir. Part III below.
(e)  "Distributory' means  a channel or  group  of  sluices
nvFring  an area of aboul 'nn ha. and taking off  from
either main or branch canal ,f an Irrigati ion System.



73                             Annex 4
Attachment C
Page 2 of 5
Part II   Joint Management
2.        The Joint Management phase will begin when
(a)  The  Council  has been formed and  registered,  thereby
implying that informal Sluice Committees are in place;
(b)  Office Bearers of the Council have been elected;
(c)  A  service fund amounting to .... ...... per hectare  of
command area has been established in a bank account.
3.        The   Joint   Managemen't  phase  will   include   close
collobaration between the Water Resources Organisation and the
Council through exchange of information and transfer of skills.
4.        The  Water  Resources  Organisation  will  prepare   an
operation plan for the entire scheme showing the availability of
water  and  allocation  of water made  for  Irrigation,  Drinking
water,    Industrial   and  other  uses.   The   Water   Resources
Organisation  will also prepare the method of distributing  water
to various distributories, namely, opening and closing of canals
and ON!OFF periods for all the distributories and for the
distributory  of the Council concerned. The Council will  prepare
the  Operation Plan for the distributory under its  jurisdiction.
The respective Operation Plans will be discussed and modified as
required.
5.        The Water Resourcos Organisation-will conduct hydraulic
tests  of the distributory to check the capacities  at  different
points with design.
6.         Water Resources Organisation will operate the headworks
and the main system while jointly managing the distributory with
the Council. Ownership of the system and related works will vest
with  the Government. Normally, water supply to the  distributory
will  be  in  accordance with  the  distributory  operation  plan
prepared,  discussed,  and  agreed  to  by  the  Water  Resources
Organisation with the Council. However, -in case of reduced
availability  of supply the supplies to the distributory  may  be
proportionately  adjusted  in proportion to its share.  To  carry
out  its functions the Water Resources Organisation  will  deploy
necessary  field  staff. The Water  Resources  Organisation  will
share with the Council, relevant data in respect of canal  design
or actual capacities and discharge; designed water levels at
different  sluices; water delivered among distributories,  design
details of the Proportional distributors wherever applicable;
seepage and operation losses. The Water Resources Organisation
will also maintain the main canal and branches to ensure designed
discharge  at  the head regulator.  During the  Joint  Management
phase, the Water Resources organisation will-train the Council in
monitoring irrigation schedules and their documentation.
7.         The  Water  Resources  Organisation  will  prepare   an
inventory  of  the  works showing lengths of  lined  and  unlined
sections,  structures,  crossings,  sluices,  outlets  and   land
acquired for the above.
8.         The  works  will  be jointl]y  inspected  by  the  Water
Resources Organisation and the Council to identify deficiencies,
omissions, sub-standard or incomplete works.



74                             Annex 4
Attachment C
Page 3 of 5
9.        On  completion  of  these works,  the Water  Resources
Qrganisation   will  organise  the  hydraulic  testing   of   the
distributory to ensure -that the designed discharge can pass to
the tail outlets. The Water Resources Organisation will prepare a
statempnl    -4    _-                L;d. a- -lUerent
t!~z cpaclty~,: L. iLrLij4uLory a-citrn
sluice offtakes and the designed and actual water depths.
10.       The Office Bearers of the Council, its  representatives
or Staff will accompany the Water Resources Organisation Staff
during the operation of the gate and head regulator, observing
and reading gauges, accounting for water, working out actual duty
and depth of water.
11.       The  Council  will  identify any shortage  or  fall  of
levels in water'supply in the distributory at the outlets and
communicate  to  the Water Resources Organisation for  follow  up
Action.
12.       The Council 'will ensure equitable distribution ofjwater
among  the  outlets. In the Joint Management phaae,  the  Council
will prepare itself for taking over the Operation and Maintenance
function at the distributory level. To this end, it will collect
all  relevant  data, .prepare and  implement  the  Operation  and
Maintenance plans together with the Water Resources Organisation
and   ensure   collection  of  adequate   service   charges   for
maintenance. It will also demonstrate capacity to conduct the
affairs of the Council in an organised and satisfactory manner
with full attention to records and accounts.
13.       An  Automatic  Stage  Level  Recorder  (ALRI  will   be
installed  immediately  downstream of the head regulator  of  the
distributory  for continuous record of water flows.  The  Council
will  be responsible for the safe custody of the Automatic  Stage
Level Recorder.
14.       The distributory will be jointly inspected by the staff
of the Water Resources Organisation and the Council before the
season  to identify the status of maintenance and to  list  items
like,  silt  removal  and weed  clearance  needing  immediate  or
regular maintenance. The list will also include items of repairs
to  earth  work,  raising  of  tank  bund,  and  repairs' to  the
structures. The Water Resources Organisation will prepare an
estimate of such works and discuss the list and related funding
needs with the Council. The Council may suggest items to be
added. If these. items cannot be accommodated in the Water
Resources Organisation budget provision, then the Council may
indicate   its  contribution  before  estimates  are   finalised.
Contributions can beAn cash or in kind.
Part III : Turnover.
15.       The  Management  of the distributory  and  the  system:
below it will be handed over by the Water Resources Organisation
and taken over  by the Council as per the procedures laid down..
16.       The  Water  Resources Organisation  will  also  prepare
completion records of all the works; the land plans; gauge
discharge   curves;  and  a  map; showing  the  command  of   the
distributory and of the sluice or tank in the command.



~ 75           ~             Annex 4
Attachment C
Page 4 of 5
17.       As   part   of  the  turnover,  the   water   Resources
Organisation  will  hand over svstem mananipmont-  A I      :.';
.iuuumencs  mentioned  above to the Council. The  Water  Resources
Organisation  and  the Council will indicate  that  turnover  has
occured by signing this documemt 'at the appropriate place.
18.       The Water Resources Organisation will-operate the  head
regulator of the distributory and be responsible to maintain the
distributory upto 30 metre length from the head regulator. It can
suggest  improvements  for Ooeratinn >an    4-t,4    z &   qcc    tne
distributory. The Water Resources Organisation, as a functional
requirement, would inspect the position of water supplieg,
irrigation works in the command, distributory and field level
structures  under  the  jurisdiction of  the  Council  to  verify
whether   the   Memorandum  of   Understanding   is   implemented
satisfactorily or not.
19.       The  Council will carry out all activities  related  to
Operation and Maintenance from the date of turn-over. The
maintenance and repairs shall include weed removal; silt removal;
earth  work  to  restore  banks;  repairs  to  lining,  pointing,   i
plastering; replacing the damaged portion; repairs to masonry and
other structures; oiling. and painting of gates and shutters. The
Council shall protect the distributory and masonry structures
thereon from any damage. The Council will also undertake or
suggest   measures   for' improved  water  management   in    the
distributory  command.  It can ask for and obtain from the  water
Resources  Organisation,  information on  planned  Operation  and
Maintenance  activities  in  the main  system  including  at  the
concerned  distributory.  It can utilise lands acquired  for  the
distributory  for  growing  trees,  fodder  and  timber  or   for
beautification  and  utilise the products of such  work  for  the
general welfare of the Council with due care for the protection
of the assets and th- environment.
20.  Disputes:
- All  disputes  in respect of  various  provisions  made
under  this  understanding  will  be  resolved  by  a   Committee
comprising   one   nominee  from  the  :Apex   Council   and   the
Superintending  Engineer of the Water Resources Organisation.  If
the  Council  violates  any of the provisions  contained  in  the
Memorandum of Understanding with regard to water management or
maintenance, the Executive Engineer will issue notice to the Apex
Council giving time to take corrective action within a specified
period. In case no improvement is made by the Council, the
Executive Engineer may decide to take back the management and
maintenance functions from the Council.



-76-                             Annex 4
____     __                        __ _Attachment C
Page 5 of 5
IN WITNESS.WHEREOF, the Chairman for and on behalf of
the ................. and the
Executive Engineer ..................... ...... .... Division,
Tamil  Nadu, have set their hands on the day and the  year  first
above written.
Signature.
Witness:
1..
2.
S i:gnature.
Witness:
2.
1
: .r :- conm' 
s              \\ P  :~~~~~~(



- 77 -
Annex 4
Attachment C (Part II)
Page Ilof 4.
BYE-LAWS OF THE FARMER COUNCIL
NAMIE OF TilE COUNCIL
2.   ADDRESS OF TIIE REGISTERED
OFFICE OF TIIE COUNCIL
3.   DATE OF FORMATION OF TIIE COUNCT[.
4.   REGISTRAR OF TIIE DISTRICT IN
WlllOSE JURISDICTTON TtlE COUNCIL
IS SITUATED
a
5.   OFFICE IIOURS OF TIIE COUNCIL
6.   OBJECTIVES OF TIIE COUNCIL
To organise maintenance and repairs of the distributory
/group  of  sluices  to be taken over  from  Lihc  Water
Resources  Organisation and to ensure planned  delivery
of water to all the channels in Lhe command].
7.   ACTIVITIES OF THE COUNCIL IN FURTHERENCE OF ITS OBJECTIVES
(a)  The maintenance will include:
i. Silt clearance
il. IWeed clearance
iii.  Repairs    to  proportional  distribuLion   and   other
structures.
iv.  Measuring  devices,  Self  recording  gauyen  arid  Tail
gauges.             I
v.  Maintenance   of   service   road   an]   Environmental
protection.
(h)  To  prepare  Operation  and Maintenance  Plan  for  the
supply  of water and Monitoring the  impleinentation  of
the same.
(c)  To  introduce  a Schedule for water  su.ply  among  the
channels  undler  the sluices of thie  distribihtory   for
eqtuitable  distribution of water prrnLprtrLonae I' to  the
area.
C(d)  To  carry out surveilance of tlie system in  ensure  its
perotLectioni froini vandalismli.
(e)  To  settle the irrigation disputes of the farmers  with
mutual understanding and co-operation.
I)  To  make  suggestions regarding operation plan  of  the
main canal system to the Water Resources Organisation.
8.   MEMBERSIIIP OF T11E COUNCIL
All the registered land owners inm the commanid area of
tlime  distributory / group of saluire willihave the  right  to
becronme Members of the General Body.



- 78 -
Annex 4
Attachment C (Part II)
Page 2 of 4
Registered  land  owners under each sluice command, who
have enrolled as members of the Genaral Body will elect
three representatives for each sluice including a leader  to
constitute the sluice level committee to take care of water
distribution within the sluice command.
Elected Leader of each sluice would become a Member of
the Executive Body of the Farmer Council.
Atleast 51 % of the registered land owners of the
distributary command should be enrolled as Members before
registration of the council.
9.   ADMINISTRATION OF THE COUNCIL
Members  of  the Executive Body will elect  the  office
bearers of the council such as Chairman, Vice-Chairman,
Secretary and Treasurer. This office bearers will manage the
affairs of the Council.
10.  PERSON AUTHORISED TO DEAL WITH THE ASSOCIATION CASES:
The   Chairman,Vice-Chairman  and  the  Secretary   are
empowered to sue or to be sued on behalf of the Council.
11.  PERSON  AUTHORISED  TO  IMPLEMENT  THE  PROCEEDINGS  OF  THE
COUNCIL:
The Chairman of the Executive Body of the Council is
empowered to give direction in regard to the business of the
council.
12.  MEMBERSHIP AND OTHER FEES
A fee of Rs.10/= will be charged to each member of the
General Body at the time of enrollment.
Each   Member  will  have  to  contribute   a   minimum
subscription of Rs.250/Hectare towards Service Fund soon
after the enrollment as Member of the General Body.
13.  RIGHTS, OBLIGATIONS AND PRIVILAGES OF MEMBERS
The Members can compete in the elections by attending
the General Body and Special General Body, Meeting. All
Members have the right to vote. Each one will have only  one
vote.  The  Members  should  co-operate  in  conducting  the
meetings successfully. They have right to see the  Councils,
Membership Register, Minutes of Meeting, Accounts Registers
and other details during the office hours. The Members
should  not act against the Bye-laws and Objectives  of  the
Council.                                                                 A
14.  THE MANNER IN WHICH THE COUNCIL SHALL TRANSACT ITS BUSINESS:
(a) The financial year for the Council shall be from
April 1, of a year to March 31, of the next year.
(b) The General Body will have Annual General Meeting every
year. If necessary, a General Body Meeting will be held
whenever found necessary, with advance intimation of
Ten days time.



-            - ~~~~~79
Annex 4
Attachment C (Part II)
Page 3 of 4
(c) The Executive Body shall meet atleast once in a month.
They can have Meetings whenever required.
(d) The tenure of Office Bearers of both the Executive Body
and sluice level committee shall be Three years and at
the  end  of Three years a fresh   election  will  take
place.
(e)  The  General  Body  will decide on  policy  matters  on
Operation and Maintenance and the Executive Body will
be the implementing agency.
(f)  To  collect  the Service Fund at a rate of  Rs.250  per
hectare  or more as decided by the General Body and  to
deposit the amount in a bank and to carryout Operation
and Maintenance from the interest gained from the
deposit. The account will be operated by the Chairman,
Secretary and the Treasurer by following the Terms  and
Conditions  laid  down  by the Executive  Body  of  the
Council. The Treasurer along with any one of the two
viz. Chairman or Vice-Chairman can jointly sign and
operate the bank account.
(g) The Executive Body shall decide about maintenance
and repairs of the distributories, field channels and
repairs to structures coming under the area of the
Council. The Operation and Maintenance shall be carried
out from the amount of interest on the share capital
amount deposited in a bank.
(h)  The  Executive  Body may appoint staff to  conduct  the
administration, on terms and conditions which shall  be
decided  by  the  Executive Body.  But  the  person  so
selected shall not be a member of the Council.
(i)  If  there  be any legal disputes, the Chairman  or  his
nominee  will  handle  such  cases  on  behalf  of  the
Council.
(j) The Executive Body will ensure proper auditing of the
Council accounts.
(k)  To  conduct the  General Body Meeting, a quorum of  one
third of members shall be present. If such quorum is
not obtained the Meeting will be postponed for one
hour.  Even  if  on postponed time the  quorum  is  not
obtained, the Meeting shall be conducted by the members
present.
The resolution should be passed in the General Body
Meeting as per the majority (51 %) of the members
present.  Voting  should  be  conducted  to  pass   the
resolution. In case of an equal vote being polled for
and against the particular resolution, the Chairman
shall exercise his casting vote.
15.  ANNUAL REPORT AND ANNUAL ACCOUNT
(a)  To  maintain  the accounts of the management  cost  and
Operation and Maintenance costs separately and get them
audited every year by an Accountant appointed by the
Executive Body of the Council.



- 80 -
Annex 4
Attachment C (Part II)
Page 4 of 4
(1,)  rh- Council shlall keep proper lbooks of afclunt s and  at
the  expiry of each financial year sliall stibmint  report
to the District Pegistrar as peer Rule 16(33(b).
(e)  Thle  receipts atid expendituire  acrount s b l lance-sheet
togellber  with  a  report shall 1..-  L.1;1ce 1 e lore  the
Gefneral Body Meeting after the expiily of each financial
{d)  Reports on accounts by the AudiLor and approved by  the
r.ene-ral  Boly, shall be filed hy the Council  in  time.
Copies of the receipt and expenli tijre stal.emeinnt with a
bialanre  sheet  and  report  shall  e  filed]  to   the
Registrar and Executive Engineer.
(e)  Documents - Accounts :
The   rollowingj  registers  shall  be  maintained   and
presenlte(]  to Lhe Officers concerried,  like  Reyistrar,
for inspection.
(1)  Daily Cash Transaction Account.
(2)  Receipt Book.
(3)  List of Members.
(4)  Minutes Book.
(5)  Mlonthly Cash Transaction Accountl.
(6)  Permanent Term Deposit Accotunt.
(7)  Assests Accounts.
(')  Bank Account.
16.  ANNUAT. REPORT - WATER RECEIPT AND UTTI,ISA'rT(N:
To  prepare  Annual Report on tle  water  received  and
watl:er  utilised at distributory level,  irlri ga tion  schedule
planned and execute', area irrigated under different  crops,
*   alanrce sheet showing the amount rereiverd inr a year and  the
amLunL spenit on various items in a year.
The   [()llowing  Registers  shall hI e  maintained   and
presente(d   to   the  Officers  oEf  the   Water   Res6urces
Orgammisation for review.
(1)  Irrigation Srhedules and l,ow implemented.
(2)  Water Account at distribiiLory and sluice lheads.
(3)  Area irrigated un(ler diffetent s1luices.
(4)  Seasonwise maintenance expendit-ire.
(5)  Seasonwise operation expendiLure.
17.  LIQUIDATION OF COUNCIL
IC  75' of the General Body membetrs are agreeable,  the
Cc'uncil can be liquidated. On li.quidatioll  the assets nmay be
trari.qerred to Government or niatter may he referred to Court
and action taken as per direction of the Cotirt.



- 81 -
Annex 4
Attachment D
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAMS



SI No                     AIIN jl;CG i WURKSIIOPs                  Year I         Year           V Year I       Yeaa  4     Year S       Yeal  b     ye&ll   I   SemVVhS
'994-95       1995-96        1996 91        19S7-911   i990 -'   1999 00    21100 Ol
-------------       -----------       ---  -      -              ...... .    .  ._..,__....... ......
A  IECtillICAL AMiISIAHC|
1. Appreciatson Worktshop (Senior) CEs & SEs                 March          Nireb          Marrch.                      arcIh
1. Pig-d res ime aIssance                                   Mar-Apr        Ear-Apr        Mar-Aps
1. Ieq.I 'r.ia-ingq  arklshop                                March          Narch          Miarch                     harth
4. Appi .-   i U: "0eail W sbop ISchemesi                   lmay            Nay            r
S. A!.;sCelal  url,slicop flo   Es Aar                                      tar                           n.M
6. Rei !i,le,  4ouu .t Ir for  Aeg-l.ti,                                                                               b.l)a                                             t  
7. Assesseent  hborkyleop for Ills A taskars                 Nay           flay                           hay
B. PArticipalory Ruaal Appraisal Workshop                    MAY                                          h3v
9. Par Iic ipatomy Desig n field Wor k                        J)&ui         Junt           June           ).,i,r       .J1ue       J,IC   ! J 
l0. 0. gaitisng Vockshiop (or Afs                            .11.  Auig     Jul -Aig                      Jil -Asa1
It. lii a i;5 jg Wokishop lor Wis I tI   .s                   Jul Aug       Jul-Aug                       J,l Atiq
12. Meleings                                                 Oclober        October        Octebe.        t1Iabee   OUlobei   tl;lober    Ocobe
1]. Faroers' Coulicil Iraining                                              January        Januar y                                            JMaiuSt                                      c
14. fieldjolh- Assess/Organise/iurn Over
IS. Awards                                                   Marct          Narch          lArcid         MAI, (I     Martch      Mlarch,      March
.ii     I 0C,9a1 lAi 
3.1 OC II
lil      As fioaeI  ir ro  Itae                            Seliacber    September    Sejileinihe        Spltembe  Sesllcabte  Seplembe. Sepltrml.e
Mi)      Sorial Organisers  (Fee     lIravel)              September   September    Septembe'    Septembea  Seplember St :ember Septembtr
(iii)    taslit..tioal Advisers                           September   September    September    Seplember September September September
(ivl    ti G 0 s 9 20 1 of (1I) # OiiiM                    September   September    Seiptember    SetleIber September September September
lv       I 0 ft 'uideIines                                 Jaslwary
-ii       I.1ijbelool, (or far i-t5  Co,,w it              1es, eer
W  !  ~ f V       11'., ( unsul tanr y                                   Octutber                      Of. I M0                 nc:  ut.P
!viii)   S,s;Oo  I,wI: IlIt  ional A.Iv ise,               JJ..uary      Jansuary        Janus.3 y      J.1,,,lj'Y   J.1,3a. y   Januarv    Jagam.a Y
Is. I iIdv nat ioilml                                        Ma cbh         Marcd         lMarcih          n.,,4
P, b i ( ijII iOs                                                                                                                                                                        n O.x
i    Aplpret ial Soio Iorkshap Froceed dinug                Ju.oe          June          .J111 JC )e                                                                                01
II')  Puliicily  Pimamplels                                  Seotember    Septeebes    Septembe           Septewbre  Sepseetie'  Sepltmber Sephetbe.
i1i. Io I.- idt Ii r                                        hily                                         1t41                                                                           0
it ,,,.4 bu I-    I r.- ero    Counic II              JauAr.
ivi   $ n U Pi auel Ig,                                           Is 9'  15cr
|siv     P ei - I} ;S',  1 I-



-83 -               Annex 4
Attachment E
Page 1 of I
INDIA
WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover
kdicators of Monitoring
Sy stems Improvement
1.      Actual area irrigated as a percentage of planned area
2.      Variations in tail gauge readings in relation to designed
readings
3.      Actual expenditure vs. targetted expenditure
4.      Number of staff employed and staff costs per 1000 ha command
5.      Quantity of water consumed at head, middle, and tail reaches
of the system per hectare of command
6.      Gross agricultural production for three principal crops per
unit quantity of water delivered at distributary head/minor
canal head
7.      Cropping intensity for th-ree principal crops in the head,
micddle, and tail reaches of the system
Farmer Turnover
8.      Annual FOT programs prepared
9.      FOT teams assigned in field
10.     FOT teams trained -- number and type of training
11.     Recruitment of Institutional Advisors; Social Organisers
12.     Scheme assessments done
13.     Records collected -- landholding, distributary membership
14.     Number of Farmer Councils organized -- formal, informal
15.    Number of Councils with which MOUs signed
16.     Number of Councils that have collected funds -- partial, full
17.     Number of Councils with problems -- moderate, severe
18.    Number of Councils assuming responsibility for O&M
19.     Number of Apex Committees formed
20.     Farmer training programs -- number, type



- 84 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 23
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SCHEME COMPLETIONS
1.    This annex' deals with the nine schemes to be financed under WRCP which focus on
improving the source of supply of water to existing traditional infrastructure2. PWD (WRO) is
building small to medium sized dams in small rivers to mobilise on-channel storages and to use the
stored waters to provide assured full irrigation supplies, thus stabilizing production in areas under
partial irrigation and bringing gap areas3 which have gone out of irrigated agriculture back into
being high productive irrigated areas. Such schemes would alleviate moisture stress which is a
major constraint in improving agricultural production.  Some of these schemes to create
impoundments and to improve supply channel and tank conditions are under way with several under
planning stages.
2.    After reviewing a number of these schemes, nine schemes have been selected for assistance
under the IDA credit. The selection is based on soil and land suitability for growing a variety of
crops, possibility of increasing cropping intensities, water availability, marketability of the produce,
improvements in the living conditions of the farmers and economic performance of the scheme.
These schemes are: Poigalyar, Nambiyar, Sothuparai, Mordhana, Rajathopekanar, Kodumudiyar,
Vadakku Pachayar, Adavinainarkoil and Gridhammal II. Construction work is well under way for
the first five schemes. In four schemes a small amount of additional area which is under rainfed
dry crops at present would be brought under irrigated agriculture. Altogether 25,824 acres would
be stabilized, 6762 acres of gap and 2158 acres of rainfed uplands would be brought under
irrigation. Schemewise breakdown is given in Table 5.1.
3.    Engineering designs for all the nine schemes have been prepared by PWD (WRO). These
were reviewed by the preparation and appraisal missions and modified as required. Eight of the
nine schemes involve building dams higher than 9m and impounding reservoirs. Consultants were
appointed to carry out flood hydrology and dam safety studies under FAO/CP supervision and their
reports are on file. There is a Dam Safety Review Project established for Tamil Nadu already under
Cr.22410-IN/Ln.33250-IN. This panel has reviewed the upgraded designs and other parameters
developed by PWD (WRO) and the consultants and have approved the construction of these dams.
Adequacy of supply channels and other water control and delivery structures have been ascertained.
These schemes submerge relatively small areas of land and impound small reservoirs. The land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation of project affected persons is dealt with in detail in Annex
9.
4.    The cost estimates prepared by PWD (WRO) have been revised taking into account the
modifications in the designs. The unit rates adopted for various work items were examined and
found to be substantially lower than prevailing market rates. Past contracts were examined and they
I Detailed tables. figures, engineering drawings, and analysis for this annex are in the project files.
2 For background information on traditional irrigation infrastructure refer to appendix I of this annex.
3Stabilization and gap areas vary on a yearly basis depending on climatic conditions.



- 85 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 23
also revealed the same trend of contracts awarded exceeding the estimates by 30% to 40%. In order
to correct this situation, the unit rates provided by PWD (WRO) have been enhanced by 50% after
detailed discussions with a number of field engineers handling contract awards. The estimates can
therefore be considered as more realistic.
5.    Implementation capabilities of PWD (WRO) were assessed. Past performance indicated that
a division headed by an Executive Engineer with associated lower level staff is able to handle
construction work with a value of upto Rs3O to 50 million per year if there are no cash flow
problems. This has been taken into account in establishing the implementation duration for each
scheme.  Project procurement, contract packaging and contractor supervision and monitoring
arrangements are specifically designed to achieve maximum economies in construction costs while
maintaining good quality standards. Implementation schedules together with assumed contract
packages are given in Figure 5.1(i) through 5.1(viii).
6.    Benefits from implementing the scheme completions component would come from increased
agricultural production. Agricultural extension services in all the scheme commands are organized
following Training & Visits (T & V) principle which was introduced in the early 1980s. IDA credit
would be targeted specifically to source development, irrigation infrastructure development including
improvement of the operation and maintenance of the system under the WRCP. No specific
investments would be provided to the agricultural department in support of crop production in the
scheme commands. Therefore in the future with project situation, only crops already known to the
farmers of the area are included. Yield increases for these crops are restricted to that which can be
achieved by relieving moisture stress. Yields currently obtained under full irrigation conditions in
the scheme commands or adjacent commands have been used to reflect future with project
conditions. Existing agricultural extension services are expected to continue in the future. The nine
schemes when completed would generate incremental production of about 47,000 tons of paddy,
88,832 tons of sugarcane,and 5,234 tons of groundnut. Small increases in cotton and chilies
production would also be obtained. A beneficiary farmer without access to supplementary well
irrigation4 would be able to obtain incremental incomes of Rs1370 to Rs6106 per year per acre
depending on the scheme. Similarly a beneficiary farmer with access to supplementary well
irrigation would be able to obtain incremental incomes of Rs1552 to Rs4884 per year per acre
depending on the scheme.
7.    The estimated cost of this component is Rs3.11 billion (US$100.37 million) including
physical and price contingencies. The base cost excluding these contingencies is Rs2.46 billion
(US$76.8 million). The annual economic value of the incremental production from the nine schemes
is Rs380 million. The economic rate of return for the portfolio of nine schemes is 15%.
Schemewise breakdown of costs, benefits and economnic performance are also given in Table 5.1.
8.    Operation and maintenance of the completed schemes would be carried out with full
beneficiary participation. Water users associations would be formed at each tank or sluice command
4 There are an estimated 4505 wells in the nine scheme commands capable of irrigating on the average about 0.9
ha each.



- 86 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 23
with an apex farmer organization (registered) for each scheme5. WRO would be responsible for
the maintenance of the dam and reservoir complex and all supply channels delivering water to the
tanks for the indirect ayacuts and upto sluices for direct ayacuts. The sluices and the tanks would
be under the joint responsibility of WRO and WUAs. Below the sluice and tank, operation and
maintenance would be the responsibility of the WUA.
9.    Specific aspects of each scheme are discussed in the following sections.
Poigaiyar Scheme
10.   There are eight system tanks fed by water diverted from the Poigai River and there are
another eight tanks which are rainfed from their own catchments. In addition there are a number
of farms that are cultivated using rainwater alone. By constructing a dam across this river and
impounding flood flows that would otherwise have gone to waste (Poigai river carries heavy flood
flows from the Northeast monsoon), the scheme would bring assured irrigation to the areas
commanded by the sixteen tanks and provide irrigation for a portion of the land currently under
rainfed cultivation. (system schematic, plan and other relevant maps are in project files)
11.   The Poigai Reservoir would be impounded behind an earth dam located on the Poigai River
near Aralvoimozhi village in Thovalai taluk of Kanyakumari District at Longitude 77030'45"E and
Latitude 816'00"N. The reservoir would have a live storage capacity of 2.7 MCM. The average
annual inflow into the reservoir is estimated to be 12.5 MCM. Catchment area contributing to this
reservoir is 2.85 sq.mile (730 ha). Poigai river, a tributary of Pazhayar river, originates at an
altitude of 2500 feet above mean sea level in the eastern slopes of the Western Ghats (Poigai
Mountain). On the other side of Poigai mountains, there are two odais6 namely Chungan Odai and
Erappaiyar Odai originating in the Poigai Mountain Reserved Forest. About 40% of the flows of
Chungan Odai are diverted to Poigai River.
12.   The Poigai River branches into two channels when it enters the plains: Shenbagaramanpudur
Channel and Thovala Channel. The Shenbagaramanpudur Channel is 2750m long and feeds three
tanks commanding a total area of 231.84 acres (93.86 ha). There are two diversion weirs across this
channel which control the waters flowing to these tanks. The Thovala Channel taking off on the
left flank of the Boothayan Anicut is 4780m long and feeds five tanks commanding a total area of
265.78 acres (107.60 ha).
13.   The scheme comprises the following engineering works:
- Earth Dam 1174m long
- Ogee shaped masonry spillway 56m long capable of passing the 1 in 10,000 year flood
safely.
5 Scheme commands vary from 545 acres to 8683 acres. one apex organization would normally cover an area
not greater than 5000 acres. Therefore for Mordhana and Vadakku Pachayar two apex farmer organizations would be
registered. For further details refer to the appropriate scheme description section.
6 Odai is a local name for a small non-perennial stream



- 87 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 23
- High Level Canal Sluice lno 0.90m x 1.50m Q = 47 cfs
- River Sluice Ino 1.22m x 1.83m Q = 100 cfs
- Excavation of spillway discharge channel 280m long to connect to a natural water course
- Improvements to the natural watercourse which is to handle spill flows ( for a distance of
about 475m from the confluence of the spill discharge channel and the natural watercourse)
- Excavation and lining of left side canal for a length of 7 km (this canal will deliver water
to the new area and the area under rainfed tanks)
- Excavation and lining of Field Bothies upto the 20 acre limit
- Standardising and improving the existing eight system tanks and the eight rainfed tanks
including provision of new inlets to the eight rainfed tanks which would receive regulated water in
the post-project period.
- The system tanks would be fed by regulated flows released through the river sluice located
in the body of the earth dam at 270+00 and the direct command would be fed by the regulated
releases from the canal sluice located at 90+00.
14.   Structures to be constructed on the Canal: 11 sluices, 1 regulator, 4 drops, 4 super passages,
6 aqueducts, 2 undertunnels, 3 culverts, 8 footbridges, 1 Highway Crossing Culvert and 1 Railway
Crossing Culvert. (Total 41 structures). The eleven sluices would feed the direct ayacut of 500
acres.
15.   The scheme command is covered by two agricultural extension centers. Farm inputs supply
and distribution are mainly handled by these two centers and ten village cooperatives. The area has
one farmer's training center as well. The soils of the scheme command are well-drained, moderately
coarse textured soils suitable for growing paddy, groundnut, pulses, gingely, tapioca, coconut and
fruit trees. The existing cropping pattern in the tank irrigation area is paddy (Pishanum) in the
northeast monsoon season followed by groundnut. In areas with supplementary well irrigation7,
banana is usually grown in a three-year rotation with Pishanum Paddy. Groundnut is grown in the
gap and dryland areas. The average annual rainfall in the command area is 716mm. Rain falls
heavily in June, October and November. Details of rain and other climatic parameters including
evapotranspiration computed using modified Penman-Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(i).
Crop calendar is provided in Figure 5.2. Water balance computations are on file. With completion
of the proposed works, paddy would remain the dominant crop and double-cropping of paddy would
be practiced within the limit of available water supply. Groundnut would be grown under irrigated
conditions.
16.   The estimated cost to complete this scheme is Rs 130.78 million (US$4.22 mrillion) including
physical and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(i). At present
work on the earth dam has been completed. It would take another three years to complete this
scheme. Implementation schedule is provided in Figure 5.1(i). One division is sufficient to
complete the scheme construction activities.
17.   The scheme would generate an incremental production of 1586 tons of paddy, 190 tons of
groundnut, 150 tons of pulses, 75 tons of chilies and 4200 bunches of bananas. A beneficiary with
7 There are an estimated 25 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating 2.5 acres each.



- 88 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 23
1.0 acre farm would obtain an incremental income of Rs3754 per year whilst a beneficiary with 2.5
acre farm having access to a well would obtain an incremental income of Rs3881 per year. Overall
cropping intensity would increase from 122% to 239%. Full benefits are expected to accrue from
1997 onwards although partial benefits would begin to accrue as early as 1995. The economic
internal rate of return for this scheme is estimated to be 12%.
18.   Sixteen water users' associations will be formed covering the sixteen tank commands and
eleven associations will be formed covering the direct ayacut. An apex farmer organization will be
formed and formally registered comprising representatives from these twentyseven associations.
Operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank outlets and the sluices would be
the responsibility of the associations. The inlets to the tanks and the tanks themselves will be
maintained and operated jointly by the association and officers of the WRO. The dam and canal
system delivering water to the tanks and sluices will be maintained and operated by the WRO.
Nambiyar Scheme
19.   The Nambiyar River is the main source of irrigation water in Nanguneri Taluk of Tirunelveli
District. There are no storage facilities on the main stem of Nambiyar River. There are nine anicuts
from which the flood flows of Nambiyar River are diverted to feed sixty-eight tanks commanding
9073.72 acres. In addition there is one diversion weir on a minor tributary of the Nambiyar River
providing irrigation supplies for 110 acres through three tanks. It is proposed to build a storage
facility on the Nambiyar River between the seventh and eighth anicuts with a live storage capacity
of 2.33 MCM. The Nambiyar river originates on the eastem slopes of the westem ghats at an
altitude of 1650m above sea level in the Kalakad Reserve Forest Area. The river is fed by both
southwest and northeast monsoons.
20.   The scheme would benefit lands located below the seventh anicut and would cover lands
presently irrigated through forty tanks - 13 system tanks and 27 rainfed tanks. Thirteen system
tanks covered by the scheme, command an area of 655 acres and the twentyseven rainfed tanks
command an area of 767 acres (total 1422 acres). Three system tanks are located on the right bank
commanding an area of 110 acres. The combined storage capacity of the three system tanks is
about 1.02 MCM. These tanks were fed from waters diverted through the Kallankal Odai8 Anicut
which would be submerged by the new storage reservoir. A new channel will lead the water from
the reservoir to these three tanks (system schematic, maps and other relevant information can be
found in project files). In addition the dry ayacut to be brought under irrigation also lies on the
right bank. Eleven rainfed tanks located on the right bank would also be supplied from the right
bank main canal. These rainfed tanks have a combined storage capacity of 2.85 MCM and
command a total area of 353 acres. Six system tanks with a total storage capacity of 1.90 MCM
commanding an area of 324 acres and sixteen rainfed tanks with a total storage capacity of 1.07
MCM commanding an area of 414 acres located on the left bank would be supplied from the
reservoir by a left bank main canal. Four additional system tanks located on the left bank with a
total storage capacity of 1.64 MCM and a command area of 221 acres would be supplied through
8 Tributary of Nambiyar river referred to earlier.



- 89 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 23
channels taking off from the eighth and ninth diversion anicuts namely Tuttikulam and
Pulimankulam Anicuts.
21.   Engineering works include:  an earth dam about 10.40m high and 2370m  long, an
uncontrolled spill weir 240m long (from 1330+00 to 1570+00), two irrigation sluices (one to supply
areas located on the left bank of Nambiyar Iriver and the other to supply areas located on the right
bank), excavation of main supply canals leading from the irrigation sluices to the tanks,
improvements to two diversion anicuts and their supply channels, improvements to 40 tanks,
excavation of distributaries and field bothies in the new dry ayacut of 375 acres to be brought under
the scheme.The irrigation sluices would each have 1.20m x 1.65m opening and would be capable
of discharging upto 3.74 cumecs. The main canals will run for about ten days to fill their respective
tanks. The right bank main canal will have to run throughout the cropping season to supply the
direct ayacut which is situated in the head reaches of this canal. This reach from the dam to the
direct ayacut will be lined to minimize losses since the canal will be operating at far below its
design discharge for most of the time.
22.   The average annual flow entering the reservoir is estimated to be about 70 MCM. The flow
is highly variable as evidenced by the high coefficient of variation. Annual rainfall in the command
area averages about 740mm but is also highly variable as indicated by a C, value of 0.46. Within
the year, rain occurs predominantly in the months of October, November and December (59% of
annual rain falls in these three months and the remaining 41% is fairly uniformly distributed over
the remaining nine months). Rain and other climatic data including evapotranspiration values
computed using modified Penman-Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(ii). Details of rainfall,
flows and corresponding analyses are available in project files.
23.   Farm inputs supply and distribution are covered by two agricultural extension centers located
in the scheme area. A number of village cooperatives and private dealers also handle chemical
fertilizers and pesticides in the area. Typic Haplustalfs, deep calcareous soils with moderately fine
texture and Typic Ustorharts, shallow non-calcareous soils with moderately coarse texture are found
in the scheme command. The former is suitable for paddy-based cropping system and the latter for
non-paddy crops such as groundnut and pulses. The present cropping pattern is paddy (Pishanum)
followed by rainfed pulses in the tank irrigation area. In areas with supplementary well irrigation',
banana in a three-year rotation with paddy, cotton and chilies are grown. The gap area is planted
with rainfed pulses, groundnut and sesame. In the new dry ayacut to be brought under the scheme
groundnut and pulses are grown in the northeast monsoon season. In some of this new area with
access to well irrigation, vegetables (mainly tomato) are cultivated in rotation with groundnut under
irrigated conditions.With completion of proposed scheme works,paddy would remain the dominant
crop and vegetable and banana cultivation would continue without any increase in area cultivated.
The crop calendars are given in Figure 5.3. Water balance computations are on file.
24.   The estimated cost to complete this scheme is Rs173.93 million (US$5.61 million) including
physical and price contingencies. Details of quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(ii). At
present work on left bank main canal, spillway and energy dissipator and causeway and some
9 There are an estimated 264 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating about 1.75 acres each.



- 90 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 23
spillover works from previous year remain to be completed. It would take another three years to
complete this scheme. One division of the WRO would be sufficient to carry out the remaining
tasks. Implementation schedule including proposed procurement and contract packages is given in
Figure 5.1 (i).
25.   The scheme would generate an incremental production of 1842 tons of paddy, 346 tons of
groundnut,60 tons of pulses,12 tons of cotton and 24,500 bunches of bananas. A beneficiary with
1.0 acre farm would obtain an incremental income of about Rs2193 per year whilst a beneficiary
with 2.5 acre farm having access to well irrigation as well would obtain an incremental income of
Rs7O8O per year. Overall cropping intensity would increase from 128% to 186%. Full agricultural
benefits are expected to accrue from 1997. However, partial benefits are expected to accrue as early
as 1995. The economic internal rate of return for this scheme is estimated to be 12%.
26.   Water user associations will be formed for each benefitting tank and sluice command. An
apex farmer organization will be formed and registered for the scheme as a whole comprising
representatives from these associations. Operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below
the tank outlets and sluices will be the responsibility of these associations. The inlets to the tanks
and the tanks themselves will be maintained and operated jointly by the association and the WRO.
The dam and canal system delivering water to the tanks and sluices will be maintained and operated
by the WRO.
Sothuparai Scheme
27.   The Sothuparai Reservoir would be impounded on the river Varahanadhi at Longitude
77028'04" and Latitude 1007'45". Varahanadhi, a tributary of the Vaigai River drains about 323
sq.km up to its confluence with Vaigai far below existing Vaigai Dam and Reservoir Complex.
Berijam Lake located at the originating point of Varahanadhi is used mainly for water supply and
for irrigation. The lake has a storage capacity of 2.2 MCM. There are no man-made storage
facilities in the Varahanadhi system. There are four diversion anicuts commanding a direct ayacut
of 2107 acres and an indirect ayacut of 2519 acres. The Sothuparai scheme would benefit area
commanded by the first anicut namely Thalaiyuthukoil Dam. (Direct ayacut of 587 acres and
indirect ayacut of 1412 acres). Varahanadhi channel, 7980m in length, irrigates about 468 acres
through four open offtakes and one sluice. Thamaraikulam Rajavoikal, 4095m in length, irrigates
about 120 acres through fifteen sluices. Periakulam and Thamaraikulam tanks release waters
through three sluices-each to 722 acres and 371 acres respectively. Pappiampatti tank irrigates 319
acres through four sluices. These three tanks have a combined storage capacity of 3.18 MCM.
Varahanadhi channel takes off from a road culvert with five 1.05m x 1.20m vents. Along the
channel there are four diversion anicuts and at the entrance to Thamaraikulam Rajavoikal there is
a tail dam. In addition to providing improved and assured supplies to this area, the scheme would
also bring in about 1040 acres of upland under assured irrigation.
28.   Varahanadhi drains approximately 49 km2 at the damsite. The reservoir created would have
a storage capacity of 2.8 MCM. The average annual inflow to the reservoir is estimated to be 6.1
MCM. Average annual rainfall in the command area is 813mm. Rain distribution through the year
together with data on other climatic parameters and evapotranspiration values computed using
modified Penman-Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(iii). About sixty percent of the rain falls



- 91 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 23
in the September-December period with another twenty percent in the April-May period. The
remaining twenty percent is fairly evenly distributed in the remaining six months.
29.   Sothuparai dam which is under construction, is a solid gravity masonry dam 57m high and
345m long. Flood flows would be handled by an uncontrolled 55m long spillway capable of passing
a 10,000-yr flood safely. Irrigation water would be released from the reservoir through a 1.50m x
1.80m river-cum-canal sluice. Irrigation water for the new ayacut will be provided through a
7.23km lined canal taking off from the Varahanadhi Channel downstream of the existing
Thalaiyuthu Dam. The canal is designed to carry 0.29 cumecs. Seven sluices would be provided
along this channel to irrigate the new ayacut (figure 5.6 refers). The masonry dam has been divided
into twelve blocks and a corewall. Work has been taken up in ten blocks leaving Blocks III and
IV for river flow. In Blocks I and II, pegmatite zone was encountered. Considerable delay in
construction work in these blocks was experienced until a decision on the handling of the pegmatite
zone was made. Various geological solutions were suggested by experts but final decision was
made by the PWD to completely remove the pegmatite. Work is currently under way in these
blocks.A construction diversion sluice would be constructed in Block II. After the completion of
this sluice river water would be diverted through this block and work would be taken up in Blocks
III and IV. In the remaining blocks, excavation and foundation concreting has been completed.
Masonry construction is at varying degree of completion in these blocks. Construction of Core wall
is awaiting the release of necessary land from the Forestry Department. Work is progressing in the
stilling basin area. Excavation of 2.23km of main canal has been completed and further work is in
progress. In the canal there would be one pick-up weir cum head sluice, twentyfour superpassages,
one Im canal drop, two undertunnels, sixteen aqueducts, eight canal syphons, three footbridges, five
culverts and a tail dam. Out of these, nine structures have been completed and work is in progress
in the remaining fiftytwo. A head sluice with screw gear shutter would be provided at the entrance
point of the main canal taking off from Varahanadhi channel. Similar shutter arrangements would
be provided at the seven sluice points as well.
30.   The scheme command is covered by three agricultural extension centers. Farm inputs supply
and distribution are mainly handled by the above extension centers, three cooperatives and eight
private dealers. Typic Haplustalfs, deep calcareous soils with moderately fine texture and Typic
Ustorharts, shallow non-calcareous soils with moderately coarse texture are found in the scheme
command. The former is suitable for paddy-based cropping system and the latter for non-paddy
crops. Crops grown at present are paddy, groundnut, sugarcane, cotton, sorghum and sesame. In
the future areas under some of these crops would be increased and dryland crops such as sorghum
and sesame would be dropped from the cropping pattern. Crop calendars are given in Figure 5.4.
Water balance computations have been carried out taking into account the availability of
supplementary irrigation from wells'". Sugarcane cultivation would be increased in order to
supply canes required by a recently established sugar mill in the scheme area. In the new area
brought under irrigation, groundnut would remain the main crop in the northeast monsoon followed
by some cotton and chilies. Areas that do not have supplementary well irrigation, would grow
samba paddy as the main crop in the northeast monsoon season followed by some groundnut within
the limit of the available water supply.
10 There are an estimated 772 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating about 2.5 ha each.



- 92 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 23
31.   The estimated cost to complete this scheme is Rs4l1.7 million (US$ 13.28 million) including
physical and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(iii). It would
take another five years to complete this scheme and two divisions have to be assigned to accomplish
this instead of the one division currently engaged in the construction activities. Implementation
schedule is given in Figure 5.1(iii).
32.   The scheme would generate incremental production of 39,230 tons of sugarcane, 251 tons
of groundnut, 134 tons of cotton and 192 tons of chilies. A beneficiary with 1.5 acre farm would
obtain an incremental income of about Rs3437 per year whilst a beneficiary with 2.5 acre farm
having access to well irrigation would obtain an incremental income of Rs 11,547 per year. Overall
cropping intensity would increase from 103% to 131%. Full agricultural benefits are expected to
accrue from 1998 onwards. However, partial benefits are expected to accrue as early as 1996. The
economic internal rate of return is estimated to be 11.2%, not including secondary benefits;
including secondary benefits from activities such as fisheries, would raise the ERR above 12% (see
analysis in Annex 14).
33.   Water user associations will be formed at each of the ten tanks and the twentysix sluices.
An apex farmer organization will be formed and registered for the scheme as a whole comprising
representatives from these associations. Operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below
the tank outlets and sluices will be the responsibility of these associations. The inlets to the tanks
and the tanks themselves will be maintained and operated jointly by the association and the WRO.
The dam and canal system delivering water to the tanks and sluices will be maintained and operated
by the WRO.
Mordhana Scheme
34.   The Mordhana Scheme would be located on the Koundinyanadhi, a tributary of the Palar
river. There are no storage facilities built on the main stem of this river. Fortyfour supply channels
draw water from the river and supply water to a direct ayacut area of 4046 acres and an indirect
ayacut of 4175 acres supplied through 17 tanks. The objective of this scheme is to provide a
storage facility on the main stem of the river to regulate the flash floods and deliver water to the
ayacuts and stabilize an area of 6388 acres and provide irrigation to the gap area of 704 acres.
35.   The Mordhana dam would be located at Longitude 7847'E and Latitude 1303'N. The
catchment area of Koundinyanadhi at Mordhana damsite is 1431 sq.km of which 1069 sq.km lies
in Andhra Pradesh,354 sq.km lies in Karnataka and 10 sq.km lies in Tamil Nadu.The average annual
inflow to the reservoir created at this site is estimated to be 110 MCM. However the flow in the
river is highly variable. During the period 1978-1992, the minimum annual flow at the damsite was
1.6 MCM and the maximum recorded annual flow was 654 MCM. The live storage capacity of the
reservoir would be 6.5 MCM. The reservoir would be impounded behind a masonry dam 470m
long and about 24m high at the maximum section. The size of the resevoir is such that even if
major consumptive use schemes are executed in the territories of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka,
(which is highly unlikely since the river traverses mostly through forest zone in these States), there
would be sufficient water to fill the reservoir as designed. The mean annual rainfall in the
command area is 886mm. About 90% of the rain falls during May-November period. Rainfall and
other climatic particulars including evapotranspiration values computed by modified Penman-



- 93 -
Annex 5
Page 10 of 23
Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(iv). Inter-annual variation of rain is not very high although
intra-monthly variation of rain is quite high. Flood flows would be handled by a 398m long"
uncontrolled spillway capable of passing the routed 10,000-yr flood safely. The crest of the spillway
will be of ogee type with R.C.C. 1:2:4. The bodywall of the spillway will be in CR masonry in
cement mortar 1:3 with chisel dressed stones for its front and rear faces of 45cm thickness and the
core wall will be in RR masonry in cement mortar 1:4. A 24m long stilling basin with suitable
endsill would be provided to ensure safe dissipation of energy.
36.   A main canal will deliver irrigation releases from the reservoir to the direct ayacuts and the
tanks commanding indirect ayacuts. This arrangement is to avoid leaving the irrigation flows in the
river to be picked up at the off-take points. Since the maximum irrigation release would be in the
order of about 8 cumecs only, the river cannot be used as a delivery mechanism particularly in the
navarai12 cropping season. The main canal would be located on the left bank of Koundinyanadhi.
It would traverse through eighteen villages and terminate in the command area of Kalinjur Village
at 44+650. The canal would be divided into thirteen reaches and in the end of the second reach
would feed a branch canal which would cross the Koudinyanadhi and supply ayacut located on the
right bank of Koundinyanadhi (1480.27 acres). Eleven distributaries would take off from the main
canal to irrigate lands located on the left bank of Koundinyanadhi and Palar (1789.14 acres +
1696.54 acres). The main canal would have a bed slope of 1 ft per mile and would be designed for
a flow velocity of about 2 ft/sec.(see table of areas commanded by distributaries and the canal and
tank system). Unlined earth canal, regulator and head sluice for branch canal, head sluices for
distributaries, cross drainage structures, syphons, bridges and road culverts would be constructed
under the project.
37.   The scheme command is covered by six agricultural extension centers located at each block
involved in the scheme. Farm inputs supply and distribution are mainly handled by the above
extension centers and a number of village coperative societies and private dealers. Typic Ustrepepts,
deep, moderately coarse textured calcareous soils, Fluventic Ustrepepts and Udic Haplustalfs which
are deep, moderately fine textured, non-calcareous soils are found in the scheme command. These
soils are generally suitable for all crops grown in the scheme command. About 85% of the cropped
area is paddy and the remaining is sugarcane and pulses. Paddy yields vary depending on the level
of moisture stress. Main constraint to production increase in the scheme command is lack of
adequate and guaranteed water supply to the crops. In the future, area under sugarcane can be
expected to increase with greater reliability of water. At present, where groundwater facilities are
available to supplement tank irrigation13, several paddy-based cropping systems are practiced:
double cropping of paddy (Samba - Navarai), triple cropping of paddy (Samba - Navarai -
Sornavari) and paddy followed by sugarcane in a three-year rotation. The gap area is usually
planted with rainfed pulses. With completion of proposed works, Paddy area under Navarai would
increase considerably and there would also be a substantial increase in sugarcane area. Paddy would
1 This length is included in the 470m length quoted for the masonry dam.
12 Navarai cropping season extends from January-April when there is minimal rain and minimal or no flow in
the river.
13 There are an estimated 800 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating about 2.5 acres each.



- 94 -
Annex 5
Page 11 of 23
remain the domninant crop and triple cropping of paddy would be practiced within the limits of
available water supply. Crop calendars are given in Figure 5.5.
38.   The estimated cost to complete the scheme is Rs659.21 million (US$21.26 million) including
physical and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(iv). It would
take another six years to complete the remaining works. Implementation schedule is given in Figure
5. 1(iv).
39.   The scheme would generate an incremental production of 9383 tons of paddy, 29,250 tons
of sugarcane, 213 tons of pulses and 941 tons of groundnut. It is estimated that a total of 4185
families would benefit from the scheme. A beneficiary with a 1.5 acre farm would obtain an
incremental income of Rs5000 annually whilst a beneficiary with a 2.5 acre farm having access to
supplementary well irrigation would obtain an incremental income of Rs1O,395 per year.
Employment opportunities would be provided by the scheme to about 8000 to 10,000 farm workers.
Overall cropping intensities would increase from 127% to 185%. Full benefits are expected to
accrue from year 2000. Partial benefits are expected to begin to accrue from 1997 based on
expected rate of completion of the main canal and distributaries. The economic internal rate of
return is estimated to be 13%.
40.   Water user associations will be formed at each of the benefitting tank and sluice command.
Two apex farmer organizations will be formed at the scheme level comprising representatives from
these associations. Operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank outlets and
sluices will be the responsibility of these associations. The inlets to the tanks and the tanks
themselves will be maintained and operated jointly by the association and the WRO. The dam and
canal system delivering water to the tanks and sluices will be maintained and operated by the WRO.
Rajathopekanar Scheme
41.   The objective of this scheme is to stabilize and improve agricultural production in 545 acres
presently irrigated through five tanks which are fed by waters of the Rajathopekanar river through
an open offtake and an unlined channel delivery system. The Rajathope river originates in Andhra
Pradesh and after flowing for a short distance of 2km enters Tamil Nadu and travels another 5km
upto the proposed reservoir site. An earth dam 273m long with an additional 53m long spillway
and 1 1.87m high at its maximum section is being constructed at Longitude 7904'55"E and Latitude
1301'05"N. This dam on the Rajathopekanar river would impound a reservoir with a live storage
capacity of 0.78 MCM. The river drains 8.6 sq.km upto the damsite. The average annual inflow
to the reservoir is estimated to be 1.90 MCM. The five tanks have a combined storage capacity of
1.6 MCM. The constraint in filling these tanks with the existing arrangement is the low carrying
capacity of the supply channel which makes it difficult to tap the river flows which are quite flashy.
Under this scheme, some of the flash flows would be retained in the reservoir and released through
the canal sluice to the supply channel at the rate of about 20 cusecs. All the five tanks would be
filled in about 30 days.
42.   A river cum canal sluice would be provided at LS 134m of the earth dam. One vent of the
sluice would have a higher sill elevation of +283m to allow water to flow to the tanks through the
existing delivery channel. The other vent would have a sill elevation of +281m to discharge



- 95 -
Annex 5
Page 12 of 23
necessary flows to the river channel during low-flow or no-flow seasons. The canal vent would be
0.90m x 1.00m and would be capable of discharging 24 cusecs. The river vent would be 0.90m x
1.50m. A 53m long spillway would be provided from LS 137m to 190m taking advantage of the
availability of good rock strata at this location at reasonable depth. A connecting channel 10 to 15m
long would be excavated to deliver the spill flows to the Rajathopekanar river.
43.   The scheme command is covered by two agricultural extension centers located at each block
involved in the scheme. Farm inputs supply and distribution are mainly handled by the above
extension centers and a number of village cooperative societies and private dealers. Agricultural
research works for the scheme command are conducted by two research stations at Virinjipuram
(crop research) and Melallathur (sugarcane research). Udic Haplustalfs, deep, moderately fine
textured, non-calcareous soils and Typic Ustochrepts, deep, moderately fine textured, calcareous soils
are found in the scheme command. These soils are moderately suited to paddy-based cropping. The
existing cropping pattern in areas without supplementary irrigation is Samba in the northeast
monsoon season followed by Navarai season paddy limited by water availability in the tanks. In
areas with supplementary well irrigation",double cropping of paddy is the dominant cropping
pattern with triple cropping of paddy and a three-year rotation of paddy with sugarcane or banana
practiced in a small area. In other areas samba paddy is usually followed by pulses grown with the
residual moisture of the previous paddy crop. With the completion of scheme works and the
availability of secure and increased water supply, it is expected that some increase in the sugarcane
and banana areas and triple cropping of paddy would take place. Average annual rainfall in the
command area is 886mm. About 90% of the rain falls during May-November period. Details of
rainfall and other climatic parameters including evapotranspiration values computed using modified
Penman-Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(iv). Crop water requirements have been estimated
for proposed cropping patterns. Crop calendars are provided in Figure 5.6. Water balance
computations have been carried out to establish water availability for the scheme and are on file.
It has been determined that together with the existing wells and storages and yields that can be
mobilized in the system tanks, the scheme would have adequate water to meet the crop water
requirements. In addition water would be available for domestic use for the villagers living in the
vicinity of the command area of the scheme.
44.   The estimated cost to complete the remaining works is Rs4O million (US$1.3 million)
including physical and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(v).
It would take another two years to complete the scheme. Implementation schedule is given in
Figure 5.1(v).
45.   The scheme would generate an incremental production of 2760 tons of sugarcane, 50,400
bunches of banana and 189 tons of paddy. It is estimated that 300 families would benefit from the
scheme. A beneficiary with 1.5 acre farm holding would obtain an incremental income of Rs3,500
per year whilst a beneficiary with a 2.5 acre farm having access to supplementary well irrigation
would obtain an incremental income of Rs 11,968 per annum. In addition agricultural employment
opportunity would be created benefitting about 900 to 1000 farm laborers. Overall cropping
intensities would increase from 161% to 169%. Full benefits would begin to accrue from 1996.
14 There are an estimated 184 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating about 2.6 acres each.



- 96 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 23
Some areas would start benefitting earlier and incremental production would begin by 1995 in a
third of the area. The economic internal rate of return is estimated to be 12%.
46.   Five water users' associations will be formed and will be responsible for the operation and
maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank outlets. The inlets to the tanks and the tanks
themselves will be maintained and operated jointly by the WUA and WRO officers. The dam and
canal system delivering water to the tanks will be maintained and operated by WRO. An apex
farmer organization will be formed and registered comprising representatives from the five WUAs.
Kodumudiar Scheme
47.   The scheme envisages construction of a 405m long and 28m  high dam  across the
Kodumudiar at Longitude 7732'E and Latitude 0826'N which would impound a 3.6 MCM
reservoir. The average annual inflow to the reservoir is estimated to be about 45 MCM. The dam
would be located at the confluence of Kodumudiar and Kombiar rivers. Below the confluence the
river is called Thamaraiar which is a tributary of Nambiyar. The Kombaiar river originates on the
eastern slopes of the western ghats at an altitude of 1400 masl. The stream travels for about 7km
before it joins the Kodumudiyar. Similarly Kodumudiyar originates in the eastern slopes of the
western ghats at an altitude of 1650 masl, and joins the Kombiar. The combined stream called
Thamaralar travels 2km to join the Nambiyar above the second anicut on the Nambiyar (the
Dalavoipuram anicut)'5. The commands developed under the Thamaraiar and Nambiyar river
systems are fed through a number of channels taking off from a series of anicuts across these rivers.
The Kodumudiyar is flowing on the right side of the Kombaiyar. Kombaiyar divides into two arms
and the right arm joins the Kodumudiyar. At this junction point a high-level contour canal called
the Valliyooran channel takes off and feeds the Valliyoor big tank and a series of tanks after flowing
for a distance of lOkms. There is a masonry anicut across Thamaraiyar which is the only anicut
across Thamaraiyar and is called Thamarai Anicut. An irrigation channel called Padalayar channel
takes off from this anicut on the right side and feeds four tanks besides irrigating some direct
ayacut. There are nine anicuts in the Nambiyar river complex. An irrigation channel takes off from
the second of these anicuts namely Dalavoipuram anicut. This channel is called the Vadamalayan
channel which feeds 36 tanks besides irrigating a direct ayacut of 696 acres. Improvements to
Padalayar, Valliyooran and Vadamalayan channel systems to achieve better water management and
to increase agricultural production and incomes in areas commanded by them would be the scope
of the Kodumudiyar Scheme to be financed under this project. Fifteen villages would benefit from
this scheme. About 1954 acres would be stabilized and another 1925 acres which are currently
classified as gap areas would be provided full assured irrigation through the construction of on-
channel storage on the Kodumudiar.
48.   Formation of a composite dam to a total length of 405m across Thamaraiar with earth section
from 0+00 to 270+00 and masonry section from 270+00 to 405+00 with the following breakdown:
river sluice from 270+00 to 279+00, uncontrolled surplus weir 279+00 to 328+00, canal sluice to
supply Valliyooran channel from 328+00 to 337+00 and a non-overflow section from 337+00 to
405+00. Excavation of surplus course for 175m. Improving and remodelling existing Padalayar,
15 Cross-reference should be made to Nambiyar scheme.



- 97 -
Annex 5
Page 14 of 23
Valliyooran and Vadamalayan channels and the tanks fed by these channels. River sluice would
discharge the flows required for Padalayar and Vadamalayan channels. The river sluice would have
a sill level of +136.00 and would be able to pass 450 cusecs. An R.C.C barrel 1.5m x 1.8m would
form the sluice which would be provided with service and emergency gates. The canal sluice would
have a sill level of +144.00 and would discharge into the Valliyooran channel. The barrel size
would be 2.0m x 2.8m and the sluice would be able to pass 1000 cusecs. The 175m long and 49m
wide surplus course would deliver the spill flows back to Thamaraiyar. Hard rock is exposed at the
surface in the vicinity of the spillway and therefore no additional energy dissipator is necessary.
Spill flows would be delivered to the rock bed.
49.   With the scheme, Valliyooran channel would receive water from the high-level canal sluice.
The channel would be improved to handle rush supplies upto 1000 cusecs. This channel would
deliver water to the four tanks in its system and carry flows to be diverted to 23 tanks of the
Vadamalayan system.  A cross-regulator would be constructed just above the entrance of
Valliyooran channel to the Valliyoor big tank and the existing left bank outlet would be improved
to divert required flows to the Vadamalayan channel to feed 23 tanks out of its 36 tank command.
The Padalayar channel takes off from Thamarai anicut and this channel would be improved to carry
495 cusecs to feed the four tanks and direct ayacut under its command.The Vadamalayan channel
taking off from the Dalavoipuram anicut has already been improved upto 3.1km of its 22.85km
length. Under the scheme a further 5km would be improved and lined to minimize conveyance
losses (this section passes through porous soils). The channel would be modified to handle 450
cusecs. This channel feeds 36 tanks - 13 are fed in the reach 0 to 8km. The remaining 23 would
be fed by flows diverted from the Valliyooran system as described above.
50.   The scheme command is covered by three agricultural extension centers. Farm inputs and
supply distribution are mainly handled by the extension centers. A number of village cooperative
societies and private dealers also handle chemical fertilizers and pesticides in the area. Typic
Ustropepts, moderately deep, medium textured soils and Typic Ustorthents, shallow, non-calcareous
medium textured soils are found in the scheme command. The former soils are suitable for paddy-
based cropping system and the latter for non-paddy crops. Present cropping pattern is paddy
(Pishanum) followed by pulses in the regular tank commands.  In areas having access to
supplementary well irrigation"6, double cropping - Kar paddy followed by Pishanum paddy,
Pishanum paddy followed by cotton or chilies - is practiced. In addition a small area of banana is
also cultivated in a three-year rotation with paddy (2-yr banana, 1-yr paddy). With completion of
the proposed works, it is expected that the existing irrigated command area including the gap area
would receive a more secure water supply. A slight increase in chilies, cotton and banana areas is
expected with the increase in available water under the scheme. Average annual rainfall in the
command area is 740 mm. Inter-annual rain variation is quite high as evidenced by a C, value of
0.46. About 50% of the rain falls in the months of October and November. Details of rainfall and
other climatic parameters including evapotranspiration values computed using modified Penman-
Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(ii). Crop water requirements have been estimated for
proposed cropping patterns. Water balance computations have been carried out to establish water
availability for the scheme and are on file. It has been determined that together with the existing
16 There are an estimated 903 wells in the project area capable of irrigating about 1.8 acres each.



- 98 -
Annex 5
Page 15 of 23
wells and storages and yields that can be mobilized in the system tanks, the scheme would have
adequate water to meet the crop water requirements for the cropping pattern given in Figure 5.7.
51.   The estimated cost of this scheme is Rs288.5 million (US$9.3 million) including physical
and price contingencies. Details of quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(vi). The scheme
works are in their very initial stages. Preliminary works such as formation of approach roads,
construction of houses for 0 & M staff are in progress. The scheme can be completed in four years
if two divisions are employed at the construction site. Implementation schedule is given in Figure
5. 1 (vi).
52.   The scheme is expected to generate an incremental production of 11,556 tons of paddy, 1676
tons of groundnut, 454 tons of pulses, 237,000 bunches of banana, 78 tons of cotton and 18 tons
of chilies. A beneficiary with a 1.5 acre farm would obtain an incremental income of Rs5442 per
year whilst a beneficiary with 2.5 acres and access to supplementary well irrigation would obtain
an incremental income of Rs12,211 per annum. Overall cropping intensities would increase from
127% to 254%. Full benefits would begin to accrue after the completion of all the scheme
components from year 1998. The economic internal rate of return is estimated to be 24%.
53.   Water user associations will be formed for each benefitting tank and direct sluice command.
They will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank
and sluice outlets. An apex farmer organization comprising representatives from these associations
will be formally registered at the scheme level. The maintenance of the tanks including inlets and
outlets will be the joint responsibility of the WRO and the WUAs. The dam and canal system will
be maintained and operated by the WRO with inputs from the apex farmer organization.
Vadakku Pachayar Scheme
54.   The Pachayar basin drains about 250 sq.km. The Pachayar basin also gets water of the
Keelamanimuthar basin through Karumandiamman anicut situated on the western side of Pachayar
Hills and also from Netterikal anicut situated upstream of Karumandiamman anicut.There are twelve
anicuts across Pachayar and one across Vadakku Pachayar namely the Madathu anicut. Some of
the catchment area contributing to the flow in the river system is influenced by both the southwest
and northeast monsoons (catchment contributing to Keelamanimuthar diversions). Flood flows occur
in the October to December period and the withdrawal capacity of the channels at the various
anicuts being limited, most of the flow goes past the anicuts to the sea. On the average about 25
MCM is surplused at the last anicut on the Pachayar. It is proposed to form a reservoir across
Vadakku Pachayar'7 and constructing a diversion weir across Pachayar below the second anicut
and divert the flood flows through a 800m long feeder canal into the Vadakku Pachayar reservoir.
17 Reservoir across Pachayar was contemplated but dropped due to its submerging some valuable forest lands.
The current proposal to create an impoundment on the Vadakku Pachayar avoids such submergence.



- 99 -
Annex 5
Page 16 of 23
55.   The scheme envisages the formation of an earth dam 3115m long and 20m high at the
maximum section impounding a reservoir across Vadakku Pachayar river"8 with a live storage
capacity of 12.4 MCM (expected to be filled twice a year). The dam would be constructed at
Longitude 7731'45"E and Latitude 08032'30"N. Head sluice with three vents 2.8m x 2.5m each
would be provided with a total withdrawal capacity of 2369 cusecs. A scour sluice with one vent
2.8m x 2.5m would be provided as well.
56.   The average annual inflow to the proposed reservoir on Vadakku Pachayar is 18 MCM. In
order to augment this flow a 60m long diversion weir will be constructed across Pachayar river
below Thalai Anicut and the flood flows of Pachayar river will be diverted through an 800m long
feeder canal. The feeder canal will be lined to minimize cross-section required to handle the
diverted flows when passing through already developed and cultivated areas. Lining would be
75mm thick and made of 1:3:6 precast concrete slabs. The canal bed width would be 10m and full
supply flow depth would be 2.5m. Necessary cross-drainage structures would be constructed.Two
drop structures would be constructed to negotiate the fall in ground level at +500+00 and +800+00.
57.   An uncontrolled weir will be constructed at left flank end 122m long together with an
associated surplus course. The surplus course would be 300m long and would deliver the spill flows
to Pachayar river through a natural watercourse. The weir would be capable of passing 1281
cumecs, which is the routed outflow of the 10,000-yr flood, safely with minor encroachment on the
freeboard provided. The surplus course would have a bed width of 80m and at full flood flows
would flow at depths of around 2.5m. The natural watercourse would be widened wherever
necessary.Excavated earth from this component could be used for dam construction'9. Cross-
drainage structures would be provided as required.
58.   A 3300m long link canal will be excavated to deliver water from the reservoir to the
Nanguneriankal. The following structures will be constructed on the link canal: regulator with two
shutters 1.5m x 1.5m each at LS 50m, aqueducts at LS 250m and 2300m, culverts at LS 1350m and
3350m, and required cross-drainage structures. The canal would be lined with 1:3:6 precast slabs.
Bed width of the link canal would be 4m and the carrying capacity would be 282 cusecs. On the
branch canal the following structures will be built: one shutter 1.5m x 1.5m at the offtake point of
the branch channel together with a drop structure to handle a 2m drop, an aqueduct with five vents
of 6m span each at LS 250m - RCC trough 4m wide over RR masonry piers and abutment, culvert
at LS 1350m 4m span RCC slab on RR masonry abutments, aqueduct at LS 2300m to cross the
existing supply channel to Mudukulam - 2m span RC slab with RR masonry abutments.
59.   A river sluice will be constructed at 1300+00 of the main dam to deliver water to irrigate
existing and proposed ayacuts. The waterway size would be 1.53m x 1.83m and the discharge
capacity would be 298 cusecs.
18 Vadakku Pachayar River is a tributary of Pachayar River which in turn is a tributary of the Thambaraparani
River.
19 Tests have been carried out to determine the suitability of this soil for dam construction. Necessary credits
have been applied in the cost estimates to take this into account.



- 100 -
Annex 5
Page 17 of 23
60.   In addition to the above, the following works will be financed under the project.
Improvements to Nanguneriankal, Seevalapperiankal, Madathu anicut channel,Palambathukal,
Padmaneri channel, Sambankulamkal, Devanallur channel, linking Madathukulamkal with
Pachalankal, by-pass channel for tanks below Devanallur tank, Nanguneri tanks. The Madathu
anicut chanel will be reformed to 3m bed width and 1.5:1 side slopes and lined with precast slabs
1:3:6 mix. The carrying capacity of the channel will be 3.10 cumecs. This channel feeds Pamban
kal, Pamban kulam, Poolan kulam and Pachayar Eravai.The Padmaneri channel would be reformed
to 5m bed width and 1.5:1 side slopes and lined with 1:3:6 precast concrete slabs. The carrying
capacity of this channel would be 3.92 cumecs.The Devanallur supply channel would be reformed
to 5m and 7m bed widths and 1.5:1 side slopes and lined with 1:3:6 precast concrete slabs
61.   By implementing this scheme, 1147 acres of gap would be bridged and 7536 acres existing
system tanks and 45 rainfed tanks) would be stabilized. The command area of this scheme is spread
over twenty-three villages of Nanguneri Taluk in Tirunelveli District.
62.   The rain measured at Nanguneri raingauge station is representative of the command area
rainfall. The average annual rainfall is 740mm with about 60% of the rain occurring in a three
month period (October-December).  Details of rainfall and other climatic data including
evapotranspiration computed using modified Penman-Monteith method are given in Table 5.2(ii).
63.   The scheme command is covered by three agricultural extension centers. Farm inputs and
distribution are mainly handled by the above centers. A number of village cooperative societies and
private dealers also handle chemical fertilizers and pesticides in the area. The Tamil Nadu
Agricultural Development Project (Cr.22150-IN) is operating in this area. Typic Ustropepts and
Typic Haplastalfs, deep, moderately fine textured, calcareous soils suitable for paddy-based cropping
system are found in the scheme command. The existing cropping pattern in the tank irrigation area
is mainly paddy (Pishanum) in the northeast monsoon season followed by rainfed pulses. In areas
with supplementary well irrigation , the dominant cropping pattern is double cropping of paddy.
Groundnut and banana are also grown in a small area in rotation with paddy under rainfed
conditions. Groundnut is also grown under rainfed conditions in paddyland with no irrigation water.
Paddy grown in the tank/well area produces relatively higher yields reflecting less water stress than
paddy grown in tank irrigation alone.
64.   With completion of the proposed works, it is expected that the existing irrigated area would
receive a more assured water supply and the gap area would become a more productive irrigated
area. Double cropping of paddy would be practiced to the extent possible within the limit of
available water supply (water balance computations refers). The cultivation of existing non-paddy
crops except pulses would continue under the scheme with an increase in their cropped areas. Crop
water requirements have been computed on the basis of the cropping pattern and calendar given in
Figure 5.8. Water balance computations are on file.
65.   The estimated cost of the scheme is Rs.451 million (US$14.55 million) including physical
and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(vii). It would take
20 There are an estimated 869 wells in the scheme command irrigating about 2.5 acres each.



- 101 -
Annex 5
Page 18 of 23
seven years to construct this scheme. Two divisions would be needed in years 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Implementation schedule is given in Figure 5.1(vii).
66.   The scheme is expected to generate an incremental production of 7,142 tons of paddy, 2,564
tons of groundnut and 326,000 bunches of bananas. A beneficiary with 1.5 acre farm would obtain
an incremental income of Rs4,376 per year whilst a beneficiary with a 2.5 acre farm having access
to well irrigation would obtain an incremental income of Rs7,446 per year. Overall cropping
intensities would increase from 132% to 173%. Full benefits would start from year 2001. However
partial benefits would start as early as 1998. The economic internal rate of return is estimated to
be 12%.
67.   Water user associations will be formed for each benefitting tank and direct sluice command.
They will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank
and sluice outlets. An apex farmer organization comprising representatives from these associations
will be formally registered at the scheme level. The maintenance of the tanks including inlets and
outlets will be the joint responsibility of the WRO and the WUAs. The dam and canal system will
be maintained and operated by the WRO with inputs from the apex farmer organization.
Adavinainarkoil Scheme
68.   Hanumanadhi is a major tributary of Chittar river which in turn is a tributary of the
Thambaraparani River. Hanumanadhi originates on the eastern slopes of the Western ghats at an
altitude of 1570m.a.s.l. The river traverses 6.4km in the hilly region and a distance of 11.20km in
the plains before its confluence with the Chittar river above Veeraman anicut near
Veerakaralampudur village of Tenkasi Taluk. At the damsite the river drains about 16 sq.km. The
average annual inflow into the proposed reservoir is estimated to be 26 MCM21.
69.   At present irrigation water is being supplied through a system of tanks fed by small channels
taking off from the diversion anicuts constructed across Hanumanadhi. There are nine anicuts upto
the confluence point of Hanumanadhi and Karuppanadhi. The Hanumanadhi system comprises these
nine anicuts seving some 38 tanks. At present the ayacut under Hanumanadhi does not get assured
irrigation supply from the existing anicut system even though there is ample water resource potential
in the river. By constructing a dam and creating an impoundment, the irrigation system would be
converted from an anicut-based system to a reservoir-based system and the ayacut would be given
better assured irrigation supply during both cropping seasons.
70.   The scheme envisages the construction of a 680m long masonry dam, 43.70m high at its
maximum section across Hanumanadhi river impounding a reservoir of 4.9 MCM capacity. The
dam would be located at Longitude 7714'06"E and Latitude 0904'00"E. The entire structure
would be of stone masonry with foundation concrete. The structure would be founded on solid rock.
21 Based on data gauged from 1977 to 1992.



- 102 -
Annex 5
Page 19 of 23
71.   Flood flows would be handled by a lOOm long spillway located in the middle of the above
masonry dam from LS 320+00 to LS 420+00. The spillway is capable of discharging 570 cumecs
which is the magnitude of the routed 10,000-yr outflow.
72.   Irrigation deliveries would be made through two sluices: Mettukal sluice and Karisalkal cum
river sluice. Mettukal sluice would be located at LS 260 to 265m with one opening 0.90m x 1.50m
capable of discharging 0.65 cumecs which would supply the existing dry ayacut of 243 acres and
other irrigated ayacut of 668 acres. Karisalkal cum river sluice would be located at LS 315 to 320m
with one opening 1.5m x 1.8m with a discharge capacity of about 4 cumecs feeding an ayacut of
5597 acres.
73.   Already a well defined canal system exists for the ayacuts commanded by the anicuts.
However for the new ayacut of 243 acres additional irrigation delivery system is required. This
would comprise of 850m of Branch Canal and 2050m of distributaries. The branch canal would
carry 5 cusecs. There would be fifteen canal sluices and twelve drop structures
74.   The average annual rainfall in the command area is 1165mm22. The area receives rain both
in the southwest and northeast monsoon seasons. The monthly distribution of rain is given in Table
5.2(v) together with other climatic data such as temperature, relative humidity, windspeed and
sunshine hours. Evapotranspiration values computed using modified Penman-Monteith method
prescribed by FAO are also given in the same table.
75.   The scheme command is covered by four agricultural extension centers each located at block
headquarters. Agricultural research work for the area is conducted by Ambasamuthram Agricultural
College and Research Center at Killikulam. Farm inputs supply and distribution are mainly handled
by the above centers. Fertilizers and pesticides are handled by seven cooperative shops and forty
private dealers. Typic Ustropepts, deep, moderately fine textured, calcareous soils and Udic
Rodustalfs, deep,medium textured, non-calcareous soils are found in the scheme command. These
soils are moderately suitable for paddy and upland crops under irrigated conditions.
76.   The existing cropping pattern in the tank irrigation area is paddy (Pishanum) in the northeast
monsoon season followed by rainfed pulses. Double cropping of paddy is practiced subject to
availability of tank water. A small area of coconut plantation also receives tank water. Areas with
access to supplementary well irrigation23 also have a similar paddy-based cropping pattern.
Groundnut and banana are also grown in a small area and, like other scheme commands in
Tirunelveli District, banana is grown in a three-year rotation with paddy. In the gap area, sorghum
is planted under rainfed conditions and some rainfed Pishanum paddy is grown as well. In the
dryland area which would be brought under the scheme command in the future, the main cropping
pattern in the pre-scheme situation is groundnut followed by pulses under rainfed conditions.
77.   With completion of proposed works, it is expected that the existing rainfed area would
become a more productive irrigated area and the existing irrigated command area would receive a
22 Based on rain measured at Shencottai rainfall station for the period 1971 to 1982.
23 It is estimated there are 578 wells in the scheme command capable of irrigating about 1.5 acres each.



- 103 -
Annex 5
Page 20 of 23
more secure water supply. Double-cropping of paddy would be expanded to the extent possible
within the limit of the available water supply. The cultivation of existing non-paddy crops except
sorghum would continue under the scheme with an increase in their cropped area. Crop water
requirements have been computed based on the cropping pattern and crop calendar given in Figure
5.9. Water balance computations are in project file.
78.   The scheme would generate an incremental production of 21,670 tons of paddy, 547 tons of
pulses, 414 tons of groundnut, 121 tons of chilies, 2.3 million coconuts and 39,200 bunches of
bananas. Eight villages would benefit from the construction of the scheme It is estimated that 5400
small holders would benefit from this scheme. A beneficiary with a 1.5 acre farm would obtain an
incremental income of Rs9,159 per year whilst a family with a 2.5 acre farm with access to
supplementary well irrigation would obtain an incremental income of Rs 10,211 per year. In addition
additional agricultural employment opportunities would be created benefiting about 40,000 farm
workers. Average farm size in the scheme command varies from 0.25 ha to 2 ha. Overall cropping
intensities would increase from 152% to 228%.
79.   The estimated cost of the scheme is Rs851.93 million (US$27.48 million) including physical
and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(viii). It would take
seven years to complete the scheme with three divisions working on the scheme full time.
Implementation schedule is given in Figure 5. 1(viii). Full benefits would begin from year 2000.
The economic internal rate of return is estimated to be 12%.
80.   Water user associations will be formed for each benefitting tank and direct sluice command.
They will be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank
and sluice outlets. An apex farmer organization comprising representatives from these associations
will be formally registered at the scheme level. The maintenance of the tanks including inlets and
outlets will be the joint responsibility of the WRO and the WUAs. The dam and canal system will
be maintained and operated by the WRO with inputs from the apex farmer organization.
Gridhammal II Scheme
81.   At present the tanks are filled with excess river flows through supply channels with open
offtakes at various points in the Gridhammal river. In each crop season people of the area build
temporary diversion structures24 made of clay, silt and sand. There are six offtakes and six supply
channels. Irunjirai, Athikulam, Maraiyur and Varisaiyur supply channels take off on the left side
feeding the four tanks of the same name and commanding a total area of 2042 acres. The Ulakkudi
and Manur supply channels take off from the right side of the river. Ulakudi supply channel feeds
Ulakkudi tank which commands 454 acres. The Manur channel feeds Manur, Athithanendal and
Narikudi tanks which command a total area of 602 acres. Under the scheme these open offtakes
would be replaced by one intake on the left bank and one on the right bank at the 1.4m high and
60m long diversion weir to be constructed under this project across the Gridhammal river. These
intakes would be capable of delivering the required flows to fill the respective tanks within a short
flood duration.
24 Locally called mud korambu.



- 104 -
Annex 5
Page 21 of 23
82.   Irrigation water will be delivered to these two intakes via head sluices located on both banks.
Protection against siltation will be provided by scour sluices that would be located adjacent to the
head sluices. The left head sluice would have four vents each having 1.00m x 0.90m opening
capable of passing 5.6 cumecs in total. The right head sluice would have two vents having 1.10m
x 0.90m opening capable of passing 3 cumecs in total. The tanks would be filled in about one week
time. Vaigai-Gridhammal link channel is expected to operate for a period of about one week at the
rate of about 28 cumecs and therefore there would be sufficient water and time to fill the tanks.
The scour sluice on the left would have four vents with 1.65m x 1.70m opening and the scour sluice
on the right would have three vents with 1.1 Om x 1.70m opening with the upstream and downstream
aprons at the anicut apron level. The sill of the head sluices would be kept 0.30m above that of the
scour sluices.
83.   Improvements to the existing Irunjirai supply channel and also to the Athikulam supply
channel would be carried out by constructing a dividing dam across Irunjirai channel. The Irunjirai
channel would be modified to carry 5.8 cumecs at a full supply depth of 0.90m and a bed width of
10.00m. A dividing wall would be constructed in this channel just above the Nandkachi road
crossing. Below the dividing dam water would be let into Irunjirai and Athikulam supply channel
on a proportional basis. The requirements of Athikulam tank would be released through a V-notch
below the road culvert and the remaining flows for Maraiyur and Varisaiyur tanks would be
delivered via a 2700m long link channel. In the Irunjirai channel one 700mm drop at LS Om, a
masonry core wall from LS Om to 60m, footpath at LS 270m, inlets at LS 30m, 240m,and 330m
would be constructed.
84.   A 2700m long link channel will be excavated to connect Athikulam supply channel to
Maraiyur channel offtake point. This channel would carry 2.2 cumecs. Following structures would
be built on this channel: Main Road Culvert at LS 870m, Culvert at LS 1785m, foot bridge at LS
240m, 600mm drop at LS 300m, 720m, and 1500m, lOOOmm drop at LS 1950m, and 2640m,
1200mm drop at LS 2880m, Superpassage cum culvert at LS 2430m and 3300m, superpassage at
LS 2100m.
85.   A 2400m long link channel will be excavated to connect Maraiyur supply channel to
Varisaiyur supply channel. The existing Maraiyur supply channel would be used as a common
carrier for both Maraiyur and Varisaiyur tanks upto LS 1700m. At this point a dividing dam would
be built and the left side channel would carry flows to the Maraiyur tank. The right side channel
would be the link canal which would go beyond the surplus weir of Maraiyur channel upto the
beginning point of Varisaiyur channel. The link channel will have a carrying capacity of 1.1
cumecs. There would be one 1000mm drop and an outlet structure on this channel.The Maraiyur
channel would be improved to handle additional flows. Five check dams would be provided to
control flow velocities.
86.   A 2000m long link channel will be excavated from right side head sluice on the diversion
weir to connect to Ulakudi supply channel upto its present offtake. The link channel dimensions
would be 6.00m x 0.90m. The link would have the following structures: foot bridge at LS 180m,
1000mm drop at LS 300m, super passages at LS 330m, 1150m and 1435m, road culvert at LS505m,
cart track culvert cum super passage at LS 685m, core wall from LS 970m to 1020m, super passage
cum culvert at LS 995m, 500mm drops at LS 1125m and 1780m, grade wall at LS340m (5m



- 105 -
Annex 5
Page 22 of 23
long),excess flow outlet from LS 320m to 350m, dividing dam at LS 560m, retaining wall from LS
560m to 590m and main road culvert across Narikudi-Manamadurai road.
87.   A 2500m long link channel will be excavated from dividing dam across Ulakkudi channel
to Manur offtake point. The link canal would carry 1.6 cumecs and have section dimensions of
6.00m x 0.60m. Retaining walls would be constructed at appropriate places. 1000mm drop at LS
750m and a super passage at LS 11 1inm would be provided.
88.   Since the Manur supply channel has to carry the combined supplies to three tanks, the
section would be modified to carry 1.6 cumecs. Necessary provisions would be made for cart track
crossing, field drain crossing etc.
89.   Necessary improvements to benefitting tanks such as repair of tank embankments, inlets,
outlets etc., would be carried out.
90.   The scheme command is covered by one agricultural extension center located at block
headquarters. Farm inputs supply and distribution are mainly handled by the extension center. A
number of village cooperative societies and private dealers also handle chemical fertilizers and
pesticides in the area.Typic Chromusterts and Typic Haplustalfs which are deep, rroderately coarse
to fine textured soils suitable for paddy-based cropping under irrigated conditions are found in the
scheme command.
91.   The present cropping pattern in the tank irrigation area is single cropping of paddy (Samba)
in the northeast monsoon season. In a limited area with supplementary well irrigation facility25,
paddy (Samba) followed by cotton is the main cropping pattern. In addition, sugarcane is cultivated
in a small area on a three-year rotation with paddy. In the gap area rainfed sorghum is cultivated.
92.   With completion of proposed works, it is expected that the existing tank irrigation area would
receive a more secure water supply and the gap area would become a more productive irrigated area.
Paddy (Samba) would remain the dominant crop with pulses grown on residual moisture after
harvest of Samba Paddy. Some increase in sugarcane area is also anticipated. Crop water
requirements have been computed on the basis of the crop calendar and cropping pattern given in
Figure 5.10. Water balance computations are on file.
93.   The scheme is expected to generate an incremental production of 2,673 tons of paddy, 4,995
tons of sugarcane, 856 tons of pulses and 16 tons of cotton. A beneficiary with 1.5 acre farm would
obtain an incremental income of Rs2056 per year whilst a beneficiary with 2.5 acres and having
access to supplementary well irrigation facility would obtain an incremental income of Rs10,293 per
annum. Overall cropping intensities would increase from 103% to 194%.
94.   The estimated cost to complete this scheme is Rs53.14 million (US$1.71 million) including
physical and price contingencies. Detailed quantities and costs are given in Table 5.3(ix). The
25 There are an estimated 110 wells in the scheme command area capable of irrigating about 2.5 acres each.



- 106 -
Annex 5
Page 23 of 23
scheme can be completed in one year by one division. The agricultural benefits would start to
accrue from 1995 onwards. The economic internal rate of return is estimated to be 62%.
95.   Water user associations will be formed at each of the eight benefitting tanks. They will be
responsible for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation system below the tank outlets. An
apex farmer organization comprising representatives from these associations will be formally
registered at the scheme level. The maintenance of the tanks including inlets and outlets will be the
joint responsibility of the WRO and the WUAs. The diversion weir and canal system will be
maintained and operated by the WRO with inputs from the apex farmer organization.
Appendix 1. Background information on traditional irrigation infrastructure
96.   Irrigated agriculture has been practiced in Tamil Nadu for more than a thousand years.
Rainfall is influenced mainly by the northeast monsoon in the cultivable areas. This monsoon rain
is concentrated in the months of October, November and December. The remaining period of the
year is usually dry. Even the monsoon rain can be erratic both in its onset and end and in quantity
as well. The ancient kings who ruled parts of Tamil Nadu had devised a system of small to medium
sized storage reservoirs referred to as tanks to collect the rainwater and to use it for irrigation.
These tanks originally were constructed to receive the flows generated in their own catchments.
With the progress of time, the yield of the tank catchments were supplemented by water diverted
from nearby streams and rivers. The recipient tanks are referred to as system tanks and the other
type being commonly called rainfed tanks. The diversion is achieved by masonry structures called
anicuts built across the streams a few centuries ago. Some areas are irrigated through sluices
provided in the supply channels taking water from the diversion weirs to the tanks. These areas are
called direct ayacuts and the commands under system tanks are called the indirect ayacuts. In
recent years, some more tanks are receiving supplementary water through temporary diversion
structures built each year by the farmers referred to as mud korambu. Below these tanks, a fully
developed traditional irrigation system is in place. However, yields from the catchment of the tanks
have reduced particularly over the last two decades due to changes in land use and abstractions
within the catchment. The supply channels and the open offtakes at the anicuts are limited by
design and are therefore unable to extract additional flows from the rivers. Hence the cultivated
areas are no longer assured of a secure irrigation supply. Most of the area gets partial supply and
upto 25% of the commands on the average does not get any water at all and it is either left as
fallow or cultivated under rainfed conditions with poor yields. Some farmers have constructed
shallow wells to supplement the tank water. Yields of crops in such areas are higher than in regular
tank-fed areas reflecting the effect of moisture stress.



- 107 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Water Policy for Tamil Nadu
WATER POLICY FOR TAMIL NADU-
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Item                               Description                              Page
No.
I        PREAMBLE      1.....          ........              ....... 
I I      GOALS AND OBJECTIVES  ........                    ........           2
III      ACTION PLAN                   ......3..........                      3
_____________________________________________________._______
1/ Source: Government of Tamil Nadu. Issued by Government Order Number 716
dated July 13, 1994.



- 108 -                   Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
WATER POLICY FOR TAMILNADU
I. PREAMBLE
The National Water Policy enunciated by the Government
of India in 1987 has recognised that water is a prime
natural resource, a basic human need, and a precious
national asset. Water as a resource is one and is
encompassed in the hydrological cycle; river water, surface
storage, and ground water are all part of one system; water
is also part of the larger ecological system. Water is one
of the most crucial elements in developmental planning. As
the State prepares itself to enter the 21st century, it must
develop, conserve, utilise, and manage this important
resource on an integrated and environmentally sound basis to
meet the growing needs.
With a high percentage of the State's surface water
resources already utilised, the scope for constructing new
surface water storage reservoirs is limited. More efficient
water management is the most needed measure to ensure
additional productivity from water in Tamilnadu.
Opportunities for conservation and reuse in irrigation,
industry and municipal water systems together with sector
policies developed to promote conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater and effective conservation measures in all water
use sectors need to be pursued.
Water quality of surface and ground water sources must
be maintained to established standards in order to protect
designated users from deterioration of the resource. Water
legislation and regulations, the design of facilities, and
the management of basin water resources shall be directed to
maintain water quality appropriate for designated uses and
to permit maximum reuse of all water following each
diversion. The government through the appropriate agencies
shall provide' means and measures to manage all aspects of
water development beneficially, including timely control of
groundwater levels, restriction or treatment of wastes;
maintenance of appropr:ate water 2uality as designated for



- 109 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
each point in the river network, forecasting of suppliea,
and direction of individual project operations to meet
developmental goals and policies.
II. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
Within the framework provided by the National water
policy, the broad objectives of the water policy for
Tamilnadu shall be
a. Establish a ManaBemenit Information System (MIS) for
water resources.
b. Ensure preservation and stabilisation of existing
water resources.
c. Plan for augmentation of utilisable water resources.
d. Promote research and training facilities for water
resources management.
e. Establish allocation priorities ior water use by
different sectors with provision of drinking water
being of highest priority.
f. Maximise multi-purpose benefit from surface and
ground water, land and other resources.
g. Provide adequate water for domestic users.
h. Maximise hydro-power generation within the constrains
imposed by other water users.
i. Provide adequate water for industry.
J. Preserve and enhance the economic fisheries.
k. Maintain water quality to established standards.



- 110 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
1. Promote equity and social justice among users of
water from irrigation and domestic water supplies.
m. Plan for economic and financial sustainability based
upon the principle that those who benefit from
projects and programmes should also pay for them.
n. Provide flood protection and drainage.
o. Promote users' participation in all aspects of water
planning and management.
p. Provide mechanisms for the resolution of conflicts
between users within and between intra-state river
basins.
III. ACTION PLAN
1. This water policy will apply to all the water
resources in'the State. The Water Resources Control and
Review Council (WRCRC) will monitor the implementation of
che policy. The Institute for Water Studies (I.W.S.) will
be the Technical Secretariate for W.R.C.R.C.
'. River basin will be the unit for water planning.
Small river basins can be grouped together for the
convenience of management and administration.
3. The I.W.S. will be the Nodal Agency which will
collect and store all data related to water resources in the
State. The I.W.S. will utilise the modern facilities and
techniques for storing and retrieving data, basin modeliing,
water balance studies for planning new uses, etc. In this,
I.W.S. may also seek the technical expertise from the
Academic Institutions in the country.
4. Necessary information system for the flow of data
from the field to the I.W.S. will be built up.



- 111 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
5. The I.W.S. will prepare water balance studieo and
prepare macro-level basin plans and assist the W.R.C.R.C. in
allocating water for different sectorial users keeping the
objectives in mind.
6. Regulation and control of ground and surface water
will be put on sound legal footing. Legislation may be
enacted dealing with ground and surface water and their
conjunctive use.
7. For maximising the benefits from the available water
resources, the following steps will be taken
a. Efficient management of watershed to minimise
sedimentation.
b. Removal and prevention of encroachment in water
courses and water bodies.
c. Restoration of the capacities of the existing water
bodies.
d. Modernisation of the physical systems.
e. Avoidance of transmission losses in the conveyance
systems by lining, providing pipe lines, etc.
f. Minimisation of evoporation losses.
g. Adoption of modern methods of irrigation
applications.
h. Planning of recycling and reuse of water, wherever
possible.
i. Minimisation of leakages in pipe lines in drinking
water system.



- 112 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 7
8. For augmentation of water resources the following
will be attempted :
a. Artificial recharging of ground water.
b. Interlinking the river basins within the state.
c. Co-ordinating with the National Water Development
Agency (N.W.D.A.) for implementing the National Water
Grid (N.W.G.).
d. Planning for cloud-seeding discreetly.
e. Encouraging rain water harvesting by the individuals
and organisations through simple techniques.
f. Adopting desalination techniques in coastal belts.
9. For maintaining the quality of water the following
steps will be followed :
a. Monitoring for water quality and ensuring strict
compliance of "The Water (Prevention and Control of
Pollution) Act, 1974" for the designated use.
b. Preventing over extraction of the ground water in the
coastal belt to avoid sea water intrusion.
10. The flood control and drainage component will be
included in the basin plans to be prepared after identifying
the extent and intensity of these problems and necessary
control measures will be detailed. Watershed management,
flood forecasting for reservoir operations, flood plain
zoning, and prevention of flood plain encroachments by human
settlement and obstructions to flow will be considered along
with structural measures such as embankments and flood
channels. Fast communication net-work will be created for
1-  ftnreAqtina and management.



- 113
Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
11. A drought management plan will be prepared for each
of the river basins as a part of the river'basin plan as
follows -
a. Employment-oriented schemes will be formulated and
kept in shelf for implementation during drought
period.
b. In the irrigated areas, contingency plans will be
prepared for adoption in the years of deficit
rainfall; rotational irrigation is one such method.
12. Participation of the beneficiaries in the water use
sector will be promoted and their rights and duties
defined.-
13. In respect of irrigation water use;
(a) The existing Irrigation Committees/Water Users'
Organisations will be strengthened.
(b) Where such committees/associations are not
existing, new Water Users Associations will be
formed at the sluice/distributary level. In
this, the assistance of non-governmental
organisations (NGOs) may be utilised.
(c) Turning over the maintenance and management of
the distribution system to the beneficiaries in
stages will be promoted.
14. The existing water rates for water use in different
sectors will be periodically reviewed and rationalised.



- 114 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 17
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Sectoral.  Environmental  Assessment  S rya/
introduction
1.    The Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project (WRCP) will
introduce a more rational and sustainable system of water use and management
in the State of Tamil Nadu. In preparation for the project, a Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (EA) has been carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's Guidelines. The result of this work was a comprehensive report
covering the environmental issues of the water resource sector for the whole
state, examination of the impacts of the investment components under the
project, and preparation of an Environmental Management Action Plan which has
been incorporated in the WRCP project proposal. The Environmental Assessment
was carried out by HR Wallingford Consultants of UK in association with
environmental consultants from Indial, the Public Works Department and other
relevant state and national bodies. Social impact analysis and preparation of
an economic rehabilitation programme for families affected by land acquisition
under the project has also been carried out with assistance of Operations
Research Group consultants and is described in Part II of this sunmmary.
Assistance and guidance provided by World Bank officials and officials of the
Ministry of Environment is gratefully acknowledged.
PART 1. - ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT AND ACTIONS
2.    The focus of the EA has been the overall environmental isaues facing the
water resources sector in Tamil Nadu. This included a review of the existing
legal and institutional framework as well as study of the physical
environmental issues in the state as a whole and the specific environmental
impacts of the project's investment components. An Environmental Action Plan
(EAP) has been prepared and proposals made for inatitutional changes to ensure
that the present technical requirements, organization and environmental skills
are improved so that they are better able to deal with environmental issues in
the future. This Executive Summary presents the main points arising from the
environmental assessment and social impact studies.
Project Objectivea and Description
3.    The WRCP comprises a seven-year programme to improve planning and
management of the state's water resources and to improve the productivity of
irrigation. Objectives are: (i) introduce water resources planning by river
basins across all uses of water, incorporating environmental management of
water in decision processes; (ii) improve agricultural productivity through
modernization and completion of existing irrigation syatems and farmer
1 Principal consultants: Drs P. Bolton, B. B. Sunderesan, A. Hall
a/ Source: GOTN, August 1994



- 115 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 17
participation; (iii) assure sustainability of infrastructure and the
environment; and (iv) improve institutional and technical capability for
managing the state's water resources. Proposed project components would be:
(a) Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover ( involving investment in base
costs totalling Rs. 4820 million or USS 153 million; 56% of base costs);
(b) Completion Works on existing schemes (Rs 2070 million or US$ 66 million;
24% of base costs);
(c) Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research (Rs. 1100 million
or USS 35 million; 12% of base costs); and
(d) Institutional Strengthening (Rs 684 million or USS 22 million; 8% of base
costs).
4.    The Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover programme responds to the
state's need to improve water management on existing commands which are old
and in poor repair. As a result water distribution is poor resulting in
unreliable water, shortfalls in tail reaches and waterlogging at headends. It
would involve rehabilitation and modernization on about 650,000 ha comprising
about 50% of the state's surface irrigated area. The programme would be
conducted on 17 major and medium irrigation commands and 40 minor commands.
Works are confined to the existing irrigation distribution network comprising
repair and as needed additional water control structures, and repair and
selective lining of canals, plus measuring devices and a radio communications
network. Farmers would also be provided topographic assistance in their
construction of water channels for irrigating their fields. The programme is
technically similar to the successful National Water Management Project
(Credit 1770-IN) already implemented in Tamil Nadu on 150,000 ha, but involves
a two-stage investment approach and integration of farmers in investment
decisions and part of investment cost, and arrangements with Farmer Councils
for take-over by farmers of operations and maintenance of distributaries plus
association of farmers in overall scheme management. Maintenance would also
be strengthened: government funding has been increased to full levels
required, and will be continued to the required levels for sustainability of
the infrastructure.
5.    Scheme Completions involve completion works on nine existing commands to
improve availability and reliability of irrigation supplies. The works
typically involve improvement and completion of the existing irrigation and
drainage system, including additional canals and bypass channels as needed,
and supplemental storage through small reservoirs (eight reservoirs in total
with an average area of 67 ha). Total land acquisition needs amount to about
600 ha, and the associated land acquisition and economic rehabilitation
programme is described in Part II. All schemes have been subject to
individual environmental assessment and appropriate environmental safeguards
incorporated, and environmental clearance by state and central government
authorities has been obtained for each sub-project.
6.    Other project components do not involve physical works, and comprise
strengthening of water planning and environmental capabilities and associated
policy reforms, consistent with the recently formulated "Tamil Nadu State
Water Policy', and Government's objectives to manage the state's water



- 116 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 17
resources holistically; catering to both the needs of different sectors and
safeguarding the environmental sustainability of water resources.  To
implement these objectives under the project, a Water Resources Organisation
(WRO) has been created from the former irrigation wing of the Public Works
Department. WRO will be strengthened under the project to emphasise a broader
management role for state water resources and improved capability in all
technical areas; from water planning to water management. A Water Resources
Control and Review Council (WRCRC), comprising all parties involved with water
use and environmental management has also been created, and state water
planning and allocation will be implemented under the WRCRC and its technical
Secretariat, the Institute of Water Studies. Priorities for public
expenditure have also been overhauled, with emphasis now on maintenance and
water management rather than new construction.
Baseline Data
7.    The project area includes commands distributed throughout the State of
Tamil Nadu, and basin planning has state-wide coverage. The EA was based on a
thorough review of the water related environmental conditions prevailing
throughout the State. Conditions in the major river basins were examined and
a detailed assessment was made of the Bhavani river basin to provide a model
for future studies to be carried out by IWS. Comprehensive data was collected
from numerous Government and non-Government sources and extensive
consultations were held with NGOs and individuals covering all aspects of the
water related environment.
8.    Tamil Nadu with a population of 55.6 million has 7% of India's total
population; but only 4% of its land area and only 3% of its water resources,
and is thus water short relative to other states. The state's average
rainfall is 925 rn/annum, but is highly variable, both yearwise and
geographically. Tamil Nadu is affected by two monsoons, the northeast monsoon
(October to December, average 440 mm/annum) and the southwest monsoon (June to
September, 310 mm). Rainfall is highest on the coast, decreasing westwards as
the impact of the northeast monsoon diminishes. Water resources are estimated
to be 23.6 billion cubic meters of surface water and 22.3 billion cubic meters
of groundwater. The construction of tanks and reservoirs over the last 100
years has harnessed the surface water to a large extent and there is little
opportunity for further development of this nature.
9.    The soils are generally fertile and lack of suitable soils is not a
constraint to agriculture which is the principal activity in the State.
Irrigated agriculture is a key activity in the local economy, covering 2.4
million ha under canal, tank and well irrigation or 41% of the state's net
cropped area. Rlice is the main crop grown in irrigated areas, with increasing
development of groundnut, banana, sugarcane, cotton, coconut, vegetables and
other cash crops. Farm holdings are typically small, with about three-
quarters of land holdings less than 1 ha.
10.   The state comprises 17 river basins, all flowing eastwards from the
Western Ghats and the Deccan plateau. Amongst these, the major rivers are the
Cauvery, Palar, Vellar, Vaigai, Bhavani and Tambaraparani. Tamil Nadu either
contains a basin in full or is a downstream riparian. For one river, the
Cauvery, shared with upstream Karnataka, water sharing has not been agreed and
Tamil Nadu has decided to undertake no investment in disputed parts of the



- 117 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 17
basin. While basin planning in the Cauvery would be part of the project, the
WRCP contains no plans for investment in disputed parts of the Cauvery basin.
Tamil Nadu does not contain any internationally shared rivers.
11.   Approximately 95% of the surface water resources are utilized and 90% of
this for irrigated agriculture. The demand for potable water supply and water
for industry is increasing and is expected to expand significantly in the
future in line with urban and industrial growth. Gross usage will remain
dominated by agriculture, but near urban centers, municipal and industrial
needs will become important to the basins concerned. Basin planning and
allocation on a cross-sectoral basis is needed, including reallocation as
necessary to serve the state's changing needs and growing imbalances.
12.   Madras city's specific water needs are acute.  Serious water shortage
and rising population and industrialisation have necessitated severe water
rationing and recourse to bringing water in by train and lorry to supplement
meager supplies. Low pressure in pipes also results in contamination posing
health risks beyond those posed by shortage of water for washing and other
hygienic purposes, especially for poorer families. The state has two projects
under preparation for possible World Bank financing: the Veeranam Water Supply
project would bring water from Veeranam tank to Madras, and a subsequent
project would provide water supply and sanitation services to Madras using the
Krishna Water Supply Project as a source.
13.   Groundwater pumping has progressively increased and it is now estimated
that 60% of groundwater resources are utilized, mostly for irrigated
agriculture, but with significant withdrawals for urban use near major
centers. Groundwater utilization varies by basin. In a number of locations,
especially around Madras, Coimbatore and Madurai and parts of the Palar and
vaigai basins, withdrawals are causing groundwater levels to fall. In
affected coastal areas, saline intrusion is also occurring.
14.   The State has a wide variety of flora and fauna, mainly in the hilly
regions in the western ghats, and the forest areas are rich in plant and
animal life. The State has a long coastline and marine fisheries are an
important source of income. Most of the coastline is developed but there are
small areas of mangrove and a wildlife sanctuary at Point Calimere covering
1,700 ha of tidal swamps.
15.   Only 1% of Tamil Nadu's population belongs to scheduled tribes, and the
main concentrations of tribal groupa are in the hill country and will not be
affected by the project.
16.   The WRCP is not an isolated project but builds on experience under
previous interventions in the water sector, including assistance from World
Bank and other donors. In particular, the project's main component follows
closely on the experience and succeases gained from the National Water
Management Project (NWMP) funded by the World Bank.
Environmental Assessment
17.   The environmental assessment provides an overview of the water resources
sector of the State and covers issues both within and beyond the scope of the



- 118 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 17
WRCP. The findings of the environmental assessment have been taken into
account during project preparation through integration of environmental
considerations into the project design. Below is a summary of actual or
potential environmental issues that have been reviewed by the environmental.
assessment, with recommendations as appropriate on actions to be taken.
Environmental Tmpact of Project Investments
18.   The impact of the WRCP's investment components have been examined at
design stage on a scheme-by-scheme basis and with reference to the
environmental status of the existing schemes and experience with previous
similar investments. The Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover progranune is
found to be environmentally beneficial, in line with the positive experience
already gained under the National Water Management Project, where 150,000 ha
have been improved in Tamil Nadu. The rehabilitation and modernisation to
improve water management directly tackles current widespread problems of poor
water distribution. By improving water distribution, problems of excess water
in headreaches, leading to water logging and rising groundwater and potential
salinisation, would be tackled, as would the reverse problem of insufficient
or no water in tail reaches, reducing productivity and potentially causing
groundwater levels to fall, as well as reducing pressure to pump groundwater
by farmers. The project would thus have positive impact on the state's
groundwater situation. Schemes have been subject to careful hydrological
analysis, and the investments, entailing repair and improvements on the
existing distribution systems, would not cause environmental disruptions.
Sustainability of the systems, would be ensured through improved maintenance
and involvement of farmers in water management and maintenance.
19.   The Scheme Completions have each been subject to detailed environmental
analysis from the perspectives of hydrological impact, impact on flora and
fauna, forest impact, soil erosion, siltation, safety of dams and construction
practices, and found environmentally acceptable by state and central
government and the consultants. Completion of small reservoirs averaging 67
ha in size are involved in eight of the nine scheme completions. Loss of
forest land totalling 107 ha for the nine schemes combined is considered
acceptable, particularly as this impact would be greatly outweighed by the
catchment management programme to be funded under the project.  A positive
environmental impact is that the scheme completions, through the additional
storage and link canals, enable resolving present inadequacies in water
management in the commands concerned. The main environmental impact resulting
from the reservoirs and additional distribution canals is due to the need for
land acquisition (600 ha in total). Full land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation provisions have been made, as discussed in Part II.
Other Water seetor Related Tmsues
Summarised below are other environmental issues reviewed in the environmental
assessment with comments where appropriate on impact or actions included under
the WRCP.
20.   Need for Water Planning.  With surface water almost entirely utilized
and groundwater exploitation increasing, improved water resources management
is critical to the future social and economic development of the State. This
is the most important need in an environmental action plan for Tamil Nadu13



- 119 -
Annex 7
Page 6 of 17
water resources, as basin planning is central to all initiatives. A more
holistic approach is needed than hitherto in resolving water resource and
related environmental issues. Sectoral environmental issues need to be taken
into account in the preparation of river basin plans for future development.
As little potential exists for the development of new sources of supply other
than interstate water transfer and desalination, water resources will have to
be well managed and conserved if future demands are to be met. Planning and
allocation, including reallocation as needed, will in particular need to find
solutions to the growing needs of industry and domestic use, and improved
efficiency of use in agriculture. The WRCP's water planning initiatives,
already underway, would provide an important start to improved water resources
management for the state.
21.   Tmnroving Rnvironmnttal CrapAhlity in WRO. Environmental capability is
assessed to need strengthening in WRO. The institution needs capability to
handle environmental matters in all relevant aspects of its work. The EA
recommended creation of environmental units in IWS (WRO's state water planning
agency) and with Chief Engineer, Project Formulation, plus environmental cells
at the levels of the basin managers, and an environmental sub-committee in the
Water Resources Control and Review Council, together with supporting actions
to strengthen surface and groundwater hydrological measurement, laboratories
for water quality testing, supporting research actions and provision of
consultancies, training and equipment to improve technical capability, all
included under the EAP.
22.   Watpr Mana    n.  The important need for improving surface water
deliveries and drainage within existing conuands (improving productivity and
efficiency of water use, reducing pressures on rainfed land as a result of
increased output and employment in irrigated areas and increased biomass for
cattle fodder and fuel, reducing pressures for groundwater pumpir,g as a result
of reliable and equitable water supplies, correcting waterlogging/salinisation
in headreaches and inadequately drained areas) would be specifically addressed
under the project's investment programme.
23.  crri   dwatpr Prntei2n.  Better management of groundwater exploitation
is needed, and will become increasingly important over time. Whilst not
c. .Lcal over the State as a whole, there are increasing areas of over-
e -Atation. The project's investment components are not supporting
g. .;dwater development and would reduce pressures on groundwater and
ele..tricity use for pumping, as a result of more reliable and equitable
surface supplies. More broadly, however, actions were recommended for overall
groundwater sector management and included: groundwater monitoring to be
strengthened through additional measurement facilities and strengthened data
collection, processing and analysis; establishment of a groundwater regulatory
mechanism and supporting legislation to limit licenses and usage in areas of
overexploitation; and price incentives to discourage overpumping.
24.   CatehmAnt orotection.  To date, land and water management of catchments
has been on a piece-meal project by project basis which has not sufficiently
taken into account complex inter-relationships within the catchment.
Vegetative cover ranges from excellent to poor, as for instance, in parts of
the Bhavani basin where soil conservation and forestation measures are needed.
The formation of the River Basin Managers under the WRCP will lead to better
catchment management and coordination at the basin level between the numerous



- 120 -
Annex 7
Page 7 of 17
agencies involved in catchment activities. Basin plans will be drawn up which
will identify degraded catchments and propose suitable conservation measures
and address problems such as eutrophication. Funding of catchment management
actions in critical areas would be provided under the EAP through WRO
provisions to the relevant agencies after detailed plans have been prepared
and reviewed by the WRCRC'3 environmental committee and basin managers.
25.   Water Oual;ty  Water quality is becoming a serious issue in some areas.
For example, in the Palar basin industrial pollution of ground and surface
water by the tanneries needs to be regulated, effluent problems are associated
with most urban centers, and salinisation of groundwater needs monitoring and
remedial actions where appropriate. The EAP would assist in improved water
quality management through the various technical and institutional
strengthening activities: (i) the establishment of the WRCRC as the top level
body to identify problems, prepare strategies and coordinate actions with
other agencies, and the basin managers at local levels; (ii) improved
monitoring, data collection and the establishment of a central data system;
(iii) groundwater actions as discussed above; and (iv) special studies under
the research programme in problem areas.
26.   wjldlifp.  The State has abundant wildlife but not within the command
areas included in the project and there is, therefore, little possibility of
harming or enhancing it. Within the project areas the tanks are the most
beneficial habitats for wildlife, especially bird life. Those tanks which are
identified by the Wildlife Department as having significant bird populations
are designated sanctuaries and under the guidance of the Forestry Department.
WRO retains the right to control the water but enables the trees and birds to
be protected. The project investments will not have any adverse affect on
this arrangement.
27.           _        .mmunity  with rehabilitation, improved maintenance and better
water management, the WRCP is expected to have a beneficial impact on
community health by improving nutrition as a result of the greater food
production and wealth created, and by reducing the incidence of some water-
related diseases through reduction of areas of stagnant water. The
recommendation to include health officials in the WRCRC and review of basin
plans and future sub-project environmental assessment is included in the EAP.
28.    naUrgJyLe.  The WRCP is not financing groundwater development.  Impact
of the project on energy use by rural pumpsets is assessed to be towards less
consumption of energy for this purpose. This would result from the impact of
the project's systems improvement program which would improve the reliability
and equity of water distribution on half of the state's surface irrigated
area. Farmers with pumpsets in irrigated areas would have less need for
groundwater pumping, and energy use is expected to be reduced based on field
observations in already improved comnands.  Quantitative assessment of the
magnitude of this impact is, however, not available, and is a recommended
topic for research under the project's Water Resources Research Fund.
29.   Other  nrvi ronmental TsueR.  A number of other environmental issues were
examined under the EA. River  8Mohnlngy anet F1ndet{i.g was found not to be
affected by WRCP investments. WRO intends under the project to prepare E19d
control and nrotight Ma    ment Antinn PlAns under the project's water planning
programme. Sltati.n would be reduced as a result of the catchment management



- 121 -
Annex 7
Page 8 of 17
programme, and, as needed, sediment control structures at headworks, and the
stepped-up maintenance activities under the project for canal desilting.
Presence of Aquatic Weedg will be reduced under improved maintenance and
scheduling of supplies so that water is 'on" or "off'. Finally, a variety of
environmental reaearch topics were identified for the project's research
programme and have been included in the EAP
Environmental Action Plan
30.   An Environmental Action Plan has been prepared and is designed to ensure
that environmental considerations form an integral part of the duties of the
new WRO and that all opportunities for environmental enhancement are carried
beyond the planning stage into implementation. The EAP comprises the
following components, which have also been summarised in the attached matrix:
(a) State Water Policy. Environmental management features have been
incorporated in a Tamil Nadu State Water Policy prepared in 1993/94 and
approved by Government of Tamil Nadu in July 1994.  This has been prepared
consistent with the National Water Policy (Government of India, 1987) and with
the overall objectives of the Water Resources Management policy paper issued
by the World Bank in 1993. Tamil Nadu's water policy highlights the water
scarcity faced by Tamil Nadu and the need for management as a unitary
resource; by river basin, conjunctively for surface and groundwater,
integrating environmental management, planning holistically for all uses of
water, prioritizing water between sectors including drinking water and the
growing needs for industrial and urban requirements, and improving the
efficiency of water use in the agricultural sector, the largest user of water.
Specific actions discussed in the policy backstop actions relevant to WRO's
responsibilities included under the WRCP and environmental action plan.
(b)  Tnstitutional Needs. The reorganisation of WRO includes establishment of
a water planning and allocation apparatus and work schedule to plan water by
river basin and on a holistic basis. A Water Resources Control and Review
Council was created in September 1993 as the highest state body for water
planning and allocation decisions. The WRCRC is chaired by the Chief Minister
and comprises membership of all Departments connected with water use, supply
and related environmental issues. WRO's Institute of Water Studies has been
appointed Secretariat of the WRCRC and Nodal Agency for state and basin
planning. Under a revised work schedule for IWS, commenced in 1993 in
preparation for the WRCP, initial basin assessments have been carried out on
16 of Tamil Nadu's 17 river basins, and the remaining basin and a State
Framework Water Plan will be completed by December 1994. More in-depth Basin
Plans and a detailed State Water Plan will be prepared in the following three
years, and subsequently updated on a periodic basis.
Under the EAP an Environmental Committee will be established within the
WRCRC to provide specific high-level attention and expertise to environmental
matters in water planning. An Environmental unit has been established in IWS
to provide staff capability for water planning within IWS, and an
environmental unit also established with WRO's C.E. Project Formulation, which
will have responsibility for carrying out environmental impact assessments for
all future investment proposals and will ensure that all new works conform to
the statutory regulations, both Central and State Government, before work



- 122
Annex 7
Page 9 of 17
commences. WRO's Basin Managers will also have environmental cells
responsible for the functional aspects of environmental activities at field
level. The RMB cells will monitor environmental issues at the basin level and
coordinate with local government and non-government organizations and
individuals ao that environmental concerns are fully addressed by WRO. Work
will include monitoring of water quality and point pollution episodes, and
contributions to the environmental aspects of the river basin plans.
(c)   Measurement and Monitoring Capability. Capability to measure and monitor
all aspects of surface and groundwater hydrology including environmental
aspects such as water quality (salinity, organic and inorganic pollutants) and
groundwater situation will be strengthened under WRO's new Water Resources
Data Center including expanded facilities for field measurement, laboratory
equipment, and computers and other equipment for data storage, retrieval and
dissemination (to be funded under the National Hydrology Project). Under the
WRCP, WRO's Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology and Irrigation Management
and Training Institute will also be strengthened, including in aspects related
to environmental management.
(d)   rrondwatpr Manag-ement.  The following actions would be taken within
WRO's area of responsibility. Groundwater legislation would be prepared to
establish a framework for regulating new development, development restrictions
in areas where groundwater resources are threatened, licensing and setting
limits on withdrawals. A Groundwater Regulatory Directorate would be
established in WRO responsible for implementing groundwater regulatory
actions. These measures would establish the needed regulatory apparatus in
WRO to improve management of groundwater development and exploitation.
(e) Catchmant Management. The EAP includes a funding provision of Rs 60
million (US$ 2 million) for ecorestoration of impoverished catchments with
high soil erosion and siltation problems. Intensive investigation and
implementation plans would be developed in the first two years of the project
followed by channelling of funds by WRO to the concerned agencies (forest
department, agricultural engineering, agriculture, environment, etc).
(f)   Procaedures and Guidelines.  WRO will prepare procedures and guidelines
for environmental assessment and will check that environmental issues are
properly addressed at the design and implementation stages of any works
undertaken, to ensure GOI and GOTN statutory requirements are met. A code of
good construction practice will be prepared and included as part of future
construction contracts.
(g) Consultancy Services and Training. This will form an important part of
the EAP as most staff will be engineers redeployed from other tasks and will
thus initially have a limited knowledge of environmental problems.
Consultancy services will be used to assist the WRO and provide on-the-job
training, for carrying out any EIA that may be needed and for advice on the
preparation of procedures, guidelines and codes. A consultant will be
appointed as Expert Advisor (part time) to the WRO for the first three years
until the IWS can fulfil this function. Staff training and recruitment for
c6re positions has commenced. Training will include specialist training for
WRO's environmental staff, and awareness training for different staff levels
and functions for other staff. Seminars and workshops involving other
Government departments and members of the public will also be arranged to



- 123 -
Annex 7
Page 10 of 17
encourage general awareness in the state on water related environmental
issues.
(h)   Applied Research Program.  Research topics have been identified as
necessary to better understand and solve some of the sectoral problems
mentioned above. Research would cover groundwater recharge studies, pollution
assessments, wastewater reuse, catchment processes and interlinkages,
sedimentation, health hazards and other topics as appropriate. The research
will be managed by IWS and will be on a collaborative basis with involvement
of other units within WRO such as IHH, and local universities. Modest funds
have also been set aside for a twinning arrangement with an overseas institute
which would contribute technical expertise to the research program, contribute
to training and provide specialist short term consultancy inputs as required.
31.   Equipment, consultancy, training, laboratories, the ecorestoration
program and other expenses related to the above activities have been detailed
and included under the WRCP proposal, amounting in total to Rs 270 million
(USS 8.7 million).
Overall Assessment
32.   The WRCP will introduce substantial institutional changes with the
creation of a new Water Resources Control and Review Council and Water
Resources Organisation. Under this new institutional structure the focus of
activity will shift from development of new works to water resources
management. Environmental awareness and capability will be integrated into
mainstream activities through the Environmental Action Plan included under the
project. The physical works included in the project are low impact activities
which are substantially confined to the improvement of existing irrigated
command areas and will lead to more efficient and sustainable water use. The
project's limited land acquisition and economic rehabilitation needs will be
handled comprehensively, including creation of institutional capability and
comprehensive economic rehabilitation based on detailed socio-economic surveys
and action plans (refer Part II).
33.   The project is in line with the principles set forth at the Dublin
Conference on Water and the Environment for improved management of water
resources. No significant negative impacts have been identified resulting
from the project, and, if implemented according to design, the project will
lead to environmental enhancement. The Environmental Action Plan and Land
Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation program form an integral part of the
project and are aimed at ensuring this enhancement.



- 124 -
Annex 7
Page 11 of 17
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJZECT
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT SUMMARY
PART I:. - SOCIAL ISSUES
1.    The WRCP integrates in project design the objective expressed in the
Tamil Nadu State Water Policy (1994) that sustainable planning, construction,
management and maintenance of water infrastructure must involve the public and
in particular the users. By so doing, results more responsive to needs can be
obtained, the energies and talents of the non-government sector can be better
utilized, and a sense of 'ownership" develops, leading to creative use of
decision forums and better care of infrastructure.
2.    Farmer Participation.  The Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover
Programme, the project's principal component, integrates farmer participation
in the rehabilitation and modernization process, and in subsequent operations
and maintenance. Farmers have been involved from the outset of project
planning activities, and considerable interest in participation has been
evidenced. This has been fostered by WRO staff, consultants and NGOs through
a series of field based and more formal meetings and workshops. Training of
WRO staff and field extension efforts is now in a more intensive phase, in
preparation for the major effort required for this progranmne. On several
commands, farmers have already mobilized to form informal councils, and
collected funds from their members. Investment will be phased and directly
linked to the degree of farmer organization achieved. The final phase in
particular would require substantial cormitment from farmers, and would
involve turnover of operations and maintenance of distributaries to farmer
councils, duly organized as registered societies under acceptable by-laws, and
under a memorandum of understanding with WRO spelling out the rights and
obligations of each party. Prior to investment, farmers would contribute Rs
250/ha to capitalize their maintenance account, and would contribute 20%
against the investment costs of distributary linings, and handle themselves
the bulk of the construction work for watercourses and field channels.
Implementation of this programme is recognised by WRO as its major challenge,
and has already been the subject of a substantial staff familiarization and
training effort, and assistance from consultants.
3.    Public par-tiipation anA NrnO-.  Basin planning, while primarily
implemented by WRO, will involve a multi-sectoral decision forum through the
WRCRC created for this purpose, and local advisory committees at basin level
including non-governmental participation. Other components such as the
research fund, consultancy arrangements and training make extensive use of
resources available in Tamnil Nadu's universities, in India and overseas,
including a particular focus on technology transfer, necessary to WRO's
objectives to create specialization and state-of-the-art approaches to the
increasing complexities of water management in a resource constrained
situation. WRO will also sponsor seminars of various kinds to develop public
understanding of water management and environmental issues, and to tap ideas
available from the general public, academia and business sectors. NGOs will
be used as the primary party for field implementation of economic



- 125 -                      Annex 7
Page 12 of 17
rehabilitation (see below), and as community organizers assisting WRO 3taff
for farmer participation and turnover.
4.    Women and Scheduled Castes.  The interests of women and scheduled castes
have been targeted for specific care in implementation of, in particular,
farmer organization and turnover, and land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation. Features to handle this have been incorporated in both
components, in the latter through the special socio-economic surveys and
resultant tailoring of action plans answering to the specific needs of
individuals as well as cormmunities, and in both components through use of
trained community organizers, preferably from the local community.  In the
case of farmer participation, an effort is being made to staff each two-person
NGO team with a man and a woman, so that outreach will stand the best chance
of fully integrating women's interests.
5.    Poverty Alleviation.  The project is directly supportive of Tamil Nadu's
focus on poverty alleviation. Most farms in Tamil Nadu are small. The
average holding size is 1 ha, with 71% of holdings less than 1 ha, and 88%
less than 2 ha. The project would improve the incomes and living standards of
small (less than 1 ha for irrigated lands) and marginal (less than 0.5 ha)
farmers - estimated between them to form some 70% of beneficiaries - through
improved and equitable distribution of water, resulting in higher yields,
increased food production and diversification to higher value crops. About
50% (650,000 ha) of Tamil Nadu's surface irrigated area would benefit from the
project. Some 600,000 families (about 3.6 million persons) would be direct
beneficiaries, with spin-off benefits to a larger population (landless, urban
poor) through employment opportunities from more intensive agriculture and
increased and lower price food production. Employment opportunities for
landless families in the command areas would be substantially increased, as
labor needs are closely linked to crop intensification and yields.  For the
urban poor, the project's water planning component would yield benefits
through planning of future bulk water supply needs.
6     The remainder of this social assessment summarises the land acquisition
and economic rehabilitation programmue to be implemented under the project. In
preparation of this component the aims have been two-fold: first to ensure
that the individual needs of persons affected are met; and secondly, to create
capability for handling land acquisition and economic rehabilitation in the
future. The latter has involved creating institutional capability and
adjusting policies and procedures. In turn, this is expected to substantially
affect the chances for success of the first and primary objective.
Land Acquisl$-{n  -a Innnom1c RohAhilsaAtinn
7.    Tamil Nadu intends to ensure that persons affected by land acquisition
activities under the WRCP are provided with full compensation and economic
rehabilitation to enable all such families to retain or surpass their previous
standards of living. This would be achieved through implementation of land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation action plans at each site concerned.
Opportunity has also been taken, based on the recommendationa of a review of
state policy, procedures and experience, undertaken by consultants and
reviewed by the World Bank, to create a permanent institutional capability
within WRO to handle land acquisition and economic rehabilitation under WRO's



- 126 -
Annex 7
Page 13 of 17
responsibility, and to adjust policies and procedures to resolve weaknesses or
constraints in WRO's current practices.
8.    A Baseline consultants survey has reviewed all project sites to
determine the extent of land acquisition involved and the nature of
compensation and economic rehabilitation required. The survey included both
land acquisition for eight small reservoirs to be constructed, and land
acquisition and persons affected by new canals and other distribution
infrastructure. In total, about 600 ha of lands would need to be acquired for
the WRCP, distributed over nine sites as presented below. Households involved
are estimated at 603 comprising 1247 "project affected persons". About 70% of
the 600 families involved would have less than 50% of their land holding
acquired.   No village sites require resettlement and only 12 dwellings would
be affected. The survey found that actions required would be able to be
accommodated without major individual or community disruptions, as the
predominant situation involved agricultural lands only, and often only part of
the holding, and possibilities to acquire alternative lands or other income
earning opportunities were present in the local community.
9.    The baseline survey and preliminary rehabilitation plan assessments are
being followed up by preparation, by ORG consultants in association with WRO
and local administrations, of detailed socio-economic surveys and Land
Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (LAERAPs), following
guidelines provided by the World Bank. On two locations involving one family
each (Rajathopekanar and Kodumudiyar), LAERAPs were found not needed as the
land holdings are large and compensation procedures alone would apply. On the
other seven locations, two LAERAPs are finalized, three ongoing and expected
ready by September 1994, and two are commencing and expected ready in early
1995.
LAER Needs and Statub/
Sub-PrnjPect      Land An.    HoubJhnlds  PAPs  enst runt inn Cm=lAtinn
(Ha)           (Nos.)    (Nos.) Start Compl. of PNP
Mordhana           46              66        133   90/91 99/00 Sept 94.
Rajathopekanar    18                1          1   90/91 95/96 no RAP req
Sothuparai         24              35         70   85/86 98/99 Sept 94.
Poigaiyar         110             210        450   89/90 96/97 Completed
Gridhammal II      29              42         84   92/93 94/95 Jan 95.
Nambiyar          130             144        300   89/90 96/97 Completed
Kodumudiyar       104               1          1   94/95 97/98 no RAP req
Adavinainark.      72             104        208   90/91 00/01 Sept 94.
Vad. Pachayar      65              na         na   94/95 00/01 Jan 95.
Total             598             603       1247
Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Programme
10.   The programme would be implemented on the basis of the individual socio-
economic surveys and Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans
above, including strengthened implementation capability and adjustments in
policies, procedures, allowances and benefits as summarised below.
b/ Data as of June 1994. Refer Annex 9 for updated data.



- 127 -
Annex 7
Page 14 of 17
11.   Tmprovements in Tnstitutional Capahility.  To implement the WRCP's Land
Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Prograrmne, and to establish
permanent capability for future state needs in the water sector, a Land
Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Office (LAERO) has been established in
WRO, reporting to the Secretary, PWD (G.O. Ms.No.138, Feb 15, 94) and headed
by a Special Officer with experience in rural administration. The LAERO will
be directly responsible for planning, supervising and monitoring the LAERAPs,
and will also serve as the Secretariat for a State level Coordinating
Committee comprising the Secretary of PWD (Chairman), Land Administration
Commissioner, Secretaries of Rural Development, Agriculture, Livestock and
Fisheries, WRCP Director and CE/EIC WRO, and the district Collectors where
LAER is involved. At district levels, Negotiation Committees and Economic
Rehabilitation and Grievance Committees, chaired by the district Collector,
will ensure local coordination, including channelling all relevant district
development progranmes to assist with economic rehabilitation. For each LAER
site, an NGO with suitable hands-on experience in rural development and
community organisation will be contracted by LAERO to undertake primary
responsibility for implementing the economic rehabilitation programme and to
represent the interests of PAPs (rights and entitlements), organise community
participation and handle women's needs, and facilitate access to ongoing
Government development schemes. A full-time WRO official will also be
delegated at each site to provide WRO assistance. The WRCP will fund the
technical assistance and training required by the institutional changes and
activities included under the LAER and economic rehabilitation action
programme. The above arrangements follow the recommendations of the
consultants and the World Bank and have been designed to provide the
implementation capacity to effectively implement the programme.
12.   Tmrovements in Prnnedurem and Econnmin Rehabilitation.  Land
acquisition and compensation in Tamil Nadu is based on the Land Acquisition
Act of 1894 as amended in 1984, and as applied and implemented by relevant
Government Orders. Weaknesses in the present procedures cause delays in
settling land acquisition, cases of inadequate compensation, and incomplete
follow-up to ensure full economic rehabilitation. The procedures and benefits
have been amended for the WRCP.  First, land valuation by negotiated
mettlemant will be an alternative available for PAPs to the present lengthy
methods. It will enable more speed and flexibility in determining
compensation levels based on full market value and transaction costs for
purchase of fully equivalent agricultural land, thus giving more opportunity
for enhanced benefits. A Government Order (G.O.M3.No. 128; Feb 11, 1994) to
put this amendment into effect has been issued. Second, the definition of
PAPs will be adjusted, following recommendations of the World Bank, and will
include landless PAPa (encroachera, sharecroppers and tenant farmers). Third,
arrangements for land prnvis;in will be adjusted. A first option available to
marginal farmers with incomes below the poverty line would be provision of
productively comparable land-for-land with purchase assisted by the NGO. The
land would be identified by the PAPa within a well-defined geographic area
near the village or in the command area. The terms of replacement would be on
an equal basis of one acre of dryland lost to one acre of replacement dryland,
or one-half acre of replacement irrigated land. Compensation paid for the
land lost would be paid to the cost of the replacement land, with any
difference being borne by GOTN. As a second option, a farmer may elect to
receive Rs 14,000/ha of dryland lost (or ?s. 28,000/ha for irrigated land



- 128 -
Annex 7
Page 15 of 17
lost) as Rehahi1itation Grant Fund (RGF) up to a maximum of six acres of
unirrigated or three acres of irrigated land lost. The amount would be
deposited by the NGO in a joint bank account with withdrawal against signature
of the PAP, the NGO and the LAERO. Withdrawals would be linked to purchase of
productive assets such as farm animals or implements, or for self-employment,
or other income-generating activities. Fourth, both the land-for-land option
and the RGF option would be supplemented by provision of an Asset Maintenance
Grant (AMG) of Rs 500/month/family applied from date of takeover of land by
WRO when the landowner loses his right to cultivate the land, and ends with
either possession of replacement land or one year after establishment of the
joint bank account. The AMG would be to ensure that the PAPs are not obliged
to sell existing family assets pending restoration of earning ability.
Finally, through the district economic rehabilitation committees and assisted
by the NGOs, existing rural development programmes would be specifically
targeted to land acquisition sites (many prograimmes exist; eg IRDP, the
sericulture project, horticulture, dairy cooperative development, fisheries,
NABARD credit facilities, programme for development of women and children in
rural areas and various vocational training schemes). The objective would be
to create a record of tangible gain in welfare and earning capabilities for
PAPs. The remaining Government Orders relevant to the above are targeted for
issuance by September, 1994.
13.   The LAER would be supported by IDA funding of equipment, vehicles,
training and consultancies. IDA would also finance LAERO's contracts with
NGOs, including, within the contracts, the NGO's provision of rehabilitation
grant fund and aaset maintenance grant fund. LAER monitoring and special
auditing procedures would apply to ensure the RGF and AMG was used for
creation of productive assets and safeguarding of existing assets. The
consultancy assistance would include an annual review by an independent
consultant of the status of PAPs at all sites. In addition to the ongoing
work to finalize the LAERAPs, staff training is underway and an initial set of
equipment has been purchased to provide LAERO and other staff involved with
the necessary skills and facilitiea to do their work.



- 129 -
Annex 7
Page 16 of 1-7
INDIA
TAMILNADD WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROjECT
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
RECOMMENDED ACTION AND IMPACT
ISSUE /OBJECTIVE                                  ACTION                                         IMPACT
:State policies reouired,integratinq'Foruulation of 'Tamilnadu State water Policy'  Policy framework now established fully
:environmental management in Policy   IIssued in July 1994 )                             integratins Environmental  '.eeds.
'objectives
-- - --  - -- - - -- -  -- - -------   -- - - - - - --  - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - --  -- - - - - -- -  - - - - - --  - - - - - -
:Imorove  water resources             :Constituted WRCRC in Seotember 93.               :Institutions for water olanning
'planning & manaqeoent (Integrating 'Reorganisation of WRO.                             ,established.
'Eavironmental management )            Creation of River Basin Managers.                :Programne for water planning
- Establish Institutions           :IWS made as the nodal agency                     'incorDoratins environment established.
- Undertake basin and State        'for basin Dlanning. IAvril '93)
water planning and allocation  :Basin assesssments completed in 16 basins.
'Comolete  I remaining basin by December '94.
State Framework Plan to be completed
by December '94.
:Continue programme thereafter (Detailed
-             :basin olans and State Water plan)
'Improve Environmental Capability   :To constitute an Environmental Committee           :To Drovide specific hiqh level attention:
Nin planning, managesent,             !under WBCRC.                                     :and expertise to environmental matters
:monitoring, environmental assess-                                                      :in water planning.
:sent and implementation)             :Created Environmental Unit in IWS.               :Provides staff capability for water
;plannin-g within IWS.
Created Environmental Cell with CE / Projects :Responsible for carryini out EIA for all:
Formulation.                                     :future proposals.
'Environmental Cells to be zreated at            'Responsible for functionai aspects of
'basin level,                                     environmental activities at field level.
To set up laboratories at basin level.           'Monitorin; water auality and Doint
DOllution ecisodes.
:Create Water Resources Data Centre under         'Measurement and sonitoring capability
NMP.                                             :would increase.
:IHH and IMTI to be strengthened on aspects    :To handle environmental oanaqement and
'related to environmental management.             'traininq.
'Imorove water management of          'Systeos improvement,farmer participation         :Results in imorpved water distribu-
:irrigation systems ( better          :and farmer turnover.                             'tion,eauity and reliablitv of supply.
:distribution, water use efficiency, Water manaqement.                                  'Improved drainage.
'drainage and maintenance)                                                               :Reduces pressure on rainfed land
. Iomroved maintenance .                          as a result of increased outDut
:and emplovyment in irriqated areas.
Full funding of maintenance.                     :Reduces grsoundwater imbalances and
*                                                ,reduces groundwater pcuminq.
:Corrects waterlogginq and salinisation
:in headreaches and in inadeauatelv
:drained soils.
!Sustainable infrastructure.
~~~~.. .... ...... ... ....... . . .. . .  - --- - - - -- - - -- - - -- - -----:-- -- - - - - - - - - - - -- -- - -



-  130                                     Anne%  7
Page  17  of  17
INDIA
TAMILNADD WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
SECTORAL ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
RECOMMENDED ACTION AND IMPACT
ISSUE /OBJECTIVE                                 ACTION                                        IMPACT
Handle floods and Manage DrouQhts   Prepare basin flood and drouqht management         Security of life durinq floods.
:plabs.                                           Prevention of environmental da3aqe
!due to flooding.
;Helps to seet the droughts and the
:shortage of drinking water, food for
the peoole and cattle fodder,
*-------- ----------------.------------------- * ---*------------------------------------------- .....................
Citchzent Hanagement                 Drawing up of basin plans aDd identifying         Redu^es siltation,prevent3 erosion.
-                                  :degraded zatchments.                             Restortion of vegetative over.
- reduce catchment soil erosion    Intensive investigation and develo^pment           The-capacity of the reservoirs is
and siltation of reservoirs       of imoroved plans.                                maintained and designed life of
eco Restoration of impoverished  Catch uet treatments and soil conservation         oroiects is ensured.
catchients                        meatures.
Preventing Groundwater depletion   iStrengthening groundwater monitorinq.              To counteract environmental degrada-
tion due to lowering of groundwater.
Creating groundwater regulatory rechanism        Ecuitable availability of qroundvater.
:aad supporting legislation to limit              Preserves the quality of groundwater
letractioa and usage in areas                    by preventing the saline water
of overesploitation.                             intrusion.
Pricing  and metering for Pumping.               Establishes orice incentives
to econosise on groundvater use.
, -- ------------------  ----------------------------------  -------------------------------
Appliei Research to solve            Managing Research studies by IWS on              lHelps to prepare and implement !AP
!sectoral croblems                        - Wastewater reuse                            and solve sectoral crobless.
- Groundwater recharge                      I
*  Pollution assessment                     :Capacity to find solutions to
-  Catchbent processes and interlinkages   environmental Problems.
-  Sedisentation
- Health hazards etc.
Avail short teru  consultancy as required.      ;Provides short term consultancy.
:T- inninq arranements vith an Overseas          :Contributes to technical espertise to
institute. -research programmes and training.
EA Procedures and Guidelines         :Preparation and isplesention of procedures       EI procedures and quidelines
:and guidelines for environmental assessment.  ,integrated in formultion,design and
eA Cell in CE/Project For ulation establishedCconstruction.
!Avail consultancy service and        Appoint Eapert advisor lpart tise )               Belos IWS and WaO to implement RAP.
traininm                             to waO for the first 3 years.                     Staf1 caDability on envirozmental
Give specialist training to  RO's               :mutters is increased.
environmental staff.                            :3avironmental awareness it created in
Avarenest training for staff.                    other government departments and the
SemiAars and Workshops to create environmental general public.
'awarenest in Govt. dept. and the public.
,----------------------------................................................................................--------.....................






- 131 -                Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Water Resources Research Fund
1.    Tamil Nadu, through its Water Resources Organization (WRO) and a number of
related agencies will undertake new efforts in water resources planning and
management by basins, taking into account competing uses of water, irrigation
management improvements and intensive farmer participation. A large effort is
required to update knowledge and skills of WRO staff, identify problems at field
level and provide solutions through applied research. The research units within
PWD have been focused on technical aspects and need support to broaden their
research mandate to other areas like agriculture, economics, environment,water
management, and social sciences. Universities and other research institutions
offer excellent research facilities and a broad expertise in these areas, but
academic research has been often not sufficiently operations oriented.
2.    The policy, institutional and technological reforms needed for meeting the
new challenges are complex and need careful analysis, adaptive and applied
research and experimentation. The Water Resources Research Fund (WRRF) under the
WRCP would support a practical program of research to assist in the formulation
and implementation of the substantial reforms to be implemented in the water
sector.
3.    Water Resources Research Fund (WRRF): The Water Resources Research Fund
(WRRF) will fulfill an essential need under Tamil Nadu's program to modernize
management and planning of its water and land resources under WRCP. In total 3
million US$ will be earmarked to fund high quality applied research relevant to
Tamil Nadu's present and future water sector. The WRRF objectives will be to:
i)    Promote the culture of applied research among water and irrigation
professionals in the field;
ii)   Identify and support applied and problem solving research,
specifically addressed to land and water production and
sustainability in the water and irrigation sector, especially at the
river basin level;
iii) Promote research on social issues, such as farmer's and women's and
disadvantaged groups participation in field level activities and
decision making for better management; and
iv)   Promote cooperation between WRO and research institutions from Tamil
Nadu, India, and overseas.
4.    Oraanizational Framework:  The WRRF would be administered by a project
officer in the office of the Engineer in Chief (EIC). The project officer would
convene quarterly meetings, in consultation with the EIC and the Research
Advisory Committee (RAC). He will prepare invitations, and circulate proposals
and the agenda to the committee members.
5.    The Research Advisory Committee (RAC) would be established to ensure the
quality and the applied nature of the research, and to advise the Engineer in



- 132 -               Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Chief (EIC) on research projects. The RAC would not have administrative
responsibilities but provide scientific and professional advice to WRO on
research matters.  The RAC would screen the research proposals for their quality
and relevance, assess the capability of each applicant to carry out the research,
advise on modifications to the proposal as needed, review the proposed cost
submitted by the applicant, monitor the research progress and suggest mid term
corrections if necessary. Based on the number of received proposals, the RAC
would recommend a priority list of proposals to the EIC (WRO) who would make the
final decision on selection, priority and funding. The RAC would also take a
proactive role in identifying and promoting problem solving research and
technology transfers in the water sector of the state.
6.    The RAC would consist of not more than five senior experts, in addition to
the EIC (or his delegate) as Member Secretary. These experts would have
outstanding capabilities in the following areas of specialty: (i) water
resource/hydraulic engineering, (ii) agricultural science, (iii) environmental
science, (iv) economics and social science, and (v) other areas of relevance.
The members of the RAC would present a mixture of those with practical experience
and those with academic experience and at least one member with experience in the
urban and industrial sector. Members should not include active government staff.
In any situation where a RAC member is actively involved with an applicant
institution, the member would exclude himself from the committee's deliberations
on that proposal. Members would be appointed by the EIC.
7.    Methodoloav:  The RAC would have the following responsibilities:
i)    Organize workshops at Madras and especially at river basin level with
participation from reputed universities, including agricultural
universities, individual researchers, as well as water users , and
identify problems relevant to Tamil Nadu's water use and to specific
river basins;
ii)   Identify problem areas based on their experience and critical review
of water and river basin issues;
iii) Short-list research proposals and identify researchers and
institutions for support;
iv)   Publicly advertise and invite research proposals from within the
state as well as conjunctive research of state institutions with
either Indian or overseas institutions;
v)    Review the research and special study program of WRO under the
responsibility of CE Plan Formulation, IHH, IWS, and IMTI; and
vi)   Submit its recommendations to the EIC, WRO.
8.    Research proposals emanating from different streams suggested above would
be considered by the RAC, and discussed in detail with the applicants. The
proposed research should normally be not longer than 2 years, with a possible
extension to a third year. In exceptional cases the research could continue for
a fourth and final year. Each proposal should provide full justification of
estimated costs (e.g. laboratory equipment, salary of research scholars, research
assistants, enumerators etc., recurring costs for chemicals, glassware etc.,



- 133 -                   Anex 8
Page 3 of 3
costs of demonstrations and piloting, travel costs including national and
international travel but excluding the purchase of vehicles, participation in
seminars/workshops, and contingencies).
9.    The WRRF suggests priority research topics in Tamil Nadu such as:
i)    Cross-sectoral (municipal, industrial, agricultural etc.) issues in
water management and planning;
ii)   Cross-sectoral linkages between agriculture, irrigation, forestry and
land use;
iii)  Hydrology, system design and engineering;
iv)   Water resource allocation, water markets and water prices;
v)    Ground water regulation and pricing (incl. variable cost pricing and
metering);
vi)   Basin management and basin planing;
vii)  Farmer and local participation in water management and system
turnover;
viii) Role of women, marginal farmers, and other target groups in water
management and system turnover;
ix)   Water efficient irrigation systems and new technologies; and
x)    Environmental impacts of irrigation, drainage, urban and industrial
use.
10.   Research proposals submitted to the WRRF have to oriain from research and
related institutions located in Tamil Nadu. However. the WRRF actively
encouraaes research proposals jointly prepared by research institutions from
Tamil Nadu with Indian or overseas institutions. Such conjunctive research
facilitates the transfer of technologies and expertise from abroad to further
improve the water sector. An example for proposed research collaboration is a
proposal by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore and International
Food and Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), Washington on "Water Resource
Allocation: Productivity and Environmental Impacts in Tamil Nadu, India".
11.   Financina:  IDA funding of the WRRF under the WRCP would cover 100% of the
grants awarded by the EIC and 100% of honoraria of the RAC and other reasonable
RAC costs. Disbursement would be against expenditures on contracts or against
certificates of expenditures under such contracts. To enable the progressive
build-up of a permanent fund, GOTN would provide matching grants into an interest
earning account for the WRRF with contributions to the account made quarterly
equivalent to one-third of IDA disbursements in the preceding quarter.



- 134 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 9
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
LAND ACOUISITION AND ECONOMIC REHABILITATION (LAER) PLAN
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Land Acouisition and Economic Rehabilitation Action Plan (LAERAP),
to be implemented and funded under the WRCP and described below, is a
comprehensive action plan to fully address the needs of all project affected
persons (PAPs) under the WRCP. It includes: establishment of a new
institutional structure in PWD/WRO to handle land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation (LAER); revised policies and procedures for LAER including use
of negotiated purchase procedures to provide higher and speedier compensation;
revised definitions of PAPs, including landless and major children; additional
entitlements for PAPs including introduction of economic rehabilitation and
maintenance grants in addition to compensation for land acquisition; targeting
of existing government development programs for specific benefit of PAPs,
including project funding of a fisheries income-generating scheme; and
implementation, with assistance of NGOs, of site-specific land acquisition and
economic rehabilitation action plans. The program is also supported with
consultancy and training assistance, underway since early 1994, and includes
special monitoring and independent consultant evaluation procedures. While
the land acquisition needs for the WRCP are fairly small (para. 6), the
objective of the WRCP's LAERAP is to provide not only a record of tangible and
sustainable gain for the WRCP's PAPs, but to establish permanent capability
and state-wide experience for handling all future LAER in Tamil Nadu's water
sector.
2.    The paragraphs below and supporting attachments provide summary
background of LAER in Tamil Nadu, description of LAER needs, component
objectives, description of institutional strengthening measures, definitions
of PAPs, entitlements, roles of NGOs, training, project support, and
financing. A Matrix, summarizing LAER Obiectives and Actions. is at
Attachment 1. The Implementation Schedule is at Attachment 2. The new
Institutional Structure for LAER is at Attachment 3. Attachments 4 and 5
provide summary data on extent of land acauisition and proiect affected
persons. Finally, Attachment 6 summarizes the fisheries income-aenerating
scheme, also to be funded under the project. The site-specific socio-economic
surveys and LAERAPs, providing details by site and by family/PAP are in
separate supporting documentation. All policy, procedural, entitlement,
institutional (including staffing and initial training), and other measures
described in the action plan below were officially announced by Government
(Government Orders) or implemented during project preparation so as to ensure
a complete and already established basis for the implementation phase of the
LAERAP.



- 135 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 9
B. BACKGROUND
3.    Because Tamil Nadu has limited water resources, it has not had a history
of substantial resettlement due to the development of large scale reservoirs.
It is also a state which has almost completed the development of its
irrigation potential which means that there is limited scope for new
irrigation and that future emphasis will be on rehabilitation and
modernization of existing irrigation networks. The state uses the Land
Acqusition Act of 1984 (LAA) as a basis for determining land compensation,
though actual procedures may be modified by relevant Government Orders. Given
the limitation on future irrigation expansion, land acquisition needs in Tamil
Nadu are not large, but improved compensation and economic rehabilitation are
needed for all such cases. The project has provided an opportunity to
introduce policy, institutional, and procedural improvements to ensure full
compensation to and sustainable livelihoods of project affected persons
(PAPs). The improvements introduced would be of benefit both to the land
acquisition during the WRCP and for all future land acquisition cases in the
water sector.
4.    The main problem that faces project affected persons in Tamil Nadu has
been their restoration to their former living standards prior to land
acquisition. This is attributable mainly to low level of compensation
provided under the LAA and to delays in processing the land acquisition. For
small and marginal farmers, the gap between possession of the land and payment
of compensation has often resulted in a substantial loss of income and
increasing indebtedness.
5.    Under the WRCP, Tamil Nadu is committed to implementing corrective
measures to address this through: (i) creation of a permanant institutional
capability within WRO to handle land acquisition and economic rehabilitation
in the water resources sector; (ii) adjustment of its policies, procedures and
entitlements to resolve weaknesses or constraints in PWD/WRO's current
practices; and (iii) implementation, with assistance of NGOs and consultants,
of site-specific land acquisition and economic rehabilitation action plans.
C. DESCRIPTION OF LAND ACOUISITION
6.    A Baseline Survey by consultants has reviewed all project sites to
determine the extent of land acquisition involved and the nature of
compensation and economic rehabilitation required. The survey included both
land acquisition for eight small reservoirs to be constructed, and land
acquisition and persons affected by new canals and other distribution
infrastructure. In total, about 570 ha of private lands would need to be
acquired for the WRCP, plus 280 ha of government lands, primarily unused
wastelands, and 110 ha of forest lands (neither of them have any affected
persons), distributed over nine sites as presented below (Attachment 4).
Households involved are estimated at about 710 comprising 1460 PAPs
(Attachment 5). About 70% of the 711 families involved would have less than
50% of their land holding acquired. No village residential sites require
resettlement and, statewide, only 12 dwellings would be displaced by the WRCP



- 136 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 9
investments.  A number of families are losing more than 75% of their land but
with the Rehabilitation Grants and Asset Maintenance Grants being provided
under the project, it is expected that they will be able to restore their
standard of living without needing to relocate.  The survey found that actions
required could be accommodated without major individual or community
disruptions, as (except for 12 dwellings noted above) land acquisition
involved agricultural lands only, and usually only a small part of the
holding, and possibilities to acquire alternative lands or other income
earning opportunities were present in the local community.
7.    The baseline survey and preliminary rehabilitation plan assessments were
followed by preparation by consultants in association with PWD/WRO and local
administrations, of detailed socio-economic surveys and Land Acquisition and
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (LAERAPs). On two locations involving
one family each (Rajathopekanar and Kodumudiyar), LAERAPs were found not
needed as the land holdings are large and compensation procedures alone would
apply. On the other seven locations, socio-economic surveys and LAERAPs have
been completed, with one (Vadakku Pachayar) undergoing final revisions.
LAER Needs and Status
Sub-Prolect       Priv.Land Aca.Households PAPs  Construction Completion
(Ha)         (Nos.)  (Nos.) Start Compl. of RAP
Mordhana           46              89       150   90/91 99/00 Completed
Rajathopekanar    18                1         1   90/91 95/96 no RAP req
Sothuparai         24            174        250   85/86 98/99 Completed
Poigaiyar          93            203        350   89/90 96/97 Completed
Gridhammal II      18              59       260   92/93 94/95 Completed
Nambiyar          128            144        300   89/90 96/97 Completed
Kodumudiyar       104               1         1   94/95 97/98 no RAP req
Adavinainark.      72             40        150   90/91 00/01 Completed
Vad. Pachayar      65             na         na   95/96 00/01 June 1995
Total             568            711       1462
D. COMPONENT OBJECTIVES
8.    The objective of this component is to ensure that persons affected by
land acquisition under the Project are left as well off or better off than
their previous situation. To meet this objective, the following measures are
being adopted:
(a) strengthening of the institutional capacity to expedite LAER
through the establishment of a special cell for LAER within the PWD/WRO
and district level negotiations and economic rehabilitation and
grievance committees;



- 137 -
Annex 9
Page 4 of 9
(b) assistance to PAPs provided by NGOs for purchase of
productive assets, for self-employment, or for other income-
generating activities including associated funding through
economic rehabilitation and asset maintenance grants;
(c) assistance to PAPs to facilitate their access, through NGO's
assistance, to existing government poverty alleviation programs and
income-generating schemes.
E. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
9.    To strengthen PWD/WRO's capacity to deal with LAER matters, a special
cell for the land acquisition and economic rehabilitation program (LAERP) has
been established in the PWD/WRO, headed by a Special Land Acquisition and
Economic Rehabilitation Officer (LAERO) reporting directly to the Secretary,
PWD/WRO. He will be directly responsible for planning, coordinating and
monitoring land acquisition and economic rehabilitation under the project. He
will also be responsible for contracting with NGOs to carry out site-specific
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (ERAPs) for each subproject and to
oversee NGOs' functions and for setting up and providing approval for the
joint accounts established under the ERAPs. Under the special LAER officer
(at senior rank, i.e. IAS), the Cell is staffed with an Assistant Executive
Engineer, two Assistant Engineers and supporting technical and clerical staff,
plus a full- time Assistant Engineer (LAER) at each field site. A consulting
firm experienced in LAER has been assisting the LAER Cell in undertaking
socio-economic surveys, preparing land acquisition and economic rehabilitation
action plans, and training PWD/WRO staff over the past year. A consulting
firm with experience in preparing and implementing resettlement and
rehabilitation action plans would be employed during the WRCP period on a long
term contract to assist the Cell in implementing the LAER component.
10.   The LAERP Cell would serve as the secretariat for a state level
Coordinating Committee for LAER under WRCP. This Committee is chaired by the
Secretary, WRO, and has the following members: Commisssioner, Land
Administration, Secretaries of Finance and Rural Development, Development
Commissioner, WRCP Director, Engineer-in-Chief, PWD/WRO, the District
Collectors where project sites are situated, and the Special Land Acquisition
and Economic Rehabilitation Officer (member secretary).
11.   At the district level, the LAERP Cell would be supported by the
Negotiations Committee and the Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance
Committee. The Negotiations Committee, whose members consist of the District
Collector as Chairman, the District Revenue Officer, and the Assistant
Executive Engineer, LAERO, will have the authority to conduct negotiations
with landowners and/or their NGO representative to establish a full and fair
valuation of the land. The Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance Committee
would be responsible for local coordination, and monitoring the implementation
of the Rehabilitation Action Plans, including channelling all relevant
district development programs to assist with economic rehabilitation. It
would be chaired by the District Collector and would have the following



- 138 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 9
membership: Project Officer DRDA, District Revenue Officer, relevant
representatives from ongoing development programs in the district, the
Commands' Executive/Assistant Engineers, and the NGOs assisting with the
implementation of the RAPs. The Committee would also be charged with
providing a grievance mechanism to hear and determine fairly and in good
faith, and after taking into account the LAER criteria, all complaints raised
in relation to land acquisition and compensation. Attached is the
organization chart (Attachment 3).
12.   For each LAER site, an NGO with suitable hands-on experience in rural
development and community organization will be contracted by LAERO to
undertake primary responsibility for implementation of the economic
rehabilitation program and to represent the interests of PAPs (rights and
entitlements), organize community participation and handle women's needs, and
facilitate access to ongoing Government development schemes. A full-time WRO
official has been delegated at each site to provide assistance. The WRCP will
fund the technical assistance and training required by the institutional
changes and activities included under the LAER program, and fund incremental
staff needs. The above arrangements have been designed to provide the
implementation capacity to effectively implement the WRCP program and to
create a permanent capacity in Tamil Nadu for future LAER needs in the water
sector.
13.   Definition of Project Affected Person (PAP): Based on the results of the
socio-economic surveys, five categories of PAPs have been identified (the
definitions of small and marginal farmers and the poverty line are the
standard definitions used in India):
Categorv 1: Small farmers (less than 2 hectares of dry land or 1 hectare of
irrigated land) and marginal farmers (less than 1 hectare of dry land or 0.5
hectares of irrigated land)
Cateaorv 2: Landowners with incomes below the poverty line of Rs. 11,000 per
year
Cateaorv 3: Landowners losing more than 50% of their land who are not
included in Categories 1 and 2 or those landowners who have lost complete
access to their lands due to the construction of the reservoir or canals and
are unable to cultivate their lands
Cateaorv 4: Landless PAPs such as sharecroppers, encroachers and tenant
farmers
Cateaorv 5: Major children (18 years or older) of all Categories above with
the cut off date as the date of commencement of construction.



- 139 -
Annex 9
Page 6 of 9
F. ENTITLEMENTS
14.   PAPs whose land or part thereof has been acquired for the purpose of the
Project are entitled to compensation for such land acquired. Moreover, this
category of PAPs, together with the other categories, are entitled to two new
provisions under the project: Rehabilitation Grant (RG) and Asset Maintenance
Grant (AMG).
15.   ComDensation for Land Accuisition.  Under the LAA, district level
Negotiating Committees have been established for the WRCP which has the
authority to conduct negotiations with the landowners to establish a full and
fair valuation of the land. If the negotiating process does not result in
agreement ("consent award"), then land acquisition proceedings continue using
the normal procedures established under the Act. Negotiated settlement is,
however, expected to be the more commonly chosen option of PAPs as experience
using negotiated settlement has resulted in higher and faster compensation
than the standard land acquisition and compensation procedures.
16.   Additionally, two further entitlements would be provided to assist in
economic rehabilitation. The Rehabilitation Grant (RG) would assist PAPs in
acquisition of productive assets for sustainable economic rehabilitation
(para. 17). Also, for all project affected families, an Asset Maintenance
Grant (AMG) would be provided from the date of takeover of land by PWD/WRO
when the landowner loses his right to cultivate the land and ends with either
possession of replacement land or one year after establishment of the joint
bank account for the RG (para. 19).
17.   Rehabilitation Grant (RG): There are two options under the
Rehabilitation Grant. The first option available to small and marginal
farmers with incomes below the poverty line would be provision of productively
comparable land-for-land with assistance by NGO. The land would be identified
by the PAPs within a well-defined geographic area near the village or in the
command area within a specific time frame. The terms of replacement would be
on the basis of one acre of dryland lost to one acre of replacement dryland,
or one half acre of replacement irrigated land, up to a maximum of six acres
of unirrigated land or three acres of irrigated land.   Compensation paid for
the land lost would be applied to the cost of the replacement land. The
government would provide the difference between the amount compensated and the
sale price of the replacement land. The sale price would be negotiated
between a willing buyer and willing seller.
18.   As a second option, a farmer may elect to  receive, in addition to
compensation for land acquisition, a rehabilitation grant of Rs.14,000/ha of
dryland lost (or Rs.28,000/ha for irrigated land lost) up to a maximum of six
acres of unirrigated or three acres of irrigated land lost.   The amount would
be deposited by the NGO in a joint bank account with withdrawal against
signatures of the PAP, the NGO, and the LAERO. Withdrawals would be linked to
purchase of productive assets, excluding land, such as farm animals or



- 140 -
Annex 9
Page 7 of 9
agricultural implements, or for self-employment (e.g. equipment for
establishing a small business) or other income-generating activities.
19.   Asset Maintenance Grant (AMG): For all orolect affected families (PAFs)
(defined in terms of one family represented by one kitchen) choosing either
the land-for-land option or the RGF option, a supplemental Asset Maintenance
Grant (AMG) of Rs. 500 per month would be provided. Payments would start from
the date that the PWD/WRO takes over the land for construction, when the
landowner loses his right to cultivate the land, and ends with either the
possession of replacement land or one year after the opening of the joint
account for the RGF. The purpose of the AMG would be to ensure that the PAPs
are not obliged to sell existing family assets pending restoration of earning
ability. The LAERP Cell would be responsible for making these payments
through the NGOs and would include retroactive payments due.
G. ROLE OF NON-GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES (NGOS)
20.   NGOs have an important role to play in the implementation of the land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation and action plans (LAERAPs). The
LAERAPs for each subproject have been prepared by consultants who are
assisting the LAERP Cell in identifying one NGO per subproject to assist in
its implementation. For each LAER site, an NGO with suitable hands-on
experience in rural development community organization will be contracted by
LAERO to undertake primary responsibility for implementing the economic
rehabilitation programme and to represent the interest of PAPs (rights and
entitlements), organize community participation and handle women's needs.
Criteria for NGO selection are at Annex 18 of the Staff Appraisal Report.
21.   The NGOs would also work with the PAPs and the ERGC to assist the PAPs
in obtaining benefits from ongoing government poverty alleviation schemes.
The Department of Rural Development has indicated that PAPs under WRCP would
be given priority treatment under these ongoing schemes in their district.
22.   A fisheries income-generating scheme to be conducted by a Fisheries
Officer from the Fisheries Department deputed to WRO is also included
(Attachment 6). This scheme would provide freshwater fisheries and
aquaculture employment opportunities for project affected households in the
vicinity of eight small reservoirs suitable for fisheries enhancement. In
addition to the direct beneficiaries taking up fish production activities, it
is anticipated that others conducting support activities (hatchery operators,
feed suppliers, fish traders, ice suppliers, etc.) in the project area would
also be indirectly benefitted.
23.   Other ongoing government poverty alleviation schemes which have been
identified for targeting PAPs in the WRCP project area include the Integrated
Rural Development Progam (IRDP), the Development of Women and Children in
Rural Areas (DWCRA), special access to NABARD credit for target groups,
Training of Women in Agriculture (TANWA) and ongoing World Bank-supported
projects, such as the Agriculture Development Program-Tamil Nadu, the National



- 141 -
Annex 9
Page 8 of 9
Sericulture Project, and the dairy cooperative program financed by NDDB under
the Second National Dairy Project.
24.   Among the other functions of the NGOs would be:
Creating awareness amoung the PAPs of their rights and entitlements
under the WRCP, the grievance procedures, and options for economic
rehabilitation under existing government programs through meetings and
printed material;
Facilitating women's development to ensure that they are not adversely
affected by the loss of land and that they are able to take full
advantage of the economic rehabilitation program offered by the
government;
Organizing community groups to facilitate community participation in the
economic rehabilitation program, including the identification and
training of community organizers within the village.
I. TRAINING
25.   The object of training for LAER would be to provide the staff of the
subprojects in WRCP with increased knowledge and skills to deal with the
social and economic issues related to LAER. The subjects of training would be
concepts of economic rehabilitation, participatory rural appraisal, women's
development, linkage with other government schemes, community organization and
participation, and the role of NGOs. Training would also include the
preparation of model rehabilitation action plans and setting up indicators for
monitoring and evaluation. The methodology for training would be seminar
presentation, and experience-based learning through group discussions and
group work. Training has already commenced with three R&R training courses
for PWD/WRO staff completed, participatory rural appraisal techniques, and
hands-on operational training, in association with consultants undertaking the
socio-economic surveys and economic rehabilitation action plans.
J. PROJECT SUPPORT
26.   The LAER Component would be supported by IDA funding of equipment,
vehicles, training and consultancies. IDA would also finance LAERO's
contracts with NGOs, including, within the contracts, the NGO's provision of
rehabilitation grant fund. Government would finance land acquisition and
other compensation measures as well as the Asset Maintenance Grants. LAER
monitoring and special auditing procedures would apply to ensure the RGF and
AMG are used for creation of productive assets and safeguarding of existing
assets. The consultancy assistance would include an annual review by an
independent consultant of the status of PAPs at all sites. Staff training is
underway and an initial set of equipment has been purchased to provide LAERO
and other staff involved with the necessary skills and faciities to do their
work.



- 142 -
Annex 9
Page 9 of 9
K.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
27.   Total cost of the LAER component is estimated at US$4.22 million (US$3.9
million base cost and US$0.32 million physical and price contingencies)
including US$0.10 in local taxes. The breakdown of costs (refer project cost
tables for details) are as follows:
LAER Component
Percent
Local    For. Exch.    Total       to be
Cost        Cost        Cost    financed
US$ m       US$ m       US$ m     by IDA
i.  Consultants, NGO Contracts             1.74         0.2        1.94       100%
and Training
ii. Land                                   0.61        0.00        0.61        0%
iii. Equipment                             0.11        0.05        0.16        80%
iv. Vehicles                               0.10        0.02        0.12        80%
V.  Incremental LAERO staffing             1.07        0.00        1.07        83%    1/
and Operating Cost
Total Base Cost                        3.63        0.27        3.90
Physical and Price Contingencies       0.47       -0.15        0.32
Total LAER Component                   4.10        0.12        4.22
1/ On a declining basis to zero by Project Year 6.
K. ATTACHMENTS
Attachment 1 - Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Matrix
Attachment 2 - Implementation Schedule
Attachment 3 - Organizational Arrangements
Attachment 4 - Extent of Land Acquisition
Attachment 5 - Number of Project Affected Persons
Attachment 6 - Fisheries Income Generating Scheme



- 143 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page I of 7
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Land Acauisition  and Economic  Rehabilitation  Matrix
Overall objectives:
-     Ensure that project affected persons (PAPs) are as well off or better
off than their previous situation.
-     Under WRCP, an additional objective is to establish an institutional and
procedural capability for any future land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation (LAER) in the water resources sector, thus providing benefits
beyond the specific and fairly limited requirements for land acquisition
during the WRCP period.
Overall Actions:
-     Establish a complete institutional structure to handle Land Acauisition
and Economic Rehabilitation (LAER) in the Water Resources Sector. (completed).
Includes creation of a governmental structure with staff, equipment,
training, and technical assistance, coordination mechanisms, and
implementation support through NGOs.
-     Adjust policies. procedures and entitlements for PAPs to ensure full and
fair comDensation and economic rehabilitation for sustainable welfare and
livelihoods. (all actions complete/under finalization).
-     Implement land acauisition and economic rehabilitation at all sites
affected. Based on site-specific socio-economic surveys and Land Accruisition
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans (LAERAPs) (comoleted/under finalization:
LAER to be fully implemented, funded and monitored under the WRCP.
Objectives                   Actions Under WRCP
(a)   Develop the organizational          Organizational Structure Established
framework for managing land                during Prolect Preparation.  This
acquisition and economic                   comprises a management cell in WRO,
rehabilitation (LAER). Project to          assisted by a specialist consulting
provide adequate resources to              firm, a state-level coordinating
implement the LAER program.                committee, negotiations and economic
rehabilitation and grievance
committees at district levels,
special staff allocated to each
project site and use of NGOs for
field implementation of site-specific



- 144 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 7
Land Acquisition and Economic
Rehabilitation Plans (LAERAPs).
Summary details are: (i) a Special
Land Acauisition Economic
Rehabilitation Cell within WRO headed
by a Special Land Acquisition
Economic Rehabilitation Officer - at
senior (IAS) rank - reporting
directly to the Secretary WRO. The
Cell has been given direct
responsibilities for planning,
coordinating, implementing, and
monitoring all land acquisition and
economic rehabilitation under the
project, including contracting with
NGOs to carry out Economic
Rehabilitation Action Plans (ERAPs)
for each field location, and
overseeing their function and setting
up and approving joint accounts with
PAPs established under the ERAPs.
(ii) A consultina firm with
experience in preparation and
implementation of economic
rehabilitation plans would be
employed on a long-term contract to
assist the LAER Cell in implementing
this component. (iii) The LAER Cell
would also serve as secretariat for a
State Level Coordinatina Committee
for land accuisition and economic
rehabilitation under the WRCP. (iv)
At the district level, the LAERP Cell
would be supported by the
Neaotiations Committee. and the
Economic Rehabilitation and
Grievance Committee. The
Neaotiations Committee has the
authority to conduct negotiations
with landowners and their NGO
representative to establish a full
and fair valuation of the land. The
Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance
Committee would be responsible for
local coordination, monitoring and
implementation of Economic
Rehabilitation Action Plans,
including channelling all relevant
district development programs to



-145 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 7
assist with economic rehabilitation.
In addition to this function this
committee will also provide a
grievance mechanism to hear and
determine fairly and in good faith,
and after taking into account the
Land Acquisition Economic
Rehabilitation criteria, all
complaints raised in relation to land
acquisition and compensation. (v)
Special staff allocated to each
proiect site and use of NGOs for
field implementation of site-specific
LAERAP. (vi) Appropriate staffing and
fundina for office support, office
ecmuiment, vehicles, training.
consultancies and operatina costs
have been Provided under the pro-ect.
(b) Community Participation                Socio-economic surveys and
preparation of ERAPs have integrally
involved the PAPs and local
communities. This was accompanied by
special training in community
participation for WRO staff and use
of the innovatory participatory rural
appraisal (PRA) technigues. The PRA
process included transect walk,
social mapping, trend and seasonality
analysis, and triangulation as well
as extensive interviews, group
sessions and community discussions,
and was used to involve PAPs and
project beneficiaries, and GOTN
officials in a consultation process
for land valuation, compensation and
economic rehabilitation.
(c)   Integration with Host                As no village residential sites will
Population                                 require resettlement and, statewide,
only 12 dwellings would be displaced,
the issue of integration with host
population does not arise.
(d)   Socio-Economic Surveys               Census and detailed Socio-economic
surveys have been completed for
Ra-athopekanar. Poigavar, Nambivar.
Mordhana, Sothuoarai, and
Adivinainarkoil. A socio-economic



-146 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 7
survey will not be required for
Kodumudivar which is owned by a sole
proprietor. The socio-economic
surveys covered full inventories of
PAPs and their socio-economic
profile. household characteristics.
full resource base, extent of land
loss, and impact of land loss on
incomes and on public and social
infrastructure. The surveys involved
PAPs' participation and included
focus group discussions with PAPs and
community leaders.
(e)   Legal Framework                     The State uses the Land Acquisition
Act of 1984 (LAA) as a basis for
determining land compensation. In
addition, to strengthen WRO's
capacity to deal with LAER matters,
Government Orders (GOs) were issued
in February 1994 establishing (i) a
Special Land Acquisition Economic
Rehabilitation Cell within WRO, (ii)
optional use by PAPs of negotiated
settlement and establishment of
District Negotiations Committees.
Agreement has been obtained (Letter
of Development Policy) and GOs are
expected shortly for the following:
(i) establishment of District
Economic Rehabilitation and Grievance
Committees; (ii) selection criteria
for PAPs; and (iii) rehabilitation
grants and asset maintenance grants
for eligible PAPs.
(f)   Valuation of and Compensation       PAPs (personally or through an NGO
for Lost Assets and Entitlements          representing the PAPs) will have the
option to request negotiated
settlement . If it does not result in
a "consent award", then normal land
acquisition procedures are followed.
The WRCP would also provide for
Rehabilitation Grants (RG).   One
option would be provision of
productively comoarable land-for-land
identified by the PAPs within a well-
defined geographic area near the
village or in the command. The terms



- 147 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 5 of 7
of replacement would be on an equal
basis of one acre of dryland lost to
one acre of replacement dryland, or
one-half acre for replacement
irrigated land. Compensation paid for
the land lost would be applied to the
cost of replacement land and the
difference to be borne by GOTN. As a
second option a farmer may elect to
receive Rs. 14,000 of dryland lost
(or Rs. 28,000/ha for irrigated land
lost) as a rehabilitation grant, in
addition to compensation for land
acquisition, up to a maximum of six
acres of unirrigated or three acres
of irrigated land lost. The amount
would be deposited by the NGO in a
joint bank account with withdrawal
against signature of the PAP, the NGO
and the LAERO. Withdrawals would be
linked to purchase of productive
assets or for self-employment or
other income generating activities.
Both the land-for-land option and the
rehabilitation grant option would be
supplemented by an Asset Maintenance
Grant (AMG) of Rs. 500/month/family
applied from date of takeover of the
land by WRO when the landowner loses
his right to cultivate and ends with
either possession of replacement land
or one year after establishment of
joint bank account.
(g)   Access to Training, Employment       The Department of Rural Development
and Credit                                 (DRD) will target WRCP PAPS for
priority treatment under ongoing
Dovertv alleviation schemes. The
Economic Rehabilitation Action Plans
identify income-generating
opportunities for PAPs at each
subproject location. NGOs in
conjunction with the District
Economic Rehabilitation Grievance
Committees will help direct PAPs to
existing DRD programs such as the
Integrated Rural Development Program,
the Development of Women and Children
in Rural Areas, special access to



- 148 -
Annex 9
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 7
NABARD credit for target groups,
Training of Women in Agriculture and
ongoing World Bank-supported projects
such as the Agricultural Development
Project in Tamil Nadu, the National
Sericulture Project, and the dairy
cooperative program financed by the
Second National Dairy Project. A
fisheries income-generating scheme is
also included under the WRCP
specifically targeted to PAPs.
(h)   Implementation Schedule,            The Land Acauisition and Economic
Monitoring and Evaluation                 Rehabilitation Cell within WRO would
be responsible for maintaining a
system of physical and financial
reporting to track progress in land
acquisition and economic
rehabilitation. Rehabilitation
Action Plans for each subproject
would include an implementation plan
for land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation activities with clear
linkaaes with construction schedules.
Additional independent monitoring and
evaluation by consultants will be
funded under the proiect which would
include an assessment of the impact
of rehabilitation on the livelihood
of PAPs, identifying constraints to
rehabilitation, and recommending
corrective actions. Socio-economic
data obtained in the course of the
socio-economic surveys will form the
data base for an impact evaluation.
(i)   Shelter, Infrastructure and         As no village residential sites
Social Services                           require resettlement, there will be
no disruption to the communities'
access to social infrastructure and
services and no loss of accessibility
to either common property or to
surrounding villages.
(j)   Land Tenure Acquisition and         Based on the results of socio-
Transfer                                  economic surveys, one (of the five)
categories of PAPs that have been
identified were the landless:
sharecroppers, encroachers and tenant



- 149 -
Anne; 9
Attachment 1
Page 7 of 7
farmers. As such, they will be
eligible to compensation for their
customary and formal rights to common
property or non-title-based usufruct,
to rehabilitation grant funds and the
asset maintenance grants and to
economic rehabilitation under the
WRCP.



- 150 -
INDIA                                                              Annex 9
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT                                                           Attachment 2
LAER IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
'19g49i             1l99S9           _          I 9"M76 s 1d
x:Pioa Yewr 0                      Pmle Yew 1                           Y 2  d 2   nwwn
Ql Q__3  Q4 _                           Ql     =     Q4              Ql  Q2  Q3
Establlsbmwt of LAER Con
at WRO Dtecomt (GO)
AppointmotoSLMOfw
for above
tlo do iecon         y____
EstablishmesofNegodat omf
Cowmitue   t Diatrict lma   ._ 
lAEPh          forPWRO                                         I      I
staff
BaseliAeLAERAPSe
Comnleon of Socio-Fn.
Sisreys/Repmt                     L                                           
Poigaya         r           M _l
Nambiyar
sotbuparai
Adlvinanairtoil
Mordbana                                   _
Gridhamma
Vadakku Pacchayar
Participatory Rural A     Ej   :    -
Completion of Land Acquiiion
Economic Rehab.Action Pin
Poigayar
Nambiyar
AodtbuvparaidOl                    =              _      _      =      =      =       _      =      =      =      _      _
Mordbana
Gridbarnmal
Vadakku Paccbayar 
Imnplemenatonof Land Acq.
Economic Rehab.Actlon Planr
PoIlayAs        ne___
Nambiyar
Sothupwa
Adivinaabtoil
Mordhana
Gridihaunmal
Vadakkun Pacchayar
Conbtrcng of NGOs                                                                                    _                  
(Implementadon)h lhTining|   W3 3W.3
- - - -   m     m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- -- --
Monitoring and Evaluation                                          | -  l                                        O3:,4   = r0tf  1 ,
Annual Review of Budget
and Work Program             -      -                                         -
(every 4dt quarter)
Independent Consultants
Review                                           ___
A = Actual
P = Planned



- 151 -
Annex 9
INDIA                          ..Attachmrent 3
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Institutional Arrancements for Land Acauisition & Economic
Rehabilitation (LAER)
SECRETAY               *State  Level Coordinating
VWRO                  Committee
l__ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ _   Membership:
* LAERO CELL                                              Secretary WRO; Chairman
SLAERO; Secretary
Members:
- Head, Spl. Land AcqlEconomic                            Secretaries:
Rehabilitation Officer (SLAERO)                        Land Administration,
Rural Development,
* Ass't Executive Engineer                                Finance, and
* LAERO                                                   Dev. Commssioner.
WRCP EIC
I Secretariat to State Level Coord.                       District Collectors
Committee for LAER
|DISTRtICT LEVEL|
Negotiations  Committee               Economic Rehabilitation  & Grievance
Committee (ERGC)
Chairman:   District Collector
Members:   Asst. Exec. Engineer       Chairman:   District Collector
LAERr
NGO or PAP Repres.       Members:   Project Officer, DRDA
Disir. Revenue Officer               District Revenue Officer
Representative from ongoing
District          RD Programs
WRCP Commands ExecJAss't Engr.
NGO or PAP Representatives
LAER Sites
Assistant Engineer



- 152 -
Extent of Land Acquisition          Annex 9
By Type of Land             Attachment 4
(ha)
Total Area
Private     Paramboke      Forest        To be
Land       Land 1/        Land       Acquired
Subprojects                  (ha)         (ha)         (ha)          (ha)
Mordhana                      46           46           37           129
Poigayar                      93            6            0            99
Nambiyar                     128           135           0           263
Sothuparai                    24            5           15            44
Kodumudiyar                  104           50           20           174
Adivinainarkoil               72            7           17            96
Gridhammal 3/                 18            0            0            18
Rajathopekanar                18            4            7            29
Vadakku Panchayar 2/          65           31           12           108
Totals                       568           284          108          960
As a Percent of Total         59%          30%          11%          100%
1/ Government Common Lands
2/ Data extrapolated
3/ Per WRO
May-95
Source: Operations Research Group Consultants.



- 153 -
Annex 9
Number of Project Affected Persons (PAPs)        Attachment 5
No. of House-           Average            Estimated
Holds (land-           Holdings         no. of Project
Subprojects             holders)              (in ha)        Affected Persons
Nambiyar 1/                       144                  0.9                 300
Poigayar 1/                       203                  0.46                350
Mordhana 1/                        89                  1.44                 150
Sothuparai 1/                     174                  0.14                250
Adivinainarkoil 1/                 40                  1.8                  150
Gridhammal 1/                      59                  0.11                 260
Rajathopekanar 2/                  1                    18                   1
Kodumudiyar 2/                     1                   104                   1
Vadakku Panchayar 3/
Totals                            711                                      1462
1/ Socio-economic survey completed.
2/ Owned by a rich family/charitable trust.
3/ Socio-economic survey undergoing final revisions.
May-95
Source: Operations Research Group Consultants



- 154 -
Annex 9
Attachment 6
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
LAER - Fisheries Income Generating Schemel
obiective
1.    The objective of the fisheries income generating scheme would be to
develop freshwater fisheries and aquaculture employment opportunities for some
project affected households in the vicinity of 8 small reservoirs suitable for
fisheries enhancement.   The total water area for the 8 reservoirs that would
be developed by the project is 605 ha (Table 1). Also, there are 21 tanks
directly linked and below Rajathope Kanar (5 Q 130 ha), Mordhana (13 Q 2,640
ha), and Sothuparai (3 @170 ha) Reservoirs which could possibly also be
developed for fish production by the project; however, surveys remain to be
done to determine their suitability for inclusion. The income-generating
scheme as presently designed and costed is only for the 605 ha reservoir area.
In addition to the direct beneficiaries taking up fish production activities,
it is anticipated that others conducting support activities (hatchery
operators, feed suppliers, fish traders, ice suppliers, etc.) in the project
area would also be indirectly benefitted. The fisheries sub-component would
be implemented by the Water Resources Organization (WRO).
Table 1. Water Areas Proposed for Development
Reservoir           Tank        Project Affected
Proiect Area                 Area (ha)         Area(ha)      Households (no.)
Northeast Monsoon Group
Rajathope Kanar                25               130                 1
Mordhana                      110             2,640                 66
Sothuparai                     15               170                35
Southwest Monsoon Group
Adavinai Nakoil                35                                 104
Vadakku Pachiyar              185
Kodumudiyar                    50                                    1
Narmbiyar                     155                                 144
Poigaiyar                      30                                 210
Total                           605            2,940                561
Fish Production Technology
2.    The fish production strategy would involve two stages.  The first stage
would concern the culture of suitably sized fingerlings (12.5 - 15 cm) for
stocking the reservoirs and the second would involve the release and grow-out
of fingerlings to market size (0.5 - 1.5 kg each) fish of several species
stocked in a proportion that would optimally exploit the natural feeds
available in the reservoirs. The approximate stocking ratio of fish species
1The information provided in this attachment is derived from a
consultant's report "Scope for Fisheries Development in Tamil Nadu -
Resources Consolidation Project" by Dr. V. D. Singh and a World Bank
Office Memorandum dated June 19, 1994, from Ronald Zweig (ASTEN).



- 155 -
Annex 9
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 4
include catla (Catla catla) stocked at 40%, rohu (Labeo rohita) and mrigal
(Cirrhinus mrigala) stocked at 25% each, and grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon
idella) stocked at 10%. The catla, rohu, and mrigal are endemic to India and
are known as the Indian Major Carp and the grass carp is an exotic species
native to China. The grass carp consumes land and aquatic vegetation. It is
presently propagated and cultured in India, since there is no indigenous
species with the same feeding habits. All of these species are riverine and
do not successfully spawn in still waters which thus requires annual
restocking of fingerlings produced in rearing facilities with the seed derived
from hatchery produced hatchlings or fry.
3.    Fingerling Rearing.  There are three options that could be used for the
culture of fingerlings -- pond, pen, or floating cage culture. If suitable
ponds (in good condition or needing minor improvements) are available in the
vicinity of the reservoirs, it would be best to use these for the culture of
fingerlings followed by pens and then cages. If suitable areas (seasonal water
depth and appropriate soil conditions) are available, pens would be the next
best option. Successful pen culture has been demonstrated in Orissa. If
ponds are not available and pens are not feasible, floating cages could be
used. Effective cage culture techniques for fingerling production have been
developed by the Central Institute for Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA) facility
in Bangalore. For the project, calculations have been made for the pen
culture option from which the investment and operating cost provision could be
used for pond improvement (if available) or cage culture (if necessary). The
cost for pen construction is about Rs. 44,000/ha divided into 0.25 ha units
and operation is about Rs. 110,000/ha/crop, including all inputs as well as
labor. Fry (3-4 cm) of all species (para. 2) are stocked at a density of
about 250,000/ha with an estimated survival rate of 50% to 12.5-15 cm size.
Approximately 5.5 ha of pens would be required for the 605 ha reservoir area.
4.    Reservoir Fisheries. Two production models for reservoir fisheries would
be followed. The first, or Model A, would be for reservoirs 50 ha and below
(with a depth of 1-2 m) for a total area of 155 ha, and the second, Model B,
for those above 50 ha with a depth of 2-3 m with a total area of 450 ha. From
Table 1, 5 reservoirs would be managed under Model A and 3 reservoirs under
Model B. For Model A reservoirs, fingerlings would be stocked at a density of
1,500 per ha with a production target of 400 kg/ha and for Model B, stocking
would be 1,000 fingerlings per ha with a production target of 300 kg/ha/yr
with a survival rate of about 30% of the number stocked each year for both
Models. The number of fingerlings required for Model A reservoirs would be
about 233,000 and for Model B reservoirs 450,000 for a total of 683,000 (27.5
t), and the total incremental fish production at full development would amount
to about 200 t/yr at a value of approximately Rs. 3.2 million. Growth would be
the result of the fingerlings consuming natural feeds available in the
reservoirs. The types and quantities of fishing gears to be used would be
specified by the WRO, and a closed fishing season would be enacted for two
months following the stocking of fingerlings. Each year's production output,
marketed via fish traders at each site, would be evaluated to determine the
following year's stocking proportion.



- 156 -
Annex 9
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 4
Number of Potential Beneficiaries
5.    Approximately 1 boat (coracle) would be required per 7.5 ha of water
area in the Model A reservoirs and 1 coracle per 10 ha of Model B reservoirs
at a cost of about Rs. 1,500/coracle. This would amount to a total of 66
boats. If the boats, which usually have two occupants, are shared,
approximately 132 households could benefit. In addition, the 5.5 ha
fingerling rearing pens divided into 0.25 ha units, would provide employment
for 22 more households with each provided 1 coracle for pen management. The
total number of households that could be employed by the sub-component would
be 154 or between 25-30% of the estimated 561 PAHs. The average net income
would be about Rs. 14,000 per fishing household per year and about Rs. 2,600
per pen culture household for about 3 months labor. If it is not feasible for
2 PAHs to share 1 coracle, then the number of beneficiaries would be reduced
to 88 households. If the 2,940 ha of tanks were also developed, the number of
beneficiaries could be increased nearly 6 fold.
Organization and Management
6.    The implementation of the fisheries sub-component (reservoirs and pens)
would be conducted by TN Fisheries Officers deputed to the WRO. The
reservoirs, with fishing rights transferred to the WRO, would be leased for a
period of 10 years to groups of PAHs who would pay an annual lease fee. -The
annual lease fees should be set high enough to cover government management
costs, including (a) those for technical extension, management, and monitoring
of the reservoirs by district DOF officers; and (b) a fee to the TN Irrigation
Department at the rate of Rs. 2.5/ha/yr for use of the reservoirs. All fees
would be collected as a fixed, comprehensive fishing licence fee paid by each
fisher that would be paid on a quarterly basis, beginning in each reservoir's
fifth year of operation. The PAH groups would be responsible for rearing and
stocking fingerlings, harvesting fish, and clearing floating vegetation from
the reservoirs. The WRO deputed Fisheries Officers would monitor overall
fisheries management including fingerling stocking, fish landings, and weed
removal.
7.    The WRO should also identify and recruit a suitable non-governmental
organization (NGO) working in the area for a period of 4 years to assist with
the identification and organization of groups of PAHs that would lease and
manage the fishery in the reservoirs. The NGO would also assist the
beneficiaries with establishing savings accounts to cover the closed fishing
season, expenditures required for fishing licence fees, replacement costs for
coracles, nets, pens, and for fingerling production costs. Fees paid for NGO
services would be derived from "NGO Support and Beneficiary Training" (Table
2) which includes Rs. 1,000/PAH/yr for the first 4 years at each reservoir.
Technical Assistance
8.    In addition to the training provided to the beneficiaries by the
Fisheries Department and the NGO under the direction of the WRO, domestic
training (i.e. by CIFA) for the Fisheries Officers deputed to the WRO and for
local consultants from other state Fisheries Departments or private sector
enterprises in which expertize would exist for reservoir fisheries management



- 157 -
Annex 9
Attachment 6
Page 4 of 4
and fingerling rearing. A total lump sum of Rs. 930,000 has been allocated
for this TA during the first 2 years of the sub-component.
Phasing
9.    It is anticipated fisheries activities at each reservoir would be
initiated upon completion of their construction once filled with water after
the next fish spawning season. Table 2 has been organized on the basis of all
fisheries activities beginning in the same year.
Project Cost and Financing
10.   Table 2 provides investment, operating costs, and financing requirements
for the sub-component. All costs for the first 4 years would be financed by a
grant from the Project for a total of Rs. 5.4 million (US$173,000) with
estimated physical (10%) but without price contingencies for the 605 ha
reservoir area.



India                                                                               Annex 9
Tamil Nadu Watcr Resources Consolidation Project -- LAER: Fisheiues Sub-comnponent                               Attachment 6
Table 2. l!sdmated Financial Rate of Return, NPV. and Cash Flow of Proposed Fisheries Component for Eight Reservoirs Covering 604 lII (Rs. 000s)
Before
Iltm\Year                      Project       I        2         3        4        5          6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13         14       1S
Revenue
Fish(t) 1/                                                     49       99      148        197      197      197      197      197      197      197      197        197      197
Income (Rs. 16Ag) 2/                                          788    1,577    2.365      3.154    3,154    3,154    3,154    3.154    3,154    3.154    3,154      3.154    3.154
Investment Cost
Pcns (5.5 hl total)                        242                                  242                                            242                                  242      (145)
Fishing nets 3/                                               330               330                 330               330               330               330                (165)
Fbhingsboau 4/                              33                 132              132                 132               132               132               132                 (66)
NCOSuppon and BeeflclazyT lTlngS/          154      154        154     154
Conmultant and TN DOP Trining 6t           465      465
Total Base                                 894      619       616       154     704                 462               462      242      462               462        242    (376)
Phyaial Contingencies (10%)                 89       62        62        15      70                  46                46       24       46                46         24     (38)
Total                                      983      681       678      169      774                 508               508      266      508               508        266    (414)
Operating Costs
Fingerling culture costs 7/                605      605       605      605      605        605      605      605      605      605      605      605      605        605      605
DO7 Managerment -- Fbhing Licenwe /       100      too        100      100      100 100             100      100      100     100      100      100 100             100      0oo
IrrLDepaztmentRoyalty(Rs. 2.5/ha)9/          2        2         2        2        2          2        2        2        2        2        2        2        2          2        2
Paners CouncUManagement I0/                 10       10         10      10       Is         20       20       20       20       20       20       20       20         20       20
Total                                      716      716       716      716      721        726      726      726      726      726      726      726      726        726      726
NetRevenue                              (1,700)  (1,397)     (605)    691       870      2,428    1,919    2,428    i,919    2,161    1,919    2,428    1,919      2,161    2,842
Flnandcg..
OovemrmentofTaniiNadull/                 1,700   .1,397     1,394     886
Net Annual Cash Flow                                          788    1,577      870      2,428    1,919    2.428    1,919    2,161    1,919    2,428    1,919      2,161    2,428
Cumnmulatllr Cash Flow                                        788    2,365    3,235      5,663    7,582   10,010   11,930   14,091   16,011   18,438   20,358    22,519   24,947
FIRR                                      29%
NPV (Discount Rate = 12%)                4,913
1. Based on 300/kg/ho/yr for 450 ha (3 reservoin) and 400 kg/k/yr for 155 ha (5 reservoirs).   7. Based on recent experience with pen culture in Orissa and includes labor.
2. Based on farm gato prico for the same fish species from reservoirs in Orissa.                8. Licencn feo estima  for cost ofextension by TN Water Resouces and Fisheries Depti.
3. 20 kgtboat at Rs. 250/kg with useful life of 2 yens.                                         9. Charges to irrigalion deputment for use of reservoir.
4. Coracles with 2yr useful Uif @ Rls.1,500 each for two people each. PY I with 22 for pen managemenL  10. Flat 4eo estimate for fisherfol group management based on Rs. 0.1/kg flsh production,
5. Estimat (Rs.I ,OOOPA household/yr) requires breakdown for technical (DOI) and 0 & M (NCO) aspects.  11. Grant trom the Government of Tamil Nadu derived in past from The WorldB ank loan,
6. These funds rc allocated for local consultanu and local lechnical training of TN Diurict Fisheries Oficers.



- 159 -
Annex 1 0
Page 1 of 3
TNnTA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOTRCFS CONSOLIDATTON PROJECT
Terms of Reference for the Baseline Survey
1.    The objectives of the baseline survey are twofold: (i) to provide the
necessary information to assess the current situation before field implementation
of the project and (ii) to establish development performance indicators to
monitor and evaluate project success. Based on the assessment of the current
situation the baseline survey would provide simple and low cost performance
indicators to monitor project success continuously for all project areas.
Performance indicators form part of the performance review of a particular
activity to be measured against specified objectives. To gain further experience
in monitoring project success of this and other Water Resources Consolidation
Projects in India more detailed baseline surveys followed by a more detailed
monitoring program will be carried out in selected commands. The baseline survey
and the development of the performance indicators will be an interdisciplinary
product jointly produced by irrigation engineers, agricultural
scientists/economists, remote sensing specialists, and water resource managers.
2.    The following list provides guidance of possible performance indicators for
specific project activities. The necessary information for the indicators should
be obtained through the baseline survey in order to assess the current situation.
The list of indicators may not be complete, nor do all of the suggested
indicators have to be used for the monitoring process. It is essential to keep
the monitoring process as simple as possible in order to reduce the workload on
field staff.
(a)   Engineering indicators for operational performance:
i)    Actual dates of irrigation versus planned dates of irrigation;
ii)   Variations in the flow at main canal and distributary heads as a
ratio of their planned discharges;
iii) Variations in the flow at main canal and distributary tail clusters
as a ratio of their planned discharges; and
iv)   Volume of the water received at the distributary head as a ratio of
water discharged at the main canal head.
(b)   Engineering indicators for maintenance performance:
i)    Actual capacity of main canal and distributaries as a ratio of their
design capacities;
ii)   Maintenance cost per kilometer of canal/drain system maintenance
broken up in 3-4 categories of different ranges of canal sizes;
iii) Maintenance cost per hectare of command area;
iv)   Actual maintenance expenditures versus budget targets; and
v)    Actual area irrigated as a percentage of planned area.



- 160 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
(c)   Agricultural production indicators for performance of scheme completions,
rehabilitation and modernization investments:
i)    Area receiving full, partial and no canal water supplies as a ratio
of total command;
ii)   Production of three principal irrigated crops;
iii)  Changes of crop yields in relation to the previous year;
iv)   Changes in the cropping pattern in relation to the previous year;
v)    Changes of farm income in relation to the previous year;
vi)   Amount and value of the three principal crops as a ratio of water
deliveries; and
vii)  Amount of water received per crop (irrigation and rainfall) as a
ratio of crop water requirements.
(d)   Remote sensing to indicate performance of scheme completions,
rehabilitation and modernization investments at command level:
i)    Total area under irrigation; and
ii)   Changes in the cropping pattern.
(e)   Performance indicators for the institutional restructuring of WRO:
i)    Reorganizational benchmarks achieved;
ii)   Benchmarks of environmental action plan achieved;
iii)  Progress on basin/state water resource planning;
iv)   Programming and budgeting plans formulated and submitted on schedule;
v)    Annual training program for WRO personnel approved on schedule by
EIC; and
vi)   Number of senior engineers who received management training.
(f)   Performance indicators for farmer turnover program:
i)    Number of farmer councils at distributary level established and
participating:
a) in planning distributory works,
b) in joint management with WRO, and
c) and taking responsibility for O&M;
ii)   Amount of funds collected by farmer councils for maintenance work at
distributary;
iii)  Number of farmer councils requesting and involved in stage 2
improvements;



- 161 -
Page 3 of 3
iv)   Number of apex committees established and working; and
v)    Number of farmer councils having problems.
3.    The more detailed baseline surveys should cover 2 to 4 major schemes under
rehabilitation/modernization in stage 1 (for example Lower Bhavani, Periyar
Vaigai) and 2 to 4 schemes in stage 2 (for example Kodayar, Amaravathy, Sathanur,
Cumbum). This survey would involve field visits, a stratified farm survey and
intensive remote sensing support with field verification. For the detailed
baseline survey in these areas, WRO could be supported by appropriately
experienced universities and/or research institutions; for example Tamil Nadu
Agricultural University, the remote sensing center at Anna University, and other
Tamil Nadu, India or overseas institutions.



INDIA
Tamil Nladu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Cost uau ry
(USS '0001
(Rs .' 0001                                                          t      5 Total
Foreign   S Total                                    Foreign    Base
Local     Foreirn      Toa       nxcaoaa  BaseCnsza iolC   ForeiQn    Total  Sxcbsan    COstS
1. Modernization & Rehabilitation                                          4,001,010  576,786.9  4,577.602          13          54 125,031.7  16,024.6 143,056.3          13        54
2. Scheme Completion Works                                                 2,194,797  264,083.1  2,458,880           11         29  68,587.4   8,252.5  78,840.0          11        28
2. Environmental Action Plan & Land Acquisition Economic Rehaboilitation  221,502.4   70,010.6  291,513.0            24          3   6,921.9   2,187.8   9,109.8          24         3
5. Wlater Planning and Research                                            208,611.6  298,192.4  507,004.0           59          6   6,525.4   9,316.5  15,843.5          59         6
6. Institutional Strengthening                                             419J.423.0  146.a222.0  565.645.0        26           7  13.10.02  4.A6.4M   1.676ZLA.4........ 262
Total uSaSnN  COSTSJ                                                          7,045,549  1,355,295  8.400,644           16        100 220,173.4  42,353.0 262,526.4          16       100
Physical Contingencies                                                      670,066.1   98,589.5  768,675.5           13          9  20,940.2   3,080.9  24,021.1          13         9
Price Contiogencies                                                       ...LASL.2.  30.5Z38.4  2.L263.455           14         27. .JL.83I.S  3...L2IZA.JS29  05 .11               ll
Total PROJEC  COSTSS                                                          9,671,552  1,781,423 11,432,975           15        136 266,947.6  48,651.0 315,598.6          15       120
Fri. Nov 04 16:24:26 1994
a,,
:03
1-1 Project Cost Sumnary



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water ResourCes Consolidation Project
Ezpenditure Accounts by Years
(Rs. '000)
Base Cost                                            Foreign Exchange
94/95      95/96       96/97       97/98       98/99       99/00       00/01      Total        f fi    _
I. Xnvatiunt Coats
A. TSCbnical Assistance
National Consultants                  19,146.0   22,269.0   17,908.0   14,864.0   13,271.0   11,506.0    6,754.0  105,718.0                 -         -
International Consultants              7,830.0   11,260.0   16,100.0   17,410.0   16,590.0   10,540.0    9,100.0   88,830.0            100.0  88,830.0
National Study Tours                          -      375.0       495.0       600.0       600.0       600.0       600.0    3,270.0          -          -
International Study Tours              1,000.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1,200.0    1,300.0    1,300.0    8,400.0            100.0   8,400.0
National Training                      9,035.0   14,128.0   18,367.0   13,150.0   10,990.0    8,547.0    9,673.0   79,890.0             10.0   7,989.0
International Training                   200.0    7,500.0    6,110.0    6,740.0    6,150.0    4,470.0    6,680.0   37,850.0            100.0  37,850.0
Studies                               38,231.0   39,076.0   44,716.0   49,246.0   44,135.0   36,755.0   26,501.0  278,660.0            100.0 278,660.0
NGO Support to LAHR                   1,L 497.0  9..3.220A  4A.41.0 .        22..                           __._0827 .0 426.0  428 .0  37.. 9330.O  -  -
Subtotal Teclbicl Assistance              94,939.0  105,747.0  109,313.0  105,607.0   93,763.0   74,146.0   57,036.0  640,551.0            69.8 421,729.0
B. Land                                    6,234.0    9,462.0    4,958.0    2,295.0         798.0           -           -   19,747.0           -          -
C. Civil Works
Modernization & Rehabilitation       293,080.0  587,370.0  816,087.0  878,083.0  724,184.0  472,560.0  367,540.0  4,138,904             10.0 413,890.4
Scheme Completions                   388,477.0  472,817.0  429,846.0  365,832.0  344,386.0  244,165.0  169,208.0  2,414,731-    10.5 254,433.1
Buildings                             12.,890.0  260S.921.0  201.A741.0   43..118.0   19..980.0   13.000.0O          -  SS1.650i.0      10.2  O  SS.165-0.
Subtotal Civil Works                    694,447.0  1,321,108  1,447,674  1,287,033  1,088,550  729,725.0  536,748.0  7,105,285              10.2 723,488.5
D. Vehicles
Vehicles (Cars & Trucks)              10,750.0   49,050.0   31,900.0   24,700.0   11,400.0               -           -  127,800.0       20.0  25,560.0
Vehicles (Motorcycles & Bicycles)         200.0  6.501.6   11.,101.6  8.00D.0    2.0Q.0                  -           -   27.803.2        20.0   5.5.6
Subtotal Vehicles                         10,950.0   55,551.6   43,001.6   32,700.0   13,400.0              -           -  155,603.2        20.0  31,120.6
Z. Zquipw.et a Materials
Cosputers                             33,541.0   67,312.0   31,538.0   23,830.0   15,730.0    3,560.0            522.0  176,033.0       35.0  61,611.6
Heavy Equipment                        1,800.0   66,110.0  102,568.0    6,500.0    1,000.0               -           -  177,978.0       50.0  88,989.0
Materials & others                      7,283.0   14,128.0   11,755.0    2,763.0    2,130.0    1,313.0    1,180.0   40,552.0            20.0   8,110.4
Laboratory Equipment                  4.400 31.490.0    7.76I.     5.Q  6...4.0          0.n         140.0        100.0    50.615.0     40.0  20,.246.
Subtotal  quipint & Materials             47.064.0  179.040.0  153,626.0   39.,633.0   19.000.0 5..0.0L  1..80.0  445,178.0                40.2 178,9570.
Total Iavesbunt Coats                        853,634.0  1,666,909  1,758,573  1,467,268  1,215,011  808,884.0  090,586.0  8,366,364             16.2 1,350,295
II. Recurr ent Costs
B. Equipment Operation Cost                2,170.0    2,170.0    2,170.0         70.0        70.0        700.0       70.0    6,790.0           -          --
C. Staff Salaries                          8.710.0    8.866 .0 .866.0           312.0       312 .0      312.0 .      12..27.690.0              -          -                                                         a'
Total Recurrent Coats                         10.880.0   11 S036.0   11.036.0        382.0      382.0             382. 0         34.480.0          -          -                                                          (
Total SEflIUR COSTS                           864,514.0  1,677,945  1,769,609  1,467,650  1,215,893  809,266.0  595,968.0  8,400,844             16.1 1,355,295
Physical Contingencies                       77,749.3  164,332.0  171,921.5  133,678.3  106,805.0   66,484.5   47,705.1  768,675.5             12.8  98,589.5
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                   34,343.5  194,053.1  330,974.0  379,703.6  399,690.9  323,076.7  281,888.5  1,943,730                 -
Foreign                                 1.,597.5   10.,071.5   17.841.7   19.,277.5   20.677.9   17.482.1   15.999.8  102.947.9  -- 0.0 102.947.9
Subtotal Infletion                         35,941.1  204,124.6  348,815.8  398,981.1  420,368.8  340,558.8  297,888.2  2,046,678              5.0 102,947.9
Devaluation                                       -   19,172.0   38,767.2   40,861.6   44,457.4   37,967.2   35,551.6  216,777.0             94.4 204,590.5
Subtotal Price Contingencies                 35.941.1  223.296.6  387.583.0  439.842.6  464.826.2  378.526.0  333.439.9 ..2,.455AS ....13.6 307.538.4
Total  SRO3ST COSTS                           978,204.4  2,065,573  2,329,113  2,041,171  1,787,524  1,254,276  977,113.0 11,432,975             15.4 1,761,423
Taxes                                        65,861.1  155,806.4  171,420.5  139,402.4  119,117.7   80,892.2   62,421.0  794,921.3                -          -
Foreign Exchange                            146,827.9  330,654.5  372,359.5  301,244.0  263,767.5  191,213.1  155,356.5  1,761,423
Fri Nov 04 16:28:56 1994
2-1 Expenditure Accounts by Years



INDIA
Tecil Nadu Water Resources Con.alidatio. Project
Praa,sr. t Are.nga-aat.
Prar-uracact Method  sR-.  0001                                                                         -rcoremect Method (USS '000)
laternOaiticoal     Local                                                                               Ictecoatlnat l      Local
CaeAetitive   Coaiptitive          local                       CoOsultiag                               Cuapetltive   Coapetil-ve          Local                       Coa...ltiog
gidding        niddiLg        Shoosico      Porhe - F ccoC nt S--t          N.B.F.        Tctal       ..BDiddino     __cddinq         Sh..          Force Account FS-i-              N.B. F     Tctal
A. Tepihies  Asslata..
IOplee-atatloi  support                       -                                               -    315,292.6  14,745.5   330,038.1                                                                            8.657.8    454.5    9,112 3
Policy Support                                -               -                                    119,079.6                119,079.6                 -               -               -               -       3,279.7               3,279.7
Capacity Boildiag                             -               -               -               -    358,337.2             -  358,337.2                                                                 -       9,823.0           -   9,823.8
B. L.ad                                           -               -               -              -                 22,380.3    22,350.3                   -                                                                    5 -        6 -   058.5  050.3
C. Civil  bk.
Maderaisaoti/RehAbilitatioo                   -    5,551.749                  -    232,572.9                                5 -  5.81R.322             -    151,941.0                 -       6,330.9                             15- 5,271.9
Soheme Completiaa                             -    3,136,442                  -      64,009.0                 -          -  3,200.451                 -      87,020.2                 -       1,775.9                          7- 8,7963.
Buildiage                                     -    723,856.5                  -      30,160.7                 -          -  754,017.2                 -      20,811.4                 -         867.1                 -         -  21,678.5
D. VeMiac.3
C.r./Trucka                         140,743.0                 -      35,185.8                                               175,928.8         3,999.6                           9 99.9               4-                         -   4,999.5
Olotorcyrlea/aicyolea                         -               -      22,093.8                 -               -          -   22,093.8                  -               -        625.8                                                  6 -  625.8
S. UqWi.at 5 Starlil.
Coavoters &  ee.vy Eauipmeat        517,747.0 6                                               -               -             517,747.6        14,915.7                 -               -               -               -         -  14.915.7
Ocher Equipment & Materials                   -      39,661.4        39,661.4                                 -          -   79,322.9                  -      1,141.2         1.181,2                                               2,282.4
F. Oerorre- t Coat                                                -              -               -               - 39,256.3      39.256.3                                                 -              -                  1,154.3     1,154.3
TataL                                    650,490.6       9,481.709        96,941.0      326,742.6       792,709.5  76,382.1  11,432,975           18,91S.3       260,913.8         2,766.9         8,973.9       21,761.3  2,267.3  315,598.6
Fri N8v 04 17:00:46 1894
4-
1-1 Prociseet Accalust. by Pia.o.i.r.



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Proceurmant Accounts by Financiers
(R. '000)                                                                                           (USS '000)
International                                                                                        International
Development                                              Local                                       Development
The Govermment           Association                 Total             For.      (Excl.   Duties &   The Government            Association               Total            For.
Amount                 Amount         t         Amount        t         Exch.    Tax-lS          Taxes    Amount     t       Amount        t       Amount         M       EXCh.
A. Technical Assistance
Implementation Support           14,745.5         4.5  315,292.6         95.5  330,038.1           2.9 252,317.1  77,721.0             -    454.5       5.0   8,657.8         95.0   9,112.3         2.9  6,874.9
Policy Support                           -          -  119,079.6        100.0  119,079.6           1.0  69,196.6  49,883.1                       -         -   3,279.7       100.0   3,279.7         1.0  1,884.3
Capacity Building                        -          -  358.337.2        100.0  3s58337.2           3.1 21.2iL9.  140,047.3             -         -         -   9J823.8       100.0  9L82318           3.1 5.947.  4
Subtotal Technical Assistance    14,745.5            1.8  792,709.5          98.2  807,455.0          7.1 539,803.6 267,651.4             -    454.5        2.0  21,761.3        98.0  22,215.8          7.0 14,706.6
B. Land                              22,380.3      100.0            -           -   22,380.3           0.2          -  20,405.6   1,974.7    658.5    100.0               -          -     658.5         0.2         -
C. Civil Works
Modernization/Rehabilitation 581,432.2           10.0  5,232,890         90.0  5,814,322          50.9 564,227.3 4,843,082 407,012.8 15,827.2           10.0 142,444.7        90.0 158,271.9        50.1 15,359.6
Scheme Completion               320,045.1        1Q.0  2,880,406         90.0  3,200,451          28.0 310,633.6 2,665,786 224,031.6  8,879.6           10.0  79,916.5        90.0  88,796.1        28.1  8,619.0
Buildings                        75,401.7        10.0  678.615.5         90.0  754017.2            6.6  73.220.3 628.015.7  52.781.2  2.i67.9           10.0  19&.510.7       90.0  21.678.5          6.9 2.10SJ  2
Subtotal Civil Works               976,879.0        10.0  8,791,911          90.0  9,768,790         65.4 948,081.2 8,136,884 683,825.6 26,874.7           10.0 241,871.9        90.0 268,746.6         85.2 26,083.8
D. Vehicles
Cars/Trucks                      35,185.8        20.0  140,743.0         80.0  175,928.8           1.0  34,284.3 124,051.7  17,592.9    999.9           20.0   3,999.6        80.0   4,999.5         1.6    974.3
Motorcycles/Bicycles             4.418.8         20.0   17.675h1         80.0   22.093.8           0-2.2   4.JQ307  15 57SL7 .L22L 2 4       125.2      20.0       500.6      80.0      225 S         02     122.
Subtotal V - icle                    39,604.5       20.0  158,418.1          80.0  198,022.6           1.7  38,590.0 139,630.4  19,802.3  1,125.1          20.0   4,500.3        80.0   5,625.3          1.8  1,096.3
le. Equipnt & Mlaterials
Computers i Heavy Equipment  102,793.3           19.9  414,954.3         80.1  517,747 6           4.0 212,550.0 227,777.2  77,420.3  2,961.0           19.9  11,954 7        80.1  14,910.7         4.7  6,118.9
Other Equipment & Materials a     5.J 64. 6      200 0 63,458.3           80.0     79.322.9        0.7  223981A  45.026.   11S9S4    456.               20.0   1J25d 9        S0.0    .2      .2824   0.7   6455
Subtotal Eir t C        aterials  118,657.9         19.9  478,412.6          80.1  597,070.4           5.2 234,948.2 272,803.5  89,318.7  3,417.5          19.9  13,780.7        80.1  17,198.1          5.4  6,764.4
F. Recurrent Cost                  4...93.3.Sfl     12,S 621J21..2           82,A .                                                       -        A34.326.0  87.4   39.256.3  0.3  -  39.256A3  -  ..12.2i .6  87.8   1,154.3  0.4
Total                                1,177,198       10.3 10,255,778          89.7 11,432,975         100.0 1,761,423 8,876,631 794,921.3 32,670.8          10.4 282,927.8         89.6 315,598.6       100.0 48,651.0
Fri Nov 04 16:39:22 1994
0'
C-l
2-1 Procurement Accounts by Financiers



INDIA
T?il Nadu water Resources Consolidation Project
iocal/1oreigm/s3I.s  by  rLa60is6
(R   '000I                                                       musS 'nnn)
Internatio*1                                                     Iternational
Deve1oS_nt                                                       Dmclopment
Tbc nt u-ocistion ~~~~Total                                              aosnn -iTioot.1
-AML           t     -AoML=-         t       -AMMIL          t       zAEML       t      -AMunt         t           t 
I.   Foreign                       -          -  1,761,423       100.0  1,761,423         15.4         -        -  46,651.0       100.0  46,651.0       15.4
II.  Ioca  (rXcl. Taxes) 382,276.2         4.3  8,494,355         95.7  8.,76,631         77.6 10,661.7       4.4 234,276.6        95.6 244,935.4       77.6
III. Tase                 2Ua21.- 3..lQLf                -           - 2*J2L 1             7 0.  lL0                       -          - --------a ....7..2.00.221      7.0
Tota Proect                   1,177,196       10.3 10,255,778        89.7 11,432,975        100.0 32,670.8       10.4 262,927.8       89.6 315,59S.6      100.0
Fri Nov 04 16C34:41 1994
1-1 Locall/oreign/Tems by Financiers



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 1. Cheyyar Anicut (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Re. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
nase Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
949S5    95/!16    96/97    97/98    98/LLw9    99/00   -00/01   Total   Rate_ ExsLc  Rate
X. Zamwstamt Costs
A. Civil Works
Headvorks, Main Canal         1,400.0  3,800.0  6,000.0  7,700.0  4,400.0  3,000.0            - 26,300.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks, Tank Feeders          -  3,900.0  8,300.0  9,400.0  7,000.0  5,000.0            - 33,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                   -    200.0          -        -         -         -         -    200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                         -    500.0          -        -         -         -         -    500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development                 -         -         -        -         -  3.000. 0  3 000.0  6,000. 0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                 1,400.0  8,400.0 14,300.0 17,100.0 11,400.0 11,000.0  3,000.0 66,600.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:12 1994
-C
1-1 Cheyyar Anicut (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 2. Chittar (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costo
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in t)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95196    96/97    97/98    98199    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Inv-stm nt Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks                          -         -  3,000.0  4,000.0  3,000.0           -        - 10,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                     -         -  5,000.0  6,000.0  6,000.0  4,000.0           - 21,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders          -  3,000.0  3,000.0  4,000.0           -         -        - 10,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                  -    300.0          -        -         -         -        -    300.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                        -    500.0          -        -         -         -        -    500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development                -         -         -  1.000.0    500.0          -        -  1500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                       -  3,800.0 11,000.0 15,000.0  9,500.0  4,000.0            - 43,300.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:15 1994
F D
2-1 Chittar (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 3. Lower Bhavani (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                         Cont. For.   Tax
94/95      9S/96      96/97      97/9A      98/99      99/00      oo/oi               Ra_t   Exchu Rate
I. Investamnt Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main & Branch Canal             -  38,000.0  50,000.0  70,000.0  40,000.0  10,000.0               - 208,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                             -  10,000.0  25,500.0  25,500.0  25,500.0  20,500.0  10,000.0 117,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                          -   4,000.0   8,000.0            -          -          -          -  12,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development                        -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -  10.0   0.0   0.0
Total                                               -  52,000.0  83,500.0  95,500.0  65,500.0  30,500.0  10,000.0 337,000.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:18 1994
D
3-1 Lower Bhavani (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 4. Manjalar (Mod/Rehab) /a
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in U)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                    Cont. For.   Tax
94/91    95/96    96/97    97/98    9R/99    99/00    0l0/0          Total        Rate  Exchn Rate
I. lzwnvtaent Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canal         5,314.0  2,003.0  1,053.0           -         -         -         -  8,370.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                1,861.0         -         -         -         -         -         -  1,861.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders    208.0    242.0             -         -         -         -         -    450.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices               370.0         -         -         -         -         -         -    370.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                     276.0         -         -         -         -         -         -    276.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works           -         -  1,630.0          -         -         -         -  1,630.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                   511.0         -         -         -         -         -         -    5       10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                 8,540.0  2,245.0  2,683.0            -         -         -         - 13,468.0
\a Includes Rs. 9,000,000 programmed to be invested under NWMP.
Fri Nov 04 09:53:21 1994
I-
C
4-1 Manjalar (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 5. Minor Schemes (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Conts
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in W)
Phy.        Gross
Base Coat                                        Cont. For.   Tax
94/95;    95/96      96/97      97/98      9S/99      99/00      00/01      Tot-al   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investnent Costs
A. Civil Works
Main System                          -  21,000.0  30,000.0  60,000.0  35,000.0              -          - 146,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distribution Systems                 -          -          -          -  55,000.0  95,000.0 100,000.0 250,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works            -          -          -         -           -   5.n00.0  67.000.0  72.000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                         -  21,000.0  30,000.0  60,000.0  90,000.0 100,000.0 167,000.0 468,000.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:24 1994
5
5-1 Minor schemes (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 6. Palar Anicut (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      oo/oi      Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canal, & Branch Canals   1,000.0   9,400.0  19,200.0  22,400.0  13,400.0                -          -  65,400.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributories                                    -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -  10.0   0.0   0.0
System Tanks & Tank Feeders                       -   2,000.0  12,400.0  15,700.0  15,000.0  14,300.0   8,000.0  67,400.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices & Met Station                   -   7,000.0           -          -         -          -          -   7,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development                               -          -          -         -          -  14.000.0  10.000.0  24.000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                               1,000.0  18,400.0  31,600.0  38,100.0  28,400.0  28,300.0  18,000.0 163,800.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:27 1994
-l
6-1 Palar Anicut (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 7. Parambikulam Aliyar (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in )
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                        Cont. For.   Tax
94/95      95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      oo/o1      Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canal, & Branch Canals              - 111,000.0 130,000.0 209,000.0 173,000.0  50,000.0  45,500.0 718,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                                      -          -  40,000.0  40,000.0  35,000.0  35,000.0  24,500.0 174,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                           -   2,000.0   3,000.0            -          -          -          -   5,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                                   -   3,000.0   2,000.0            -          -          -           -   5,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                                         -   2,000.0           -          -                     -           -   2,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                                                               3 _  -    30.000.0  50.000.0   5000.  130.000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                                        - 118,000 0 175,000.0 249,000.0 238,000.0 135,000.0 120,000.0 1,035,000
Fri Nov 04 09:53:30 1994
7-1 Parambikulam Aliyar (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 8. Poiney Anicut (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in )
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                 Cont. For.   Tax
94/9s-L-  925/96.  96/97    97/98    98/99U 9900        0001     Toal   Rate  Exchm Rate-
I. Investzant Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canal & Branch Canal  1,400.0  4,200.0  7,200.0  5,000.0          -         -        - 17,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                               -        - 2,200.0          -        -         -        - 2,200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                    -        - 2,000.0  8,300.0  7,500.0           -        - 17,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                            -    300.0         -        -        -         -        -    300.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                                  -        -    500.0         -        -         -        -    500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development                          -        -         -        - 2000.0  100               -  3000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                          1,400.0  4,500.0 11,900.0 13,300.0  9,500.0  1,000.0          - 41,600.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:34 1994
-
8-1 Poiney Anicut (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 9. Thirukovilur Anicut & Ellis Choultry Anicut (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in W)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
-24S 9S/96              96/97    97/9R    98/99     0    0/01    -oal   Rate  Exchn Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canal, & Branch Canal           - 10,000.0 14,000.0 13,500.0           -         -        - 37,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                                  -         -    500.0         -         -         -        -    500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Systems Tanks/Tank Feeders                      -  2,000.0  3,000.0  4,000.0  4,000.0            -        - 13,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                               -    600.0          -        -         -         -        -    600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                                     -    500.0          -        -         -         -        -    500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                                   -         -    900.0         -         -         -        -    900.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Totel                                                    - 13,100.0 18,400.0 17,500.0  4,000.0           -         - 53,000.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:36 1994
m
9n
9-1 Thirukovilur Anicut & Ellis Choultry Anicut (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 10. Tholudur and Pelandurai Anicut System (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Coata
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Coat                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96        96/97     97/98      98/99      99/00      00/01     Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Spillover of NWMP Works                    41,900.0          -          -                    -                     -  41,900.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Headworks, Maincanals, & Branch Canals            -  11,500.0  14,000.0   6,000.0            -          -          -  31,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributory Lining                               -          -   4,000.0  11,000.0   5,000.0            -          -  20,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                         -          -   2,500.0   2,500.0   3,000.0            -          -   8,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                                 -   1,000.0           -          -         -          -          -   1,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                                       -   1,000.0           -          -         -          -          -   1,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                                     -      500.0  .1200.0            -         -          -          -   1.700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                              41,900.0  14,000.0  21,700.0  19,500.0   8,000.0              -          -105,100.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:39 1994
m
10-1 Tholudur and Pelandurai Anicut System (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 11. Vaigai Old Anicut (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Coat.
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     9S2/L      96/97      97/98     9S/99      99/00      00/01        Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Inveat-Ant Coats
A. Civil Works
Headworks        1,000.0   1,000.0  15,000.0  23,000.0   7,000.0  13,900.0              -  60,900.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Main Canal             -  46,000.0  65,500.0  65,700.0  61,800.0  25,400.0   7,000.0 271,400.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Tank Feeders           -  14000-0   9 600 0  12 1000          600 0          -          -  36,300.0  10.0  10 .0   7.0
Total                    1,000.0  61,000.0  90,100.0 100,800.0  69,400.0  39,300.0   7,000.0 368,600.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:42 1994
-4
-
H
11-1 Vaigai old Anicut (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 12. Amaravathy -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in )
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canals & Branch Canals  60,600.0  15,600.0  19,800.0  23,000.0   8,000.0                -          - 127,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributories                             17,600.0   6,000.0  16,000.0  16,000.0  12,000.0   9,900.0              -  77,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                         -          -          -         -          -          -          -          -  10.0   0.0   0.0
Measuring Device                            2,600.0      400.0          -          -         -          -          -   3,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Mat Station                                   300.0   1,600.0           -         -          -          -          -   1,900.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                         -          -          -         -          -   8,700.0   8,100.0  16,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                               2.6 0            -          -          -         -          -          -   2600  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                              83,700.0  23,600.0  35,800.0  39,000.0  20,000.0  18,600.0   8,100.0 228,800.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:45 1994
1-g
12-1 Amiaravathy - - Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 13. Cumbum -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in t)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                    Cont. For.   Tax
94/95   9gs/96    96/97    97/98    9B/99    99/00    00/1            rot-al   Rate_ Exch, Rate
I. Investaent Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canals & Branch Canals  6,800.0  2,780.0  7,140.0  9,120.0 14,960.0                  -         - 40,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributories                                     -         -         -         -         -  3,000.0  3,200.0  6,200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeder                           -         -    270.0    400.0    665.0    665.0             -  2,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                           3,600.0          -         -         -         -         -         -  3,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Station                                    30.0          -         -         -         -         -         -     30.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                          -         -         -         -    690.0  1,975.0  2,035.0  4,700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                               1.200.0          -         -         -         -         -         -  1200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                               11,630.0  2,780.0  7,410.0  9,520.0 16,315.0  5,640.0  5,235.0 58,530.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:48 1994
-
13-1 Cumbum -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 14. Kodayar -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %I
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95_    95/96      96/97      97/9S      98/99     99/00      o0/01      Total   Rate  Exchn Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canals & Branch Canals   7,500.0  49,100.0  59,200.0  27,300.0  11,400.0  16,900.0                 - 171,400.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                                    -      100.0   2,100.0  17,000.0  21,000.0  19,500.0   7,o000.0  66,700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                         -          -   4,400.0   9,300.0   9v00         4,900.0          -  27,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                           2,200.0   4,400.0       100.0          -          -         -          -   6,700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Stations                                      -          -          -          -   2,300.0          -          -   2,300.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                         -          -          -          -   8 200 0  10.000.0           -  18 200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                               9,700.0  53,600.0  65,800.0  53,600.0  51,900.0  51,300.0   7,000.0 292,900.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:51 1994
0o
14-1 Kodayar -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 15. Marodhanadhi -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    9          9 0        o/o1i   Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investuont Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canals & Branch Canals  1,900.0  2,725.0            -        -         -        -         -  4,625.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                            5,500.0         -  2,300.0         -         -        -         -  7,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                   100.0  1,350.0          -        -         -        -         -  1,450.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                         2,780.0         -         -        -         -        -         -  2,780.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Stations                                  5.0         -         -        -         -        -         -      5.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                        -        -         -  1,540.0         -        -         -  1,540.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                               47A2   -      -         -        -         -        -         -    475.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                             10,760.0  4,075.0  2,300.0  1,540.0          -         -        - 18,675.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:54 1994
OD
1
15-1 Marodhanadhi -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 16. Sathanur -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
ParamatArs (in I)
Phy.        Gross
B--e Cost                                      Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     954       i          97/98     98/ - 9    E         00/01   __otal   Rate  Fxhn Rate
X. Investenet Costs
A. Civil Works (mod/Rehab)
Headworks, Main Canalm & Branch Canals  18,700.0  11,850.0  21,500.0  24,800.0  16,150.0             -          -  93,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributories                                   -         -  15,000.0  18,000.0  18,000.0  15,000.0   9,640.0  75,640.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                   100.0          -          -   3,200.0   3,000.0   1,500.0   3,000.0  10,800.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                         2,100.0   3,550.0   2,000.0           -          -         -          -   7,650.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Miscellaneous                                650Q.         -          -         -          -         -          -     650.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                             21,SSO.O  15,400.0  38,500.0  46,000.0  37,150.0  16,500.0  12,640.0 187,740.0
Fri Nov 04 09:53:58 1994
1t
16-1 Sathanur -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 17. Sethiyathope (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %L
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                      Cont. For.   Tax
94/9L     gS/96      96/97        97/98      98/99   99100     00/01      Total   Rate  Exchn Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil works
Headworks, Main Canals, & Branch Canals            -  16,400.0  24,700.0  22,900.0   4,000.0            -         -  68,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                                     -         -   1,000.0   3,000.0   4,000.0   3,000.0             -  11,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                          -         -          -   1,200.0   7,000.0   3,400.0           -  11,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Drainages                                  20,000.0  12,500.0   2,500.0            -         -          -          -  35,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                                  -         -   4,100.0           -         -          -          -   4,100.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Stations                                  500.0          -          -          -         -          -         -      500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                   _-_--            -          -          -   1000.0   3         000 a0 2,200-0   6,200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                               20,500.0  28,900.0  32,300.0  27,100.0  16,000.0   9,400.0   2,200.0 136,400.0
Fri Nov 04 09:54:04 1994
l
Ix
I-
17-1 Sethiyathope (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 18. Tambaraparani -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exchm Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Headworks, Main Canals & Branch Canals   2,000.0  28,930.0  43,984.0  27,597.0  13,939.0            430.0          - 116,880.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries                                    -          -      760.0   5,756.0   7,880.0           -          -  14,396.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
System Tanks/Tank Feeders                   5,000.0  30,100.0  29,650.0  34,870.0  16,000.0  10,590.0   2,535.0 128,745.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                                 -   4,440.0   1,400.0       300.0      300.0          -          -   6,440.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Met Stations                                      -   1,100.0           -          -          -         -          -   1,100.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
On Farm Development Works                         -          -          -          - _.000.0  _.000.Q   3.830.Q  11.830.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                               7,000.0  64,570.0  75,794.0  68,523.0  42,119.0  15,020.0   6,365.0 279,391.0
Fri Nov 04 09:54:11 1994
CO
1-
18-1 Tambaraparani -- Stage 2 (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 19. Periyar Vaigai Link Canal (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in !k
Phy.        Gross
Rase Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      00/0                Rate  Exch  Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Spillover Works in Link Canal                 66,700.0          -          -          -          -         -          -  66,700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Distributaries New Works Under Link Canal             -  16,000.0  16,000.0           -          -          -         -  32,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Main Canal & Branch Canal                             -   8,600.0          -          -          -          -         -   8,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Tanks and Tank Feeders                         3,300.0  34,900.0  24,800.0            -          -          -         -  63,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Measuring Devices                                     -  lo.SO.0  19.200.0            -          -          -         - .29.700.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                                  70,000.0  70,000.0  60,000.0            -         -          -          - 200,000.0
Fri Nov 04 09:54:17 1994
19-1 Periyar Vaigai Link Canal (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 20. Farmer Turnover (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %(
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investmnet Costs
A. Technical Assistance
National Training               582.0    818.0    793.0    648.0    548.0    670.0    383.0  4,442.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
National Consultants          1,937.0  3,377.0  2,720.0  2,318.0  2,720.0  2,870.0  2,168.0 18,110.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
International Consultants           -  1,000.0  1,500.0  2,000.0  1,500.0  1,000.0  1,000.0  8,000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Study Tours                         -    375.0    495.0    600.0    600.0    600.0    600.0  3,270.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
International Study Tours  1.000.0  1.200.0  1.200,0  1.200.0  1.200.0  1.300.0  1.300.0  8.400.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance  3,519.0  6,770.0  6,708.0  6,766.0  6,568.0  6,440.0  5,451.0 42,222.0
B. Equipment
Training Material               453.0    403.0    500.0    853.0    600.0    503.0    400.0  3,712.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Office Equipment                140.0    224.0          -        -         -         -         -    364.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Audio-visual Equipment          100.0    252.0    396.0          -    396.0          -         -  1,144.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Materials                   4.50.0    5L4Q.0    660n.          660.0    780.0    660.0 __0.0  4.230.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment               1,143.0  1,419.0  1,556.0  1,513.0  1,776.0  1,163.0    880.0  9,450.0
C. Vehicles
Motorcycles                     .2Q0.0Q   300.0    500..............0  -   -         -         -  1.000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Total                                 4,862.0  8,489.0  8,764.0  8,279.0  8,344.0  7,603.0  6,331.0 52,672.0
Fri Nov 04 09:54:33 1994
co
21-1 Farmer Turnover (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 21. Equipment for O&M (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                        Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exchm Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Satellite Remote Sensing Consultants   2,080.0   2,210.0   2,450.0   2,660.0   2,940.0   2,340.0   3,600.0  18,280.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Buildings                                        -  13,115.0  17,385.0            -          -          -          -  30,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
C. Equipment
Cranes                                           -   4,200.0           -          -          -          -          -   4,200.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Machine tools                                    -          -   6,000.0           -          -          -          -   6,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Tools & Plant                                    -          -   2,000.0           -          -          -          -   2,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Machinery Tools for Fabrication                  -          -  30,000.0           -          -          -          -  30,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Hydraulic Excavator                              -   8,000.0   8,000.0            -          -          -          -  16,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Clamp Shell                                      -          -     500.0           -          -          -         -      500.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Crawler Tractor                                  -  20,000.0  20,000.0            -          -          -         -  40,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
I.C.B. Excavator                                 -  19,200.0  28,800.0            -         -          -          -  48,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Air Compressor                                   -   4,000.0   4,000.0   4,000.0             -          -          -  12,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Generator                                        -     500.0      750.0           -          -          -          -   1,250.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Concrete Vibrator                                -      46.0       46.0           -          -          -          -      92.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Water Pump                                       -       64.0      72.0           -          -          -          -     136.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Compactor                                        -     100.0      200.0           -          -          -         -      300.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Survey Station                                   -     200.0           -          -          -          -         -      200.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Precision Theodolite                             -     200.0           -          -          -         -          -      200.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Ordinary Theodalite                              -     225.0           -          -          -          -          -     225.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Automatic Level                                  -      700.0      175.0          -          -          -          -     875.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Dumpy Level                                      -     675.0      450.0           -          -          -          -   1,125.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Photocopier                                      -   1,800.0   3,000.0            -          -          -         -   4,800.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Laminators                                       -     500.0      500.0      500.0           -          -          -   1,500.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Wireless Communication Equipment                 -   4.350.0  12.080.0  15.600.0   9.960.0   3.5000-  45.490.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                                  -  64,760.0 116,573.0  20,100.0   9,960.0   3,500.0               - 214,893.0
D. Vehicles
Low Loader                                       -   1,400.0           -          -          -          -         -   1,400.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Jeep                                             -  10,000.0   7,500.0   7,500.0             -          -          -  25,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Truck                                    -   4,250.0   2,500.0            -          -         -          -   6,750.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Motor Cycles                                     -   4,000.0   6,400.0   4,000.0             -          -          -  14,400.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Cycles                                           -     201.6      201.6           -          -          -         -      403.2  10.0  20.0  10.0
Tipper Truck                                     -   7.800.0  10.400.0  10.400.0   5.200.0              -          -33.800.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                   -  27.651.6  27.001.6  21.900.0   5.20.0o              -          - n81..75.22
Total                                              2,080.0 107,736.6 163,409.6  44,660.0  18,100.0   5,840.0   3,600.0 345,426.2                                     (
X
Fri Nov 04 09:54:48 1994
22-1 Equipment for O&M (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 22. Irrigation Management Training Institute (Mod/Rehab)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in %
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95;/96    96/97    97/98   -9S/99-   99/00    oo/oi    Total   Ratrg  Exch, Rate
I. Inveatuent Costo
A. Technical A*mistance
Training Programs (National)                  1,500.0  2,000.0  3,000.0  4,000.0  3,500.0  2,000.0  2,000.0 18,000.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Management Training (National)                      -    500.0    700.0  1,000.0    700.0    300.0    300.0  3,500.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Faculty Training (National)                     200.0    500.0  1,000.0  1,000.0    800.0    500.0             -  4,000.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Production of Training Videos (National)    500 0    500 0  l OOo0  l              000.0 1.000L 0  l. ooo0     -  5Q000Q0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    2,200.0  3,500.0  5,700.0  7,000.0  6,000.0  3,800.0  2,300.0 30,500.0
B. Civil Works                                   3,000.0  1,000.0  1,000.0           -         -         -        -  5,000.0  15.0  10.0   7.0
C. Equipment                                     1,300.0  3,500.0  2,200.0  2,000.0  1,000.0             -        - 10,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
D. Vehicle                                          000          -         -         -         -         -        -    300    10.0  20.0  10.0
Total                                                 6,800.0  8,000.0  8,900.0  9,000.0  7,000.0  3,800.0  2,300.0 45,800.0
Fri Nov 04 09:55:02 1994
CD
23-1 Irrigation Management Training Institute (Mod/Rehab)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 23. Scheme Completion -- Rajathopekanar (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in %
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95196    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries            380.0         -         -        -         -        -         -    380.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works      15,617.0  9,632.0         -         -         -        -         - 25,249.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings              1.060.0         -         -        -         -        -         -  1060.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works    16.677.0  9.632.0 ..    -            -         -        -         - 26,309.0
Total                         17,057.0  9,632.0          -         -        -         -        - 26,689.0
Fri Nov 04 09:55:17 1994
'00
S
24-1 Scheme Completion -- Rajathopekanar (complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 24. Scheme Completion -- Mordhana (Complet)
Detailed Coste
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in t)
Phy.        Gross
Ban& Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/981    98/99      990         00         oa       ate, RXchn Rate-
I. Investment Costa
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries             500.0           -         -          -          -          -          -     500.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
D. Civil Works
Irrigation Works       17,843.0  81,132.0 100,683.0 100,683.0 100,683.0  60,140.0               - 461,164.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings              4.320.0            -          --        - -        -            .          4.,20.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works      22,163.0  81,132.0 100,683.0 100,683.0 100,683.0  60,140.0               - 465,484.0
C. *quipment
Squipment                      -          -         -      500.0          -          -          -     500.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
D. Vehcles
Vehicles                1.000.0           -         -          -          -          -          -   1.000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Total                           23,663.0  81,132.0 100,683.0 101,183.0 100,683.0  60,140.0              - 467,484.0
Fri Nov 04 09:55:29 1994
C-
25-1 Scheme Completion-  Mordhana (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 25. Scheme Completion -- Nambiyar (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parametera fin t)
Phy.        Gross
Bane Cmat                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94195     9s/96      96/97      97/9S      9S/99     99/0o      oO/01      Tot-al   Rate- RxchF  RAI&_
. Znveutmaut Costs
A. Tecbnieal Aw.istance
Preliminaries                                  -          -                               -                    0     0      0
S. Civil Works
Zrrigation Works       50,795.0  44,144.0  24,898.0            -          -          -         - 119,837.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings           75 0                             -    -                          - _       _..7500L   10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                           51,S45.0  44,144.0  24,898.0            -          -         -          - 120,587.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:28 1994
1-1 Scheme Completion -- Nambiyar (Couplet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 26. Scheme Completion -- Poigayar (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in W)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Inveotment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries            225.0    150.0         -         -         -        -         -    375.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works      31,202.0 37,224.0 25,535.0          -         -        -         - 93,961.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings                300.0         -         -        -         -        -         -    300.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works    31,502.0 37,224.0 25,535.0           -         -        -         - 94,261.0
C. Equipment
Equipment                    -         -         -        -         -        -         -         -  15.0   0.0   0.0
D. Vehicles
Vehicles                      -        -         -        -         -        -         -        -  10.0   0.0   0.0
Total                         31,727.0 37,374.0 25,535.0           -        -         -        - 94,636.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:31 1994
(D
2-1 Scheme Completion -- Poigayar (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 27. Scheme Completion -- Sothuparai (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in '%)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                      Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97     97/98      98/99      99/00     00/01      Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costa
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries             125.0      150.0     150.0      150.0          -          -         -      575.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works       55,095.0  74,188.0  73,558.0  57,013.0  42,912.0             -         - 302,766.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings                      -         - -.---0         34.0           -          -         -      819.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works      55.095.0  74.188.0  74.008.0  57.382.0  42.912.0             -         -303.58.0
Total                          55,220.0  74,338.0  74,158.0  57,532.0  42,912.0             -          - 304,160.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:34 1994
3
3-1 Scheme Completion -- Sothuparai (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 28. Scheme Completion -- Adavinainarkoil (Complet)
Detailed Coats
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                         Cont. For.   Tax
94/95      95196      96/97      97/98      98199      99100      00/01      Total   Rate  Exchb  Eate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries              820.0      440.0           -          -          -          -          -   1,260.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works        82,304.0 105,318.0  88,412.0  88,204.0  84,957.0  80,746.0  80,746.0 610,687.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings              3.000.0             -          -          -          -          -           -   3,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works       8S.304.0 105.318.0  88.412,0  88.204.0  84.957.0  80.746.0  80.746.0 613.687,0
Total                            86,124.0 105,758.0  88,412.0  88,204.0  84,957.0  80,746.0  80,746.0 614,947.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:37 1994
D
I4  
4-1 Scheme Completion -- Adavinainarkoil (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 29. Scheme Completion -- Vadakku Pachayar (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in _)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      oo/o1    _Toal    Rate  Exch  ERate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries           1,500.0   1,500.0           -          -          -          -          -   3,000.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works       18,424.0  49,766.0  56,861.0  51,702.0  53,434.0  30,879.0  26,062.0 287,128.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings               7.500.0   7.500.0           -          -          -          -          -  15.00.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works      25,924.0  57,266.0  56,861.0  51,702.0  53,434.0  30,879.0  26,062.0 302,128.0
C. Equipment
Equipment                 500.0      500.0- -                  -          -          -          -   1.Q000Q  15.0  50.0  15.0
Total                           27,924.0  59,266.0  56,861.0  51,702.0  53,434.0  30,879.0  26,062.0 306,128.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:39 1994
5-1 Scheme Completion -- Vadakku Pachayar (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 30. Scheme Completion -- Kodumudiyar (Complet)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     915/96     96/91      97/98      98/99     99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investnent Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Preliminaries             534.0           -         -          -          -          -          -     534.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works       62,715.0  60,013.0  54,172.0  25,461.0             -          -          - 202,361.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings               3170.0   1500.0  2.8770                -          -          -          -   7547    10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works      65.885.0  61.513.0  57 049.0  25.461.0             -          -          - 209.908.0
Total                           66,419.0  61,513.0  57,049.0  25,461.0             -         -          - 210,442.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:42 1994
06K
6-1 Scheme Completion - - Kodumudiyar (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 31. Scheme Completion -- Gridhammal II (Complet)
Detailed Coats
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in W)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate   Exch, Rate
I. Inveatment Costs
A. Technical Aasistance
Preliminaries            525.0         -         -         -         -        -         -    525.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
B. Civil Works
Irrigation Works      34,382.0         -         -         -         -        -         - 34,382.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Buildings                     -        -         -         -         -              --  10.0   0.0   0.0
Subtotal Civil Works    34,382.0               -              -         -         -        - 34,382.0
C. Equipment
Equipment                     -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -  15.0   0.0   0.0
D. Vehicles
Vehicles                      -         -        -         -         -        -                      10.0   0.0   0.0
Total                          34,907.0         -         -         -        -         -         - 34,907.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:44 1994
D
7-1 Scheme Completion -- Gridhammal II (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 32. Additional Schemes & Technical Assistance (Couplet)
Detailed Costs
(Rn. '000)
Parameter. tin *)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/s 195/                        9 C 96 /97 97 /9B U11L  UL/0 00/ 0 Total 8               kch. Rate
I. Iavestmnat Costs
A. Civil Works                    -          -          -  40,000.0  60,000.0  70,000.0  60,000.0 230,000.0   0.0  10.0   7.0
S. Techical Assis-tane
National Training              -   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0  12,000.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
National Consultants           -   2,500.0   2,500.0   2,500.0   2,500.0   2,500.0   2,500.0  15,000.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Int'l Consultants              -   2.400.0   2.400.0  2L400.0   2A400.0   2.400.0  2.400.0  14.400.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Total                                   -   6,900.0   6,900.0  46,900.0  66,900.0  76,900.0  66,900.0 271,400.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:47 1994
CO
8-1 Additional Schemes   Technical Assistance (Complet)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 33. Environmental Action Plan (RAP)
Detailed Coat.
(Rs. '000)
Paraeters (if I
Phy.        Gross
pass Coat                                       Cont. For.   Tax
__JLLrL.  9-5/96i    9C/97       97/98      98/99      99/00U                        P-O otl Rt-  EXcb- Ratae
I. lnestmnt Cost*
A. Technical Assistance
International Consultants                         -   2,500.0   2,000.0   1,500.0   1,S00.0             -          -   7,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Consultants                        1,3S0.0   1,350.0   1,350.0   1,350.0   1,350.0   1,350.0   1,300.0   9,400.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Support to NGO                                428.0      428.0     428.0      428.0      428.0      428.0      428.0   2,996.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
International Training                        200.0   1,300.0   1,300.0   1,300.0   1,300.0   1,300.0   1,300.0   8,000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Training                           1,901.0   1,981.0   1,981.0   1,981.0        991.0      991.0      830.0  10,656.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Research & Fellowship Studies                 sn0.0  .S765.0   7.680.0  7.865.0  7.,590o.  9.600.0   1.000 0  40.000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                  4,379.0  13,324.0  14,739.0  14,424.0  13,159.0  13,669.0   4,858.0  78,552.0
D. Civil Works
Laboratory Buildings                        1,200.0   4,200.0      600.0           -         -          -          -   6,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
C. Machinery a Equipment
Laboratory Equipment                              -   5,250.0   2,250.0            -         -          -          -   7,500.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Computers, Photocopiers, & Peripherals        824.0   2,266.0           -          -         -          -          -   3,090.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Field Laboratory Equipment                        -   3,750.0   1,250.0            -         -          -          -   5,000.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Mobile Laboratory                                 -  10,000.0           -          -          -         -          -  10,000.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Laboratory Equipment/Materials                  140.0 140.0                                         140.0L.-   100..0J  1.400.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Subtotal Machinery a Equipment                   964.0  21,866.0   3,640.0        140.0     140.0      140.0      100.0  26,990.0
D. Vehicles (Vans)                             1.500.o   -600.             -          -          -          -         -   2,100.0  10.0  20.0  10.0             'D
Total                                               8,043.0  39,990.0  18,979.0  14,564.0  13,299.0  13,809.0   4,958.0 113,642.0
Pri NoV 04 10:22:50 1994
9-1 Environmental Action Plan (HAP)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 34. Land Acquisition Economic Rehabilitation (EAP)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                         Cont. For.   Tax
94/95      95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Coats
A. Technical Assistance
Rehabilitation Grant                  7,183.0   4,766.0   2,550.0   1,775.0          399.0           -          -  16,673.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Maintenance Allowance                10,506.0   3,354.0            -          -           -          -          -  13,860.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
NGO Support                            1,380.0   1,391.0   1,439.0        194.0           -          -          -   4,404.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
National Consultants                  7,270.0   4,972.0   4,358.0         716.0      721.0      726.0      726.0  19,489.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
National Training                     2.890.0    .266.0  L322_.               -           -          -          -   7.978.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance            29,229.0  15,749.0  12,169.0   2,685.0   1,120.0          726.0       726.0  62,404.0
B. Land                                   6,234.0   5,462.0   4,958.0   2,295.0         798.0           -          -  19,747.0   0.0   0.0  10.0
C. Equipment
Computers/Software/Photocopying    2,657.0          300.0      662.0          -      704.0           -     462.0   4,785.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Office Furniture                         375.0       25.0          -          -           -          -          -     400.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Training Material                          5.0          -          -          -           -          -          -        5.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                        3,037.0      325.0      662.0           -     704.0           -      462.0   5,190.0
D. Vehicles                             3.750.0             -          -          -          -          -          -   3..0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Total Investment Costs                       42,250.0  21,536.0  17,789.0   4,980.0   2,622.0           726.0   1,188.0  91,091.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Staff Salaries
LAER Cell -- Madras                      156.0      312.0      312.0      312.0      312.0      312.0      312.0   2,028.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
LAER -- 7 Schemes                      8.554.0 -.--L55.0      25S.066 -                   -          -          -  25.620   0.0   0.0   0.0                     o
Subtotal Staff Salaries                   8,710.0   8,866.0   8,866.0        312.0      312.0       312.0      312.0  27,690.0                                      1
B. Equip./Veh./Other O&M                  2.170.0 __Z2J.2. .0                  70.0       70.0       70.0       70.0   6.790.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Total Recurrent Costs                        10.880.0  11.036.0  11.036.0         382.0      382.0      382.0      382.0  34.480.0
Total                                         53,130.0  32,572.0  28,825.0   5,362.0   3,004.0   1,108.0   1,570.0 125,571.0,
Fri Nov 04 10:22:54 1994
10-1 Land Acquisition Economic Rehabilitation (EAP)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 35. Eco-Restoration (EAP)
Detailed Coats
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95196    96/97    97/98    98199    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  ExCh. Ra_
I. Inveutaent Coots
A. Civil Works
Agriculture Engineering                      -         -  5,200.0  7,800.0  7,800.0  5,200.0           - 26,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Department of Horticulture                   -        -  3,640.0  4,160.0  4,160.0  3,640.0            - 15,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Department of Forest                         -        -  2,600.0  2,600.0  2,600.0  2,600.0            - 10,400.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board           -         -  1,040.0  1,560.0  1,560.0  1,040.0           -  5,200.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Department of Agriculture                    -         -   520.0 1.040.0    5.           520.0        2- 2600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                                                 -        - 13,000.0 17,160.0 16,640.0 13,000.0            - 59,800.0
Fri Nov 04 10:22:57 1994
11-1 Eco-Restoration (PAP)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 36. Institute of Water Studies (PLANRES)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in t)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94195     gs/96        96/97      97/98    98/99     99/00      Oo/01      Total   Rate  Exchn Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
International Consultants                      4,000.0   3,600.0   4,500.0   5,800.0   5,400.0   7,200.0   4,500.0  35,000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Consultants                           3,150.0   5,150.0   4,150.0   5,150.0   5,150.0   4,000.0              -  26,750.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
International Training                               -   2,200.0   2,610.0   1,990.0   2,650.0   1,170.0          380.0  11,000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Training                                720.0      761.0      741.0     621.0      601.0      286.0      160.0   3,890.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
International O&M Studies                      1,100.0   2,475.0   1,660.0   2,490.0   1,375.0         830.0          -   9,930.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Special Studies for Groundwater Modelling        900.0   2,025.0   1,350.0   2,025.0   1,125.0         675.0          -   8,100.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Agricultural Cell Studies                      1.000.0   1.000   1.000.0   1.0.0   1.000 .0            1.000.0   1.000.0   7.0.0Q   0.0 100.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                    10,870.0  17,211.0  16,011.0  19,076.0  17,301.0  15,161.0   6,040.0 101,670.0
B. Civil Works
Buildings                                      3,300.0  11,820.0  15,290.0  11,000.0   2,840.0             -          -  44,250.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
C. Machinery, Equipment, & Materials
GIS/Remote Sensing                             9,850.0  18,700.0   6,960.0   6,670.0             -         -          -  42,180.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Hydrochemical Lab                                650.0      550.0          -          -          -         -          -   1,200.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Computer/Software                              7,900.0  17,940.0   9,550.0   1,500.0   4,610.0             -          -  41,500.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Communication Equipment                          140.0      160.0       50.0          -          -         -          -     350.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Audio Visual Equipment                           10.0         600.0    4000           -          -         -          -   1.130.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Machinery, Equipment, & Materials    18,670.0  37,950.0  16,960.0   8,170.0   4,610.0                -          -  86,360.0                           O
D. Vehicles
Four 4-Wheel Drive                               500.0      500.0          -          -          -         -          -   1,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Two Cars                                         500.0          -          -          -          -         -          -      500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Two Vans                                         500.0          -          -          -          -         -          -      500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
One Minibus                                          -      500.0          -                                 -----  -  -  -  500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                 1.500   1.000.0             -          -          -          -         ---
Total                                                  34,340.0  67,981.0  48,261.0  38,246.0  24,751.0  15,161.0   6,040.0 234,780.0
Fri Nov 04 10:23:00 1994
12-1 Institute of Water Studies (PLANRES)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 37. Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology (PLANRES)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99     99/00      00/01      Tot-al   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
International Consultants                         1,750.0   1,750.0   1,750.0   1,750.0   1,750.0             -          -   8,750.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Consultants                                770.0      770.0      770.0      770.0     770.0           -         -   3,850.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
National Training                                   742.0   3,432.0   3,050.0            -          -          -         -   7,224.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
O&M Studies for Calbi. of Curved Weirs            2,300.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0  15,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
O&M for Sediment Control in Irrig. Canals         2,300.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0   2,200.0  15,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
O&M -- Irrig. Mgmt. through Remote Control        1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0  10,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
O&M for Aquatic Weeds Control                     1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0   1,500.0  10,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Special Studies - Sedimentation & WS Studies  11 4 0 1500 1450. 0                    400      14 450.0   1,4A50.0  1300.0  10 000 0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                       12,312.0  14,802.0  14,420.0  11,370.0  11,370.0   8,850.0   8,700.0  81,824.0
B. Civil Works
Buildings                                         5,000.0  11,806.0  11,676.0   7,118.0             -          -         -  35,600.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Road Works                                               -          -     500.0   1,000.0       500.0          -         -   2,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Water Supply                                        900.0   1400.0   1 200L 0            -          -          -         - _3500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                                 5,900.0  13,206.0  13,376.0   8,118.0         500.0          -          -  41,100.0
C. Equipment
Hydraulic Study Equipment                         1,600.0   3,500.0           -          -          -          -         -   5,100.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Equipment for Erosion Study                         100.0           -   2,000.0   4,400.0           -          -         -   6,500.0  15.0  40.0  15.0   s
Water Measurement Equipment                         700.0      700.0          -          -          -          -         -   1,400.0  15.0  40.0  15.0   G'
Sedimentation Survey Equipment                    1,250.0   2,000.0   2,000.0   2,000.0             -          -         -   7,250.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Computers/Software                               11,300.0   2,500.0           -          -          -          -         -  13,800.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Office/Documentation Equipment                    2,900.0   1,800.0       300.0          -          -          -         -   5,000.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
General Equipment                                 1,900.0   1,200.0           -          -          -          -         -   3,100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Communication                                       200.0           -         -          -          -          -         -      200.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Library Equipment                                   600Q0   1,250.0       600 0      600.0     6000            -         -   135.0.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                                  20,550.0  12,950.0   4,900.0   7,000.0         600.0          -          -  46,000.0
D. Vehicles
Staff Car                                           300.0          -          -          -          -         -          -      300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Vans                                                600.0      600.0          -          -          -          -         -   1,200.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Lorrys                                              500.0           -         -          -          -          -         -      500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Mini Buses                                               -     400.0      400.0          -          -          -         -      800.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Jeeps                                               5000            -         -          -          -          -         -      500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                    1I900.0   1 000.0       400.0          -          -          -          -      000
Total                                                     40,662.0  41,958.0  33,096.0  26,488.0  12,470.0   8,850.0   8,700.0 172,224.0                           >
Fri Nov 04 10:23:09 1994                                                                                                                                           _
13-1 Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology (PLANRES)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 38. Water Resource Research Fund (PLANRES)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in W)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                        Cont. For.   Tax
94/95     95/96      96/97      97/98      98/99      9 0        00         Tota    Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
International Studies   2,857.0   2,857.0   2,857.0   2,857.0   2,857.0   2,857.0   2,858.0  20,000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Studies         112429I0  11  429-0  11L429A 0  11J429.0  112428S0  11L428.0  11 428L 0  80J 000f   0   0.0 100.0   0.0
Total                            14,286.0  14,286.0  14,286.0  14,286.0  14,285.0  14,285.0  14,286.0 100,000.0
Fri Nov 04 10:23:15 1994
m
14-1 Water Resource Research Fund (PLANRES)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 39. HQ Engineer-in-Chief Office (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    oo/o1    Total   Rate  Exch*  Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Renovated Space                                        -  1,080.0 10,080.0  6,840.0          -         -        - 18,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Refurbishing Old Space                                 -  3000.0  3.000.0           -        -         -        -  6.000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                                      -  4,080.0 13,080.0  6,840.0          -         -        - 24,000.0
B. Machinery & Equipment
MIS Software and hardware                              -  3,560.0    880.0      30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0  4,560.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Communications Equipment                           500.0        -         -         -        -         -        -    500.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Equipment for Regulatory                           400.0        -         -         -        -         -        -    400.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Machinery & Equipment                        900.0  3,560.0    880.0       30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0  5,460.0
C. Vehicles
Four-Wheel Drive                                       -    500.0         -         -        -         -        -    500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Cars                                                   -    500.0         -         -        -         -        -    500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Van                                        ----    500 0                                                      500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                         -  1,500.0         -         -        -         -         -  1,500.0
D. Technical Assistance
Foreign Consultants                                    -    200.0    400.0    200.0          -         -        -    800.0   0.0 100.0   0.0               I
Local Consultants (MIS/Cost Accounting, etc)           -    200.0    200.0    200.0          -         -        -    600.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
Local Consultants (Lawyer for Reg. Cell)            60.0     60.0      60.0     60.0      60.0     60.0      60.0    420.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
CD
Foreign Training                                       -        -    200.0    200.0    200.0           -        -    600.0   0.0 100.0   0.0               1l
Local Training                                         -    100S0    10.       100.0                   - ------    300.0   0.0  10.0   0.0I
Subtotal Technical Assistance                          60.0    560.0    960.0    760.0    260.0        60.0     60.0  2.720.0
Total                                                      960.0  9,700.0 14,920.0  7,630.0    290.0        90.0      90.0 33,680.0
Fri Nov 04 10:23:23 1994
(I
15-1 H4Q Engineer-in-Chief Office (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 40. Chief Engineer (O&M) Office (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base                                       Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96 9CK/97    97/9a   89        9O      00/01    Ttl Ra&_ Exxh_ Ratea
I. Inveetxont Costa
A. Civil Works
Renovated Space                 990.0 15,000.0 14,010.0          -        -        -         - 30,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Office Refurbishing             500. 0  9 500 0        -         -        -        -         - 1l0DD.LQ  10.0  10.0   7.0
Bubtotal Civil Works             1,490.0 24,500.0 14,010.0          -        -         -        - 40,000.0
3. Machinery & *quipmnt
Comunications Equipment             -    150.0         -         -        -        -         -    150.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Equipment for Regulatory            -  1       060. 0    98. AL0 0  00 8         00      230 0  2 5100  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Machinery a Equipment         -  1,210.0    980.0      80.0      80.0     90.0    230.0  2,660.0
C. Vehicl-e
Four-Wheel Drive                    - 2,000.0  6,000.0  6,000.0  6,000.0           -         - 20,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Cars                                -    300.0         -         -        -        -         -    300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Vans                                -    600.0         -         -        -         -        -    600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Motorbikes                          -  2,000.0  4,000.0  4,000.0  2,000.0           -        - 12,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Cycles                              -    .200 0.AD= 2000    40 0      200           -        -  1 000-0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehieles                      -       5_a_ 10   I 0   DLt 0    20            -        - 833200  90D
Total                                 1,490.0 30,810.0 25,190.0 10,480.0  8,280.0        80.0    230.0 76,560.0
Fri Nov 04 10:23:33 1994                                                                                                                                        O
1 
16-1 Chief Engineer (O&M4) Office (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 41. HQ Design and Construction Office (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. 000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99.2   99/00   _00/01   _Total_ Rate_ Exch, Rate_
I. Investment Costa
A. Civil Works
Renovated Space                 500.0 10,000.0         -         -        -        -         - 10,500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Office Refurbishing             5      3000 0          -         -        -        -         - .35000  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works             1,000.0 13,000.0         -         -        -         -        - 14,000.0
B. Machinery & Equipment
Design/Scientific Equipment         -    215.0         -         -        -         -        -    215.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Communications Equipment            -    350.0         -         -        -        -         -    350.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Office Equipment                    -    230.0         -         -        -        -         -    230.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Software/Consumables, etc.          -   27500       30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0      30. 0    9000  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Machinery & Equipment         -  1,545.0      30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0  1,695.0
C. Vehicles
Car                             200.0         -        -         -        -        -         -    200.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Van                             600 0         -        -         -        -         -        - - --6000  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicle0                                -        -         -        -         -        -    800 0
Total                                 1,800.0 14,545.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0 16,495.0
Fri Nov 04 10:23:41 1994                                                                                                                                         1
1-c
17-1 HQ Design and Construction office (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 42. CE Plan Formulation Office (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                  Cont. For.   Tax
94/95         95/96     96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    oo/oi    Total   Rate  Exch. Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Renovated Space                        - 10,000.0 15,000.0          -        -         -        - 25,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing Old Office                  -  3.000.0  6.000.0          -        -         -        -  9000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                      - 13,000.0 21,000.0          -        -         -        - 34,000.0
B. Equipment & Sed. Survey
Hydac System Equipment                 -  6,000.0         -         -        -         -        -  6,000.0  15.0  50.0  15.0
Power Driven Board                     -        -    500.0          -        -         -        -    500.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Survey Equipment                       -    125.0    125.0          -        -         -        -    250.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Office Equipment                       - 2.370.0  4 550.0       300       30.0      3 0 3.0  30.0  7.040.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment & Sed. Survey          -  8,495.0  5,175.0       30.0     30.0      30.0     30.0 13,790.0
C. Vehicles
Vehicles                               -    300.0    900.0    400.0          -         -        -  1,600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
D. Technical Assistance
International Consultants              -        -  3,500.0  3,500.0  3,500.0           -        - 10,500.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Consultants                   -  1,650.0  1,650.0  1,650.0          -         -        -  4,950.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
International Training                 -  4,000.0  2,000.0  3,250.0  2,000.0  2,000.0  5,000.0 18,250.0   0.0 100.0   0.0
National Studies                 1.515.0  1.515.0  3.030.0  3.030.0  2,880.0  1,515.0  1,515.0 15.000.0   0.0 100.0   0.0                                 I
Total                                    1,515.0 28,960.0 37,255.0 11,860.0  8,410.0  3,545.0  6,545.0 98,090.0                                                   I
CD
Fri Nov 04 10:23:53 1994
(D
18-1 CE Plan Formulation Office (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 43. River Basin 1 (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in U)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    9a/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/c    a0a0/a        Total   Rate  Exch Rate
I. Investment Coats
A. Civil Works
New Space                                        - 17,500.0 17,500.0          -         -         -        - 35,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Renovated Space                                  - 15,000.0  6,000.0          -         -         -        - 21,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in old Space                          -  7,000.0          -        -         -         -        -  7,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in New Space                          - - .500.0          -        -         -         -        -  1.500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                                - 41,000.0 23,500.0          -         -         -         - 64,500.0
B. Equipment
Electric Typewriter                              -      80.0        -         -         -         -        -      80.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Photo Copier                                     -    150.0         -         -         -         -        -    150.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Computer                                         -  1,650.0          -        -         -         -        -  1,650.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
CAD Computer                                     -    300.0          -        -         -         -        -    300.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Printer                                          -    600.0         -         -         -         -        -    600.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Plotters Compilers                               -    400.0         -         -         -         -        -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Digitizer                                        -    400.0          -        -         -         -        -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Lazer Printer                                    -    200.0          -        -         -         -        -    200.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Laminating Machine                               -    100.0         -         -         -         -        -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Binding Machine                                  -    100.0          -        -         -         -         -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
A.C. Unit                                        -  1,200.0          -        -         -         -         -  1,200.0  15.0  40.0  15.0                 a
Software                                         -      60.0         -        -         -         -        -      60.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Consumables (Floppies, Paper, etc.)              -      30.0         -        -         -         -        -      30.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Fax Machine                                      -      10.0        -         -         -         -        -      10.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Rquipment                                  -  5,280.0          -        -         -         -         -  5,280.0
C. Vehicles
Jeep                                             -  2,000.0  1,000.0          -         -         -         -  3,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Car                                              -    300.0          -        -         -         -        -    300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Van                                              -    600.0          -        -         -         -         -    600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Van                                      -  1500.0           -        -         -         -        -  1     .   10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                   -  4,400.0  1,000.0          -         -         -         -  5,400.0
D. Technical Assistance
National Training (Computer)                     -      90.0     60.0         -         -         -        -    150.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
National Training (Surace/Groundwater)           -         -         -    800.0         850.0     800.0    -  2.450.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Total                                                     - 50,770.0 24,560.0    800.0    850.0    800.0            - 77,780.0
Fri Nov 04 10:24:07 1994
19-1 River Basin 1 (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 44. River Basin 2 (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                        Cont. For.   Tax
94/9S        95/96   96/97      97/98      98/99      99/00      00/01      Total   Rate  Exch  Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Space                                       -  17,500.0  17,500.0            -         -          -          -  35,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Renovated Space                                 -  15,000.0   6,000.0            -         -          -          -  21,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in Old Space                         -   7,000.0          -          -          -          -          -   7,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in New Space                         -   1500.0           -          -          -          -          -   1500i  0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                               -  41,000.0  23,500.0            -          -          -          -  64,500.0
B. Equipment
Electric Typewriter                             -      80.0          -           -         -          -          -       80.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Photo Copier                                    -     150.0          -          -          -          -          -      150.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Computer                                        -   1,650.0          -           -         -          -          -   1,650.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
CAD Computer                                    -     300.0           -          -          -         -          -      300.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Printer                                         -     600.0           -          -          -         -          -      600.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Plotters Compilers                              -     400.0           -          -         -          -          -      400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Digitizer                                       -     400.0           -          -          -          -         -      400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Lazer Printer                                   -     200.0           -          -         -          -          -      200.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Laminating Machine                              -     100.0           -          -          -         -          -      100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Binding Machine                                 -     100.0           -          -          -         -          -      100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0                1
A.C. Unit                                       -   1,200.0           -          -          -         -          -   1,200.0  15.0  40.0  15.0                 M
Software                                        -      30.0       30.0           -          -         -          -       60.0  15.0  35.0  15.0                O
Consumables (Floppies, Paper, etc.)             -      20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0      120.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Fax Machine                                     -     100.0          -          -          -          -          -      100.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Electronic Indicator                            -      50                          - -   -  -         -          -       50.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                                 -   5,380.0       50.0       20.0       20.0       20.0       20.0   5,510.0
C. Vehicles
Jeep                                            -   2,000.0   1,000.0            -         -          -          -   3,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Car                                             -     300.0           -          -          -         -          -      300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Van                                             -     600.0           -          -          -         -          -      600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Van                                     -   1,500.0           -          -          -         -          - - 1L500S0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                  -   4,400.0   1,000.0            -          -          -          -   5,400.0
D. Technical Assistance
Groundwater Study                       91880,0   3,160.0   6i860.0   9,700-0   70300 -               -          - - -366300   0.0 100.0   0.0
Total                                             9,880.0  53,940.0  31,410.0   9,720.0   7,050.0           20.0       20.0 112,040.0
Fri Nov 04 10:24:26 1994
m
20-1 River Basin 2 (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 45. River Basin 3 (INSTI)
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    9a/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total   Rate  Exch, Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Space                                     - 17,500.0 17,500.0          -         -        -         - 35,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Renovated Space                               - 15,000.0  6,000.0          -         -        -         - 21,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in Old Space                       -  7,000.0         -         -         -        -         -  7,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in New Space                       -  1.500.0         -         -         -        -         -  1.S00.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                             - 41,000.0 23,500.0          -         -         -        - 64,500.0
B. Equipment
Electric Typewriter                           -     80.0         -         -         -        -         -      80.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Photo Copier                                  -    150.0         -         -         -        -         -    150.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Computer                                      -  1,200.0         -         -         -        -         -  1,200.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
CAD Computer                                  -    300.0         -         -                                 300.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Printer                                       -    400.0         -         -         -        -         -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Plotters Compilers                            -    400.0                             -                       400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Digitizer                                     -    400.0         -         -         -        -         -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Laser Printer                                 -    200.0         -         -         -        -         -    200.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Laminating Machine                            -    100.0         -         -         -        -         -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Binding Machine                               -    100.0         -         -         -        -         -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
A.C. Unit                                     -  1,200.0         -         -         -        -         -  1,200.0  15.0  40.0  15.0
Software                                      -     60.0         -         -         -        -         -     60.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Consumables (Floppies, Paper, etc.)           -     20.0      20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0      20.0    120.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Fax Machine                                   -     10.0         -         -         -        -         -     lO.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                               -  4,620.0      20.0      20.0      20.0     20.0      20.0  4,720.0
C. Vehicles
Jeep                                          -  2,000.0  1,000.0          -         -        -         -  3,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Car                                           -    300.0         -         -         -        -         -    300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Van                                           -    600.0         -         -         -         -        -    600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Van                                   -  2.500.0         -         -         -        -         -  2.500.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                -  5,400.0  1,000.0          -         -         -        -  6,400.0
D. Technical Assistance
National Training (Computer)                  -     90.0      60.0         -         -        -         -    1.0QnQ   0.0  10.0   0.0
Total                                                  - 51,110.0 24,580.0      20.0      20.0      20.0     20.0 75,770.0
Fri Nov 04 10:24:52 1994
2
21-1 River Basin 3 (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 46. River Basin 4 (INSTI)
Detailed Couts
(Re. '000)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.        Gross
Base Cost                                   Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    00/01    Total    aCte  ExcLh Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
New Space                                     - 17,500.0 17,500.0          -         -        -         - 35,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Renovated Space                               - 15,000.0  6,000.0          -         -        -         - 21,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in Old Space                       -  7,000.0         -         -         -        -         -  7,000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Furnishing in New Space                       -  1.500.0         -         -         -        -         -  1.500.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Subtotal Civil Works                             - 41,000.0 23,500.0          -         -         -        - 64,500.0
B. Equipment
Electric Typewriter                           -     80.0         -         -         -        -         -      80.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Photo Copier                                  -    150.0         -         -         -        -         -    150.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Computer                                      -  1,950.0         -         -         -        -         -  1,950.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
CAD Computer                                  -    300.0         -         -         -        -         -    300.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Printer                                       -    700.0         -         -         -        -         -    700.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Plotters Compilers                            -    400.0         -         -         -        -         -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Digitizer                                     -    400.0         -         -         -        -         -    400.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Lazer Printer                                 -    200.0         -         -         -        -         -    200.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Laminating Machine                            -    100.0         -         -         -        -         -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Binding Machine                               -    100.0         -         -         -        -         -    100.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
A.C. Unit                                     -  1,200.0         -         -         -        -         -  1,200.0  15.0  40.0  15.0 
Software                                      -     60.0         -         -         -        -         -      60.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Consumables (Floppies, Paper, etc.)           -     30.0                   -         -        -         -      30.0  15.0  20.0  15.0
Fax Machine                                   -     10.0         -         -         -        -         -      10.0  15.0  35.0  15.0
Subtotal Equipment                               -  5,680.0         -                                      -  5,680.0
C. Vehicles
Jeep                                          -  2,000.0  1,000.0          -         -        -         -  3,000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Car                                           -    300.0         -         -         -        -         -    300.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Van                                           -    600.0         -         -         -        -         -    600.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Pick-up Van                                   -  1.000.0         -         -         -        --           1.000.0  10.0  20.0  10.0
Subtotal Vehicles                                -  3,900.0  1,000.0          -         -         -        -  4,900.0
D. Technical Assistance
National Training (Computer)                  -     90.0      60.0         -         -        -         -    150.0   0.0  10.0   0.0
Total                                                  - 50,670.0 24,560.0          -        -         -         - 75,230.0
Fri Nov 04 10:25:27 1994
22-1 River Basin 4 (INSTI)



INDIA
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Table 47. V.H.F. Communication
Detailed Costs
(Rs. '000)
Parameters  (in  )
Phy.         Gross
Base Cost                                     Cont. For.   Tax
94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    99/00    oo/oi    Total   Rate  Exchm Rate
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
For all schemes           -  7000.0  7.000.0  7.000.0  7.000.0  7.0000  1.000.0 36.000.0  10.0  10.0   7.0
Total                              -  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  1,000.0 36,000.0
Fri Nov 04 09:54:25 1994
20-1 V.H.F. Communication



-214 -
Annex 12
INDIA
TMIL NADU WATER RE-SOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(in US$ millions)
IDA Fiscal                              Cumulative         % of Total
Semester          Disbursement        Disbursement          Credit
FY 96      I            13.7                 13.7               5
II            13.9                27.6               10
FY 97      I            14.6                 42.2               15
I             16.6                58.8               21
FY 98      I            20.7                 79.5               28
II            23.9                103.4              37
FY 99      I            25.7                129.1               46
II            25.2                154.3              55
FY2000    I             26.3                180.6               64
II            24.7                205.3              73
FY2001    I             24.2                229.5               81
II            22.5                252.0              89
FY2002    I             19.2                271.2               96
II            11.7                282.9              100



- 215 -
Ainnex 13
Page 1 of 9
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Imnlementation and Supervision Plan
1.    Introduction.  This Annex covers the following material.  In Part A
Project Objectives are summarized as a basis for the implementation and
supervision guide. Part B - Imr,lementation Plan - covers: Project Management
and Implementation; Training and Technical Assistance; Implementation
Schedule; Costs, Financing and Disbursements; Procurement Implementation, and
Economic Analysis. Part C - Manaaement and Supervision Plan - covers:
Management and Supervision Tools; GOTN/GOI Supervision; IDA Supervision;
Monitoring and Evaluation; Programming and Budgeting; Development Indicators;
and Reporting (Baseline Survey, Quarterly Reports, Annual Review Action Plan
and Budget, Interim Review of Farmer Organization and Turnover Program, Mid-
Term Review, and Implementation Completion Report).
2.    Reference is made to the main text and other Annexes.  Attachments to
this Annex comprise:
Attachment 1      Implementation Schedule
Attachment 2      Implementation responsibilities
Attachment 3      IDA Supervision Schedule
Attachment 4      Development Indicators
Attachment 5      Procurement Schedule Format
Attachment 6      Quarterly and ARAPB Report Content Guides
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.    Pro-ect Objectives. The project's primary objectives would be to:  (a)
introduce water resources planning by river basins across all uses of water;
(b) improve agricultural productivity through modernization and completion of
irrigation systems, upgraded water management and farmer participation; (c)
assure sustainability of water infrastructure and the environment; and (d)
improve institutional and technical capability for managing the state's water
resources.
4.    Proiect Description.  The project would be a sector investment loan
implemented over seven years and financing an agreed state-wide program to
improve the productivity and sustainability of Tamil Nadu's irrigation sector,
to introduce multi-sectoral water planning, to integrate farmers in irrigation
management, and to strengthen the state's institutional and technical capacity
in water development, management and planning. Project components are: (a)
System Improvement and Farmer Turnover; (b) Scheme Crim1ttiJona; (c) Water
Plannina. Environmental Manaaement and Research; {d) In;titutional UDaradina;
and (e) land acauisition and economic rehabilitation.



- 216 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 9
5.    The investment program would be supported by a number of policy and
institutional reforms including: actions consistent with the objectives under
the recently formulated "Tamil Nadu State Water Policy"; the creation and
strengthening of the state "Water Resources Organization"; implementation of
an Environmental Action Plan; prioritization of state expenditures in the
irrigation sector emphasizing maintenance and institutional strengthening as
first priority, followed by the system improvement and farmer turnover
program, followed by viable scheme completions, and last (and only as needed
within Tamil Nadu's state water planning requirements, particularly for
metropolitan needs), viable new investment; full programming and funding of
maintenance; measures to rationalize water charges, review cost recovery
annually and hand-over O&M responsibilities and funding of distributaries to
established farmer councils; measures to introduce groundwater legislation and
regulatory actions for groundwater pumping; and establishment of an
institutional apparatus, improved procedures and implementation of individual
land acquisition and economic rehabilitation action plans for persons affected
under the project (Refer chapter II of main report and relevant Annexes).
B. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
6.    Project Management and Implementation.  The project would be implemented
by Tamil Nadu's Water Resources Organization (WRO). Project management would
be under the responsibility of the Engineer-in-Chief, WRO, under the overall
guidance of the Secretary, WRO (PWD). The EIC would have overall
responsibility for implementation and coordination of all activities,
supported by CEs responsible for their respective management units: CE Plan
Formulation, CE Design, Research and Construction, CE O&M, CE State Water
Resources and Data Center, CE IWS and CE IMTI, plus, for field management, the
four CE Basin Managers. The EIC's office would be supported by a joint CE,
units for Administration, Program and Budgeting, Monitoring and Evaluation,
and Project Officers for special assignments. WRO would also contain a
Regulatory Directorate and a Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation
Office. Environmental cells would be in IWS and with the CE Plan Formulation,
plus smaller environmental units at basin manager level. The institutional
structure. orcaaniarams and position descriptions are at Annex 2.
Implementation responsibilities are at Attachment 2 of this Annex.
7.    For water planning (refer Annex 3) the Water Resources Control and
Review Council (WRCRC), chaired by the Chief Minister and with Ministers PWD
(WRO), Municipal Administration and Rural Development as Vice Chairmen, and
including representation from all Government Departments associated with water
use and quality, would be the highest state body for coordinating basin and
state water planning and allocation across sectors. The IWS would be the
Secretariat of the WRCRC and Nodal Agency for state water planning. For
coordination of the Environmental Action Plan (refer Annex 7), the WRCRC would
contain an Environmental Sub-Committee. Specific management and implementation
details for the System Imnrovement and Farmer Turnover proaram are at Annex 4.
The institutional and management arrangements for the Land Acauisition and
Economic Rehabilitation program are at Annex 9. Management arrangements for
the Water Resources Research Fund are at Annex 8.



- 217 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 9
8.    Training and Technical Assistance.  The extensive reorganization and
institutional strengthening to be undertaken under the project, and the major
initiatives in the areas of water planning, farmer participation and turnover,
systems improvement, environmental management and business skills such as
management information systems and programming and budgeting, would require
substantial training and technical assistance throughout the WRO. Training
and consultancy needs have been prepared by WRO and the Bank for each
management unit and are detailed in their respective cost tables at Annex 11.
Each CE would be responsible for managing the specific training and
consultancy relevant to his management unit, but would receive administrative
support from a Training and Technical Assistance Officer in the EIC's office.
Overall coordination and identification of training opportunities would be
provided by the CE, IMTI. The EIC would provide general guidance and balance
needs between WRO units. Training would focus on strengthening skills in all
engineering areas including operations and maintenance, water planning,
environmental management, design and construction, and supporting skill
development associated with technologies or management techniques relatively
new to WRO such as financial management skills, programming and budgeting,
computerization, computer aided design, remote sensing and management
information systems. For consultancies, in order that know-how is transferred
to WRO staff, consultant assistance would be linked in all cases to staff
training through association of staff with consultant assignments and
interlinked formal training as practicable. National and international study
tours, training courses and temporary assignments with experienced water
agencies would also be used to provide first-hand exposure to new technologies
and management techniques.
9.    Consultancy arrangements would include small consultancies with
individuals or firms as needed, but would be backstopped throughout the
project period with one main consultancy contract comprising a "twinning
arrangement" with an experienced consultancy group. All consultancy selection
would follow Bank guidelines. The twinning arrangement would be with a
consortium of several firms or specialist institutions, likely including one
international firm and one domestic firm, plus other firms/institutes as may
be considered appropriate in the offers by consortia and as may be accepted in
final selection of the most qualified offer. The central skill areas for an
acceptable consortium, seldom found in one firm or agency, would comprise all
aspects of irrigation engineering, water planning and modelling, environmental
management, and hands-on irrigation management, particularly in O&M, general
and corporate management techniques, and beneficiary participation, plus
capacity to provide or arrange training in all of the above areas. One of the
firms or agencies of the consortium would be the lead partner and have overall
responsibility for mobilizing the consultancy and training support required.
The contract would provide a basic expertise and training input annually,
including some core senior staff providing continuity of visits, and access to
other specializations and training on an "as needed" basis, with flexibility
retained and provided for in the consultancy budget of the contract.
Selection would be through an initial invitation and subsequent
prequalification of interested firms (in their prequalification offers the
firms would advise of any intended partners), followed by short listing by WRO



- 218 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 9
of about 4 (range 3 to 5) firms or groups of firms for submission of detailed
offers. A contract over the full project period would be agreed at the outset,
with flexibility for annual variations based on an annual review of
consultancy and related training needs between WRO and the consortium in
consultation with GOTN's Department of Finance and IDA. The above procedures
would provide the expertise required while limiting constraints frequently
found in India of obtaining individual clearances, especially for consultants
and training requiring foreign exchange. Consultancy needs are contained in
the detailed project cost tables by project component and WRO management units
at Annex 11.
10.   Additional to the above, WRO would: (i) contract a senior institutional
advisor, institutional advisors and community organizers (NGOs) for the farmer
participation and turnover program (already under implementation) (Annex 4);
(ii) continue to hire the services of a national firm with expertise in land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation for assisting the LAERO with the land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation program over at least the first three
years of the project; (iii) contract NGOs for implementation of the LAERAPs
and administration of the associated RGF and AMG asset creation funds (Annex
9); (iv) contract a national fisheries specialist to advise on the fisheries
component of the LAER program (Annex 9); contract a supervision consultancy
contract to assist WRO and GOTN's "Supervision Committee" (para 17); (v) under
advice of the Research Advisory Committee, contract Tamil Nadu, other Indian
and overseas research institutes for the research and technology transfer
program under the project's Water Resources Research Fund (Annex 8), and (vi)
contract for other needs as may be determined by WRO and IDA during project
implementation.
11.   Staff Continuity and Specialization. WRO will ensure organizational and
functional effectiveness by establishing various categories of specialists.
These specialists will represent the broad range of responsibilities of WRO
from design to maintenance to programming and budget. Specialists will be
selected and provided additional training, either by IMTI or by outside
training institutes or consultants. Study tours will also be arranged where
appropriate to further enhance the expertise and awareness of technologies and
management skills of the specialists. Consistent with the expenditure of time
and funding to provide specialized training, posting policies will be modified
to take advantage of this additional training by retaining these employees in
their specialized disciplines. In many cases, transfers can still be
accommodated but should be within the same discipline. In other cases the
specialization is so specific and limited that few if more than one location
will be able to utilize that speciality. For example, an earth dam designer
can only be usefully posted with the Chief Engineer, Design, Research and
Construction. In such instances the posting policy will allow an extended
stay in the same location, with due consideration to the preferences of the
employee. Promotions would actively favor employees staying in a post for more
than three years and employees staying in a particular speciality.
12.   Implementation Schedule.   A Summary Implementation Schedule for the
project is at Attachment 1. Details by project component are in their
respective annexes.



- 219 -
Annex 13
Page 5 of 9
13.  Costs. Financing and Disbursements.  Detailed oroject costs by component
and year are at Annex 11 and summarized in Chapter III of the main report. The
financing olan is at para 3.04. Disbursement arrangements are described at
para 3.13 and a Disbursement Schedule is at Annex 12. Arrangements for
retroactive financing, the special account and accounting and auditing are at
paras 3.15 and 3.16.
14.   Procurement Implementation and Schedule. Procurement arrangements are
described at paras 3.05 to 3.12 of the main report. They include special
management features (para 3.11) to ensure efficient and timely procurement.
Detailed procurement schedules with contract packages, timing and estimated
costs have been prepared for all field sites/components. An example of such a
schedule is at Attachment 5 of this Annex.
15.   Economic Analysis.  The detailed economic analysis for the project is at
Annex 14 and summarized with risk assessments and description of non-
quantifiable benefits in chapter 5 of the main report. The overall economic
rate of return for the project is estimated at 17%. Sensitivity tests and
risks analysis are in Annex 14.
C. MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISION PLAN
16.   Management and Supervision Tools.  A project of this nature requires
close management, monitoring and supervision for its success. Sustainable
success depends on creating a management and monitoring structure and
capability integral to the entirety of WRO's operations and continuous after
the duration of the WRCP. For this reason, management information systems
(MIS), monitoring and evaluation (M&E) capability, programming and budgeting
(P&B), use of development indicators including the results of a baseline
survey, and a system of quarterly reports and a closely followed Annual
Review, Action Plan and Budget, supplemented by special reports on certain
components and a mid-term review, have been integrated in project management.
These will form the basic tools for management, supervision and actions to
redress problem areas and exploit evolving opportunities for faster or
modified implementation. They will in themselves significantly raise the
management capabilities of WRO, which were constrained within the former PWD
due to lack of basic management tools. PWD did not have, or had only in very
limited form, capabilities in MIS, M&E and P&B. As important in terms of
limiting the facility of management, PWD's organizational structure was overly
centralized with inadequate delegation of authority. Further, management
units were only partially organized around functional specializations limiting
staff specialization which was further exacerbated by frequent staff
transfers. The new organization (Annex 2) around functional specialties,
divested of non-water related activities, and with decentralized control
nearer to field sites, will - once fully established - greatly improve the
task of management. It will enable WRO's evolution, associated with intensive
training and consultancy assistance, to a modern water agency. The management
tools above are described in the paragraphs below and relevant sections of the
main report and its annexes.



- 220 -
Annex 13
Page 6 of 9
17.   GOTN and GOI Supervision. In view of the institutional and technical
challenges to be undertaken under the project, GOTN will implement special
measures to provide additional supervision support from government. A WRCP
Supervision Committee has been formed by GOTN chaired by the Secretary WRO
with the Secretary, Finance Department as Vice Chairman and EIC, WRO as
Secretary and including the Member (Irrigation) of the state Planning
Commission, Land Development Commissioner, plus two experienced invited
members (former WRO, other government department or business community/NGO
with proven management ability). In central government, MOWR, DEA, Advisor
(Irrigation) Planning Commission (and other ministries such as environment
where issues addressed are relevant) will also be copied minutes and have
standing invitations to attend as possible. As relevant for particular
issues, other GOITN representatives will be invited to participate (eg
Agriculture Department, AED, Environment, District Collectors). Meetings will
be at least quarterly to discuss the quarterly reports and the ARAPB, and more
often as needed. Additionally, a Supervision Consultancy will be arranged and
funded under the WRCP with a national consultancy firm. This would provide
backstopping consultancy assistance to the WRCP Supervision Committee and site
visits. The consultants would make two visits per year, timed to overlap with
IDA supervision missions, and additional assistance as needed. Consultant
reports would be made to the committee and copied to IDA and GOI.
18.   IDA Supervision. An indicative IDA Supervision Schedule is at Attachment
3, and would be adjusted as needed during project implementation. The overall
plan comprises in a typical year two formal visits, supplemented by
correspondence, clearances and visits of WRO staff to the Delhi office as
needed. One of the visits would be short and primarily of an expediting
nature: checking progress, helping resolve interim constraints, dealing with
consultancy, procurement, disbursement and accounting matters arising. One
main mission a year would be timed to coincide with the review of the draft
ARAPB in the December/January period and would make selective visits to the
field, go through all aspects of the project and help determine the
forthcoming year's program and review the program budget. GOTN's
"Supervision" consultants (para 17) would, inter alia, include in their
program missions of their consultants at the same time as both the IDA visits.
Visits of the core staff of the main consultancy contract would also be timed
where possible to overlap with the IDA missions, and as needed, similar
arrangements would be made for specialists, especially where decisions are
required on particular aspects of the project. Special meetings of GOTN's
"supervision Committee" (para 17) would be convened by GOTN at the time of the
IDA visits for discussion with IDA staff. These arrangements would enable
harnessing of the required specializations to enable effective multi-
disciplinary supervision and close interaction between WRO and its
consultants, GOTN and IDA, while keeping IDA resource requirements within
reasonable dimensions. The IDA Supervision Plan at Attachment 3 also allows
for: (i) more intensive supervision at project start-up, including in
procurement and disbursement, institutional reorganization, for the systems
improvement and farmer turnover program, for the LAER program and for basin
planning; (ii) the interim review of the farmer turnover program in PY2; and
(iii) the mid-term review in PY 3.



- 221 -
Annex 13
Page 7 of 9
19.   Monitoring. Evaluation. Programming and BudQeting.  With the emphasis of
WRO on improving overall management of water resources in Tamil Nadu, there is
a need to consolidate and report the activities of WRO in a format which will
assist the EIC and the Government in assessing program progress and
performance, and for programming and budgeting to maximize effectiveness.
There will be two staff units, reporting directly to the EIC: the Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit, and the Program Budgeting and Accounting Unit.
Consultancy assistance will be used to guide the establishment and initial
operation of both units, and as needed thereafter.
20.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  The new Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Unit
is an independent entity which will: (i) monitor expenditures on programs
relative to total estimated costs; (ii) conduct post-project evaluations to
compare benefits with original planning estimates; and (iii) perform
evaluations of organizational effectiveness and performance of units within
WRO for compliance with the goals and objectives of WRO. The M&E Unit would
utilize the program budgeting process for much of its data to evaluate
progress of projects and programs. At the request of any organizational unit
or as directed by the EIC, the M&E unit would collect data, conduct site
visits, initiate discussions with water users and the public, and evaluate
reports to determine any deficiencies or problems and provide a report to the
requestor with recommendations for action.
21.   The Monitoring and Evaluation unit will also monitor and evaluate
development effects on crop yields, total crop production, crop
diversification, farm income levels, water distribution efficiencies and
project affected persons. The current situation will be assessed based on
personal visits, discussions with water users, sample surveys, questionnaires,
and review of official publications. The evaluation will determine these
effects by comparing the situation of a given time with the Baseline Survey
(Annex 10). Annual reports will be prepared for dissemination to the State,
Government of India, the World Bank, universities and others. Also, the unit
will assess the effectiveness of the Farmer Organization and turnover Program
and its impact on water delivery efficiencies and other factors. The unit
will utilize the services of consultants or local or other universities for
special surveys and analyses, as appropriate. The development effects could
be used in the future to assist the Government in setting agricultural
production targets by matching crop water demands with available water
supplies by region or command.
22.   Program. Budgeting and Accounting.  WRO's new Program Budgeting and
Accounting Unit (PBA) will establish, maintain, and administer the program
budget and accounting system. The system will be used to develop annual
budgets by consolidating budget requests from all WRO organizational elements
and ensure that the final budget request is consistent with the policies and
instructions from the Government. The system will provide the mechanism for
tracking program progress and to assist the EIC in making recommendations on
transfer of funds from one program to another. the unit will provide periodic
management reports for use by the EIC, CEs and other managers for decision-
making purposes. In addition and to support all activities in WRO, the unit
will develop and maintain a Management Information System (MIS).



- 222 -
Annex 13
Page 8 of 9
23.   Development Indicators.  Development Indicators (Attachment 4)
corresponding to the project objectives at para 3 have been chosen to help
track the project's impact on the project objectives. Attachment 4 provides a
matrix of monitorable indicators against each project objective and comments
on how such indicators may be monitored. Indicators include physical
indicators for the field components and qualitative and progress indicators
for other components. The indicators include: implementation of the
institutional restructuring and strengthening and its effectiveness,
agricultural growth, productivity and crop diversification, increased delivery
of water and improved services, implementation and effectiveness of the farmer
participation and turnover program, and improved planning, programming and
budgeting.
24.   Baseline Survey.  To provide a basis for monitoring the development
impact of the project, and further refining the development indicators above,
a baseline survey to be conducted by consultants would be carried out in 1995
(TOR for the Baseline Survey is at Annex 10). The survey would comprise an
overall survey supplemented by more detailed surveys at the level of sample
commands, and remote sensing for assessment of effective irrigation coverage
and cropping patterns, and would cover the following aspects: engineering
indicators for operational and maintenance performance; agricultural
production indicators; performance indicators for the institutional
restructuring and strengthening; and indicators for the farmer participation
and turnover program.
25.   Ouarterly Revorts.  The quarterly reports would be issued within two
weeks of the end of each quarter and would be issued by the Programming and
Budget unit after clearance from the EIC. Each quarterly report would contain
a listing of standard tracking data on physical progress, financing,
procurement and disbursement, a sub-set of relevant qualitative data from the
baseline survey determined parameters, brief submissions from each
implementation unit in WRO which would quantify and compare progress with the
SAR and the previous ARAPB and highlight problems, constraints and recommended
solutions, and an overview section from the EIC's office summarizing decisions
or recommendations based on the overview and each management unit's
submission. This would include commentary on status of decisions/actions
outstanding from the last quarterly report and review of any decisions/actions
still required related to recommendations of the GOTN Supervision Committee,
GOI or IDA. The reports would be presented to the Secretary WRO, and copied
to the Minister, Supervision Committee and relevant state officials, GOI and
IDA. Proforma guidance for the report is in the project file, with a single
component example at Attachment 6. The Supervision Committee would meet to
discuss and act/advise after each quarterly report, and IDA would provide
advice by written or mission communication.
26.   Annual Review. Action Plan and Budaet (ARAPB).  The ARAPB would be the
main vehicle for annually taking stock of project performance and future
needs, for adjusting WRO's program as needed, for budgeting by GOTN of WRO's
Plan and Non-Plan expenditures, and for annual major review and supervision by
GOTN, GOI and IDA. For WRO it would provide annual opportunity to assess its



- 223 -
Annex 13
Page 9 of 9
program, to propose adjustments as needed, and to make its consolidated plan
and justification for financing needs for the forthcoming year.  The ARAPB
would review for each _omponent and responsible unit the past year's
achievements in terms of development indicators, physical targets and
expenditures, and propose a justified work program and yroposed expenditure
budaet for the forthcoming fiscal year. It would also include: (i)
description of each year's works, schedule of activities, staffing
requirements and distribution of responsibilities; (ii) proposed next year
expenditures compared witlh previous full year's expenditures and budgeted and
expected expenditures in current year; (iii) details on major civil works
contracts exceeding US$ 200,000 and for ICB for goods; and (iv) financing plan
and sources of funds. Special sectioons would cover: (v) review of
implementation progress related to the institutional strengthening and policy
reforms under the project; (vi) detailed review and proposal of maintenance
needs (command-by-command) and corresponding non-Plan expenditure
requirements; (vii) the farmer participation and turnover program; and (viii)
progress of state water planning under WRCRC and IWS.
27.   Interim Review of Farmer Organization and Turnover Program.  Due to the
importance and innovatory nature of the Systems Improvement and Farmer
Turnover program, in particular the farmer participation and turnover aspects,
a Special Evaluation would he carried oUt of this program in PY2 (FY 1996/97)
by consultants with expertise in this area. This would enable feedback and
recommendations sufficiently early in project implementation to enable timely
adjustments.
28.   Mid-Term Review.  By December 31, 1997 (mid "PY3"), GOTN/WRO would carry
out, jointly with IDA and (G,OT, a Mid-Term Review of project progress and
possible need for adjustments to components, implementation arrangements and
policy reforms, and thereafter implement its recommendations.
29.   Implementation CompLetion Reoort   An Implementation Completion Report
would be prepared by GOTN orn the basis of IDA's guidelines, not later than six
months from the closing date of the Credit.



Attachment 1
Page 1 of 3
I'ANL BAN5 OITU RLUIlCtS COESOLIDATIOE PROWECT
PROJECT IIPLUUTAIfOE SCIEEDILE
si.:                                                                                       I                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~                                                                                                         ~         ~~~~~piB  ?1 IPy 2  P1 3  P  4:  PIB  PI E
loJ                        lane                                                                Duration~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------    --------    -------------------------
Quarter                Quarter        :       Quarter                 Quarter        :       Qua-ter                Quarter        :       Quarter
A 31S15 INPrmVum
I    lnprovemkents  foir  Head  Works,  lain  Canals  and  Branches                           ------------I------
2         improvements  for   Distribution  Syntem                             ..................I------------------------------ ------------------
3         On  Fare  Developnent  Works                    ..........................                                                                                                          ........................ --- -------------
B FARME TUB MOVIE
1         Define  Policy............................                                                                                            ---- --
2:        Define  Roles  and  Responsibilitien                       ---------------------                                                                    ---
3:        training  of  Offiscers & Farmers                              ...................                                                            ---------                        ---                                                                                             .
4         Systen  turnover------------------ ----. ...
I    Preparation of P 01-..........................                                                                                         --------              -----------------                                                                                                                  ...
2~        Purchase  of Equipnrnt-----------------------S------------.It ..
3         Establishment of wuter  service  charges  comsittee                              --------------                                             C--- ----
Recommedations of Water  Rates  Rationalisation  Comnitte  - - ------------
5  :      Preparation  of  State  Model  for assessing  Service  Costs                           ---------                                                                ---------
D MAIBTRIAICR
2         roll  Funding  of Maintonanc- -------------------------                                                                                --------------------    --------                                                      --------------------------
3 :       Maintenance   ipeetto                             ------------------------                                                            ---------p-------------nenta--------------------------o--------
I SCIENE COMPLETIOIS
B  ead      Norks                      --  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -         I-                  -  -     --   - -  -  -  -  --   -  - -  --   - -   -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -.                     ..  .
2 :       Main  Canals  and  Branches                             ......................--------------------
D. :  intributior       System--                        -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  ---                                          -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  - .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .
P WATER PLAHIBG
I    Formulate  State  Water  Policy----------- -------. ..                                                                                 ....
2         Rapid Basin asseusnnent of resaining basin ------------------                                                                            -------
3  :      Prepare  framework  State  Water  Resources  Plan                                   ............                                         -------------
4:        Establish  basis  waster  planning  comBitteen-.................                                                                                        -- ------
5:        Complete  detailed  riser  basin  plans                                    ................                                              ------------------------------- 
6 ~       Complete  State  Water  Plan                                                                                                                                                      -----                                    ---



2 225 -
-                                           I                                        *                   I                                                                                                                               I                                                                                                                                                           I~~~~~-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -  -- - ---- ---------  - -------- --                                  -
4-i                                        I                    I                   I                                                                                                                                                   I~~~~~-- -- - -- - - - - --   - - -  - -         -       -       -      -               -       -       -       --         -       -      -       -              - -          -       -       -      --              -                                              ------
w o                                       ,                       5        -    ,                                                                                                                                        I~~~~~~-- - - - -- - - - - - -  - --                   -       --          -      -              - -          -       -       -      --          -       -      -              -    -       -       -       -      --              -------
S                                                              I                   I                                                                                                                                                   S~~~~~~~~-- - - - - -- - - - - - - - -   -   -       -       -      -              - -          -       -       -       --         -       -      -              -    -       -       -       -      -       --------
Z e N                                       I                      *      a 'I                                                                                                                                          I~~~~~- -    - - - - - - - -- -   - - -   -           -       -      -       -       -                   -       -      -       -       -       -       -      -       -          -        -      -       -       --             -I------
U                                         ,                    I                   I                                                                                                                                                   ,~~~~~~-- - -- - - - - - -- -   - - -  - -        -      -       -       -              -       -       -       --         -       -       -      -              - -          -       -       -       -      --                                                     ------
440                                                                                                            I                   I                                                                                                                                                   I                                                                                                                                                           I
t                                                                                                                                                                  ---  -  --                        --- - - -- - -                                             -- - -                          -- - - - -                                         - - - -- - ----S -- - - - - --                                                                                                                                 -
-ol  to  a                                                                                       -           ~ ~            --                      -              -       -       --          -       -      -               -       -       -          --          -       -       --                     -       -       --         -       -       --          - -               -        -               -      --          -       --                                                         ------
*                                                                                    S                a      ~~~~-- - --- - -  --         - -         --                 - -          --                 - --          -a- -a - -                                   -       --         -       -      - -         -       -               -       -       --         -       - -         --                                                         - --- --
*               a                                                                    a~~~~-    a-                    ,  -- - - -  -       -       -      -               --          --           ,            .---     -       --          -          --           -      -             -       5 ---    --          -             --                -        , --  -       -      ---                                                                 --         ---
--   - -     --         --          -       --         --- -Sa                                                                                                             -- --                                                          -       -a   ---             -      -- --                                                                      -           - ---                   -
--                   a--------                                                                     -                        ----- --               -      --                                                                                                                   --          -      --            -   -                           --            -       -         -        ---             -       -
--S -                                                      --- - - - - -       -       -       -       -              --          --          -- -  -                    --          -              --                ---       --a--                             -                   ----            --          --a -                                          --          --0---                                       a-    --          --
Us                        - -           -         -      -       - -         -       -      -       -a--                        -      - -         -       -       -       - -        -                   -       --         -       -       - -         -       -      --a-                       -       -       - -         -       -       --a-                       -       -              -    - - --ia- c               --- -         --
*                                                                                      a~~~~~~     a    a    a    a                                                                  a -            -              -                !   -                         -               -               -              -               ---  - aa                    -a                                             2                                                 a    a 



Annex 13
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 3
INDIA
TAfIL RADII NATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECt
PROJECT IIIPLEER1ATIOR SCRIDOLE
SI.:                                                                                            flU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i p      Pi1 IP1 2           PT 3               Py 4 :             Py15              Pi6:
Eo.:                                               wame                                                 :Duration    -  - - - - - --    -- - - - - - -      - - - - - - -     - --   - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - -
Quarter           Quartet            Quarter            Quarter            Quarter           Quarter            Quarter 
I    :i :2:!3:e:  I: 2 :3:!4  I:I 2!3:  2                               343 : :   4:I:   : 2 :3:!4:1  :2 :3: 4:I :2 :3 :4:
JLAN   ACQUOBITIO  I &  COIONIC EEEABILITATIOE
I:      Establiosheot of LAER  Directorate ( Completed I:...........
2:      Issue remaining Gos for LAERAP----------------------------
Preparationi of economic rehabilitation action plans furlI sub projects
3:              First 2 Sub Projects       -------------------------- 
2  Sub           Projects---- - -- - - -- -- -- -- - - -- --- - - -:-- -- -
6:      Implementation of LAERAPs-------------------------                                                                        --------------------------
I PROJECT IRPLUENTA?IOI REIVIES
I:t    Prepare quarterly programme repert                   -------------------------                                                                      -----             -----              -----              -----              -----
3 :     Socis-economic Baseline Survey----------------------------
*       Establish superoision Committee                   -------------------                                                 ---
5~    Interim Review of Farmer Organisation Enperience               -----------------------
6:      Mid Term review of theProject                     -------------------                                                                                                          ---
Implementation Completioo Report                         ------------------



- 227 -
Annex 13
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
ACTIVITY                              IMPLEMENTATION        COORDINATION /ADVISO
'lo'                                                                 /SUPPORT               AND APPROVED
REPRESENTATIVES         RESPONSIBILITIES
A General
aianaqement of Water Resources                                 Advi-or to GOTN
Overall ccordination of Prooject Imolementation                     E I C             Secy.,PWD:GOTN:WRCR
B Institutional UpgradinE
E I C                 Secv. ,PWD
1. Institutional Modification                                       E I C                  Secv.,PWD
a. Establish Decentralised Units - Basin wise                    E I C                  Secy.,PWD
b. Establish Functional Specialised Units                        E I C                  Secv.,PWD
c. Establish Water Resources Data Centre                         E I C                  Secy.,PWD
d. Establish EIC Position                                     Secv.. PWD                Secy.,PWD
e. Establish GW Regulatory Unit                                  E I C                  Secy.,PWD
2. Administrative Reform Proqramme.                         E I C, Administration          Secy.,PWD
Budqeting, Accounting, MIS, mt&E
;. Specialisation                                          E I C. Administration           Secv. ,PWD
4. Training                                                 Administration.  IMTI            E I C
'. Comouter Svstems                                            Administration                E I C
6. Communication System                                    Administraticn. CE(O&M)           E I C
7. Procurement                                                 Administration                E I C
8. Farmers Organisation and Turnover                             CE(O&M)  aGM             E I C, IMTI
9. Establish Contract Award Committee                               E I C                  Secy..PWD
C Water Plannin-
1. Rapid Basin Assessments of remaining basins                        IWS                  BM. E I C
2. State Water Plan                                                   IWS                 E I C. WRCRC
,. Detailed River Basin Plans                                        IWS                   BM. E I C
D Develop planning standards                                     IWS, C.'PF'                 E I C
5. Technological advances (eg.Remote Sensinqi                        iWS                     E I C
6. Disaster Management                                                iws                  BM. E I C
7. Establish Basin Advisory Committees                               BM                      E I C
ID Environmental Management
i. Establish Environmental cells in Basin Managers'               E I C. BM                Secv.,PWD
Office
Establish EAP Committee                                          E I C                  Secy.,PWD
, Training                                                 Administration. IMTI              E I C
'1  Preoare Eco-restoration                                          BM                    E I C, IWS
5. Implement EAP                                                     BM                    E I C. IWS
6. Draft Groundwater Legislation                               Regulatory Unit          E I C, CW(SWRDC;
E Research
1. Establish Water Resources Research Fund                          E I C                  Secy.,PWD
-. Establish Research Advisory Committee                            E I C                  Secv.,PWD
3. Fund and Imolement Research Programs                             E I C                  Secy. ,PWD



- 228 -
Annex 13
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 2
Si.                          ACTIVITY                                 IMPLEMENTATION        COORDINATION /ADVI
No.                                                                      /SUPPORT                 AND APPROVED
FSystem Improvement                                                REPRESENTATIVES           RESPONSIBILITIE
F System Improvement
1. Imorovements for Head Works, !lain Canals                             3H                 CE(O&M), CE(DRC
and Branches
2. Imorovements for  Distribution Svstem                                 BM                 CE(O&M), CE(DRC
3. On Farm DeveloDment Works                                             SM                 CE(O&M). CE;DRC
G Farmers Organisation and Turnover
1. Define Policy                                                       CE(O&Mi              E I C. BM. IHTI
2. Defire Rules and Responsibilities                                   CE(O&Mi              E I C. BM. IHTT
3. Training of Officers & Farmers                                       IlrTI              ' I C. CECO&M).
4. System Turnover                                                       BM                      CE(O&H)
H Operation & Maintenance
1. Preparation of P 0 M s                                              SE(O.sM)                BM, CE(O&M)
2. Purchase of Equipment                                               SE;Oa&M                 BM. CECOSM)
3. Establishment of water service charges committee                     E I C                    Secy.P'AD
4. Recommedations of Water Rates Rationalisation                    BM, CECO&MI                  Secv.PWD
Committee
5. Preoaration of State Model for assessing Service                    CE(O&M)                  E I C. BM
Costs
6. Develop Standards                                                   CE(O&Mi                  E I C, BM
I Maintenance
1. Prepare Annual Maintenance Plans                                    CE(O&M)                      BM
2. Full Funding of Maintenance                                          E I C                  Secy.Finance
3. Maintenance Implementation                                          SE(O&M)                  BM, E I C
J Scheme Completions
1. Head Works                                                            SM                      CE(DRC)
2. Hain Canals and Branches                                              BH                      CE;DRC)
3. Distribution System                                                                           CE;GRC;
K Land Acquisition & Economic Rehabilitation
1. Issue remaining GOs for LAERAP                                       E I C                   Secy.,PWD
2. Preparation of ERAP for 9 subproiects                                LAER              Secy. .PWD. E I C.
3. Implementation of ERAP                                               LAER                    E I C. BM
L Desion & Construction
1. Develop Design Standards                                            CE(DRC)               E I C, CE(O&M)
2. Develoo Costruction Standards                                       CE(DRC)                E I C. CE(O&Mi
3.Develoo Oualitv Control Standards                                    CE(DRCi
M Project Implementation
1. Prepare quarterly programme reoort                                   E I C                   All Units
2. Yearly budget exercise and Annual review                             E I C                   All Units
3. Socio-economic Baseline Survey                                       LAER                    E I C, BM
4. Establish Supervision Committee                                      E I C                     BS, CE
S. Interim Review of F 0 T                                             CE(O&S)                  E I C, BM
6. Mid Term review of the Project                                       E I C                   All Units
7. Implementation Comoletion Report                                     E I C                   All Units
8. Consultancy                                                          E I C              Appropriate Units



- 229 -
Annex 13
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECr
Estimated Bank Supervision Inputs
AV=2x~imate Dates                                                     Bank Saff
(IDA FY-Semester)  Aciitv      Expected Ski Requirement               Irut (SW)2-
FY95 II            Start-up     Engineering/Institutional (3)
(PYO)       Procurement (1)
Disbursement (1)
Sociology (LAER) (2)                       7
FY96I              Supervision 1 Engineering/Institutional (3)
(PY1 Light)  Farmer Organization (2)
Sociology (LAER) (3)                       8
FY96 [             Supervison 2 Engineering/Institutional (3)
Farmer Organization (2)
Agriculturalist (2)
Sociology (LAER) (2)
Water Planner (2)                          11
FY97 I             Supervision 3 Engineering/Institutional (3)
(PY2 Light)  Sociology (LAER) (1)                       4
FY97 II            Supervision 4 Engineering/Institutional (4)
(PY2 Main &  Farmer Organization (3)
Farmer Orga- Agric. Economist (3)
nization    Agriculturalist (2)                         12
Review)
FY98 I             Supervision 5 Engineering (3)
(PY3 Light)  Sociology (LAER) (1)                       4
FY98 II            Supervision 6 Economics/Finance (3)
(PY3 Main &  Engineering (3)
Mid-Term    Agriculturalist (2)
Review)     Farmer Organization (2)
Water Planner (2)
Sociology (LAER) (2)                       14
1 Figures refer to staff weeks. Bank missions would overlap with consultancy visits
funded under the project to provide interaction with the broad range of specialist inputs required
under the project.
2 SW = Staffweeks



- 230 -
Annex 13
Attachmen3
Page 2 of 2
ApproxiTmate Dates                                                   BankLSaff
(IDA FY-Semesteri                    tM.ig ^l Epced Sill Requirements   ut(S
FY99 I             Supervision 7 Engineering (3)                           3
(PY4 Light)
FY99 II            Supervision 8 Engineering (3)
(PY'4 Mahn)   Farmer Organization (2)
Sociology (LAER) (2)                      7
FY2000 I           S,upe-vision 9 Engineering (3)                          3
(PY5 Light.)
FY2000 II          Supervifsion 1i) Engineering (4)
PYf '. i glit)  Fanner Organization (3)                 7
FY2001 I           Supervision X I Engineering (3)
*      !i{PV6 L,ight)3
FY2001 II          Supervision 12 Economist (6)
TPY6 Final & Engineer (2)
iCR)         Agriculturalist (2)
Sociologist (2)                           12



- 231 -
Arnnex I13
A-tactrment 4
I'ige   1  of   2
INDIA
TAMILNADU WATER RESOURCES LONSuLIOATION PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES & DEVELOPMENT INDICATORS
SI    PROJECT OBJECTIVES                        ACTIVITY/REFORM                                        INDICATOR
No.
1 WATER RESOURCES              - State Water Policv (SiP)                          - lIGTN acting uoon recomeendations of SWP
PAU4ING AND                                                                     - State vater Pil cy Gazetted
NIAIENENT                                                                         RaDid Basin Assessment for S remaining
basinS -?luaeted
-?te kater Pesources Plan finalised
tstabi ish Basin Advisorv Committees
- Ground Water Requlation &                           n new we'is  in dark zones
Legislation                                      -oritrolied exoansion  in grey zones
- nuims aetered
- Draft i:nislat ion on ground water Prepared
- Grouro and surface water legislation enacte
- Detailed river basin plans                       - Inter tectora! water allocations made on
(RBP)                                              the bdsis of RBP
2 DIPR0VE AGRICULTURAL         - lIprove Maintenance                              - Increasea  areas under irrigation
PRET ION                           - 0   N inve-itents                            according to physical targets of
- Prepare Maintenance Plans                     revaoli toat ions a modemisations orogram
- Prepare Asset Registers                    - :ncregseo  ag.icuitural growth I cropping
- Monitor Maintenance Plans                     irtensnv
- Improve Water Management                         - Increasea  v;WPds & oroductivity of crops
- Prepare Operational Plans                     Increased rate of utilisation of
- Monitor Operational Plans                      rrigation sotential
- System improvements                              - nrreasea  water savings
- Water level and quantity control
- ?a41-enoerys     system receive more water
structures established
- Rest of items completed                     -%rreasec cos:  recovery according to schedu
- Farmer Participation and turnover
- statnev 'evepl  of C S h funding
- lOU and Bye-Laws finalised
- Societies registered                         Pr.oor- n ot estab, ishment cost to works
- Tumover completed                             erpepoitures tor all maintenance categoriess
- System completions                                 res3  s.te
- Dams completed
wUi efi  ects,eiv   aincaining aistributary
- Main Canals completed
- Distribution svstems rowo1rtvi



- 232 -
Annex 13
Attachment 4
Page 2 of 2
ii. nea ouarnu                              aCuvrmiurOuI                                     UXDRm
ho.
3 ASSRE SUSTAIIIABLITY OF  - Establish expenditure priorities              - Amu]al Budget consistent with establi<
prior itijes
MATEH 1WASTRUCTURE AND  - Improve ninte
THE EtNYIUIWT-Iprnutnnc
- Monitor PON                            - Tail-enders gettirg piannd supply
- full funding
- Enmironnetal Action Plan                    - Decrea  in water loggin  an  salinity
- Nonitor functioning of Farmer               -Farers maintaining prescribed registe
Orgrnusation                                - Incrase in area irrigated
- Unifom crop productivity over the com
- Cost recovery                               - Increasse collection of water related
charges
- Grond Water Regulations                     - Prepare draft legislation for ground i
management.
- Land Acquisition and Economic
Rthbil itation
- Issue 6.0. on procedural iWroe mnts - Timeliness of paymnt of compntion
-  omplete Socio-economic surveys        - Percentace of entitled tarmrs
ror i schtems                            tconomically rehabiltated
- Prepare LAER Action Plan
N Monitor LAER Action Plan
4 DPIW M.R.A.               - C te and establish Engineer-in-Chief         - E I C in position
UISTITUTIWW.ANS             posit ion
- Establish decentralised units for basin    - River Basins established with Basin
TEDOICAL CAPABIITY          unage t                                        Managen
- Establish Environmental Cells in basins    - Qwlity of environmental assassamnt pl
- Establish functional units in NoR           - Functional chief engineer  in position
- Establish Managemnt Support System for
- Prograeming and Budgeting              - Timly preparation of budget and
monitoring of expenditures
- Monitoring and Evaluation              - Timeliness of corrective    sures taken
on the basis of onitoring data
- Strengthening of Administration        - Job descriptions completed  nd Personne
files updated, number of otficers train
ER key activities communicated to the
- Establish Ground   d Surface Water Regulat - Draft legislation prepared
Directorate
- Establish Research Advisory Comittee        - First meeting of the Comittee
- Establish Water Resources Research Fund    - Research activities undertaken and compi
- Upgrade Organisation                        I. Establish functional specialisation un
2. Prepare and issue Standards for
- planning
design
- op ration
- mainteance
- qulity control
3. Upgrade INTI and its facilities
- faculty
-equipment.
teacng  uterials
- training programs



Attachment 5
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
TAMITL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Examples of Procurement Schedules
(Thambaraparani Conunand: Summary of Packaging & Details for Procurement Packages I end 2)
TRADE NO.           1B3
TRADE                MODERNISATION/REHABILITATION
THAMBARAPARANI PROJECT
CCA: 45282 ha                                                                                                 . Rupees 'in Thousands'
Details of Components       Base Cost  1994-95   1995-96   1996-97    1997.98    1998-99   1999-2000   2000-01    Amount
INVESTMENT COST                                   .                                .
Subtotal (TA)
CIVIL WORKS
Headworks/Main channeVBranches    116880       2000      28930      43984      27597      13939      430                  116880
Distributory/Rehabilitation         14396          .                  760       5756       7880      .                     14936
Tank/Tank Feeders         70645
Drainages                  8100
Spillover Kadamba
Bye Pass Channel          50000   128745       5000      30100      29650      34870      16000    10590          2535    128745
Measuring Devices                    6440                 4440       1400        300        300         -            -      6440
Metorological Station                1100                 1100                                                       -      1100
On Farm Development Works           11830                                                  4000     4000         3830      11830
..    .   . .. ....._..



Annex IJ
Attacnhment 5
Page 2 of 5
PROJECT COST TABLE                        ABSTRACT OF PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
STAGE II WORK
B.3 TAMBARAPARANI PROJECT
C.C.A.45282
Pack-                                      Base                         Investment In 000's of Rupees
a4e          Details of Component          Cost   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98   1998-99  .1999-2000  2000-01       Total
1  Rehabilitalion of S. K., N.K., and    18084         -    8060       7600      2424          .                    .     18084
_ Nadiyunni channel
2   Rehabilitation of Kannadiananicut     10315     1000     3475      3470      2340         30          .               10315
channel Reach I
3   Rehabililation of Kannadian channel   13525        .    2325       4140      3660       3400          .               13525
Reach II                                          _
4   Rehabilitation of Kodagan channel     17800              5200      5500      4300       2800          .     .         17800
5   Rehabilrtation of Palayam channel     14996        .    4669      10000       327          -                    .     14996
0 to 21.3 km
6   Rehiabilitation of Palayain channel   11876               8141      535      4673       5827                          11876
21.30 to 42.46km k. 
7   Rehabilnation of Tirunelveli channel  14025              3240      6509      4276                       _             14025
8   Rehabilitation of Marudur Malakal     17960        .    3340       8480      6140                                     17960
channel                                                                                    .            _
9   Rehabilitation ot Marudur Keelakai    9422               3200      4300       1922         -                           9422
channel
10  Rehabiiitation of South main channel  15217                         4500                8182          -      2535     f5217
11  Rehabilitation of North main channel  23485               7140               10125                6220          -     23485
12  Rehabilitation of North main channel  10300         -    1000                 4500         .      4800          .     10300
13  Rehabilitation of Manimuthar main canal   11380  1000     3880      2000      4500         .          .               11380
Reach I to Ill
14  Rehabilitation o1 Maiiimnutliar m)aini canal   13680  -    2100     8000      3580                                    13680
Reach IV                                     _          _                                              .
15  Spill over works Kadamba bye pass
channel                              50000      5000    10000     15000      10000     10000          -50000
16  Intrastructural facilities to direct  11830                  -         -                4000       4000      3830      11830
commaiid
17  Metreological slation                  110(M)       -     1100 _ _     :                                                1100
Total                279391     7000    59570      80791    68523      41232      15907      6365    279391
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70 _2__9_.3._1



Page 3 of 5
C.C.A.2335 ha                                                                                                    Rs 'In Thousands
Pack-                                                        Allocation Rupees In Thousands
age        Details of Component     Ease                     A                                               Category   Total
No.                                 Cost  1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98   1998-99  1999-2000  2000-01
I   vi. Construction of gaugewell  B/ 13914        5790    6300      1824         .                                   13914
including cost of automatic water
level recorder, current meter
gauging Bridge, etc.
South Kodamelazhakian Channel    200           200                  .         .   .                       MD       200
North Kodamelazhakian Channel    200      .    200         .        .         .         .                MD        200
Nadhiyunni Channel              200            200                            .                           MD       200
vii. Construction of flume section
at middle and tail end of channel
South Kodamelazhakian Channel    400           400      .                               .        .       MD        400
North Kodamelazhakian Channel    400           400                                               .       MD        400
Nadhiyunni Channel              400            400         .        .         .                          MD        ,400
viii. Formation of jeep track to
head sluice from Madura coats for
a length of 3 km in South
Kodaimelazhakian channel        900                     300       600                  .                 MC        900
N. Removing the rocky out crop in
bed of North Kodamelazhakian
Channel                          50              50                                                      MC         50
x. Construction of super passage
@ 3.295 km of North
Kodamelazhakian Channel         300             100     200         .        .          .                MC        300
xi. Construction of U.T. @
Sepparodai crossing North
Kodaimalazhakian channel        400               .     400         .                                    MC        400
xii. Providing Bye pass channel to
Karungulam tank including
improvements to UT in North
Kodaimalazhakian channel        600             200     400         .                            .       MC        600
xiii. Strengthening the breached
portion of North Kodaimalazhakian
channel (7.32 km TO 9.42 km)    120             120        .        .         .         .        .       MC        120
*,ff,, -  ;Su Total _.   .    18084         860       6       2424:        -                            -:::0.  -



STAGE: 11                                              (Reach 0/0 to 6/400 km)                                   6    u u
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
B3 TAMBARAPARANI PROJECT
C.C.A.5058 ha                                                                                                      Rs 'In Thousands'
Pack-                                 Base                    Allocation Rupees In Thousands
age  Details of CompCosttCategory    Total
No.                                  Cost  1994-95  1995-96  1996-97  1997-98   1998-99  1999-2000  2000-011
2   i. Rehabilitation and modernisaiorn
of Kanndian anicut (Leading
channel upto head sluice)       4100   1000   2000    1000         100                                      HW       4100
ii. Rehabilitation of irrigation outlets
by providing pipe sleeves
(10 Nos.)                         50             25       25          .                             .       MC         50
iii. Improvements and
reconstruction of irrigation outlets
by providing pipe sleeves         50              50        -         -                                     MC         50
iv. Rehabilitation of irrigation outlet
shutters                          15 I                     15                                       .       MC         15
v. Providing revetment on both
sides of channel with rough stone
dry packing without bed pitching
over R.R. toe wall in CM 1;4
a. with conveyed earth   1800             600     600       600          .        .         .       MC        1800
b. without conveyed earth   1600          800     800          -                                    MC        1600
vi. Construction of gauge well
including cost of automatic water
level recorder current meter
gauging bridge, etc., at head of  200                    200                   .                           MC         200
channel
vii. Modernisation of aqueduct
across Kathikal channel          600       .             300       300         .         .                 MC        600
viii. Modernisation of cart track
bridge near 2nd km of Kannadian
channel                          900                        o 500  400                             .       MC        900
ix. Repairs to canal outlets,
Pillayar outlet, Musal Naickan
outlet, and approach road to
Kannadian anicut site           1000       .               30      940        30          .                MC        1000
Su... .o;'D         13       10.0: '...       3          4 '0



/    ''0    "t'    'V   -''''I'-' - -"1'' 't1'--'- t7'l"' =1 X T<7'r0,9 2-l-'=*l- -- -- - -----                                              eage- 1o
7            I     72'        11         I  ,3   , < 715           7,  0        f  -I        7- lo'    1.         t      t -; 1 I  .                                   140         0141 '4 C.M-id                    R      ail-
f    ~~  :    _    ;-1    '    p   \   >   >   /  r . ~~~~~~~~ t _ g >:\ \ ; '1 8 a * Reh-b-k- -0o  rt nclbikaZin us.K. N..  mi
n   /  -fti E R V o,g p S   8         ;        /              W         X           _      f    i j                  o)  _   90}   _  n o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2   R habR WJ bndK dv K-adLs f 1  0.32  
t   R    S   r,   y   I   I   RE  S  E  Or  R  Wb Y) a sSs4 s ru ( ;; r I c o q I H \~~~~~~~~~4Retaa:. dKodgenchwM                                1.1
tl I \ \                                                                                                                                                                          Rehbdaalkw   *Pa\w-  t A | m
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I    " :,' 1. 213 '"                                                                                                                 ' "        "   '
_   R EFEnE N CE   \    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ #       2    {     U     t    A       U     0  /                    M A N N A  R             i  3           1996   -   97~~~~~~~~~~  2130 .  4    4    k
O C I1ANR L A   T A\ oT         <s                            SAKRAVO                                                                                  7-         C         O  R hQMaED d Thma OF 7ArMI IDU
(9  t)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU   TA,K                                                                                                            8  Fl^ha'-at| Ugn Woft MOE   PRMENal-kal
...  .   Ros  DS   tF   5/   >             /                 ,              PROCUREMENT           COMPONENTS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9cha..
3      --                        K AILR W AY                                                          I                                                                   I 0  ReJ\,b of .m .i ._  _.
l Q      TT1 :b'      Tr|1  FrTbtb di NT7i min ch' 7i5                           CLE'.IC e   0



Annex 13
Attachment 6
Table I
INDIA -- TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Guidelines for Reporting Formats
Budget and Expendituires (Rehabilitation I, Modernization Component)
Scheme and Major Sub         Budget   Budget  Estimated          Expenditure During the Quarter Ending                       Cumulative                Cumulative
Head                as per  for the          Cast         6/94       9/94       12/94      3/95         Expenditure Incurred  Expenditure  Planned
SAR      Year  (Revised)                                                       and Percentage of the             During Balance
Total Estimated Cost  Project Period and 7.  Commients    U)
to the end of        of Total Estimate
3/94              Cost to thte end of
3/95       3/96
i.           ~~~ii.     iii.         iv.             v.         vi.      v12.       viii.                   i.XI                          'Ai.          xii.
SATHANUR
Main Canal System
Distributary System
NB: Refer Project File for reporting guidelines by other componenits.



- 239 -
Anntex 14
Page 1 of 11
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLTDATION PRO.TECT
Economic Analysis
1.    OveXview:  The Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project would
assist Tamil Nadu State to significantly refocus its program in the water and
irrigation sector. The State's water resources agency would be modernized, and
complemented with supporting policy and institutional mechanisms to plan and
manage water from a multi-sectoral and environmentally-responsive perspective.
The project would introduce mechanisms for private sector participation in water
management activities, including the turnover of irrigation facility operations
and maintenance to farmer organizations. Irrigation sector expenditure
priorities would be revised to ensure first priority to full funding of
maintenance activities, second priority to rehabilitation and modernization of
existing irrigation schemes, and third priority to completion of existing
schemes. In addition, the project introduces to the water resources agency the
use of rigorous criteria for future project selection. These actions together
would serve to improve the productivity and sustainability of irrigation services
and ensure the timely provision of water to all user.
2.    Besides the irrigation benefits, the project would also generate long-term
benefits which are more difficult to quantify. Transforming the irrigation
branch of the Public Works Department (PWD) from a construction-oriented agency
into a specialized Water Resource Organization (WRO) would improve the management
of the State's water resources to include a multi-sector and environmentally-
sustainable perspective. Groundwater protection would be enhanced by improving
groundwater monitoring, regulations and enforcement. Allocation of water
resources between agricultural and non-agricultural users would be improved
through more holistic water planning. Bulk water supplies for industrial and
domestic users would be assured by multi-use basin and state water planning
wherein they would enjoy high priority. Revision of irrigation sector
expenditure priorities, in addition to improved project selection criteria, would
yield efficiency gains for the State, allowing it to avoid costly and unnecessary
projects and to invest in the most effective projects upfront. Lack of
quantitative data prevents the explicit incorporation of these benefits in the
analysis, but their significance is large.
Analysis and Methodologfy
3.    The analysis concentrates on quantifying the impact of project activities
on irrigation and agricultural production. The non-quantifiable benefits will be
described briefly though they will not figure into the determination of project
viability. In concert with the project's structure which is comprised of two
main components, the analysis is divided into two parts: first, the economic
analysis for the scheme completions, then a separate analysis for the
modernization and rehabilitation component of the project. This division is
chosen because it provides better opportunities for monitoring project progress
after implementation.
4.    Water is a scarce good in Tamil Nadu.  Domestic and industrial users
compete with agriculture for water resources and demand will continue to
increase. Project activities would increase the surface water supply
availability for all sectors. Currently more than 90% of the surface water



- 240 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 11
supplies are used in the agriculture sector, so most of the increases in surface
water supplies through project activities are likely to be added to irrigation
and rural water supply. The economic benefits of increasing surface water
supplies through project activities could theoretically be calculated by using
bulk water prices for industrial, domestic, or agricultural use. The current
water rates in Tamil Nadu (industry Rs. 500/'000m3 , domestic Rs. 200/'000m3,
agriculture Rs. 14-26/'000m3) belong to the highest in India.  However, these
prices are more an indication of political will than actual efficiency prices for
bulk water and can therefore not be used for the analysis. To cautiously value
the benefits of the project, the increase in surface water supplies is evaluated
in terms of the marginal benefits of water supplied to irrigation which is
generally the least attractive alternative.
5.    Economic import and export parity prices are calculated based on the World
Bank Revision of Primary Commodity Price Forecasts, July 1994 (Table 1) using
year 2000 projections expressed in constant March 1994 prices. Export parity
prices are used for cotton and sugarcane, import parity prices calculated for
paddy and for fertilizer. Rice is treated as an import substitute as Indian
demand and supply analysis for rice indicates the need for substantial expansion
of domestic production to avoid imports. Although India is essentially
self-sufficient in rice production, there will be a need to increase paddy
productivity in order to keep pace with population growth and positive income
effects due to economic growth. Sugar and cotton are valued at export parity
prices. Groundnuts and coconuts are treated as non-tradeable since they are
consumed as fresh products, and do not compare with internationally traded copra
or vegetable oil commodities. The project's incremental production of these
crops is fairly small and would be absorbable in the local fresh market. The
financial prices, adjusted with a standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.9, are
comparable to export parity prices for copra and slightly higher for groundnut
oil. All non-internationally-traded products have been adjusted with the
standard conversion factor (SCF) for India of 0.9. The economic prices for
seeds, labor, draught power, and machinery are based on financial prices, net of
taxes, adjusted by the SCF.
Scheme Completions
6.    This component involves the construction works required to complete
irrigation schemes which are currently being undertaken. From an earlier list of
twenty candidate sub-projects, thirteen candidates were selected for detailed
analysis during project preparation on the basis of preliminary screening,
including assessment of water availability within Tamil Nadu's overall water
planning and development objectives, and assessment of likely economic viability.
Of the thirteen schemes, five have construction activities at a fairly advanced
stage. Construction on the remaining eight candidates is either in the early
stages or proposed to start, with land acquisition and tender procedures under
preparation. On the basis of the analysis below, nine of the thirteen candidates
have been selected for inclusion in the WRO's work program over the WRCP period.
7.    While worldwide and Indian experience suggests that new irrigation schemes
typically have low economic rates of return, higher rates of return can generally
be expected from investments to complete the substantial backlog of on-going
irrigation projects. However, ERRs above the opportunity cost of capital, even
for scheme completions, are by no means automatic and the selection of candidates
for finance has to be done rigorously based on economic, technical and social
criteria.



- 241 -
Annex 14
Page 3 of 11
8.    Benefits  The Scheme Completions component has the direct objective of
increasing the quantity of, and improving the reliability of water supplies for
agricultural and domestic purposes. The direct benefits which would accrue as a
result of the investments are as follows:
1. Increases in irrigated command areas;
2. Improved yields resulting purely from reduction in moisture stress;
3. Improved yields resulting from optimum input practices adopted by
farmers in the light of improved reliability of water supply;
4. Agricultural intensification and changes in cropping patterns to higher
value crops; and
5. Provision of domestic water supplies.
9.    For each of the thirteen scheme completions appraised, the direct
agricultural benefits have been quantified in detail and form the basis of the
economic evaluation of the sub-component. However, secondary economic benefits
(and costs) which could be available, but have not been valued and included in
the analysis, would include:
1. Future options for bulk water supply to municipal and industrial users;
2. The net value of any fish production resulting from building
reservoirs;
3. Improved drinking water supplies caused through groundwater recharge;
4. Any flood control due to the construction of civil works;
5. The byproduct values associated with the various crops to be grown;
and
6. Social forestry schemes, and thus fuelwood output, planted in new
tanks.
10.   Crop budgets in economic terms have been derived from the financial crop
budget and are set out in Table 2. These data were compiled from joint WRO and
FAO/CP field visits to each scheme area. The value of the electricity consumed
in supplementary irrigation from wells is extremely difficult to quantify because
disaggregated records of power consumption are not available, and the use of well
irrigation can vary significantly dependent on seasonal climatic conditions.
Supplementary well irrigation would be reduced as a result of the project because
groundwater and associated power consumption would be partly substituted by the
increased and more reliable surface water supplies. For the purposes of the
analysis, however, it is assumed that power consumption would not change with the
project.
11.   The investment costs in the economic analysis are derived from the detailed
cost tables, adjusted to economic costs, and include physical contingencies.
Annual operation and maintenance (O&M) costs have been estimated at Rs. 298/ha
subsequently adjusted by the SCF, and applied from 1 April, 1994 onwards. This is
based on a detailed estimate of requirement for full maintenance provided by WRO
and reviewed during appraisal. These costs include current costs of staff.



- 242 -
Annex 14
Page 4 of 11
12.   Methodology  For each of the thirteen scheme completions, the economic rate
of return was calculated to ascertain the economic viability of the scheme, and
assess the merits for its financing. The economic rate of return calculation
(ERR) is based on the following assumptions: (i) all costs are in constant March
1994 prices; (ii) project benefits and costs are calculated for 30 years; (iii)
quantifiable net returns are from incremental crop production; (iv) O&M
expenditures would remain constant over 30 years; and (v) the opportunity cost
of capital is 12%. Thus, schemes are automatically included for financing if the
ERR is at least 12%.
13.   In order to estimate the incremental benefit and cost streams for each
scheme, the irrigated areas were divided into areas defined by the source of
irrigation water, which is set out graphically in Table 3. The future situation
without the project is assumed to approximate the present situation without the
project. For ongoing schemes, it has been assumed that all costs incurred before
1 April, 1994, will be treated as sunk.
14.   In the base case scenario, scheme completions have been costed using
standard Government construction rates, increased by 50%. The analysis also
presents results using Government rates increased by 25%, and Government rates
only. The use of Government rates plus 50% is based on analysis of actual past
and present implementation experience, compared with unit rates quoted by the
Government. This base case has been adopted for both the ERR analysis and
project costing, given the importance of the economic success of each completion
scheme in the overall program and adequate funding based on implementation
experience. The costs further include physical contingencies of 10% for all
civil works and vehicles, and 15% for all equipment. The approach taken during
appraisal was to incorporate sufficient safeguards in the analysis and selection
process of completion schemes to ensure as far as possible the economic viability
of each scheme.
15. Results. The table below gives a summary of the economic rates of return
and benefit/cost ratios for the thirteen candidate completion schemes, including
sensitivity analysis for cost overruns. For details refer to Table 4. The
results indicate that eight of the scheme completions, Adavinainarkoil,
Gridhammal II, Kodumudiyar, Mordhana, Nambiyar, Poigayar, Rajathopekanar, and
Vadakku Pachayar, are acceptable investment projects in economic terms since they
would be expected to provide economic rates of return at or in excess of the
opportunity cost of capital (OCC) for India of 12% p.a. Four schemes (shown at
bottom of the table) are not viable and have been excluded from the project.
16.   One scheme, Sothuparai, has an ERR of 11.2%, and under normal circumstances
would not be considered for financing. A calculation of the switching value for
benefits, however, indicates that benefits for Sothuparai would have to increase
by only 6.5% for the ERR to be equal to 12%. This is equivalent to an additional
NPV of Rs. 16 million (US$0.5 million), or Rs. 2 million (US$60,000) per year.
The NPV of additional benefits amounts to an average of Rs. 9900/ha (US$300/ha),
or Rs. 1200/ha per year (US$37/ha per year). These additional benefits would
likely be achieved through the secondary benefits that would accrue as a result
of the project, such as byproduct values from additional crop production (e.g.
increased straw biomass for fodder), health benefits from improved drinking
water, and new fisheries production. For example, it is estimated that net
income from fisheries alone would be Rs. 14,000 (US$440) per fishing household
per year (Annex 9, Attachment 5), which amounts to an estimated Rs. 1 million



- 243 -
Annex 14
Page 5 of 11
(US$31,000) per year for the Sothuparai scheme sitel. On this basis, the
Sothuparai scheme is considered an acceptable investment, and is included in the
project package.
Scheme Name                Base Case  1/  Case 2 2/   Case 3  3/  Benefit/Cost Ratio  4/
Adavinainarkoil                  12%            15%          19%                1.75
Gridhammal II                    62%            81%          120%               4.89
Kodumudiyar                      24%            29%          37e                3.30
Mordhana                         13%            18%          26%                1.77
Nambiyar                         12%            16%          24%                1.18
Poigayar                         12%            16%          25%                1.18
Rajathopekanar                   12%            17%          25%                1.18
Sothuparai                       11%            15%          23%                1.20
Vadakku Pachayar                 12%            16%          23%                1.90
Shanmughanadhi                    3%             5%           8%                0.38
Periyar Vaigai Tirruppatur        4%             6%          10%                0.26
Periyar Vaigai Maravangamalai     5%             9%          12%                0.40
Irukkangudi                       4%             7%          12%                0.82
Notes:
1/ Base case: Economic parameters as at October 1994 - updated SCF for India (May 1994),
updated commodity prices (July 1994);  Project costs based on Government rates plus 50%,
plus physical contingencies.
2/ Case 2: Project costs based on Government rates plus 25%, plus physical contingencies.
3/ Case 3: Project costs based on Government rates only, plus physical contingencies.
4/ The benefit/cost ratio is included here since it has been in the past the basis on which
WRO (formerly the Public Works Department) evaluated its projects.  Projects were
considered acceptable by PWD if the ratio was greater than 1.5 (or 1 if the project
was located in drought-prone areas). It is calculated as a ratio of annual benefits to
annualized investment plus operating costs using base case cost assumptions: i.e.
(Net benefit at full capacity)/((10% of total investment costs) + (2% depreciation) + O&M).
17.   The analysis shows the benefits of careful control of construction costs.
Of the nine schemes above, six (Adavinainarkoil, Nambiyar, Poigayar,
Rajathopekanar, Sothuparai and Vadakku Pachayar) have economic rates of return at
or near the 12% level. The economic rate of return of each of these six schemes
would move to the 15-16% range if construction costs equal to Government rates
plus 25% were achieved (case 2). In order to avoid realization of low economic
rates of return, the project's procurement and contractor supervision and
monitoring arrangements are specifically designed to achieve maximum economies in
construction costs.
18.   As indicated above, four of the schemes reviewed, Shanmughanadhi, Periyar
Vaigai Tirrupattur, Periyar Vaigai Maravangamalam and Irrukangudi, are not
acceptable in economic terms based on present design, cost, water availability
and resulting cropping pattern. Each of these four would provide economic
returns significantly less than the required 12% OCC. Therefore, only the nine
schemes mentioned previously will be included in WRO's program for support by the
project. The nine scheme completions together have an overall economic rate of
return of 15% and a net present value of Rs. 338 million. The major benefits are
an incremental production of 4,700 t of paddy, 5,500 t of groundnut and an
additional 76,000 t of sugarcane (Table 5).
19.   The State's program in the water sector, which is financed under the WRCP,
will include detailed water planning for future water needs. When the basin and
state water plans are developed, it is likely that new projects would be
1This estimate is consistent with the assumption of Annex 9, Attachment
5, i.e. that 30% of the 170 affected households at the Sothuparai scheme site
reap the benefits from new fishery activities.



- 244 -
Annex 14
Page 6 of 11
identified by WRO in the course of the next years, in particular in relation to
estimated urban and industrial bulk water needs. To enable the WRCP to
accommodate the inclusion of further completion schemes under the overall
investment program of WRO, a small provision (at 10% of base costs of the nine
accepted scheme completions) would be made in the project costs for the
construction and completion of presently unidentified schemes. The inclusion of
any further projects would be dependent on completing and satisfying a set of
rigorous criteria as outlined in Annex 15, including the criterion of an ERR of
12% or more.
Systems Imorovement and Farmer Turnover (Modernization and Rehabilitation)
20.   Background:  The productivity of irrigation in Tamil Nadu is well below
potential. On the majority of irrigation schemes, suboptimal distribution of
water results in low yields and cropping intensity and reduced opportunities for
diversifying agriculture. The existing infrastructure of the conveyance system
has been deteriorating which further aggravates the suboptimal irrigation
efficiency. The project's modernization, rehabilitation and farmer turnover
activities are aimed at improving the productivity and efficiency of the
irrigation system. Modernization and rehabilitation include activities like
desilting of and repairs to the canals, repairs to structures, selected lining of
canals and distributaries, on-farm development works, and improved operations
management of the reservoirs and canals. Integral to the rehabilitation and
modernization program will be a major thrust to hand over the responsibility of
operation and maintenance below the distributary level to Water Users
Associations.
21.   Investments of this nature are generally considered to have high potential
returns both in India and in other countries, and available analysis from a
variety of sources confirms this (India, Irrigation Sector Review, Report No.
9518-IN). In Tamil Nadu, investments in modernization and rehabilitation are
currently being financed under the National Water Management Project (NWMP) which
commenced in the late eighties in seven of the State's schemes. First monitoring
reports allow to tentatively assess the benefits in selected schemes. Although
the monitoring process has not been completed because in most schemes the work is
still ongoing, for two completed schemes, Sathanur and Cumbum Valley, WRO has
reported impressive increases in both expansion of effectively irrigated area and
in yield (increases in irrigated area of around 100%, and yield increases in the
order of 13 - 80% for paddy and groundnut). Most of the other schemes show a
positive development in expansion of irrigated area (Table 6).
22.   In total more than 660,000 ha of cultural command area (CCA) would be
rehabilitated and modernized under WRCP. This includes 17 major and medium (more
than 2,000 ha per scheme) and 40 minor schemes. The major schemes are further
divided into stage 1 and stage 2 works. Stage 1 includes the most immediate
repairs to the major canal system and is limited to expenditures averaging Rs.
5,300 per hectare. Investments falling under stage 2 include lining of
distributaries and on farm development works. Stage 2 investments are limited to
expenditures of not more than Rs. 10,000 (avg. Rs. 7,900) per hectare.
23.   Benefits:  The major benefits to be expected for agriculture are:  (i)
increases in cultivable area receiving full and more reliable water supplies
which allow farmers to increase production intensity, (ii) improved yields
resulting from reducing moisture stress and by using higher inputs, and (iii)
intensification and diversification of the cropping patterns to higher value
crops. Benefits to the non-agricultural sectors comprise more reliable bulk



- 245 -
Annex 14
Page 7 of 11
water supplies to domestic and industrial users. Water saved by increasing the
efficiency of irrigated agricultural production could also be passed on to the
other sectors in the future. The economic analysis nevertheless evaluates
increases in surface water supplies in terms of the marginal benefits of water
supplied to irrigation. Benefits will thus tend to be under-estimated, as
agricultural water usage usually has lower returns than for industry.
24.   In nearly all schemes, the actually irrigated Cultural Command Area (CCA)
is considerably smaller than the originally designed CCA. Moreover, not all of
the actually irrigated CCA receive sufficient irrigation supplies to fully
irrigate the crops according to crop water requirements. To give a realistic
assessment of the situation in Tamil Nadu in the economic analysis, irrigation
benefits will be divided into benefits resulting from increasing:
i)    The irrigated area at the tail-end, enabling farmers to switch from
rainfed to irrigated crops (reducing the gap); and
ii)   Water deliveries to partially irrigated land, enabling the farmers to
derive incremental irrigated production (stabilization);
25.   Methodology:  A detailed economic analysis has been prepared for 16 of the
17 major schemes covering a designed CCA of 530,000 ha or 80% of the total area
under consideration. The analysis follows a disaggregated approach looking at
the agricultural cropping patterns, crop budgets, input use and production for
each of the 16 major schemes separately. For three of the schemes, information
on the existing agricultural structure has been prepared in detail jointly by WRO
and FAO/CP. These three were selected as being representative of the three major
types of irrigation water supply - canal only, tank only and canal/tank systems.
The other 13 major schemes have been analyzed using crop budgets provided by the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU). The results of the economic analysis
are extrapolated to a medium scheme and the minor schemes which have not been
separately analyzed because they are scattered all over the State.
26.   A detailed analysis of the benefits of the three selected model schemes
(Kodayar, Vaigai Old Ayacut, Lower Bhavani) was carried out by identifying
presently unirrigated areas, or areas of unreliable irrigation, that would be
made reliable irrigation areas as a result of the modernization/rehabilitation
works. Details of the cropping pattern and crop budgets were obtained during
joint WRO - FAO/CP field visits to each site (Table 7). The analysis of the
model schemes serves to confirm the economic viability, based on data from WRO
and TNAU, of the other thirteen modernization schemes.
27.   The TNAU crop budgets (Table 8) summarize information on inputs, outputs
and prices and are based on an annual monitoring procedure of farm performance in
all districts of the State based on a stratified sampling procedure. This farm
management data base is the only statewide statistical source using actual
performance information for the 1992/93 farming season. The without project
yields for the major crops on partially irrigated land are 3.2-5.9 t/ha for
paddy, 1.2-1.3 t/ha for groundnut, and around 100 t/ha for sugarcane, based on
observed present yields in each of the different schemes. The wide yield range
for paddy reflects the differences in yield levels from scheme to scheme (Table
9). Cropping patterns are established for each scheme based on information
provided by WRO (Table 10). At full development it is assumed that:
(i)   The cropping pattern does not change when farmers fully irrigate
their previously only partially irrigated land. Even though a change



- 246 -
Annex 14
Page 8 of 11
to higher value crops could be expected, this aspect has not been
included;
(ii) Rainfed crops are grown on 50% of the non-irrigated land, the
remainder being left fallow (the gap). This assumption is based on
national statistics and field observations;
(iii) Irrigation benefits in stage 1 schemes consist of both a reduction of
the gap and a shift from partial to full irrigation. Irrigation
benefits in stage 2 schemes only consist of an increase from partial
to full irrigation. This division was selected to account for the
previous investments under the NWMP in stage 2 schemes;
(iv) In all schemes, about 30% of the presently irrigated CCA moves from
partial to full irrigation. This estimate has been given by WRO
engineers and can be described as cautious compared with the first
monitoring results of NWMP; and
iv)   Yields, hired labor and fertilizer use increase by 10% with full
irrigation as compared to partial irrigation. The yield increases
are based on realistic estimates of TNAU economists.
28.   The economic analysis for the SIFT component is based on realistic
assumptions on the incremental irrigation benefits of the project. Especially,
the division of the irrigation benefits into two groups, partial to full
irrigation and gap to full irrigation gives a detailed and realistic assessment
of the actual benefits.
29.    esaults;  Modernization and rehabilitation of the analyzed 16 major schemes
would allow to increase irrigation from partial to full supplies on an area of
107,000 ha, and an additional 34,000 ha presently not receiving any water would
receive irrigation. After project implementation, annual irrigation benefits
would amount to Rs. 1,040 million at March 1994 prices. At full development
total foodgrain production of paddy, and groundnut would increase by 170,000 t
per year (Table 10).
30.   The ERR calculation is based on the same economic assumptions as the scheme
completions. The implementation period for most of the schemes is seven years
and incremental benefits are phased in, beginning with year 4. Determination of
construction costs is based on actual costing experience under NWMP which sets
limits on rehabilitation and modernization costs per hectare. A similar approach
has accordingly been used with the addition of 10% for physical contingencies on
civil works and vehicles, and 15% for all equipment. The type of works necessary
for modernization/rehabilitation does not require large amounts of civil works
and earthworks, nor major civil works which are subject to considerable cost
variations. Base cost for civil work average Rs. 5,300/ha for stage 1 and Rs.
7,900/ha for stage 2 investments. Project costs for this component consist of
the direct investment costs for the schemes, the farmer turnover component, the
Irrigation Management & Training Institute, operation and maintenance costs of
irrigation facilities (budgeted at Rs. 265/ha), and costs for maintenance of
equipment.
31.   The overall ERR for this component is 19% and reflects the expected high
returns from increasing efficiency of already existing schemes. The detailed
analysis for Kodayar, Vaigai Old Ayacut, and Lower Bhavani gives an ERR of 38%,
40%, and 24%, respectively. The component is especially robust to cost overruns



- 247 -
Annex 14
Page 9 of 11
as the sensitivity analysis for this component reveals. Nevertheless, as with
the scheme completions, construction costs should be monitored carefully.
Summary Results of the Economic Analysis
32.   The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) is based on the same economic
assumptions as the individual ERR's for the above described components. The
economic cash flows are presented in Table 11. Total quantified benefits only
consist of irrigation benefits of which at full development 25% and 75% can be
attributed to the scheme completions and modernization/rehabilitation components,
respectively.
33.   The overall ERR for the project is estimated at 17% and the net present
value in March 1994 prices at Rs. 1,990 million. The overall ERR is calculated
as the combined ERR for the project's two investment components, scheme
completions and modernization/rehabilitation/farmer turnover, which together
account for 84% of the project's base costs. Costs and benefits have not been
included for the project's water planning and environmental action plan as well
as institutional improvement expenditures not directly related to the two
production components. The expected benefits of the iatter components are
substantial but are difficult to quantify. If the costs for these items are
included, but without ascribing benefits, the overall ERR of the total project
would fall to 13%, and the net present value would be R3. 587 million. At full
development the project would achieve an incremental foodgrain production of
paddy and groundnuts of 180,000 t per year.
Sensitivity and Risks Analysis
34.   The table below presents the results of the sensitivity and risks analysis
covering increases in costs, decreases in benefits, and the switching values in
costs and benefits that would reduce cash flow to break even levels. For example
if costs increased by 20% the ERR for the overall project would fall from 17% to
14%. As expected, the SIFT component has higher returns than the scheme
completions component, which are reflected in both the base case and the various
scenarios. The switching values illustrate that benefits would have to fall by
30% or costs to increase by 43% for the ERR to fall to 12%. It is, however,
unlikely for implementation shortfalls of this magnitude to occur, for several
reasons:  (i)  estimates of costs are realistic (the SIFT component uses actual
costing experience of the NWMP and the scheme completion costs are based on
actual experience with on-going contracts); (ii) estimation of benefits was
similarly realistic and detailed, using actual farm performance information from
a statewide farm performance database (SIFT) or data compiled from WRO-FAO/CP
field visits (completions), and obtaining disaggregated estimates for
subcomponents of the project components; (iii) GOTN has achieved successful
piloting of the modernization and rehabilitation activities on a large scale
(153,000 ha) under NWMP, on which the extension to the larger WRCP program is
based; (iv) GOTN has demonstrated its commitment to the project's implementation
and sustainability through successful institutional and fiscal reorganization;
and (v) WRO has proven capability and successful experience in implementing the
kind of physical activities called for in the project.
35.   The table also includes results of risks analysis of three other scenarios,
i.e. (i) reduced implementation and realization of benefits, (ii) inadequate
maintenance beyond the project period, and (iii) shortfalls in the Systems
Improvement and Farmer Turnover component, which investigate their impact on the
economic rate of return.



- 248 -
Annex 14
Page 10 of 11
36.   Reduced imDlementation and realization of benefits.  While the risk of
shortfalls in implementation has been reduced through a variety of monitoring and
incentive mechanisms built into the project to help ensure this, it is
instructive to investigate the consequences of a delay in the implementation
process. Under this scenario, where it is assumed that benefits are lagged by 2
years, the ERR of the overall project would fall from 17% to 13%, the ERR of the
SIFT component would fall from 19% to 15%, and the ERR of the scheme completions
component would fall from 15% to 12%.
37.   Inadequate maintenance beyond the project period.  The table also tests for
a scenario that would develop if the WRCP's objectives to sustain full
maintenance (supported by improved cost recovery and farmer turnover) were not
continued beyond the project period, i.e. a historically relevant non-
sustainability scenario. This scenario is possible if funds for 0 & M fall short
of expectations after the project implementation period, resulting in
significantly reduced long term benefits. The sensitivity test therefore assumes
a scenario of gradually decreasing benefits, where: (i) the incremental benefits
of the modernization/rehabilitation component cannot be sustained after year 10
and progressively fall to zero in year 20 producing no incremental benefits
thereafter, and (ii) the incremental net benefits of the scheme completions would
drop from 100% in year 10 to 50% in year 30. Under these assumptions the ERR
would fall from 17% to 13% and the NPV would fall from Rs. 1,990 million to Rs.
350 million. This test illustrates the importance and the high pay-off of full
funding of adequate maintenance requirements, hence the attention paid to full
funding and vigorous monitoring of maintenance under the WRCP. GOTN funding of
maintenance was brought to full requirements in the April 1994 budget, and GOTN
has spelled out in its Letter of Development Policy its intentions for sustained
funding for maintenance functions.
38.   Shortfalls in the Systems Improvement & Farmer Turnover component.  The
potential exists for less than satisfactory completion of the SIFT component.
SIFT incorporates an innovative public-private partnership-that calls for new
kinds of skills and markedly different attitudes on the part of both government
personnel and farmers. In particular, management of farmer organizations are
intended to be autonomous and must no longer be subjected to bureaucratic or
political pressures. The inherent risk is that the bureaucracy may not easily
undergo the necessary transformation and may continue to exert influence on
farmer organizations. A scenario that tests for this possibility of incomplete
implementation of SIFT assumes: (i) a 2 year lag in benefits, (ii) a 30%
shortfall in benefits, and (iii) a 20% increase in costs. Under these
assumptions the ERR would drop from 19% to 13% for SIFT and from i7% to 14% for
the overall project. The NPV would fall from Rs. 1,652 million to Rs. 186
million for SIFT, and from Rs. 1,990 million to Rs. 524 million for the overall
project.



- 249 -
Annex 14
Page 11 of 11
Completions   1/    Mod/Rehab   2/  Overall Project   3/
Base Case                                     15%                19%                17%
Benefits decreased by 10%                     13%                17%                16%
Benefits decreased by 20%                     12%                15%                14%
Costs increased 10%                           13%                17%                16%
Costs increased 20%                           12%                16%                15%
Benefits -10% ; Costs -10%                    15%                19%                17%
Switching values   4/
Benefits                                 -17%               -35%               -30%
Costs                                    +21%               +54%               +43%
Reduced implementation E
realization of benefits                  12%                15%                 13%
Inadequate maintenance   5/                   14%                13%                13%
Incomplete achievement of SIFT   6/           15%                13%                14%
Notes:
1/ Scheme completions component.
2/ Modernization/rehabilitation/farmer turnover component.
3/ Overall Project results calculated for components 1) and 2).
4/ Amount benefits would have to decrease, or costs to increase, for the ERR to fall to 12%.
5/ Two year delay in benefits, 30% benefits shortfall, and 20% increase in costs.
6/ Incremental benefits of the SIFT (mod/rehab) component decrease progressively from
100% in year 10 to zero in year 20, producing no incremental benefits thereafter;
Incremental benefits of the scheme completions drop progressively from 100% in year
10 to 50% in year 30.
39.    The sensitivity and risks analysis above demonstrates the robustness of
both components in addition to the overall project, and confirms the soundness of
the proposed investment. The analysis further emphasizes the importance of
strict adherence to the project's implementation, monitoring and maintenance
guidelines. Close monitoring of implementation activities, continuation of
budgetary allocations for maintenance functions beyond project completion, and an
emphasis on improving the interaction between public and private institutions,
would ensure that the project yields the expected benefits.



- 250 -
Annex 14
Table 1
Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Parity prices of major project inputs and outputs
EXPORT PARITY                 IMPORT PARITY
Unit           Sugar         Cotton           Paddy          N  (Urea)       P (TSP)         K (MP)
2/             3/              4/              5/             6/            7/
World market price 1/                                            US$/mt                   254            1500             270             320           289            178
(Year 2000 projections, 1 990 prices) 8/
MUV Index adjustment                                             %                      106.0           106.0           106.0          106.0    106.0    106.0
(Year 1990 presented in 1994 prices) 8/
World market price 1994                                          US$/mt                 269.3    1590.5                 286.3          339.3    306.4    188.7
Quality adjustment                                               %           14/           110              90              90            100            100           100
World market equivalent price                                    US$/mt                 296.2    1431.4                  257.7         339.3          306.4    188.7
International freight and insurance                              US$/mt                    -10             -50              50              50            50             50
FOB/CIF Madras                                                   US$/mt                 286.2    1381.4                 307.7          389.3    356.4    238.7
Exchange rate 1 5/                                               Rs.                      32.0            32.0            32.0           32.0           32.0          32.0
FOB/CIF Madras                                                   Rs./mt               9159.9  44205.0    9844.9  12457.5  11405.7   7639.5
Port charges 9/, 11/                                             Rs./mt                -405.0          -405.0          405.0           405.0          405.0         405.0
Internal transport 9/, 1 2/                                      Rs./mt                -288.0          -288.0           288.0          288.0          288.0         288.0
Internal handling and marketing 9/                               Rs./mt                -108.0          -108.0           108.0          108.0          108.0          108.0
Wholesale/ex-factory price processed product   Rs./mt                                 8358.9   43404.0   10645.9  13258.5  12206.7   8440.5
Conversion ratio 10/                                             %                          10              35              67            100            100           100
Wholesale price of raw product                                   Rs./mt                 835.9   15191.4    7132.7  13258.5  12206.7   8440.5
Deduct processing costs 9/                                       Rs./mt                                                -146.3
Deduct local marketing costs 9/                                  Rs./mt                 -18.0           -18.0           -18.0            18.0           18.0          18.0
Deduct transport to/from  farm  gate 9/, 13/                     Rs./mt                 -31.5           -31.5           -31.5            31.5           31.5          31.5
Farmgate parity price                                            Rs./mt                 786.4   15141.9    6937.0  13308.0  12256.2   8490.0
Farmgate financial price                                         Rs./mt                 450.0    9000.0    3000.0    6200.0  18750.0   8000.0
1 /   Calculation based on import parity, as per World Bank commodity price projections , July 18, 1994,
2/   FOB, raw sugar, stored at Caribbean ports, ISA daily price , freight & insurance rates are difference for f.o.b. to c.i.f. costs Caribbean/Europe and India/Europe.
estimated at US$ 10 higher costs for India/Europe lEurope being the major market)
3/   Cotton (outlook A Index) c.i.f. Europe
4/   FOB Bangkok, Thai, white milled rice, 5% broken
5/   Price for N calculated based on world market price for Urea = 45% N, any origin, bagged FOB, NW Europe
61   Price for P calculated based on world market price for TSP = 46% P, bulk, FOB, US Gulf
7/   Price for K calculated based on world market price for MOP= 60% K, bulk, FOB, US Gulf
B/   Taken from World Bank commodity price projections, July 1 B, 1994
9/   Financial prices multiplied by a standard conversion factor for India of 0.9: see 11/ b)
10/  Based on industry standard for sugar, and based for rice on 67%
11/  See Madras Port Trust. Scale of Rates, 1992 Edition (not updated for 1993), for detailed charges
12/  Based on the representative distance to cover the major demand areas in and in the vincinity of the state at 0.7/ton/km.
1 3/ Based on an assumed average distance of 50 km
14/  If India had to import rice, it would probably do so from Bangkok, where there is a high rice quality: for sugar, the
quality adjustment reflects conversion of raw sugar to white sugar, including white sugar premium
15/  Period average rate for 1994.



INDIA - Tamilndu WRCP - Crop Economic Production Costs
Paddy Pishanum/Samba      Tank                                 (Rs per Ha)                         Paddy Kar/Sornovari/Navarai  Tank                               (Rs per Hal
FWOP         FWP                                                                                    FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                  FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity       Price        cost        cost                                            Quantity    Quantity       Price        cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                  59.3        59.3          5         320         320              Seed          Kgs                  59.3        59.3          5         320         320
N            Kgs                  61.8        98.8         13         821        1,314             N             Kgs                  88.9       111.2          13       1,183       1,478
P            Kgs                  24.7        49.4         12         304         608              P             Kgs                  24.7        37.1         12         304         456
K            Kgs                              37.1          9                     315              K             Kgs                  12.4        37.1          9         105         315
FYM          Tons                  7.4         9.9         48         356         474              FYM           Tons                  9.9        12.4         48         474         593
Pesticides   Rs                  247.0       617.5          1         198         494              Pesticides    Rs                  444.6       617.5          1         356         494
Hired Bullocks Pair Days          24.7        24.7         40         988         988              Hired Bullocks Pair Days           24.7        24.7         40         988         988
Hired Labour  Man Days            84.0        91.4         24       2,016        2,193             Hired Labour  Man Days             86.5        93.9         24        2,075       2,253
Other        Rs                  370.5       370.5          1         296         296              Other         Rs                                              1
Family Labour Man Days            61.8        61.8         24        1,482       1,482             Family Labour Man Days             61.8        61.8         24        1,482       1,482
6,780       8.485                                                                                   7,286       8,378
Paddy Pishanum/Samba      Tank & Well                         (Rs per Hal                          Paddy Kar/Sornovari/Navarai  Tank & Well                        IRs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                    FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                  FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost         cost                                           Quantity     Quantity       Price        cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                  59.3        59.3          5         320         320              Seed          Kgs                  59.3        59.3          5         320         320
N            Kgs                  93.9       123.5         13        1.248       1,643             N             Kgs                 111.2       123.5         13        1.478       1,643
P            Kgs                  24.7        49.4         12         304         608              P             Kgs                  37.1        49.4         12         456         608
K            Kgs                  12.4        37.1          9         105         315              K             Kgs                  37.1        37.1          9         315         315
FYM          Tons                  9.9        12.4         48         474         593              FYM           Tons                 12.4        12.4         48         593         593
Pesticides   Rs                  444.6       617.5          1         356         494              Pesticides    Rs                  617.5       617.5           1        494         494
Hired Bullocks Pair Days          24.7        24.7         40         988         988              Hired Bullocks Pair Days           24.7        24.7         40         988         988
Hired Labour  Man Days            91.4        96.3         24        2,193       2,312             Hired Labour  Man Days             93.9        98.8         24        2,253       2,371
Other        Rs                  988.0       988.0           1        790          790              Other        Rs                  988.0       988.0           1        790          790
Family Labour Man Days            61.8        61.8         24        1,482       1,482              Family Labour Man Days            61.8        61.8         24        1.482       1,482
8,261       9,544                                                                                   9.169       9,604
Paddy Rainfed              Rainfed                             (Rs per Ha)                         Groundnut                   Rainfed                             (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                    FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                 FWOP          FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity       Price        cost        cost                                           Quantity     Quantity       Price        cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                  59.3                      5         320                           Seed         Kgs                 197.6       197.6          8        1,581       1,581
N            Kgs                  37.1                     13         493                          N             Kgs                   9.9         9.9         13         131         131
P            Kgs                  12.4                     12         152                          P             Kgs                   9.9         9.9         12         122         122
K            Kgs                                            9                                      K             Kgs                  24.7        24.7          9         210         210
FYM          Tons                  4.9                     48         237                           FYM          Tons                  4.9         4.9         48         237         237
Pesticides   Rs                  123.5                      1          99                          Pesticides    Rs                  123.5       123.5          1          99          99
Hired Bullocks Pair Days          19.8                     40         790                          Hired Bullocks Pair Days           19.8        19.8         40         790         790
Hired Labour  Man Days            86.5                     24       2,075                          Hired Labour  Man Days             37.1        37.1         24         889         889
Other        Rs                                              1                                      Other        Rs                  197.6       197.6           1         158         158
Family Labour Man Days            61.8                     24        1,482                         Family Labour Man Days             24.7        24.7         24         593         593
5,648                                                                                              4,810        4,810
Groundnut                  Tank & Well                         (Rs per Ha)                         Groundnut                   Tank                                (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                    FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                 FWOP          FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                 H   1
Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost         cost                                           Quantity    Quantity        Price       cost         cost
Seed         Kgs                 197.6       197.6          8        1,581       1,581              Seed         Kgs                 197.6       197.6          8        1,581       1,581              -  w
N            Kgs                  14.8        14.8         13         197          197              N            Kgs                   9.9        12.4         13         131         164              (D  X
P            Kgs                  46.9        46.9         12         577         577               P            Kgs                   9.9        12.4         12         122         152                   ,
K            Kgs                  17.3        17.3          9         147          147              K            Kgs                  46.9        49.4          9         399         420              P     .
FYM          Tons                  7.4         7.4         48         355         355               FYM          Tons                  4.9         4.9         48         237         237
Pesticides   Rs                  247.0       247.0           1        198          198              Pesticides   Rs                  123.5       247.0           1         99         198
Hired Bullocks Pair Days          19.8        19.8         40         792          792              Hired Bullocks Pair Days          19.8        19.8         40         790         790
Hired Labour  Man Days            42.0        42.0         24        1,008       1,008              Hired Labour  Man Days            37.1        42.0         24         889        1,008
Other        Rs                 1235.0      1235.0           1        988          988              Other        Rs                  247.0       247.0           1        198          198
Family Labour Man Days            24.7        24.7         24         593          593              Family Labour Man Days            24.7        24.7         24         593         593
6,436       6,436                                                                                   5,039       5,340



INDIA - Tamilndu WRCP - Crop Economic Production Costs
Pulses                    Residual Moisture                  (Rs per Ha)                          Chillies                  Tank & Well                         (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                  FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity      Price        cost        cost                                           Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                 19.8        19.8          8         158         158              Seed         Kgs                   1.2         1.2       240         296         296
N            Kgs                              7.4         13                      99              N            Kgs                  74.1       74.1         13         986         986
P            Kgs                             17.3         12                     213              P            Kgs                 34.6        34.6         12         425         425
K            Kgs                                           9                                      K            Kgs                 34.6        34.6          9         294         294
FYM          Tons                                         48                                      FYM          Tons                17.3        17.3         48         830         830
Pesticides   Rs                 123.5       247.0          1          99         198              Pesticides   Rs                1482.0      1482.0          1       1,186       1,186
Hired Bullocks Pair Days          2.5         2.5         40          99          99              Hired Bullocks Pair Days         19.8        19.8         40         790         790
Hired Labour  Man Days           29.6        34.6         24         711         830              Hired Labour  Man Days           74.1        74.1         24        1,778      1,778
Other        Rs                                             I                                     Other        Rs                 988.0       988.0           1        790         790
Family Labour Man Days           12.4        17.3         24         296         415              Family Labour Man Days           49.4        49.4         24       1,186       1,188
1,363      2,011                                                                                 8,562       8,562
Cotton                    Tank & Well                        (Rs per Hal                          Bananas                   Tank & Well                         (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                  FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity      Price        cost        cost                                           Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                 14.8        14.8         14         200         200              Seed         Kgs               2470.0      2470.0          2       5,558       5,558
N            Kgs                 69.2        79.0         13         920       1,051              N            Kgs                222.3       222.3         13       2,957       2,957
Hired Bullocks Pair Days         24.7        24.7         40         988         988              Hired Bullocks Pair Days         37.1        37.1         40        1,482      1,482
Hired Labour  Man Days           69.2        74.1         24        1,660      1,778              Hired Labour  Man Days          259.4       266.8         24       6,224       6,402
Other        Rs                 988.0       988.0          1         790         790              Other        Rs                 988.0       988.0           1        790         790
Family Labour Man Days           64.2        64.2         24        1,541      1,541              Family Labour Man Days           74.1        74.1         24        1,778      1,778
6,099      6,349                                                                                 18,789      18,967
Sesame                    Rainfed                             IRs per Ha)                         Sorghum                   Rainfed                             (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                  FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                                                FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic                             Ut
Quantity    Quantity      Price        cost        cost                                           Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                  9.9          9.9        14         133         133              Seed         Kgs                  14.8        14.8          3         47          47
N            Kgs                 22.2        22.2         13         296         296              N            Kgs                  24.7       24.7         13         329         329
P            Kgs                  9.9         9.9         12         122         122              P            Kgs                  12.4        12.4        12         152         152
K            Kgs                  9.9         9.9          9          84          84              K            Kgs                                           9
FYM          Tons                 7.4         7.4         48         356         356              FYM          Tons                  7.4        7.4         48         356         356
Pesticides   Rs                                            1                                      Pesticides   Rs                 123.5       123.5           1         99          99
Hired Bullocks Pair Days         14.8        14.8         40         593         593              Hired Bullocks Pair Days          14.8       14.8         40         593         593
Hired Labour  Man Days           39.5        39.5         24         948         948              Hired Labour  Man Days           24.7        24.7         24         593         593
Other        Rs                                             1                                     Other        Rs                                             1
Family Labour Man Days           24.7        24.7         24         593         593              Family Labour Man Days           37.1        37.1         24         889         889
3,124      3,124                                                                                  3,057      3,057
Tomato                    Well                                (Rs per Ha)                         Sugar Cane                Tank & Well                         (Rs per Ha)
FWOP         FWP                                                                                  FWOP         FWP
FWOP         FWP   Economic   Economic   Economic                                                 FWOP         FWP    Economic   Economic   Economic
Quantity    Quantity      Price        cost        cost                                           Quantity    Quantity       Price       cost        cost
Seed         Kgs                  0.5         0.5        360         178         178              Seed         Kgs                  4.9         4.9        387        1,912      1,912
N            Kgs                 98.8        98.8         13       1,314       1,314              N            Kgs                148.2       222.3         13        1,971      2,957                     _ ~.
P            Kgs                 49.4        49.4         12         608         608              P            Kgs                 49.4        61.8         12         608         760                 pl  j
K            Kgs                 49.4        49.4          9         420         420              K            Kgs                 74.1       111.2          9         630         945                 rJ a
FYM          Tons                17.3        17.3         48         830         830              FYM          Tons                12.4        12.4         48         593         593                 F- tD
Pesticides   Rs                 988.0       988.0          1         790         790              Pesticides   Rs                 370.5       494.0          1         296         395                (M  X
Hired Bullocks Pair Days         24.7        24.7         40         988         988              Hired Bullocks Pair Days         14.8        18.5         40         593         741                 s  t-
Hired Labour  Man Days           29.6        29.6         24         711         711              Hired Labour  Man Days          142.0       179.1         24       3,409       4,298                 rJ 4
Other        Rs                 988.0       988.0           1        790         790              Other        Rs                 988.0       988.0           1        790         790
Family Labour Man Days           49.4        49.4         24       1,186       1,186              Family Labour Man Days           65.5        71.6         24        1,571      1,719
7,815      7,815                                                                                 12,372      15,109



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Classification of Irrigated Areas - Scheme Completions
Reservoir
Channel                                            Channel
C
e
n                                   Tank 11
I                                                                          I
Channel w
,         ~~~~~~~~.......... ....
_ L~~~~~~~....... 
Present situation without project                                                       Future with project
Existing total ayacut area                                       Additional area not                         Total irrigated area                  > :-
over all tank ayacuts                                          covered by any tank
Without supp.             With supp             No irrigation                 With supp.         Without supp        Without supp.   With supp       Ex-dryland    r
well irrigation         well irrigation                                     well irrigation      well irrigation     well irrigation   well irrigation                w
A                        B                     C                            D                    E                   F              G              H
=A+C           =B+D             =E



INDIA - Tam)inadu Water Resources Consolidadon ProjGct
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Adeinsinalnrkoll
Project                          Land                    Water    Crop       Cropping    Cropped     Yl id       Totai     Price    Total   Cuitivatlon    Total     Not
status                          tYPe                     supply              season         area            Production            benefits      cosbt     costs   benefits
MIa) Itons/Ha)     (tons) (Rps./ton) IRps. 000)   lRpe./Hla) IRps. '000) IRps. '000)
Without
A                       T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb     1,406       3.5      4.862    6,937    33,729        6,780     9,534    24,195
T        Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        351      4.2       1,476    6,937    10,236        7,286     2,561     7,676
R        Pulses     Mar-May        562      0.5         278    8,000      2,222       1,363       767     1,456
R        Coconuts  Perennial       166  12103.0                                          0
0      0.0                                          0
B                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       283       4.7      1,330    6,937      9,226       8,261     2,341     6,885
T+W      Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep         85      5.2         441     6,937     3,059       9,169       780     2,280
T+W      Pulses     Mar-May        142      0.5          70    8,000        560       1,363       193       367
T+W      Coconuts  Perennial        53  12103.0                                           0
T+W      Banana     Annual          20   1976.0      40,000        28     1,120      26,044       527       593
0      0.0                                          0
C                       R        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       123       2.6        305    6,937      2,116       5,648       697     1,418
R        Sorghum    Apr-July       617      2.0       1,218    2,400      2,924       3,057     1,885     1,039
0      0.0                                          0
E                       R        Groundnut  Apr-July        98       1.5        146    6,400        933       4,810       473       460
R        Pulses     Oct-Dec         98      0.5          49    8,000       389        1,363       134       255
Subtotal                3,997                                   66.515                19,892    48,623
With
F                       T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      1,852      4.9      9,150    6,937    63,474        8,485    15,716    47,758
T        Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep      1,667      5.9       9,883     6,937    68,560       8,378    13,969    54,591                    1
T        Groundnut  Mar-Jun        185      2.0         366    6,400      2,340       5,340       988     1,352                    VI
T        Pulses     Mar-May      1,111      0.7         824    8.000      6,588       2,011     2,234     4.354                    4
T        Coconuts  Perennial       327  12103.0                                          0
0      0.0                                          0
G                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       268       5.7       1,523    6,937    10,562       9,544     2,558     8,004
T+W      Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        161      5.9         953    6,937      6.610       9,604     1.544     5,066
T+W      Pulses     Mar-May        161      0.7         119    8,000        953       2,011      323        630
T+W      Coconuts  Perennial        53  12103.0                                          0
T+W      Banana     Annual          36   2223.0      79,200       28      2,218      26,222      934      1,283
O      0.0                                          0
H                       T+W      Groundnut  Jun-Sep         98       2.0        194    6,400      1,244       4,944       486       768
T+W      Chillies   Oct-Feb         98      1.2         122   24,000      2,916       8,562      842      2,074
Subtotal                6,018                                  165,464                39,594   125,869
Incremental net benef it                                                                        79.24U
1994      1995       1996     1997     1998        1999-   2000        2001        2002      2003     > 2004
I. Investment Costs                                        85,357    104,843    87,677   87,471   84,107      79,939   79,939
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                                                                         1,436       1,436     1,436     1,436
Ill. Total Costs                                           85,357    104,843    87,677   87,471   84,107      79,939    79.939     1,436       1,436     1,436     1,436 |       3
iV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                                   19,812   39,623      59,435   79,246    79,246       79,246    79,246    79,246         1- ID
(DX
Pius Benefit of New Coconut Plantation                       182)       528       525    11,008)  11,008)     11,008)    1.975     3,105       4,201     4,732     5,263         r 
Intercropped with Banana and Tapioca                                                                                                                                           io 4s
V. Net Economic 8enefits                                  185,439)  1104,318)  (87,152)  (68,668) (46,492)    121,512)    1,283    80.916     82,012    82,543    83,074
Economic Rate of return               11.9%



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
________                                                                          Grldhammal 11
Project                           Land                     Water    Crop        Cropping     Cropped     Yiela        Total     Price     Total   Cultivatlan    Total      Not
status        _       __                                         . __ _   sunp_y _, __  s6ason  area             p'oduction             benefitts                costs   benef;ts
(Hai 'tons/Ha)      't2nsi 1RDs.:tnn: hyps 000)    (RIs./Ha; IRps '000, MRps. '000)
A                                 P auody Sa,b Oct-Feb       832        3         2.876     6 937    19.948        6,780     b 638    14,310
0      0.0                                            0
3                        T-W      Paddy Samb Sep Jan           78      4.7         365      6,937     2,531        8,261       642      1,888
r_- tW    coits     Peb-Jui          39       1.5          58    15,142        872       8.099        315       557
tOW    Sugar cane  Annuas            34      e0.3       2,698       786      2,121      12.372        416      1,706
0      00                                             0
C                        R        Sorghum    Oct-Dec         323        2.0        638      2.400      1,532       3,057       988        544
0
Subtotal                 1,305                                    27.004            0      7,999    19,006
0
With                                                                                                                                                     0U
T        Paddy Samb Sep-Jan        1,155      49        5,704     6,937    39,569        8,485      9,797    29,772                        un
T        Pulses     Feb-Apr        1,155      0.7         856     8,000      6,845       2.011      2.322     4,523
0      0.0                                            0
G                        T+W      Paddy Samb Aug Jar           37       5 7        209      6,937     1,452        9,544       352      1 100
T+W      Cotton     Feb-Jul          37       2.0          73    15,142      1,102       9,068        334       768
r+w      Sugar cane  Annual          73    105 0        7.G93       786      6,049      15.109      1.107     4,942
Subtotal                 2,456                                    55,017                 13,911    41,106
Incremental net benefit                                                                             22,100
1994       1995      1998      1997      1998        1999      2000       2001        2002       2003     >2004
L. Investment Costs                                          35,098
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                 312        312       312       312         312       312       312          312       312        312
Ill. Total Costs                                             35,098        312        312       312      312          312       312       312          312       312        312
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                   22,100    22,100    22,100   22,100       22.100    22,100    22,100       22,100    22,100    22,100
V. Net Economic Benefits                                     135,098)    21,789    21,789    21,789   21,789       21,789    21,789    21,789       21,789    21,789    21,789
Economic Rate of return                62.1%
D) 7.
H  (D
(8X
-0a-
cX,cs



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Compiatlons - Economic Benefits
Kodumudlyar
Project                         Land                   Water   Crop        Cropping    Cropped    Yield       Total    Price     Total  Cuhivation    Total      Net
status                         type                    supply              season         area           production            benefits     costs     costs   benafitt
(Ia) (tons/Ha)    (tons) lRps./ton) lRps. '000)   lRps./Ha) lRps. 000) IRps. '000)
Without
A                      T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      791       3.5      2,736    6,937    18,977       6,780     5,364    13,613
T        Pulses    Feb-Apr        237      0.5        117    8,000        938       1,363      323       614
0      0.0                                         0
B                      T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      674       4.7      3,164    6,937    21,945       8,261     5,569    16,377
T+W      Banana    Annual          96   1976.0    189,600        28     5,309     26,044     2,499     2,810
T+W     Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        202      5.2       1,050    6,937     7,284      9,169     1,856     5,428
T+W     Coton      Mar-Aug        101      1.5        150   15,142      2,271      8,099       820     1,452
T+W     Chililes    Mar-Aug       101      1.2        125   24,000      3,000      8,562       867     2,133
0      0.0                                         0
C                      R        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      779       2.5      1,925    6,091    11,725       5,648     4,402     7,323
0
2,983                                 71,449          0    21,699    49,750
0                                         t_n
With                                                                                                                                           0'
F                      T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb     1,570      4.9      7,758    6,937    53,817       8,485    13,325    40,492
T        Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep     1,413      5.2       7,331    6,937    50,856      8,378    11,842    39,014
T       Groundnuts Mar-July       848      2.0       1,676    6,400    10,726       5,340    4,529     6,197
T       Pulses     Mar-Apr        424      0.7        314    8,000      2,513      2,011       852     1,661
0      0.0                                         0
G                      T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      578       5.7      3,284    6,937    22,784       9,544     5,518    17,266
T+W     Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        347      5.9       2,057    6,937    14,268      9,604     3,332    10,936
T+W     Pulses     Mar-Apr        347      0.7        257    8,000      2,057      2,011       698     1,359
T+W     Chillies    Feb-Aug       116      1.2        143   24,000      3,432      8,562       991     2,441
T+W     Cotton     Feb-Aug        116      2.0        229   15,142      3,464      9,068     1,050     2,414
T+W     Banana    Annual          192   2223.0    426.600        28    11,945      26,222    5,032     6,913
Subtotal               5,951                                 175,862               47,169   128,693
Incremental net benefit                                                                      78,943
1994      1995      1996     1997    1998         1999     2000      2001       2002      2003     > 2004
1. Investment Costs                                      68,421     62,527    57,564   25,206                                                                                 - 
11. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                            P' 
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                                       1,379       1,379    1,379     1,379      1,379     1,379     1,379          1-DX
Ill. Total Costs                                         68,421     62,527    57,564   25,206    1,379       1,379    1,379     1,379      1,379     1,379     1,379           1,3
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                                          78,943      78,943   78,943    78,943     78,943    78,943    78,943
V. Net Economic Benefits                                 168,421)   162,527)  157,564)  125,206)  77,564    77,564   77,564    77,564     77,564    77,564    77,564
Economic Rate of return              23.8%t



INDIA - Tamllnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Mordhana
Project                          Land                    Water    Crop       Cropping     Cropped     Yield      Total     Price     Total   Cultivation   Total      Net
status                          type                     supply              season          area            production            benefits      costs     costs   benefits
(Ha) (tons/Ha)     (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. 000)    (Rps./Ha) (Rps. 000) (Rps. '000)
Without
A                       T        Paddy Samb Aug-Dec       2,098      3.5       7,253    6,937    50,317        6,780    14,222    36,094
T        Paddy Navar Jan-Apr       629       4.2       2,642    6,937    16,326       7,286     4,584    13,742
0      0.0                                          0
0      0.0                                          0
B                       T+W      Paddy Samb Aug-Dec        486       4.7       2,280    6,937    15,816        6,261     4,013    11,803
T+W      Paddy Navar Jan-Apr       148       5.2        756    6,937      5,244       9,169      1,336     3.908
T+W      Paddy Sorno Apr-Jul        97       5.2        504    6,937      3.496       9.169       891      2,605
T+W      Sugar Cane annual         324      80.3     26,000       786    20,446      12,372     4,007    16.439
0      0.0                                          0
C                       R        Pulses     Nov-Jan        285       0.5         141     8,000     1,126       1,363       389       738
0
Subtotal                4,064                                  114,773           0    29,443    85,330
0                                         a
With                                                                                                                                                0
F                       T        Paddy Samb Aug-Dec       2,383      4.9      11,770    6,937    81,648        8,485    20,216    61,433
T        Paddy Navar Jan-Apr     1,430       5.2       7,415    6,937    51,439       8,378    11,978    39.461
R        Pulses     Jan-Mar        477       0.7        353    8,000      2,825       2,011       958      1,867
T        Groundnut  Jan-Apr        477       2.0        942     6,400     6.026       5,340      2,545     3,482
0      0.0                                          0
G                       T+W      Paddy Samb Aug-Dec        283       5.7       1,610    6,937    11,169        9,544     2.705     8,464
T+W      Paddy Navar Jan-Apr       227       5.9       1,344    6,937     9,323       9,604      2,177     7,146
T+W      Paddy Sorno Apr-Jul       113       5.9        672     6,937     4,662       9,604      1,089     3,573
T+W      Sugar Cane annual         526    105.0       55,250      786    43,449      15,109      7,952    35,497
Subtotal                5,915                                  210,540                49,619   160,921
Incremental net benefit                                                                         75,592
1994      1995       1996     1997      1998        1999     2000      2001        2002      2003      >2004
I. Investment Costs                                        23,642     80,563    99,918   100,380   99,676      59,539
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                                                                1,411     1,411       1,411     1,411     1,411
Ill. Total Costs                                           23.642     80,563    99,918  100,380   99,676       59,539     1,411     1,411       1,411     1,411     1,411
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                                    18.898   37,796      56,694   75,592    75,592       75,592    75.592    75,592
F_a
V. Net Economic Benefits                                  (23,642)   (80,563)  (99,918)  (81,482)  (61,880)     (2,845)  74,181    74,181      74,181    74,181    74,181           M  X
Economic Rate of return               13.4%                                                                                                        r 



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Nambiyar
Project                          Land                    Water    Crop       Cropping     Cropped     Yield      Total     Price     Total   Culivation     Total     Net
status                          type                     supply              season          area            production            beneftts      costs     costs   benefits
IHa) (tons/Ha)     (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. '000)    (Rps./Ha) (Rps. '000) (Rps. '000)
Without
A                       T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       222       3.5         767    6,937      5,322       6,780     1,504     3,818
R        Pulses     Mar-Apr        133       0.5         66    8,000        526       1,363       182       345
0      0.0                                           0
B                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb        49       4.7         228    6,937      1,582       8,261       401     1,180
T+W      Banana     Annual          98   1976.0    194.400         28     5,443      26,044      2,562     2,881
T+W      Chillies   Mar-Aug         24       1.2         30   24,000        720       8,562       208       512
T+W      Cotton     Mar-Aug         24       1.5         36   15,142        545       8,099       197       348
0      0.0                                           0
C                       R        Groundnut Oct-Jan          83       1.5         124    6,400       791        4,810       401       390
R        Pulses     Oct-Nov         83      0.5          41    8,000        330       1,363       114       216
R        Sesame    Oct-Dec          19       1.0         18   12,000        221       3,124        58       163
0      0.0                                           0
D                       W        Groundnut  Oct-Dec          20      2.0          40    6,400       256        5,039       102       154
W        Tomato    Jan-Jul          40      29.6       1,200      800       960       7,815       316       644
0      0.0                                           0                                          N
E                       R        Groundnut  Sep-Jan         56       1.5          83    6,400       530        4,810       269       261                      U4
R        Pulses     Sep-Jan         55       0.5         27    8,000        219       1,363        76       144                      OD
0
Subtotal                  908                                   17,445           0     6,390    11,055
0
With                                                                                                                                                0
F                       T        Paddy Pisha Sep-Jan       519       4.9       2,562    6,937    17,773        8,485     4,400    13,372
T        Groundnut  Feb-May        259       2.0        512    6,400      3,277       5,340      1,384     1,893
T        Pulses     Feb-Apr          0       0.7          0    8,000          0       2,011         0         0
0      0.0                                          0
G                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Sep-Jan        49       5.7         276    6,937      1,915       9,544       464     1,451
T+W      Chillies   Feb-Aug        283       1.2        350   24,000      8,400       8,562     2,426      5,974
T+W      Cotton     Mar-Aug         24       2.0         48   15,142        727       9,068       220       507
T+W      Banana     Annual          98   2223.0    218,700         28     6,124      26,222     2,580      3,544
0      0.0                                          0
H                       T+W      Groundnut Dec-Mar          40       2.0          80    6,400       512        4,944       200       312
T+W      Tomato    Mar-Aug          40      29.6     , 1,200      800       960       7,815       316       644
0
Subtotal                1,313                                   39,686                11,991    27,696
Incremental net benefit                                                                         16,641
1994       1995      1996     1997     1998        1999      2000      2001        2002      2003     >2004
I. Investment Costs                                        52,375     44,785    25,147
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                               I-  D
O & M of Irrigation System                                                                   313      313         313       313       313         313       313       313          fD X
III. Total Costs                                           52,375     44,785    25,147       313      313         313       313       313         313       313       313          fD P.
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                 5,547    11,094    16,641   16,641      16,641    16,641    16,641      16,641    16,641    16,641
V. Net Economic Benefits                                  (52,375)   (39,238)  (14,053)   16,328   16,328      16,328    16,328    16,328      16,328    16,328    16,328
Economic Rate of return               12.1%



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Polgayar
Project                           Land                     Water    Crop        Cropping     Cropped     Yield        Total     Price     Total   Cultivation    Total      Net
status                            type                     suply                season          area             production             benefns       costs      costs   benefits
(Hal (tons/Hal      (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps.'000)    (Rps./Ha) lRps. '000) lRps.'000)
Without
A                        T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb         168       3.5         580     6,937     4,021        6,780     1,136      2,884
R        Groundnut  Jun-Sept        100       1.5         149     6,400        952       4,810        483       469
0      0.0                                            0
B                        T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb           9       4.7          40     6,937       277        8,261        70        207
T+W      Banana     Annual           17   1976.0       33,600        28        941      26,044        443       498
0      0.0                                            0
C                        R        Groundnut  Jun-Sept          57       1.5          84     6,400       538        4,810       273        265
o      0.0                                            0
E                        R        Groundnut  Jun-Sept         202       1.5        300      6,400      1,920       4,810       974        946
0      0.0                                            0
553      0.0                            8,648            0     3,379      5,269
0      0.0                                            0
With                                                                                              0       0.0                                            0
F                        T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb         224       4.9       1,108     6,937     7,686        8,485     1,903      5,783
T        Paddy Kar  June-Sept       202       5.2       1,050     6,937      7,284       8,378      1,696     5,588
T        Groundnuts May-Aug          22       2.0          43     6,400        276       5,340        117       160
T        Pulses     Feb-Apr         121       0.7          90     8,000        720       2,011        244       476                      t'
0      0.0                                            0
G                        T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb           9       5.7          48     6,937       335        9,544        81        254
T+W      Banana     Annual           17   2223.0       37,800        28      1,058      26,222        446       613
0      0.0                                            0
H                        T        Groundnut  Apr-July         142       2.0        280      6,400     1,792        5,340       757      1,035
T        Groundnut  Oct-Jan         202       2.0         400     6,400      2,560       5,340      1,081      1.479
T        Chillies   Mar-Aug         142       1.2         175    24,000      4,200       8,562      1,213     2,987
0        0                                            0
Subtotal                 1,081        0                           25,912                  7,538    18,374
Incremental net benefit                                                                             13.105
1994       1995      1996      1997      1998        1999      2000       2001        2002       2003     >2004
I. Investment Costs                                          32,495     38,245    25,985
II. Recurrent Costa
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                                      258      258          258       258       258          258       258        258
III. Total Costs                                             32,495     38,245    25,985        258      258          258       258       258          258       258        258
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                    4.368     8,736    13,105   13,105       13,105    13,105    13,105       13,105    13,105    13,105
V. Net Economic Benefits                                     132,495)   (33,8771   (17,2491   12,847   12,847      12,847    12,847    12,847       12,847    12,847    12,847           - 3
Economic Rate of return                12.3%
M>5



INDIA - Tamlinadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Rajarthopekanar
Projrct                         Land                   Water   Crop        Cropping    Cropped    Yield       Total    Price     Total  Cultivation   Total      Nrt
status                         typo                    supply             season          area           production            benefits     costs     costs   benefits
Wlota) (tons/Ha)  (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. '000)   (Rps./Ha) (Rps. '000) (Rps. '000)
Without
A                      T        Paddy Samb Aug-Dec        27       3.5         94    6,937       651       6,780       184      467
T       Paddy Navar Jan-Apr        14      4.2         58    6,937       401       7,286       100       301
Pulses    Jan-Mar         13      0.5          7    8,000         53       1,363       18        35
0      0.0                                         0
B                      T+W      Paddy Samb Aug-Dec       136       4.7        637    6,937     4,415       8,261     1,120     3,295
T+W     Paddy Navar Jan-Apr        81      5.2        422    6,937      2,928      9,169       746     2,182
T+W     Paddy Sorno Apr-Jul        27      5.2        141    6,937       976       9,169       249       727
T+W     Sugar Cane annual          29     80.3       2,340      786     1,840     12,372       361     1,480
T+W     Banana    annual           29   1976.0      57,600       28     1,613     26,044       759       854
0      0.0                                         0
Subtotal                 357      0.0                         12,877          0     3,538     9.339
0      0.0                                         0
With                                                                                        0      0.0                                         0
F                      T        Paddy Samb Aug-Dec        27       4.9        134    6,937       930       8.485      230       699
T       Paddy Navar Jan-Apr        22      5.2        113    6,937        787      8,378       183       603
T       Pulses     Jan-Mar          5      0.7          4    8,000        31        2,011       11        21                   o
0      0.0                                         0
G                      T+W      Paddy Samb Jul-Dec        96       5.7        547    6,937     3,797       9,544      920      2,878
T+W     Paddy Navar Jan-Apr        77      5.9        456    6,937      3,163      9,604       739     2,425
T+W     Paddy Sorno Apr-Jul        48      5.9        286    6,937      1,981      9,604       463     1,519
T+W     Sugar Cane annual          49    105.0       5,100      786     4.011     15,109       734     3,277
T+W     Banana    annual           49   2223.0    108,000        28     3,024     26,222     1,274     1,750
0       0                                          0
Subtotal                 373        0                         17,724                4,553    13,171
Incremental net benefit                                                                       3.831
1994      1995      1996     1997    1998         1999     2000      2001       2002      2003    >2004
I. investment Costs                                      17.371      9,536
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                       89        89      89          89       89        89          89        89       89
III. Total Costs                                         17.371      9.536       89        89      89          89       89        89          89        89       89
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                               1,277     3,831    3,831    3,831      3,831    3.831      3,831      3,831     3,831     3,831
V. Net Economic Benefits                                (17.371)    (8,259)    3,743    3,743    3,743      3,743    3.743      3,743      3,743     3,743     3,743         H13
Economic Rate of return             12.6%                                                                                                   P 
I-O (
mx
Oq~



91DA - Tuu*,edn Water Resourum Couldabon Proict
Prqaept -_do  F EconoeaI Bwmft
Prapjct                        Land                   Water   Crop        Cropping    Cropped    Yibld      Total    Price     Total  Cuiffion      Total     Net
stplin  tvpa           supply             season         area           roduction            berefits     costs    cosas   beneit
(Hal (tonsla)     (tons) (Rps.hton) IRps. '000)   (Rps./Hea) lps. *000) (Rps. '000)
WiEthout
A                      T        Paddy Sanib Sep-Jan       81      3.5        280    6,937     1.942      6,780       549     1.393
T       Groundnvt  Nov-mar        e1       1.7       139    6.400       892       5,039      406       486
0      0.0                                        0
8                      T+W      Paddy Sunb Sep-ion       372      5.2      1,928    6.937    13,373      8,261     3.070    10,303
T+W     Sugar can  Annual        248     80.3      19.890      786    15,641     12,372     3,066    12,576
T+W     Coton      FebJtk         37       1.5        55   15,142       836       8.099      302       534
0      0.0                                        0
C                      R        So9h-n   Sept-Dec         12      2.0         24    2,400        58      3,057        37       20
R       Groundmut Aug-Nov         15       1.5        22    6,400       142       4,810       72        70
0      0.0                                        0
D                      W        Sugrcane Annual           81     80.3      6500       786     5,112     12,372     1,002     4.110
W       Cotton     Feb-ul         81      1.5        120   15.142      1,817      8.099      856      1,161
0      0.0                                        0
E                      R        Grourdnut  Aug-Nov       155      1.5        230    6.400     1,475      4.810       748      727
R       Seame    Sept-Dec         26      1.0         26   12,000       307       3.124       81       226
A       Sorghau   Sept-Dec        78      2.0        154    2.400       369       3,057      238       131
0      0.0                                        0
1.266     0.0                        41,963          0    10,226    31,737
0      0.0                                        0                                        Cr%
WIdi                                                                                      0      0.0                                         0                                        0-
F                      T        Padd Smnb SepJan         189      4.9        932    6,937     6.466      8,485     1,601     4.865
T       GroUrmnut Oct-Jan         94      2.0        186    6,400      1,193      5.340      504       669
0      0.0                                        0
G                      T+W      Paddy S&rb SepJan        186      5.7       S88     8,937     6,159      9.544     1,492    4.667
T+W     Sugarrce   Annal         745    105.0      78.217     786    61.510      15,109    11,258    50.252
T+W     Cotton     Feb-Jul        78      2.0        154   15,142      2,338      9.068      709      1,629
T+W     Chie       Feb-Jul        78       1.2        97   24,000      2.316      8,562      669      1.647
0      0.0                                        0
H                      T+W      Cotton    Feb-Ad          78      2.0        154   15,142     2.326      9.068       705     1.621
T+W     Ch1        Feb-ki         78       1.2        96   24,000      2,304      8,562      666      1,638
T+W     Groundnut Oct-Jan        113      2.0        224    6,400      1.432      4,944      560       872
0      0.0
S9toA                  1.609       0                         86.042               18,161    67.881
hacrm    not bwieft                                                                         36,143
1994      1995      1996     1997    1996        199      200       2002                 2003    >20304
1. hwbrM.t Cost                                         54.770    73.735    73,557   57.077   42,483
M. RIcuarent Cost
0 & UA of lodgetn Svum                                                                                      384      384       384         384      384       384        '-  t
M. Totdl Cost                                           54,770    73.735    73.557   57,077   42,483        384      364       384         384      384       384         W X
IV. Net AWgcti   Econatic B nit                                              12,048   24,095   36,143     36.143   36,143    36,143     36.143    36,143    36.143
V. Nt Economic Benft                                    (54.770)  (73.735)  (61,509)  (32.982)  (6,340)    35,760   3,760    35,760    35,760    35,760    35,760         > J
Ecrnaic PRaw of rettn              11.2%



INDIA - Tamiinedu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Vadakku Pachayer
Project                         Land                   Water   Crop        Cropping    Cropped    Yield       Total    Price     Total  Cultivation   Total      Net
status                         type                    supply              season         area           production            benefits     costs     costs   benefits
(Ha) (tons/Ha)     (tons) IRps./ton) (Rps. 0001    (Rps./Ha) (Rps. '0001 (Rps. '000)
Without
A                      T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb     2,171      3.5      7,508    6,937    52,084       6,780    14,722    37,362
T       Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        109      4.2        456    6,937      3,160      7,286       791     2,370
R       Pulses     Feb-Apr        434      0.5        215    8.000      1,717      1,363       592     1,125
0      0.0                                         0
B                      T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb      748       4.7      3,509    6,937    24,344       8,261     6,177    18,167
T+W     Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        449      5.2       2,327    6,937    16,141       9,169    4,113    12,028
T+W     Groundnut  Mar-Jun        149      2.0        295    6,400      1,889      4,944       739     1,151
T+W     Banana    Annual          132   1976.0    260.800        28     7,302     26,044     3,437     3,865
0      0.0                                         0
C                      R        Groundnut  Oct-Jan       464       1.5        688    6,400      4,404      4,810     2,234     2,171
0      0.0                                         0
Subtotal               4,656      0.0                        111,043          0    32,805    78,238
0      0.0                                         0
With                                                                                        0      0.0                                         0
F                      T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb     2,171      4.9      10,726    6,937    74,406      8,485    18,422    55,984
T       Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        868      5.2       4,505    6,937    31,248      8,378     7,276    23,972
T       Groundnut  Mar-Jun      1,085      2.0       2,145    6,400    13,727       5,340    5,796     7,930
0      0.0                                         0
G                      T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       616      5.7      3,498    6,937    24,268       9,544     5,877    18,390
T+W     Paddy Kar  Jun-Sep        373      5.9       2,210    6,937    15,334       9,604    3.581    11,753
T+W     Groundnut Mar-Jun         246      2.0        486    6,400      3,113       4,944     1,217    1.896
T+W     Banana    Annual          264   2223.0    586,800        28    16,430      26,222    6,922     9,509
0      0.0                                         0
H                      T        Groundnut Nov-Feb        464       2.0        918    6,400      5,873      5,340     2,480     3,393
0      0.0                                         0
Subtotal               6,088        0                        184,398                51,572   132,826
Incremental net benefit                                                                      54,588
1994      1995      1996     1997    1998         1999     2000      2001        2002      2003    >2004
1, Investment Costa                                      27,944    69,693    57,682   52,781   53,517       30,570   26,974
11. Recurrent Costs
0 IN M of Irrigatlon System                                                                                                       716        716       716       716
Ill. Total Costs                                         27,944     59.693    57,682   52,781   53,517      30,570   26,974      716         718       716       716
IV. Net Agriculturel Economic Benefits                                                          13,647      27,294   40,941    54,588     54,588    54,588    54.588
V. Net Economic Benefits                                 (27,9441   (59,6931  (57,882)  (52,7811  (39.870)  (3,276)  13,967    53.873      53,873    53,873    53,873        13
Economic Rate of return              12.7%
m X
I-6 4-



INdXA - Tanindu Wtew Reunrcs Consoldadon Projct
Project Copo.mi - Economnc nefit
hasmrnahanadh
Project                         Land                   Water   Crop        Cropping    Cropped    Yield       Total    Price     Total  Cultivation   Total      Net
status                         type                    supply              sason          area           production            benefits     costs     costs  benefits
IHe) Itons/Hs)     (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. '000)   (Rps./Ha) (Rps. '000) (Rps. '000)
Without
D                      W        Banana    Annual         104   1976.0    205,600        28     5,757      26,222     2,728     3,028
0      0.0                                         0
E                      R        Sorghum    Aug-Nov       336       2.0        684    2,400      1,594      3,057     1,027      566
R       Groundnut July-Oct        168      1.5        249    6,400      1.594      4,810       B08       786
R       Sesame    Sep-Nov          56      1.0         55   12,000       662        3.124      175       488
0      0.0                                         0
Subtotal                 664      0.0                          9,606          0     4,738     4,868
0      0.0                                         0
With                                                                                        0      0.0                                         0
H                      T+W      Banana    Annual          104   2223.0    231,300       28     6,476      26,222     2,728     3,748
R       Sorghum    Aug-Nov        336      2.0        664    2,400      1,594       3,057     1,027      566
R       Groundnut July-Oct        168      1.5        249    6,400      1,594      4,810       808       785
R        Sesame    Sap-Nov         56      1.0         55   12,000       662        3,124      175       488
T       Groundnut Dec-Mer         560      2.0       1,106    6,400     7,081       5,340    2,990     4,091
R       Mango      Perennial      560 Trees
0        0
Subtotal               1,224        0                         17,407                 7.728    9,679                   a,
Incremental net benefit                                                                       4,811
1994      1995      1996     1997    1998         1999     2000      2001        2002      2003    >2004
1. Investment Costs                                      26,091     25,219    28,037   25,314   21,390
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                                                    425      425       425         425       425       425
Il1. Total Costs                                         26,091     25,219    25,037   25,314   21,390        425      425       425         425       425       425
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                                  1,604    3,207      4,811     4,811     4,811      4,811     4,811     4,811
Plus Net Benefit of Mango Plantation                     (318)     (1731     (173)    (173)    (173)        309      641       973       1,178     1,341     1,710
V. Net Economic Benefits                                (26,409)   (25,392)  (28,210)  (23,883) (18,356)     4,694    5,026     5,358      5,563     5,726     6,095
Economic Rate of return                3%
lx1
F. M
T. >



INDIA - Tamilnadu Water Resources ConsolIdation Project
Project Comrpleions - Economic Benefts
Parivar Valgal Tirupptur
Project                           Land                     Water    Crop        Cropping     Cropped     Yield        Total     Price     Total   Cultivation    Total      Net
status                            type                     supply               season          area             production             benefits      costs      costs   benefits
MHai (tons/Ha)      (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. 000    (Rps./HaI (Rps. '0001 lRps. '0001
Without
A                        T         Paddy Samb Sep-Jan        463        3.5       1,602     6,937    11,110        6.780     3.140      7.970
0      0.0                                            0
B                        T+W      Paddy Samb Sep-Jan          107      4.7         502      6,937     3,480        8,261       883      2,597
T+W      Cotton     Feb-July         32       1.5          48    15,142        727       8,099        262       464
T+W      Groundnut  Jan-Apr          74       2-0         147     6,400        942       4,944        368       574
0      0.0                                            0
C                        T        Proposis   Perennial       613        0.0                           1,470        1,976     1,210       260
0      0.0                                            0
Subtotal                 1,289       0.0                          17,729            0     5,864    11.865
0      0.0                                            0
With                                                                                              0       0.0                                            0
F                        T        Paddy Samb Sep-Jan         463       4.9        2,288     6,937    15,872        8.485     3.930    11,942
T        Pulses     Jan-Mar         370       0.7         275     8,000      2.196       2,011        745      1,451
T        Prosopis   Perennial       613       0,0                            1,470        1,976     1,210       260
0      0.0                                            0                                           q,
G                        T+W      Paddy Samb Sep-Jan          107       5.7        607      6.937     4.212        9.544     1.020      3,192
T+W      Cotton     Jan-Apr          74       2.0         147    15,142      2.229       9,068        676      1,553
T+W      Groundnut  Feb-July         72       2,0         143     6,400        916       4,944        358       558
0        0                                            0
Subtotal                 1,700        0                           26,895                  7.939    18,957
Incremental net benefit                                                                              7 092
1994       1995      1996      1997      1998        1999      2000       2001        2002       2003     >2004
I. Investment Costs                                          57,729
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                 396        396       396      396          396       396       396          396       396        396
Ill. Total Costs                                             57,729        396        396       396      396          396       396       396          396       396        396
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                    1.899     1,899     7.092    1,899        1,899     7,092      1,899       1,899      7,092     1,899
V. Net Economic Benefits                                    (57,729)      1,503     1,503     6.696    1,503        1,503     6.696      1.503       1,503      6,696     1.503
Economic Rate of return                   4%
H (D
D X
prc-



INDIA - Tamiinedu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completions - Economic Benefits
Perivar Valoai Maravamangelem
Project                           Land                     Water    Crop        Cropping     Cropped     Yield        Total     Price     Total   Cultivation    Total      Net
status                            type                     supply               season          area             production             benefits      costs      costs   benefits
(Ha) Itons/Ha)      (tons) (Rps/tonl lRps. '000)    iRpsa/Ha) /Rps. '000) lRps. '000)
Without
A                        T        Paddy Samb Sep-Jan          627       3.5       2,167     6,937    15,034        6,780     4,249    10,784
0      0.0                                            0
B                        T+W      Paddy Semb Sep-Jan           46      4.7         217      6,937     1,503        8,261       381      1,121
0      0.0                                            0
C                        T        Proposis   Perennial        328       0.0                             788        1,976       649        139
0      0.0                                            0
Subtotal                 1,001       0.0                           17,324           0     5,279    12,045
0      0.0                                            0
With                                                                                              0       0.0                                            0
F                        T        Paddy Samb Sep-Jan          673       4.9       3,324     6,937    23,059        8,485     5,709    17,349
T        Pulses     Jan-Mar         538       0.7         399    15,142      6,042       2,011      1,083     4,959
T        Prosopis   Perennial       328       0.0                              788       1,976        649       139
0      0.0                                            0
G                        T+W      Paddy Samb Sep-Jan           46       5.7        262      6,937     1,819        9,544       441      1,378
T+W      Groundnut  Feb-May          46       2.0          91     6,400        584       4,944        228       356
0        0
Subtotal                 1,632        0                           32,291                  8,109    24,182                        O
Incremental net benefit                                                                             12,137
1994       1995      1996       1997     1998        1999      2000       2001        2002       2003     > 2004
I. Investment Costs                                         113,963
II. Recurrent Costs
0 & M of Irrigation System                                                 389        389       389      389          389       389       389          389       389        389
IlI. Total Costs                                            113,963        389        389       389      389          389       389       389          389       389        389
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                    5,594     5,594    12,137    5,594        5,594    12,137      5,594       5,594    12,137      5,594
V. Net Economic Benefits                                    1113,963)     5,205     5,205    11,747    5,205        5,205    11,747      5,205       5,205    11,747      5,205
Economic Rate of return                   5%
> 
m
(m 



INDIA - Temilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Project Completloos - Economic Benefits
Irukkangudl
Project                          Land                    Water    Crop       Cropping    Cropped     Yield       Total     Price     Total   Cultivation   Total      Net
status                          type                     supply              season          area            production            benefits      costs     costs   benefits
(Ha) (tons/Ha)     (tons) (Rps./ton) (Rps. 000)    (Rps./Ha) (Rps. 000) (Rps. '0001
Without
A                       T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       218        3.5        755    6,937      5,235       6,780     1,480     3,755
0       0.0                                          0
B                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb        36       4.7         167    6,937      1,160       8,261       294       866
T+W      Cotton     Mar-Jul         1S       1.5         26    15,142       400       8,099       144       255
0       0.0                                         0
C                       R        Sorghum    Aug-Nov         179       2.0        353     2,400      847        3,057       546       301
R        Sesame    Nov-Jan          77       1.0         76    12,000       907       3,124       239       668
0       0.0                                         0
D                       R        Sorghum    Aug-Nov         53        2.0        104     2,400      250        3,057       181        89
T+W      Cotton     Mar-July        26       1.5         39    15,142       591       8,099       213       377
R        Coconuts  Perennial        10   12,103                                           0
0        0                                           0
E                       R        Sorghum    Aug-Nov       1,275       2.0      2,520     2,400     6,048       3,057     3,899     2,149
R        Prosopis   Perennial    2,369       0.0                          9,362       1,976     4,681      4,681
0       0.0                                          0
4,260      0.0                         24,798           0    11,657    13,141
0       0.0                                         0
With                                                                                           0       0.0                                          0
F                       T        Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb       426        4.9      2,104    6,937    14,595        8,485     3,614    10,982
R        Pulses     Feb-Aug        341       1.0        337     8,000     2,694       2,011       685      2,009
R        Coconuts  Perennial        47   12,103                                           0
0        0                                          0
G                       T+W      Paddy Pisha Oct-Feb        78        5.7        444     6,937     3,079       9,544       746     2,334
T+W      Coconuts  Perennial        20   12,103                                           0
T+W      Cotton     Mar-July        20       2.0         40    15,142       606       9,068       184       422
T+W      Chillies   Feb-July        19       1.2         24   24,000        576       8,562       166       410
R        Pulses     Mar-Apr         39       0.7         29    8,000        233       2,011        79       154
0       0.0                                         0
H                       T        Groundnut  Dec-Mar       1,275       2.0      2,520    6,400    16,128        5,340     6,810     9,318
T+W      Cotton     Mar-July       425       2.0        840   15,142    12,719        9,068     3,855     8,864
T        Pulses     May-Jul          0       0.7          0    8,000          0       2,011         0         0
T+W      Chillies   Oct-Apr          0       1.2          0   24,000          0       8,562         0         0
Sunflower                   0       1.5          0    9,600          0       1,769         0         0
Gingelly                    0       1.5          0   12,000          0       1.688         0         0
R        Prosopis   Perennial    1,094       0.0          0               4,322       1,976     2,161     2,161
R        Sesame    Nov-Jan       1,275       1.0      1,260   12,000    15,120        3,124     3,984    11,136
0      0.00
Subtotal                5,911      0.00                         70,072                22,284    47,788
Incremental net benefit                                                                         34,647
1994      1995       1996     1997     1998        1999      2000      2001        2002      2003     >2004
I. Investment Costs                                       104,727    104,727   134,072   89,662   42,286
II. Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                                                                 0 i
O & M of Irrigation System                                                                                      1,410     1,410     1,410       1,410     1,410     1,410           -   i
Ill. Total Costs                                          104,727    104,727   134,072   89,662   42.286        1,410     1,410     1,410       1,410     1,410     1,4`10               10
IV. Net Agricultural Economic Benefits                                                             17,323      34,647    34,647    34,647      34,647    34,647    34,647           3  4-
Pius Net Benefit of Coconut Plantation                        (14)       92         92     (177)    (177)        (177)     348       546         739       833       926
V. Net Economic Benefits                                 (104,741)  (104,635) (133,980)  (89,839) (25,139)     33.060   33,585    33,783       33,976    34,070    34,163
Economic Rate of return                 3%



- 267 -
Annex 14
Table 5
INDIA - TamNlnadu Water Resources ConsoNdation Project
Project Completions - incremental Production - Main Crops
(tonnes)
Paddy       Pulses      Banana      Sorghum     Groundnut   Cotton      Sugar Cane
(.000 bunches)
North Arcot District
Mordhans
Without                         13,435         141                                                       26,000
With                            22,811         353                                 942                   55,250
Incremental                      9,376         212                                 942                   29,250
Rajathopekanar
Without                          1,351           7          58                                            2,340
With                             1,536           4         108                                            5,100
Incremental                        186          13)         50                                            2,760
Total Increment                     9,561         210           50                     942                  32,010
District Production               222,000      20.000                              117,000                1,503,000
% Increase                             4%          1%                                   1%                      2%
Madural District
Sothuparal
Without                          2,208                                 178         392         175       26,390
With                             1,820                                             647         308       65,620
Incremental                       (388)                               (1781        255         133       39,230
Gridhammal 11
Without                          3,240                                 638                      58        2,698
With                             5,913         856                                              73        7,693
Incremental                      2,673         856                    (638)                     15        4,995
Totel Increment                     2,285         856                     (816)        255         148      44,225
Dlstrlct Production               366,000        9,000                  63,000      33,000       6,000   1,253.000
% Increase                             1%         10%                      -1%          I%          2%          4%
Tlruneivell District
Namblyar
Without                           995          134         194                     246          36
With                             2,838                     219                     592          48
Incremental                      1,843        (134)         24                     346          12
Kodumudlyar
Without                          8,874         117         190                                 150
With                            20,430         571         427                   1,676         229
Incremental                     11,556        454          237                   1,676          79
Vadakku Pachayar
Without                         13,800         215         261                     983
With                            20.939                     587                   2,631
Incremental                      7,139        (215)        326                   1,648
Adavinainarkoll
Without                          8,414         396          40       1,218         146
With                            21,509         943          79                     560
Incremental                     13,095         546          39       (1,218)       414
Total Increment                    33,633         651         627       (1,218)      4.084          91
District Production               319,000       11,000                  10,000       6,000
% IncrFsJe                            11%          6%                     -12%         51%
Kanyskumarl District
Polgyar
Without                           620                       34                     533
With                             2,206          90          38                     723
Incremental                      1.587          90           4                     190
District Productlon               141,000        1,000
% Increase                             1%          9%
Totals
incremental Production             47,066        1,806        681       (2,034)      5,471         239      76,235
Prod. In Project District        1,048,000     41,000                   73,000     158.000       6,000   2.756,000
% Increase                             4%          4%                      -3%          3%          4%          3%
Source: Agrostet 1993t Directorate of Agricuhturea Madras, 1993



- 268 -
Annex 14
Table 6
Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Preliminary Monitoring Results of NWMP in Tamilnadu
Increases in:
Total Area
A. Increase in irrigated Area                       a)            b)
Amaravathy                            8%           0%
Cumbum Valley                      230%           83%
Kodayar                             30%        n/a
Sathanur                           106%         192%
Sethiyathope                          6%          10%
Thambaraparani                        3%           8%
B. Increase in Yield
Cumbum Valley                 Paddy + 80%, groundnut + 86%
Sathanur                      Paddy + 33%, groundnut + 26%, sugarcane + 7%
Source: Draft monitoring reports prepared by PWD, Tamil Nadu.
Amaravathy: a) without project average area irrigated from 78/79-87/88 with 5 year average 88/89-92/93
b) three year average 85/86-87-88 with three year average 90/91-92/93
Cumbum Valley a) 10 year average 80/81-89/90 with three year average 90/91-92/93
b) 2 year average 88/89-89/90 with 2 year average 91/92-92/93
Kodayar a) average as noted by PWD, no years mentioned
Sathanur a) 5 year average 86/87-90/91 with 2 year average 91/92-92/93
b) 2 year average 89/90-90/91 with 2 year average 91/92 with 92/93
Sethiathope: a) 10 year average area irrigated from 78/79-87/88 with 5 year average 88/89-92/93
b) 3 year average 85/86-87/88 with 3 year average 90/91-92/93
Thambraparani: a) 10 year average from 78/79-87/88 with 5 year average 88/89-92/93
b) 3 year average 85/86-87/88 with 3 year average 90/91-92/93



- 269 -
Annex 14
Table 7a
INDIA - TemineAd Water Reaourcee Coneodwdon fRotect
Model Reheblfttlon Schemes - Econemic Analyse
Kotdyer
Incr Economic Economic      Financial  Economic      Not Incr
Units    Area        Yield     Production     Area     Yield  Production   Production     Price    Benefit    Prod Cost Prod Costs  Econ Benfit
(Ha)    lunits/Hal       (unitel     (Hal (units/Ha)     lunits)     (units)  (Rupees)  (Rs mill)  lflupeesJHae   (Rs mill)  (Rs mill)
1 Anandanat Canal                         --- Futwe without Project-               Future with Project---
Paddy - Assured irrigation  Tonnes  1,516         5.7         8,611     2,616       5.7      14,860       6,249   6.937.0      43.4      7,792.9
Paddy- Poor irrigation            1,100           4.0         4.347                                      (4.347)  6,937.0    (30.2)      6,113.3        (6.1)
Coconut - Irrigated         Nuts                                        1,836  10.374.0  19,047,000  19,047,000       2.4      45.7      7,244.5        12.0
Coconut - Ramned                   1,036      6.916.0    12,698,000                                 112,698,000l      2.4    (30.5)       6,604.8      (10.9)
33.4
2 P.P.Canal
Paddy - Assured irigation  Tonnes  4,726          5.7        26.848     6,263       5.7      35,579       8.731   6,937.0      60.6       7,792.9       10.8
Paddy - Poor rrigation            1,037           4.0         4,098                                      14.098)  6,937.0    (28.41      6,113.3        (5.7)
Tapioca - rainfad         Tonnes    500          13.6         6,793                                      16.793)   480.0        13.31     3,729.7       11.71
Coconut - Irrigated         Nuts                                        1,214  10,374.0 12,595,800  12,595,800        2.4      30.2      7,244.5         7.9
Coconut - Rainied                 1,214       6,916.0     8.397.200                                  18,397,2001      2.4    120.21      6,604.8        17.21
Banana - Assured irrigation   Bunches                                     500   2,223.0  1,1115,00   1,1115,00       31.5      35.0     24,811.2       11.2
Bnana - Poor magion                 500       1,952.5       926,250                                    1926,250)     31.5     129.21    22,934.0       (10.31
39-9
3 N.P.Cenel
Paddy- Assured irrigation  Tonnes  2.512          5.7        14,272     2,712       5.7      15,408       1.136   6,937.0       7.9       7,792.9        1.4
Paddy - Poor rigation               200           4.0           790                                        17901  6,937.0       (5.5)    6.113.3        11.11
Coconut - Irrigated         Nuts                                          528  10,374.0  5,476,800   5.476,800        2.4      13.1       7,244.5        3.4
Coconut - Rainled                   528       6,916.0     3,651.200                                  13,651,2001      2.4      (8.81     6,604.8        13.1)
Banana - Assured irrigation  Bunches                                      400   2,223.0    889,200      889,200      31.5      28.0     24,811.2         8.9
Banana- Poor irrigation             400       1,852.5       741,000                                    1741,0001     31.5    123.3)    22,934.0         18.31
10.2
4 Thovalai Canal
Paddy- Assured irgation   Tonnes  2,300           5.7        13,086    4,000        5.7      22,724       9,658   6,937.0      67.0      7,792.9        11.9
Paddy - Poor irrigation            1,700          4.0         6,718                                      (6,7181  6,937.0      146.6)    6,113.3        (9.4)
Coconut - Irrigated         Nuts                                          818  10,374.0  8,488,200   8,488,200        2.4      20.4      7,244.5         5.3
Coconut - Rainfed                   818       6,916.0     5,658.800                                  (5,658,800)      2.4      113.6)    6,604.8        (4.9)
Banana- Assured irrigation   Bunches                                      390   2,223.0    866.700      866.700      31.5      27.3     24,811.2         8.7
Banana - Poor irrigation            390       1,852.5       722,250                                    1722,250)     31.5    (22.8)    22,934.0         (8.0)
28.0
S Prazhay Anicut
Paddy- Assured irrigation  Tonnes  2,765          5.7        15,707     2,765       5.7      15,707               6,937.0                7,792.9
Paddy - Poor irrigation                                                                                           6,937.0                6,113.3
6 Ciner Pattanamkal
Paddy - Assured irrigation    Tunnsa  2,186       4.0         8.638     3,386       4.0      13,381       4,742   6,937.0      32.9      6,545.5         7.1
Paddy - Poor irrigation             600           3.0         1,778                                       (1,778)  6,937.0    (12.3)      5,421.7       12.9)
Tapioca-reinjd            Tonnes    600          13.6         8,151                                       18,151)   480.0       13.9)     3,729.7       (2.0)
Coconut - Irrogated         Nuts                                          972  10,374.0  10,084.200  10,084.200       2.4      24.2       7,244.5        6.3
Coconut - Rainfed                   972       6,916.0     6.722,800                                   16,722.800)     2.4    116.11       6,604.8       15.8)
22.0
7 Redhapuram Canal
Paddy - Assured irrigation  Tonnas                                       410        5.7       2.328       2.328   6,937.0      16.1      7,792.9         2.9
Paddy - Poor irrigation             410           4.0         1,619                                       11,6191  6,937.0    (11.21     6,113.3        (2.3)
Banana - Irrigated       Bunches    318       2,223.0       706,500       318   2,223.0    706.500                   31.5               24,811.2
Groundnut - Irrigated     Tonnee    235           2.0           464     2.403       2.0       4,748       4.284   6,400.0      27.4       5,490.8       10.7
Groundnut - R-mfed                  397           1.2           490                                        14901  6,400.0      (3.1)     4,774.5        11.7)
Pulses- Irrigated         Tonnes                                        3,239       1.0       3,200       3,200   8,000.0      25.6      3,161.6         9.2
Pulses - Rainfed                    729           0.7           540                                        (540)  8,000.0      (4.3)     2,551.5        (1.71
Chilihes - Irrigated      Tonnes    150           1.5           222       243       1.5         360         138  24,000.0       3.3      8,412.8         0.7
Cotton- Irrigoted         Tonnes     85           1.5           126       162       1.5         240         114  15,141.9       1.7       6,977.8        0.5
37.8
Fallow                            4.686                                   235
Total                            35,409                                35.409                                                                                       171.3
1994   1995          1996          1997      1998      1999        2000        2001      2002      2003         2004       2005          2006
1. Ineastment Costs                                                                                                                                                    to 201 8
Economic                    110.0)  (55.5)       (b8.11         155.5)    (53.7)    153.1)       17.2)
I. 0 & M Costs                                                                                     18.8)        18.8)     (8.8)     18.8)        (8.8)      18.8)        (8.8)
Ill. Totel Costs                110.0)  (55.51       168.1)         155.5)    (53.71    (53.1)     (18.01        18.81    (8.81     (8.8)         (8.81      (8.8)        (8.8)
IV. Economic Production Benefits                                    34.3      88.5    102.8        137.0       171.3    171.3    171.3           171.3      171.3        171.3
V. Net Incr. Economic Benefits    (10.01  (55.6)     (68.1)        121.2)     14.8      49.7       121.0        162.5    162.5    162.5          162.6      162.8        162.5
Economic Rate o1 Return             38%



- 270 -
Annex 1.4
Table 7b
INDIA - Tamilnad. Water Resources C-nslidation Project
Model Rehabilitation Schemes - Economic Analysis
Vsigei Old Ayscst
Incr  Economic  Economic       FProncial   Economic       Net ncr
Units       Area       Yield  Production      Areo     Yield  Production  Production      Frie      8-enefir    Prod Cost Prod Costs  Econ Benefit
(Ho)  lunits/Hel    (units        (Hal) (nitsfHal    (units)      uiut                (.Rupees    (Rn mill)  (RupeesiHal    (Rs n iii  (Rs mill)
1 Reach Area I                                           ---- Future withouo Project---   ---- Future with Projct--
Paddy - Assured irrigation         Tonnes       2.624        5.4      14.258      2.624       5.4     14.258                 6,937.0                  7 706 4
Paddy - Unrelieble irigation                      609        4.0       2.406        609       4 0       2,406                6.937.0                  u940 4
Paddy - Poor irrigation                           226        2.7         614        226       2.7        614                 6,937./i                 4.989 4
Benese - Assured irrigetion        Bunches        201    2,470.0    497,000         201  2,470.0   497.000                      3t.5                 24,811 2
2 Reach Area 11
Paddy- Assured irrigation           Tonses      3.462        5.4      18.810      9,941       5.4    54021        3.5211    6.937..       244.)       7/06.4          44.9
Paddy - Unrelieble irrigation                   4.198        4.0      16,592        405       4 0       1,600    (14.9921   6.937.0J    :104.01       5 940 4        (20.31
Paddy - Poor irrigation                         2.666        2.7       7.299                                       (7.2991   6.937 0      (50.61      4.989.4        (12.11
Sugar Cane - Assured irrigation     Tonnes      1.765       86.5    152.600       1,943      96.5    168.000      15,400       786.4       12.1      14,622.4          2.3
Sugar Cane - Unreliable irrigation                522       61.8      32.250        344      61 8     21.250    (11.000:    78C.4           (87      13 7456          (2.21
Cotton - Assured irrigation         Tonnes        174        1.7         301        506       1 7         875        574   15.141.)         8.7       6 681 4          2.0
Cotton - Unreliable irrigation                    332        1.2         410                                         1410)  15. 14.1        16?.1     4,441.1         (1.31
82.2
3 Reach Area 8.
Paddy - Assured irdgetion           Tonnes      9.051        5.4     49.185      15,087       5.4     81.961      32.795    6,937.0       227.5       7,706.4        41.9
Paddy- Unreliable irrigetion                    6.035        4.0      23,851     10.862       4.0     42.926      19.075    6.9370        132.3       1.940.4         25.8
Paddy - Poor irrigation                        10.862        2.7      29.512                                      (295121   6.937.)    1204.71        4,989.4        148.81
Millet - Assured irrigation         Tonses        121        2.2         270        393       2 2        873         603    2.700.0         1.6       3.885.3          0.9
Millet - Unreliable irrigation                    271        1.5         402                  1.5                    14021   27000          11.11     2.2526          (0.51
Chillies - Assured itnigation       Tonnes                                          814       1 5      1,206       1,206  27.000.          32 6       8.561 0          6.3
Chillies - Unreliable irrigation                  814        1.2       1,005                                       1 .0051  27,000.0      (27.11      8,249.6         (6.01
141.6
Total                                          43.955                            43.955                                                                                           223.7
IRps mill)
1994       1995       1996        1997        1998     1099        2000        20r0;      2002       2003           2004        2005          2006
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                                                                                    to 2018
Economic                               11.01      163.11     193.31    (104.31      (71.86   140 7)       (7 21
IL 0 h M Costs                                                                                                 G 051      110a 112.0            110. 5          0 51       (10.51        110.5!
111. Total Costs                           (1.0)      163.11    193 3)    (104.3)       s71 .8    140. 7)     117 7j      10 SI       1l0        10 5i        (10 5)      110.51         (10.51
IV. Economic Production Benefts                                               44 7       89.5    134.2       179.0       223 7      223 7       223 7         223.7       223.7         223.7
V. Net Incremental Economic Benefits       (1.01      163.1)    (93.3/       159.6)      17.7      93 6       161.2      213.2       213 2      213.2         213.2       213 2         213.2
Economic Rate of Return               40%
INDIA - Tamllnads Water Resoarces Consolidation Project
Model Rehabilitation Schemes - Economic Analyais
Lower Rhe-sni
Units       Area       Yield  Production      Area     Yield  Production        1cr  Economic  Ecosonric        Finencil   Economic        Net lncr
(Ha)  anits/Ha)      luits)       Ha) lunits/Ha)     (-nits)  Production      Price    Beneit      Prod Cost Prod Costs  Econ Benefit
lenite)  IRupees)   19s mill)  IRypnes/Hsu    IRs mill)     (Rs mil
---- Future without Project -     ----- Foture with Project
Paddy - Assured irrigation          Tonoes    15.753         5.9     93.384    28,753         59    170.448       77064    6,9370         534.6         7.706        90.2
Paddy - Poor inigation                         13.000        4.2     54.587                                      (54.5871   6,937 0      (378.7)        4.9989       (58.41
Groundnut                                      21,781        2 2     48.420    21 781         2.2     48,420
Sugarcane                                      12.551      118.6  1,488.000    12,551       1 18.6  1,488.000
Fallow                                         21.215                            21.215
Totel                                          84,300                            84.300                                                                                           124.1
IRpe mill)
1994       1995       1996        1997       1998      1999        2000        2001       2002       2003           2004        2005          2006
1. Inestment Costs                                                                                                                                                                     to 201 8
Economic                                                                                                                                                                          to 2018
163.8)    (86.41      198.8)      (67.81   (31.6)      i12.4)
I. 0 & M Costs
1201 i      (20.1)     120 1)     120.11        (2011       120.1)         120.11
Ill. Total Costs
153.8)    186.4)      198.8)      (67.81    IlM 6i      10 4)      120.1)      20 11      (20 1         120 1)      (20.1)        120.11
IV. Economic Production Benefits
24.8       49.7     74 5        99 3       124.1      124 1       I24.1         124.1       124.1         124.1
V. Net Incremental Economic Benefits
(53.8)    (86.4)      (74.0)       1611)    42.9       689         104.0       040C      104.0          104.0       104.0         104.0
Economic Rate of Retum
24%



- 271 -
Annex 14
Table 8
Tamilnadu Water Resurces Consolidation Project
Crop Budgets calculated with economic prices (Modernization/Rehabilitation)
Paddy                  Groundnut                 Sugarcane
Rs./ha                             (1)          (2)         (1)          (2)          (1)          (2)
Bullock labor                         317          317          306         306          290          290
Machine Labor                         692          692          360         360          221          221
Family Labor                        1,040        1,028        1,005        1,004         743          743
Hired Labor                         4,182        4,436        2,421       2,559        9,613       11,058
Seed                                  428          428        2,124        2,124       3,555        3,555
Organic Manure                         75           75
Fertilizer                          1,965        2,017          757         799        3,393        3,397
Pesticides                            583          583                                   115          115
Irrigation charges                    200          200          150         150          300          300
TOTAL COST                          9,482        9,777        7,123        7,302      18,230       19,679
Main Product                       31,275       34,464       11,449      12,511       71,541       78,695
By Product                          1,289        1,359          646         703
TOTAL RETURN                       32,564       35,823       12,096      13,214       71,541       78,695
GROSS MARGIN                       23,081       26,046        4,972        5,912      53,311       59,016
INCRE.MARGIN                                     2,965                      939                     5,704
Banana                  Turmeric             G'nut        Pulses
Rs./ha                             (1)          (2)         (1 )         (2)          (31          (3)
Bullock labor                                                                            394          225
Machine Labor                                                  838          838
Family Labor                          545          545           44          44          225          225
Hired Labor                         8,479        8,931       14,380      15,099          113          180
Seed                                1,338        1,338        5,326        5,326         900           90
Organic Manure                      1,351        1,351        1,041        1,041         180
Nitrogen 4)                        10,158       10,648        8,103        8,491         163
Pesticides                            378          378                                    80           50
Irrigation charges                    200          200          200         200
TOTAL COST                         22,449       23,391       29,933      31,040        2,054          770
Main Product                       72,649       76,034      43,726       47,390        3,600        2,250
By Product
TOTAL RETURN                       72,649       76,034      43,726       47,390        3,600        2,250
GROSS MARGIN                       50,199       52,643       13,793      16,350        1,546        1,480
INCRE.MARGIN                                     2,444                    2,557
Source: Tamilnadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, 1994, and FAO/CP report
Crop budgets as of farming season 1992/93
All crop budgets are averages of the site specific crop budgets for the 1 3 major schemes.
For detailed budgets, compare project files.
(1) Crop budgets under partial irrigation lstabilization)
(2l Crop budgets under full irrigation
(3) Crop budgets for rainfed crops (FAO/CP)



- 272 -
Annex 14
Table 9
Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Crop Yields of the major irrigated crops without and with project
PADDY               GROUNDNUT                SUGARCANE
Without      With       Without      With       Without      With
(t/ha)                       (1)         (2)         (1)         (2)          (1)         (2)
Palar Anicut                         5.2         5.7
Cheyyar Anicut                       5.5         6.1
Poiney Anicut                        3.9         4.3                                107.8       108.6
Parambikulam Aliyar                  5.7         6.2         1.2         1.3
Chittar                              5.0         5.5         1.3         1.4
Manjalar                            4.0          4.6         1.2         1.3
Thirukoilur & Ellis Anicut           3.2         3.5
Sathanur                             3.8         4.2                                107.8       108.6
Sethiyathope                         4.9         5.4
Tambaraparani                        4.8         5.3
Amaravathy                           5.9         0.5         1.2         1.4        113.5       124.9
Cumbum                              4.2          4.6         1.2         1.3
Marudhanadhi                         3.9         4.3         1.3         1.5
Lower Bhavani                       4.2          5.9         2.2         2.2        118.6       118.6
Vaigai Old Ayacut                    4.0         5.4                                61.8         86.5
Kodayar                             4.0          5.7         1.2         2.0
Source: Tamilnadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, 1994, and FAO/CP report
Crop budgets as of farming season 1992/93
(1) yields under partial irrigation (stabilization)
(2) yields under full irrigation



Tamilnadu Water Resources Management Project
Area, Cropping Pattern, Gross Margin, and Net Incremental Benefit of Modernization & Rehabilitation
AREA                                                                 CROPPiNG PATTERN                                              PRODUCTION
Name                        Stage       CCA          CCA          CCA          CCA          CCA                      Paddy        G'nut       S'cane       Banana    Turmeric                      Paddy        G'nut
Designed    Irrigated   Stabilized   New areas   Irrigated
(ha)                          (1)        (2)          (3)          (4)          (5)          (6)                       (7)         (7)          (7)          (7)          (7)                        (8)          (9)
(ha)        (ha)         (ha)         (ha)          (ha)                                                                                                  (tons)       (tons)
Palar Anicut                    I       32,796       21,670        6,501         3,250      24,920                     100%                                                                         19,501
CheyyarAnicLt                   I         7,938        4,143       2,381           829        4,972                    100%                                                                           5,336
PoineyAnicut                    I         9.350        4,673        1,401          937        5,610                      80%                       20%                                                4,308
Parambikulam Aliyar             I      174,553       80,854       24,256         1,617      82,471                       75%          15%          10%                                              15,160           703
Chittar                         I         9,644        8,419       2,525         5,359       13,778                      55%          45%                                                           15,432        3,490
Manjalar                        I         2,169        1,686          506          164        1,850                      85%          15%                                                               912           42
Thirukoilur & hilis Anicut      I        14,342      10,269         3,081        1,434       11,703                     100%                                                                          8,711
Sathanur                       II        18,217      18,481         5,544        6,755      25,236                       15%          84%           1%                                                5,482       8,410
Sethiyathope                   II        19,466      19,009         5,840                    19,009                     100%                                                                          2,920
Tambaraparani                  II       45,282       47,438       13,584                    47,438                       65%          20%          10%           5%                                   4,415          272
Amaravathy                      II       23,384      19,795         6,715                    19,795                      60%          15%          15%           6%           4%                      2,015          101
Cumbum                         DI         8,099        6,615        2,429                     6,615                      91%           2%           7%           1%                                   1,105             5
Marudhanedhi                   II         2,665        1,686          800                     1,686                      85%          15%                                                               340           12
Lower Bhavan)                   I       84,300       63,085       13,000                    84,300                       45%          35'6         20%                                              22,477           201
Vaigai Old Ayacut               I       43,995       30,179         7,056        7,055      43,955                       86%                        8%           1%                                 35,278
Kodayar                        II       35,410       28,498       11,705         6,677      35,174                       69%           2%                        5%                                 13,494
TOTAL                                  531,610    366,500    107,324            34,077    428.512                                                                                                  156,884       13,235
GROSS MARGIN                                                                              NET INCREMENTAL BENEFIT                             I
Name                                          Paddy                   Groundnut                 Sugarcane                  Banana                   Turmeric                         Stabiliz.      Gap          Total
(10)        011)         (10)         (11)          (10)        (11)         (10)         (11)         (10)         (11)                      (12)         (13)         (14)                    _1
(Rs/ha)     (Rs/ha)      (Rs/ha)      (Rs/ha)       (Re/ha)     (Rs/ha)      (Re/ha)      (Re/he)      (Re/ha)      (Rs/ha)                 (million Rs) (million Rs) (million Rsw
Palar Anicut                            21,499       24,411                                                                                                                              18.93        74.57       93.51
Cheyyar Anicut                          24,203       27,413                                                                                                                               7.64        21.51       29.15
PoineyAnicut                             19,760      22,293                                  57,374      62,419                                                                           4.25        27.03        31.29
Parembikulam Aliyar                     28,968       32,584        4,667         5,650       53,311      59,016                                                                          83.21        48.06      131.27
Chittar                                 24,772       28,356         5,512        6,552                                                                                                    6.16        91.53       97.68
Manjalar                                 18,929      22,167        4,803         5,720                                                                                                    1.46         2.99         4.45
Thirukoilur & Ellis Anicut               16,537      18,563                                                                                                                               6.24        24.52       30.76
Sathanur                                21,246       23.681        4,062         4,651       55,401      61,842                                                                           5.13        44.67       49.79
Sethiyathope                            26,929       30,140                                                                                                                              18.75         0.00       18.75
Tambarapareni                           26,608       30,011        4,972         5,912       53.311      59,016       50,199       52,643                                                42.01         0.00       42.01
Amaravathy                               30,746      34,324         5,082        6,116       47,160      52,787       50,199       52,643       13,793       16.350                      22.80         0.00       22.80
Cumbum                                  20,582       22,971        4,609         5,524      53,311       59,016       50,199       52,643                                                 6.35         0.00         6.35
Marudhanadhi                            19,280       21,687        6,071         7,167                                                                                                    1.77         0.00         1.77
Lower Shavanj                                                                                                                                                                                                    115.40
Vaigai Old Ayacut                                                                                                                                                                                                207.30
Kodayar                                                                                                                                                                                                          158.20        Mi >
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                                                           1040.48
Soorce  PWO reorts and own cafculations (for details on Lower ahevani, Vaerg   Kodays, conmpare detailed tables No. 7)         81 Total incrmental production of paddV par yea,                                                (  X
11 Stage 11 schemes are cwrently rehabilitated under NWMP. stage I schemes are going to be freshly rehabilitated               9) Total ncemental production of groundnut per year                                            1-  f-
2) Total Cutueral Command Area as orgineally designed.                                                                         10) Gross margin in economic prices for partialy irrigeted land                                 0   IS
3) CCA prYesey being irngated.                                                                                                 11  Grose margin m economic prices for fully irrigeted tend
4) PortiernofCCA which will mane from partially to full irrigation Istabilization). About 30% of column 3.                     12) Net incremental benefit for partially irrigated areas receiving full irrigation (Columns 4  7  ( 1t - tO))
5) Ara preantty not receiving water (gap) which will receive full irrigation after prolect implementation                      13) Nat incremental benefit for new areas receiving full irrigation (Columns 5 * 7 *11 1 - GM rsinfhd))
6) Sum of columns 3 od 5, at full irigatron with project.                                                                      14) Nat incremental Benefit after project implementation is completed (Columns 12+13)
7) Prcentage of crop grown on croplaid.                                                                                        The grose nargin for rainfad agriculture (the gap) is asaumed to average Rs 1 302/h1



- 274 -
Annex 14
Table 11
Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
Economic Cash Flow Analysis
Rs. 1.000)
ear                        1994        1995        1996       1997      1998       1999      2000      2001  >       2023
I. Scheme Completions
A. Benefits
Total Net Agricultural Ben  (82)     33,818      58,335    117,474   260,821    313,178   368,517   383,295  >   385,453
B. Investment Costs
Construction Costs      390,767    468,247    423,293    320,850   279,065    170,047   106,913
Land Acquisition and Econ    42,134  24,784      16,052      7,325      2,155
C. Recurrent Costs
O&M of Irrigation System                312         401        971      2,350      2,734     4,145     6,296  >      6,296
Total Costs             432,902     493,343    439,745    329,146   283,570    172,781   111,057       6,296  >      6,296
Net Benefits           (432,9841   (459,5261   (381,410)  (211,672)  (22,749)   140,397   257,460   376,999  >   379,157
Economic Rate of Return     15%
NPV @ 12%               338,132
11. System Improvement & Farmer Turnover (Modernization/Rehabilitation)
A. Benefits
Total Net Agricultural Benefits                            208,096   416,192    624,289   832,385 1,040,481  > 1,040,481
B. Investment Costs
Total Construction cost  184,416    490,973     720,761    819,288   640,855    378,355   206,524
Total Farmer Turnover cos    13,742  124,226    181,074     61,939    33,444      17,243    12,231
C. Recurrent Costs
O&M of Irrigation System  18,811     19,791      20,959     21,859    21,727      21,827    20,977   113,556  >   113,556
Total Costs             216,969     634,990    922,793    903,086   696,026   417,425   239,732   113,556  >   113,556
Net Benefits           (216,969)   (634,990)   (922,793)  (694,990)  (279,834)   206,864   592,653   926,925  >   926,925
Economic Rate of Return     19%
NPV @ 12%              1,651,960
III Overall Project Rate of Return (Components I & 11)
Total Benefits               (82)    33,818      58,335    325,570   677,014   937,467  1,200,902 1,423,776  > 1,425,934
Total Costs             649,871   1,128,333   1,362,538  1,232,233   979,597    590,206   350,789   119,851  >   119,851
Net Benefits           (649,953)  (1,094,515) (1,304,2031  (906,662)  (302,583)  347,261   850,113 1,303,924  > 1,306,082
Economic Rate of Return     17%
NPV @ 12%              1,990,092
IV Other costs
EAP                   28,969      74,329      70,563     73,458    74,386     69,470    25,369
Water Planning and R    129,935  175,888     144,138    127,783    95,239     78,707    61,241
Institutional Strengthe    11,329  350,866   218,318     73,733    59,400    40,568    52,166
Total Other Costs       170,233     601,084     433,019    274,973   229,025    188,745   138,776
Total Project Costs      820,104   1,729,416   1,795,557   1,507,206  1,208,622    778,950   489,565          >
Total Net Benefits     (820,186) (1,695,599) (1,737,223) (1,181,636)  (531,608)   158,516   711,338 1,303,924  > 1,306,082
Economic Rate of Return     13%
NPV @ 12%                587,599
I Includes costs for scheme completions, for land acquisition and economic rehabilitation.
Il Includes costs for modernization/rehabilitation, farmer turnover, Irrigation Management Training Institute and Equipment for O&M.
III Overall project rate of return. Includes components I and II.
IV Includes benefits and costs of component I and 11 and all other costs. Only costs for Periar Vaigai Link Canal, Tholodur and the minors excluded.



- 275 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Criteria For Preparation and Selection of Investment
1.   Introduction.  This annex deals with the criteria to be utilized by WRO
in the preparation of future investment schemes that may be included in
the WRO's work program within the seven-year implementation period of
the WRCP. The WRCP investments are directed to rehabilitation and
modernization of irrigation schemes and completion of civil works
related to other schemes. The latter focus on improving the source of
supply of water to existing traditional irrigation infrastructure. On
the policy side, WRCP focusses on setting up and strengthening of
institutions dealing with irrigation and improving the water resource
utilization planning capabilities of GOTN. As discussed in other
sections of the SAR, Tamil Nadu is a water deficit state with most of
the current utilization of surface and ground water being in the
agriculture sector. With the growth in the industrial sector and the
need to provide the population with clean drinking water at a higher per
capita consumption rate, competing demands on this limited resource will
increase. Future schemes to meet these requirements in other sectors
would involve transfer of water from agricultural use. In order to meet
and maintain agricultural water requirements, additional schemes similar
to those supported under this WRCP may be required. These needs may
indeed arise over the next seven-year period as better basin plans are
prepared and water utilization projects are identified and executed in
other sectors. As a case in point, GOTN is currently preparing a water
supply project to be implemented by TWAD Board' to provide potable water
to the city of Madras which might involve transfer of water from
agricultural use to municipal use. In the future, WRO would be
responsible for providing bulk water supplies to municipal and
industrial sectors2. There are also other schemes in planning stages
similar to the nine scheme completions supported under this WRCP. in
order to allow for investment assistance from IDA for such developments,
an unidentified category has been established under the scheme
completions component. Approval by IDA and the inclusion of any such
future schemes under the WRCP would be dependant upon their satisfying
the set of criteria outlined below.
1/   Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board.
2/   These schemes would deliver untreated water at bulk rates to the
municipal or industrial unit and therefore would involve only the
development of a source be it surface water or subsurface water or
both. Agencies such as TWAD Board and METROWATER will continue their
role in urban water supply and drainage.



- 276 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
2.   Preparation and Selection Criteria.  These criteria include the
essential requirements that the schemes are: (a) prepared in the context
of a river basin development considering all water use needs; (b) well
prepared from all engineering, agricultural and other technical
perspectives; (c) economically viable; (d) in full compliance with
environmental and social requirements; and (e) identified and prepared
in full consultation with beneficiaries. The criteria for investment
scheme preparation and selection are:
I.     Basin Plan:  The scheme should be prepared in the context of a
river basin plan taking into account probable competing demands on the
water source to be developed; it should fit in an overall riverbasin or
subbasin development plan prepared by WRO.
II.    Water Demand:  Estimates of water demands should be prepared
taking into account the economic life of the proposed scheme. In the
case of municipal and industrial sectors such estimates would be
provided to the WRO by the responsible entities. WRO should ensure that
these estimates cover a projected service period and specify the degree
of reliability required. In the case of irrigation schemes, crop water
requirements should be prepared on the basis of climatic data using
standard methodology3 taking into account the contribution of effective
rainfall. In estimating these demands, soils and land suitability for
potential crops to be grown under the scheme should be established based
on data obtained from the agricultural department and future crops,
cropping patterns and crop calendars should be established in
consultation with farmer and agricultural department officials.
III.   Water Availability:  Detailed hydrological studies and reservoir
yield analysis using standard methodology for supplies at the degree
required. Quality of water supplied from the scheme must meet prevalent
standards for raw water supply to municipalities or water boards,
industries and agriculture as appropriate. In the case of groundwater
exploitation4 , analysis of aquifer capacity, dynamic recharge potential
for various probabilities, drawdown rates, pump capacities, availability
of power to operate the prime movers and cost of such power should be
estimated. In the case of irrigation schemes, wells in the scheme
command must be identified and studied to establish conjunctive use
which must be reflected in water balance computations. Analysis of
existing irrigation infrastructure to clearly identify possible measures
such as improving existing storages through dredging and improving
3/   Modified Penman-Monteith method is currently used by FAOCP to estimate
potential evapotranspiration rates.
4/   This possibility is included for any such future eventuality.  None of
the appraised WRCP investments involves investment in groundwater
explotation.



- 277 -
Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
efficiency of delivery systems should be prepared and the necessity to
build new storages should be clearly established.
IV.    Engineering:  Detailed engineering designs and implementation
schedules, based on WRO capability and optimal contract packages, should
be prepared.
V.     Operation and Maintenance Plan:  Detailed 0 & M plan for the
scheme should be prepared clearly spelling out the role of the end user
in these and the financial and technical inputs required on a recurrent
basis with an indication of how these requirements would be met.
VI.    Environmental Assessment:  Necessary environmental impact studies
should be prepared and mitigating measures if required should be
identified and an action plan to implement such measures prepared. If
the scheme involves building dams higher that 10m, designs would have to
be presented to State DSRP and their concurrence obtained. Riparian
rights should be assessed as well as impact on downstream users. In the
event of a downstream user being affected, a counterimpact scheme should
be prepared or suitable remedial measures be identified and included in
the development of the scheme.
VII.   Resettlement and Rehabilitation:  Detailed action plan for the
economic rehabilitaion of scheme-affected persons should be prepared
together with an implementation schedule and costed. Baseline
socioeconomic surveys should be conducted to assist in this process. In
the preparation of above, both reservoir area and pipeline or other
delivery mechanism route should be included. Land acquisition and
economic rehabilitaion plans together with realistic schedules for such
acquisition and economic rehabilitation should be prepared.
VIII. Costs and Benefits: Detailed costs for the engineering works
should be prepared taking into account prevailing contract rates and
optimal contract packages. The total costs should include LAER costs
arising from the environmental impact assessment. Annual recurrent
costs based on the 0 & M plan should also be included. In the case of
irrigation schemes an estimate of annual net agricultural benefits
should be made taking into account existing agricultural support
services and an analysis of the markets for the agricultural produce .5
A detailed farming systems study should be carried out and the financial
impact of the scheme on the beneficiary farmers be estimated.
IX.    Economic viability:  Detailed economic analysis should be carried
out using standard methodology (refer FAOCP reports for nine schemes).
The economic rate of return should be 12% or greater. Social factors
such as poverty alleviation, regional development etc., which could
5/   Unquanitified benefits (e.g. environmental, or health benefits from
domestic water supply schemes) may also be documented, and where
feasible, benefits ascribed.



- 278 -
Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
influence choice where ranking of different investment options are
similar, may also be documented.
X.     Cost Recovery:  For bulk water supply schemes, establishment of
cost of water for each scheme and agreement with the recipient on
financial terms of supply. Legal agreement as needed should be
prepared. For irrigation schemes, terms of cost recovery and farmer
responsibilities should be agreed through memorandum of understanding.



- 279 -
Annex l
Page 1 of 4
INDTA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJTECT
Maintenance. Water Charges and Cost Recovery
1.    As a result of recent initiatives, Tamil Nadu has substantially improved
its situation as regards funding of maintenance and actual and prospective
cost recovery. Most important, GOTN is now fully funding maintenance
expenditure needs. Second, water charges have been increased and now cover
maintenance expenditure and the bulk of other recurrent costs. GOTN is also
examining additional ways of improving water sector financing provisions and
revenues, and the project would further assist in this process.
2.    Maintenance Funding.  In the past, Tamil Nadu has chronically
underfunded irrigation maintenance, resulting in progressive deterioration of
infrastructure. Recognising the need - pervasive in almost every Indian state
- to substantially increase funding for maintenance works, GOTN has
progressively increased its allocations for operations and maintenance over
the last three years including an informal committment to IDA made in 1993 at
the beginning of project preparation that maintenance funding would be at full
required levels by project commencement and in all future years. From a
funding level for operations and maintenance averaging only Rs 103/ha in
1989/90, GOTN increased O&M funding to Rs 120/ha in 1992/93, Rs 200/ha in
1993/94 and Rs 265/ha for the 1994/95 fiscal year. The 1994/95 allocation
comprises a separate allocation to "maintenance works" (civil works,
maintenance contracts and materials) of Rs 150/ha (the remaining Rs 115/ha
being for staffing and other non-works recurrent costs). This follows the
recommendations of PWD/WRO engineers and the Bank, and represents the full
estimated requirement for maintenance works (94/95 prices) for the 1994/95
season.
3.    An important detail in Tamil Nadu's Non-Plan funding provisions to WRO
is that funding is disaggregated and earmarked. "Maintenance Works" have
separate budget heads from establishment and other recurrent costs, and funds
for "works" go into separate bank accounts, earmarked for works contracts and
materials, with the relevant local branches of the State Bank of India. This
desirable situation is being increasingly adopted by Indian states and will
continue in Tamil Nadu. A common situation, applicable in Tamil Nadu also
until recently, is that overall Non-Plan allocations are barely enough to
cover staff salaries. As in such situations staff salaries have always had
first call on funds, little has been left for actual maintenance. As staff
salaries can be assumed payed, protecting the maintenance works budget is the
critical need for sustaining water service infrastructure. The other needs
are farmer pa-rticipation (non-breakages of structures, farmer turnover for the
critical and most usually neglected lower levels of irrigation systems) and
better planning, management and technical capability for O&M directorates of
irrigation departments.
4.    Water Charges.  Tamil Nadu's water charges for irrigation are made up of
a "basic irrigation rate', an "irrigation cess" which is calculated as a



- 280 -
Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
multiple of the basic rate and an "additional irrigation cess", also a
multiple of the basic rate. The basic rate, and the resultant overall water
charge through the cess multipliers, is calculated by crop, soil type and
season and presently has over a hundred rates. Through adjustments of the
cesses, GOTN has progressively increased charges for irrigation, the most
recent adjustment being in 1991. The typical rate now amounts to between Rs
200-210/ha, amongst the highest water charges in India. The present water
charges more than cover expenditure needs for maintenance works (Rs 150/ha in
1994/95), and cover about 80% of all recurrent expenditure costs of WRO
including establishment (both staff employed on O&M and other staff).
5.    GOTN has also applied a policy of freezing all recruitment to PWD, and
envisages continuing this for WRO until staff numbers are balanced to work
needs. This will bring establishment costs down further, and the farmer
turnover program under the project will allow continued decline in O&M staff
requirements as farmers assume greater responsibilities.
6.    For commercial and industrial bulk supplies from WRO, rates have also
been increased. From very low previous levels, both industrial and
commercial, rates were increased in 1986, and then subjected to a further
increase of eightfold in 1991: from Rs 60/1000 cubic meters to Rs 500/1000
c.m. A temporary court order injunction has since resulted in rates being
brought down to Rs200/1000 c.m. This is still below service costs but is well
above typical rates in other Indian states. Supplies for drinking water are
supplied free of charge. Major drainage and flood protection works are also
supplied free.
7.    Further initiatives are expected from the work of GOTN's "Water Rates
Rationalization Committee". This is examining agricultural rates. Based on
the interim conclusions of the committee, likely recommendations will be a
significant simplification of the present array of rates; from over 100 to
less than 20. The committee is also examining ways of equitably increasing
overall revenues. Final recommendations are expected in 1995.
8.    The WRCP would further build on these initiatives.  Full and timely
provision of maintenance works funds by GOTN, a matter already agreed (and
implemented for the 1994/95 year, see above) would be confirmed at
negotiations and be the subject of a closely monitored assurance. "GOTN
would: (a) provide annually to WRO the full funds required for maintenance to
sustain the infrastructure in full operating order; (b) funds would continue
to be allocated to a separate and protected maintenance works budget exempt
from withdrawals for salaries and wages; (c) the maintenance works budget
would be available from the beginning of the fiscal year so as not to impede
maintenance activities; and (d) WRO would submit its annual budget estimate
for maintenance to GOTN and IDA based on detailed command-by-command estimates
following an agreed reporting, programming and budgeting and monitoring and
evaluation process" (Annex 4).
9.    on the revenues side, an important need is to have a permanent
institutional apparatus for review of the costs of water services and the



- 281 -
Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
revenues received, and for annual review of status and possible adjustments.
In Tamil Nadu's case, industrial, commercial and agricultural rates have all
been the subject of recent increases, and intent for further change in
agricultural rates is evidenced by the present work of the Water Rates
Rationalization Committee. This, however, is not a permanent body and is
restricted in mandate to agricultural rates. The fact of recent price changes
and the work of the committee is nevertheless welcome relative to situations
in many states where rates have not been changed for many years, in some cases
for over a decade. While political constraints are present, an important
contributing factor is the absence of any mechanism and responsible party to
annually review and make recommendations on service costs and fees. As change
is unpopular, there is little incentive for any party to propose adjustments,
and understanding of the disaggregated costs and revenues of water service
provision is also often incomplete. GOTN, thus intends to establish a
permanent "Water Service Costs and Revenues Committee". This would be chaired
by the Secretary, PWD/WRO with membership comprising Secretaries Finance,
Revenues Department, Land Administration, Agriculture, Municipal
Administration, TWAD, Metrowater and WRO's EIC and Basin Managers, and a co-
opted Consultant economist. The consultant would, under the direction of the
committee, prepare an annual status report covering the service costs
(recurrent and taking account of capital recovery) of all water services
(irrigation, drainage, flood control, rural drinking water, municipal,
industrial and commercial), fees applied and revenues, with regional
disaggregation as appropriate (for instance by basin/major water source and
major urban centers), and disaggregated and overall net revenues-costs
situation. The annual report and any recommendations forthcoming from the
committee would be distributed annually for consideration by state authorities
(Cabinet and Bureaucracy). WRCP funds would cover the costs of Tamil Nadu's
consultant over the life of the project, and the costs of an additional short-
term consultant employed in PY1 to help establish a computerised and
updateable multi-sectoral model.
10.   The WRCP's Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover Program will offer an
opportunity to further improve on the financial situation of service provision
for agricultural use. Cost recovery for irrigation has been impeded India-
wide by the frequently low quality of the service. Poor irrigation and lack
of involvement of farmers in irrigation operational plans, water management
decisions and management and maintenance of irrigation leaves a disaffected
farming community, lack of a sense of "ownership" in the irrigation system and
resistance to water charge increases, usually seen as a tax unrelated to
irrigation and with no correspondence to service quality.
11.   The WRCP's Systems Improvement and Farmer Turnover program will include
the following actions impacting on service costs and revenues. On the
investment side, for "On-Farm-Development", large savings will accrue from
state withdrawal to the role of topographic survey and extension, with
construction limited to provision of outlet and profile wall structures, and
with farmers rather than WRO or AED now handling water channels, field
channels and field drains. State investment costs at this level would come
down from Rs 3500/ha to Rs 500/ha. For distributaries lining, investmet would



- 282 -
Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
now involve a 20% contribution from farmers. Lining has usually been the most
expensive item under modernisation programs for the secondary distribution
system, and has often been excessively applied, especially where groundwater
recharge would be beneficial. By establishing farmer contributions for this
item, generally less essential than the water control structures, cost savings
would result both from the contributions from farmers and from reduction in
the demand for lining, which will be substantially reduced to reaches where
farmers consider it to have significant benefits. On the recurrent
expenditure side, members of farmer councils would make an up-front
contribution of Rs 250/ha to their bank account and would take over
maintenance and operations of their distributaries under the Memorandum of
Understanding established with WRO. This would reduce WRO's notional
maintenance costs by about 30%, though its overall effect would be gradual in
line with progress under the turnover program.
12.   Measures beyond the above would also be considered by the Water Service
Costs and Revenues Committee. First, a service fee increase (conceptually
like a betterment levy) could be considered for stage II investments. Second,
the current practice of all rural revenues being collected by the Revenues
Department could adjust to collection by Farmer Councils. A limited objective
could be for Farmer Councils being allowed to collect, still pass on to the
Revenues Department, but retain a percentage as collection reward, with higher
percentage retention against higher collection rates (actual collections
divided by dues). A relatively easy adaptation would be for Farmer Councils
to be charged volumetrically (measuring devices are part of the package for
monitoring of water flows and the physical means would thus already be
present). This is a highly likely evolution as experience is gained under the
program. More fundamentally, GOTN should look towards going beyond
internalising O&M costs and revenues at distributary levels to achieving the
same objective at the levels of entire commands and at state level; ie
progression towards a "utility" approach, with funds collected and used
directly by the service provider. Funds could be collected by Councils,
agreed proportions passed on to the command level Apex Committees, and
proportions handed on to the WRO bank account for the command concerned, with
part handed on to WRO overhead expenses, with revenue-sharing related to costs
of each entity. As regards management of O&M, farmer responsibility reaching
beyond the level of distributary head, and perhaps to whole command (below the
headworks) is a possible evolution, particularly for medium commands where a
tradition of farmer organization is already strong. An objective under the
project will be to encourage and facilitate any such initiatives as
opportunities are identified. It is expected that at least some commands
would be ready for further initiatives within several years. In the immediate
time frame, however, the key need is to strongly establish the system
improvement and farmer turnover program and gain the confidence and
satisfaction of the farmers. On this basis, larger steps such as the above
would have a good foundation for their success.



- 283 -
Annex 1.7
Page 1 of 19
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
WATER AND AGRICULTURE IN TAMIL NADU ECONOMY
Tamil Nadu is the southernmost state in the Indian Union
located between 6805' and 1334' north latitutdes and 76b14'
and S021' east longitudes and covering an area of 1.:0 lakh
Sq.Kms. which is about 4 percent of the total area of the
country. The state borders Andhrapradesh on the north,
Karnataka an the northwest and Kerala on the west, and in
the east by the Bay of Bengal and the Indian Ocean on the
south.
PHYSIOGRAPHY
Varied topographical features ranging from coastal
plains to high mountains are found in Tamil Nadu. The State
is divided into four physiogrpahic regions. The coastal
plain stretches about 1000 Kms., comprising of northern
plain (comprising Chungleput District and parts of South
Arcot, North Arcot and Tiruchi Districts), the Cauvery delta
(Thaniavur District and parts of Trichy, South Arcot and
Pudukkottai Districts) and the southern coastal plain
(shared by Ramnad, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari Districts).
The eastern ghats comprise of hills, the Javadis,
Shervaroys, Kalrayans, Pachamalais and Kollimalais between
Palar and Cauvery river%.
The central plateau undulate between eastern and western
ghats 150--160 m in elevation with the Palghat Gap betwewn
This annex vas prepared by Institute for Niter Studies, Water Resources Organisation, Sovernsent of
Tasil Nadu.



- 284 -
Annex 17
Page 2 of 19
Nilgiris and the Anamalai Hills on the west. The western
ghats comprise the higheut mountains of the Peninsula. The
Nilgiris located on the northern side of Palghat gap form a
compact area with a Summit 10Oevl of 1830 to 2440 m. To the
south of Palghat gap is the Anamalais zone of the highest
peaks of the Peninsula. Palani hills overlooking river
vaigai and Cardamom hills on the continuation of western
ghats.
The major rivwrs of the state' are Cauvery, vaigai
Tambraparani, Ponnaiar and Palar.
POPULATION
The state's overall population increased from 30.12
million in 1951 to 55.64 million in 19912. The annual
increase between 1981 to 19912 was 1.49/. As per 1991
census report the literacy rate is 54.61/. The density of
population per Sq.Km. is 428 against the National Level
of 257.  Of the total population of 55. 4 million in 1991,
36.61 million are in rural areas and 19.03 million in urban
areas synchronising with farm and industrial activities
respectively.
The population of some important cities as por 1991
census are i
Madras                   i 3,841,396
Madurai                  a  940,989
Coimbatore               *  816,321
Tiruchy                  a  387,223
Salem                       366,712
_______________________--------------------------------------
1. Surcei- lin Rouasrces Atlas of Tasil Nadu, 1993.
2. Scurcei- Tasil Nadu--Aa Ecanusic Appraisal, 1911 and
Census, 1991 by Evaluation and Applied Research D.partm.nt of Bovwrnnt of Tamil Nadu.



- 285 -
An"np' 17
Page 3 of 19
EMPLOYMENT
The occupational structure of population is an important
component of human resource assessment and also is an
indicator for development planning. In agricultural
operations, human labour contributes to the major unit of
operational cost.
The total principal workers under different occupation
constitute 22.97 million as per 1991 census reports. Of
this total, 5.73 million are cultivators and 7.B5 million
form agricultural labourers. Of the total working group of
22.97 million the cultivators alone constitute 24.9% (5.73
million) and the agricultural labourwr form 34.1% (7.85
million), indicating the maJor working group dependent on
agriculture.
STATE INCOME
The estimate of state income is expressed in the form of
N.S.D.P. (Net State Domestic Product) and compared to N.D.P.
(National Domestic Product). Please see Table 1.
The state per capita income at constant price during the
sixth plan period was 1601 (Rupees) and during the seventh
plan period it was 1854 (1985-86 to 1989-90). The per
capita income of Tamil Nadu at constant prices was lower
than the National level of 1721 and 1967 during the same
period of sixth and seventh plans respectively.
The quick estimate for 1990-91 indicate the state per
capita income as Rs 1965.
The per capita income is worked out based on total
population and there are no details for rural population
exclusively.
------------------------_--_--------------------------------
3. lourcas- Tauil Nado--An Economic Appralual, 1990 and 1191 by Evaluation and Applied Research
Departamnt of Bovarneant of Tamil NIdu.



- 286 -
Annex 17
Page 4 of 19
TABLE 1
'NET STATE DOMESTIC PRODUCT GROWTH RATE
--------------------------------_---------_-----------------
Period          Ra. in     Growth Rate        Rs. in
1980-1961         Crores.    (Percentage)       Crores.
N.S.D.P.   N.D.P.
1990-81             7216.16                     110,340
1980-81 to 1981-82  8010.77    10.98    6.13   116,812
1980-81 to 1992-83  7579.39      2.79    4.44   119,974
1980-81 to 1983-84  7989.39      3.66    5.75   129,941
1990-81 to 1984-85  9229.44      6.02    5.20   134,518
1990-81 to 1995-86  9562.84      5.61    4.94   141,006
1980-e1 to 1996-87  9395.60      4.53    4.73   146,564
1990-81 to 1987-88 10021.73      4.78    4.67   152,305
1990-81 to 1988-89 10319.63      4.70    5.46   168,302
1980-81 to 1999-90 10316.58      4.97    5.53   176,380
190o-81 to 1990-91 11021.57      4.46    5.53   176,390
(Quick Estimate)
N.B.a G.D.P. is adopted at National lovel only.
The growth rate under agriculture and allied activities
coming under primary sector the percentage share in N.8.D.P.
was 23.72% and 21A&4X during 1989-90 and 1990-91,
respectively.
Under secondary sector the percentagR of growth of
industry and its share in N.S.D.P. was 30.56. and 31.74/
during 1989-90 and 1990-91 respectively.
RAINFALL -
The rainfall in the state is highly variable. The state
receives rainfall both during the southwest monsoon and the
northeast monsoon. The amount of rainfall received during
the northeast monsoon is significantly higher than that of
southwest monsoon. The rainfall received during southwest
monsoon indicates a decreasing trend from north to south.



- 287 -
Annex 17
Page 5 of 19
As the northeast monsoon is associated with cyclonic
depressions from the Bay of Bengal, the rainfall is highest
on the coast and decreases westwards. The following table 2
indicates the Seasonal rainfall over the past 10 years (in
mm). Table 3 gives the Normal Annual Rainfall in the
diEtricts of Tamil Nadu.
TABLE 2
SEASONAL RAINFALL--VARIATIONN4
--------------------------------------------------__-------
Year Winter Summer Southwest Northeast Annual Percentage
(Jan-  (Mar-   (June-      (Oct-            Variation
Feb)  May)   Sept)         Dec)
State
Average
for 70
Years  42.2   136.5   307.6      438.7     925.0
1983    0.2    93.7   398.E      483.7     976.4    +5.5
1984  169.7  170.3  330.7        300.2     970.9    +4.9
1985   93.6    68.9   381.9      376.7     921.1    -0.5
1986   95.6    96.7   271.6      330.6     794.5    -14.2
1967    8.5    90.2   271.3      525.4     895.4    -3.2
1988    3.8   162.4  376.4       217.7     780.3    -15.7
1989    2.0   112.7   346.E      341.0     804.5    -13.1
1990   90.2   136.7  238.5       371.B     837.2    -9.5
1991   31.1    72.6   331.e      484.9     920.4    -0.5
1992    4.1    78.1  318.2       474.2     874.6    -5.4
Excess >20.0  Normal +19.9%. I Deficient -20.0 to 59.9q. 
Scanty >-60.0%.
4. lourcel- Tasil Nadu- An economic appraisAl, 1990 and 1991



- 288 -
Annex 17
Page 6 of 19
TABLE 3
NORMAL ANNUAL RAINFALL
State Average X 925.0
Si.         Name of the District        Normal Annuial Rainfall
No.                                             in mm
1.    Chengai - MGR                           1165.3
2.    North Arcot - Ambedkar                   953.4
3.    Tiruvannamalai Sambuvarayar             1074.7
4.    South Arcot Vallalar                    1136.8
S.    Villupuram Ramasamypadayachiyar         1136.6
6.    Dharmapuri                               857.0
7.    Salem                                    841.5
S.    P-riyar                                  660.1
9.    Coimbatore                               647.2
10.   Trichy                                   e23.0
11.   ThanJavur                               1134.6
12.   Nagapattinam  Quaid-E-Millwth           1134.6
13.   Pudukottai                               910.8
14.   Dindugal - Anna                          e34.0
15.   Madurai                                  827.1
16.   Kamarajar                                811.7



- 289 -
Annex 17
Page 7 of 19
17.   Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Dwvar            904,7
1.   Ramanathapuram                           627.0
19.   Tirunelveli Kottabomman                  688.7
20.   V.0. Chidambaranar                        622.2
21.   Kanyakumari                              1456.8
22.   Thw Ni giris                             1857. 0
LANDUSE
The land usa pattern is very much governed by the
topography. Areas with hilly terrain on the western and
northwestern borders of state have large proportion of
for-sts andr uncultivated land.  The intwnsity of cropping in
the plains has a bearing on the irrigation potwntial. The
size of th. operational holdings is also an indwx of the
social status of the farmer.
The following Table 4 indicate the ninefold
classification of land uses the different category of
operational holdings and the intensity of cropping.



- 290 -
Annex 17
Page 8 of 19
TABLE 4
LAND USE CLASSIFICATION
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1990-91     Percentage
(Unit in
lakh hectares)
-----------------------------------------------------------
Total Geographical Area                 130.190      100.00
(i) Forests                           21.549      16.60
tiI) Barren and Uncultivable Land       5.091       3.90
(iii) Land put to Non-Agricultural
Use                               18.360      14.10
(iv) Cultivable Waste                   2.905       2.23
(v) Permanent Pastures and Other
Grazing Lands                      1.237       0.90
(vi) Miscellaneous Tree Crops and
Grove& not included in net
area sown                    .    2.341        1.B0
(vii) Current Fallows                   12.485       9.60
(viii) Other Fallow Lands                10.438       6.00
(ix) Not Area Sown                     58.7X5      42.90
Area Sown More Than Once                 10.533        2.10
Total Cropped Area                       66.318       51.00
-----------------------------------------------------------
Agricultural operational holdings have been classified
as marginal (below 1.0 ha), small (1.0 to 2.0 ha),
semi-medium (2.0 to 4.0 ha), medium (4.0 to 10.0 ha) and
large (10 ha and above). There are 77.07 lakh operational
holdings covering 77.96'lakh hactarms indicati.ng an average
of 1.01 ha. However, the number of holdings covered by the
marginal and small farmers category is 71.4% and 16.3-X
respectively.  As per 1991 censuIS 19.25% of the total
population belong to scheduled caste and 1.03% belong to
scheduled tribes.



- 291 -                  Annex 17
Page 9 of 19
The growth of cropping ar-ea ovar the four decades
indicate the relative intensity of irrigation through
various sources coinciding with seasonal rainfall.
TABLE 5
CROPPING INTENSITY--FOUR DECADES'
-----------------------------------------------------------
1950-51 1960-61 1970-71 1960-81 1990-91
-----------------------------------------------------------
(a) Not Area
Sown (L.Ha.)       51.50   59.90  61.70   53.60   55.80
(b) Gross Cropped
Area (L.Ha..)      58.90   73.20  73.80   64.70   66.30
(c) Cropping
Intensity Z.      114.40  122.10 119.70  120.70  118.90
WATER RESOURCES
The state has surface water potential of 24864 Moum and
with ground water potential of 25291 Mcum.  About 52.6% of
gross irrigated area is commanded by surface water sources
and 47.4% from ground water and other sources. Already
about 93% of surface water resources have been utilised
while 60% of ground water has boen ewtracted for variouts
uses.
There are 17 major river basin% with 34 minor river
basins, 9i9200 tanks, 17 lakh dugwells iand 50000 tube wells
in this state accoLLnting for the surface waiter potwntial of
24864 Mcum and 25291 Mcurn of ground water potential (datails
enclosed).
5. Bourcl- Tall Nadu- An Ecnnanic Appriaal  1 l9O-191



- 292 -                       Annex 17
Page 10 of 19
The basinwise surface and ground water potential is
given in Table-6.
TABLE 6
BASINWISE WATER RESOURCE POTENTIAL
---------------------------------------------------------__
Si.        Major       Si. Minor River Basins            Potential
No.        River       No.                         -------------------
Basins                                    Surface    Ground
Water      Water
(Mcum)
__
(1)         (2)        (3)           (4)               (5)        (6)
-----------------------------------------------------------
1.  Madras             1.  Araniyar           I
2.   Koratalaiyar   1          849        1119
3.   CooumI
4.  Adayar            I
2.   Palar             5.  Palar                      1772        3416
3.  Varattar           6.   Ongur                      545       1237
7.   Varahanadhi    I
4.   Ponnaiyar         8.   Malattar          1          620    1499
9.   Ponnaiyar        I
10. Gadilam
5.   Vallar           11. Vellar  (N)                 10.27      1021
6.   Cauvery           12. Cauvery                   7067    10573
7.   Agniar            13. Agcniar            I
14. Ambuliar          1        447        555
15. Vollar  (S)       I



- 293 -                  Annex 17
Page 11 of 19
6.  P.A.P.          16. Parambikulam
EBasin Complex        866      999
9.  Pambar          17. KolLuvanar     I
16. Pambar         I       SS1       879
19. Manimuthar    I
10. Kottakaraiar   20. Kottakaraiar             218      398
11. Vaigai          21. Vaigai                 1272      760
12. 8undar          22. Uttarakosamangait
23. Gundar           1     451       866
24. Vembar
13. Vaippar         25. Vaippar                 310      669
14. K(allar         26. Kallar            I
27. Korampallamar   1      203        37
15. Tambaraparani  28. Tambaraparani           1706      627
16. Nambiyar        29. Nambiyar         I
30. Karimaniar       t      194      276
31. Hanumanadhii     I
17. Valliar         32. Palayaru         I
33. Valliar          I     421       241
34. Kodaiyar         I
Others                    6145i
Total          24664    25291
-- - - - - - - -- - - - -- - -- - --- I



- 294 -
Annex L7
Page 12 of 19
S0 I LS"
The soils of Tamil Nadu broadly fall into four major
groups (i.e.), ti) black uoila, (ii) rod %oils, (iii)
alluvial soils and (iv) laterites. Black soils cover an
area of 27.112 lakh hectares covering all the districts in
the state. These black soils are either shallow or deep
Lupto 5 meters. As these soils contain 30 to 50% clay they
crack in summer due to shrinkage on drying. These soils are
poor in organic matter, nitrogen and phospherous but rich in
potash and lime.
The red soils are the maJor type covering 57.460 L.Ha.
with five broad groups as red loam, red inf@rtile soil, red
sandy soil, thin red soil and deep red soil.  The red loam
occurs in the districts of Chingleput, North Arcot, SoLuth
Arcot, Salem and parts of Trichi, having medium depth with
good drainage. Red infertile soil occurs in the districts
of Trichi, Madurai and Ramnad having shallow, light gravelly
and stony nature. Rod sandy soil occurs in Madurai, Ramnad
and Trichi districts, with sandy loam texture, shallow in
depth, good drainage.
Thin red soils are found in Coimbatore and Madurai
districts and are shallow in depth. Deep red soils are
-found in parts of Coimbatore, Madurai, Ramnad, Tirunelveli
and Kanyakumari districts and these soils are deep and loamy
in texture.  Alluvial soils occupy an area of 2.159 L.Ha.
This is classified as saline coastal alluvium and river
allu)vium. The saline coastal alluvium appears along the
coast as a narrow belt in the districts of Chingleput, South
Arcot, ThanJavur, Ramnad, Tirunelvwli and Kanyakumari.  The
texture of these soils varies from sandy loam to sand.
The rivwr alluvium are the transported soils found in
deltaic areas of Tirunulveli districts. The major portion
of Cauvwry alluvium lies in Thanjavur district.  These soils
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _- -_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
b. Sourcat- Basic rusourcis Atlas oiT&ail Nadu



- 295 -
Annex 17
Pagp l3 of 19
havw texture varying from mandy loam to clay loam, laterite
soils constitute 2.114 L.Ha. and mainly found in Nilgiris
and othur hilly areau of huavy rainfall and vary in depth
depending on topography.
IRRIGATED AREA
As per 1990-91 statistics the total cropped area is
66,31,761 Ha. Out of this 29,93,880 Ha are irrigated.
The contribution of Irrigation towards the AgricLtlture
in Tamil Nadu is 44%.
Among the various sources of irrigation, surface water
through canals and tanks irrigate 52.6% of the cultivated
area while the ground water supply through well% and other
sources cover 47.4%.  The canal irrigation is important in
Cauvwry, Palar, Ponnaiyar, Amaravathi, Vaigai and
Tambaraparani commands. Tank irrigation is the major source
in the districts of Ramnad, TirLunelveli, Kanyakumari,
Chingleput and North Arcot. Well irrigation covers major
area on tho western part of the state. The following tables
(7 and 8) data indicate the varying source of irrigation and
their tr-nd in utility.
TABLE 7
SOURCE OF IRRIGATION
Source             Net Area (L.Ha.)   Gross Area (L.Ha.)
(1990-91).
(a) Canals               7.694                 9.045
(b) Tanks                5.309                 6.170
(c) Wells               10.585                13.565
(d) Others               0.139                 0.159
TOTAL       23.727                28.939
(Iasic Resources Atlas of Tauil Nadu)



- 296 -                     Annex 17
Page 14 of 19
TABLE S
IRRIGATION--OVER FOUR DECADES7
------------------------------------------------------------
Source                  1950-51 1960-61 1970-71 1980-81 1990-91
(L.Ha.)
------------------------------------------------------------
(a) Canals               7.B6      6.82     9.64     9.89    7.69
(b) Tanks                5.65    9.36       9.99     5.90    5.31
(c) Wells                4.26    5.99       7.75    10.67    10.59
(d) Others               0.76     0.46    0.35    0.24    0.14
Total Net Irrigated
Area                    1B.55   24.62   25.62   25.70   23.73
---------------------------------------
Total Gross Area
Irrigated               21.B9   32.35   34.10   32.94   2B.94
Irrigation
Intensity (.)          118.00  131.40  131.60  126.20  122.00
Percentage of Gross
Irrigated Area to
Gross Cropped Area   37.10   44.20   46.20   50.90   43.60
The area irrigated over four decades by various sources
indicate the upward trend in ground water usa.
The surface water utility during the four decades
indicatu'a decreass of 6% under tank irrigation and 2.4%
through canals.  However, the ground water utilisation has
enormouuly increased by 149.6%.  Though this type of trend
is seen over the past four decades, there is a downward
trend in utility under all sources of ir-rigation resulting
in reduction under net and gross irrigated area in the last
decade.
7. Soure a- Tamil Nadu An Econooic Appraisal, 1990 and 1991



- 297 -
Annex 17
Page 15 of 19
UTILISATION OF WATER RESOURCES
The Irrigated area Lunder Canals and Tanks show a
downward trend between 1960-61 and 1990-91 while area
irrigated by Ground water show rising trend in the same
period. Please see Table S.
EXTENT OF IMPORTANT CROPS AND THEIR YIELD
The major crop in TamilNadu is Paddy (Rice). The other
important crops are millet%, PulseS, Cotton, Groundnut and
Sugarcane. The area of the important crops and their yield
in the recent years (1986-87 to 1991-92) are given in Table
9. The Table indicates that there is a general
diversification from food to commercial crops.
TABLE 9
AVERAGE YIELD(Y) OF IMPORTANT CROPS (Kg%/Ha.)
AND THEIR AREA(A) (Lakh hectares)-
Crop          1986-87 1987-86  19B6-69 1989-90 1990-91 1991-92
(i) Paddy (Y)  2728    2S72    3032    3066    3116    3114
(Rice)
(A) 19.55   19.5S   18.61   19.63   16.66   21.18
(ii) Millets(Y) 1032    1126    1024    122k    1143    1223
(A)15.74  -15.48   13.68   12.40  -11.84 - 11.67
(iii) Pulses(Y)  453      451      397      407     424      449
(A) 6.69    6.35    6.25    6.21    8.47    8.20



- 298 -
Annex 7
Page 16 of 19
(iv) Cotton (Y)  254      304      261     307      291     261
(Lint)
(A) 1.86    2.44    2.61    2.21    2.39    2.64
(v) Groundnut(Y)1218    1321    1137    1193    1225    1280
(Nuts in
Shell)   (A)6.97    9.91    9.62   10.16    9.63   10.31
(vi) Sugar- (Y) 110      107      110     104      101    1lO
cane
(MT)  (A) 1.96    1.95    2.17    2.22    2.33    2.32
DRAINAGE, WATER LOGGING AND SALINITY-
The rivers in this state generally flow from west to
east.. Cauvery systwm is the major one that drains more than
one third of the state. The area to the north of Cauvary
basin is drained by the Palar, the Ponnaiyar and the Vollar
rivers. The area to the south of the Cauvery basin is
drained by the Vaigai, the Gundar, the Vaippar and
Tambaraparani. The drainage over greater part of Tamil Nadu
follows the pattern of branching of a tree. The total
drainage area in the state is 1.30 lakh Sq.Km. of which
Cauvery basin accounts for 0.4B7 lakh Sq.Km. followed by
Ponnaiyar (0.12 lakh Sq.Km.) and Palar (0.10 Lakh Sq.Km.).
Tamil Nadu is highly vulnerable to cyclonic depressions
and flooding. The depressions and cyclones are frequent
during the months of Octobwr, November and December (i.e.,
northeast monsoon) along the coast from Madras to Ramnad.
As these- depressions move along from east to west, extensive
flooding in the low lying areas af the rivwr basins occur.
B. Saurcmi- Agrostat - 1993
9.Bourcel- Baic Rsourcis Atlas of T&Ail Madu



eage I / ot 19
- 299 -
SALINITY AND ALKALINITY t0
The growth and produLCtivity of crops are affected by
soils with high salt content. The soils containing wxcess
neutral soluble salts of chlorides and sulphates of calcium,
spdium and magnesium are saline soils and those soils
containing excess exchangeable sodium are alkali or sodic
soils. Saline soils are widely distributed in arid and
semi-arid and in seasonally dry coastal areas. Saline soils
occLur due to high salt content in the profile, saline ground
water and high water table, seepage from canals and higher
adjacent irrigated areas, poor surface and subsurface
drainage, irrigation with water of high salt content and
intrusion of sea water, occurrence of salt layer in the %oil
crust and rise of water table.
Alkaline soils have higher pH content (more than 6.0).
Acid soils have pH lass than 6.0.  These acid soils are
charctmristic of high rainfall areas and are duo to
laterization, intense leaching and marshy conditions.
In this state, saline and alkaline soils are spread over
in 4.115 Lakh Ha. while acidic soils occur in 1.231 Lakh Ha.
Districtwise distribution of these soils is given in
Table No. 10
__. ___u ___- ----_t ___ --------________-------t---- o----------
10. Scurcui- Agrostat - Onpartsent of Agriculture, 1992.



- 300 -                  Annex 17
Page 18 of 19
TABLE I0W1
PROBLEM SOILS
Area in Ha
Si.    Name of the District       Saline     Acidic      Total
No.                               Alkaline
1. Chengai - M3R                  85260        -         85260
2. North Arcot - Ambedkar          19312      663        18975
3. Tiruvannamalai - Sambuvarayar- 13665      27176       40963
4. South Arcot - Vallalar I
I     74053      3716       77769
5. Villupuram Ramasamy       I
padayachiyar I
6. Dharmapuri                       1715         -        1715
7. Salem                            9544     20605       30149
S. Periyar                          3167         -        3167
9. Coimbatore                      28314         -       28314
1O.Trichy                          17861     25466       43327
11. Thanjavur
76606        -        76806
12. Nagapattinam            t
guald-E-Milleth         I
13. Pudukottai                       957      1700        2657
14. Dindugal - Anna                2274         -         2274



- 301                    Annex 17
Page 19 of 19
15. Madurai                        23113    11289       34401
16. Kamaraiar                      16221     B145       24366
17. Pasumpon Muthuramalinga
D-var       13072       720      13792
1C. Ramanathapuram                  6038        -        6038
19. Tirunulveli Kattabomman          260      14732     14991
20. V.0. Chidambaranar             19750        -       19750
21. Kanyakumari                     1120       8894      10014
22. Thu Nilgiris                     -          -
Total            411522   123106    534628
It. Sourcui- Agrostat - 1993)



- 302 -
Annex 18
Paae 1 of 1
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Criteria for the Selection of Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
The project would seek NGO participation in various activities related
to farmer organizations and beneficiary participation in management, operation
and maintenance of irrigation systems, and to land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation of project affected persons. Tamil Nadu's Water Resources
Organisation (WRO) would invite from interested NGOs detailed proposals for
collaboration. WRO would be responsible for reviewing the proposals and
agreeing on appropriate mechanisms to involve NGOs in the project. The
selection of NGOs would be guided by the following criteria:
(a) As part of legal requirements, the NGO should be a registered body
under the relevant State Law. It should regularly maintain its accounting
records and have properly audited annual statements of income and expenditure.
(b) Since the program involves working primarily with small and
marginal farmers, it is essential that the NGO has a proven track record in
community development in the agrarian setting. To avoid creating any biases
and misconceptions in the minds of the people, the NGO should be secular and
non-political in the conduct of its field activities.
(c) As the project requires NGO support for farmer organization
activities over many sites, and for land acquisition and economic
rehabilitation in seven completion sub-projects, NGO's should have adequate
numbers of field level staff conversant with the local dialect and customs,
and having a clear understanding of the socio-economic and political situation
of the area or areas in which they will operate. They should also possess
excellent communication skills and good rapport with the community so as to
involve them in their own farmer organization or economic rehabilitation.
(d) A prior understanding of the concept of Water Resources
Consolidation Project and experience in areas relevant to the NGO's interest
in project participation (for instance, in community development, farmer
organization, and land acquisition and economic rehabilitation) would be
desirable. Owing to the nature and extent of the physical coverage of the
program, each selected NGO will be part of the community organisation or land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation process. Hence, the NGO should be
able to interact smoothly with, and be a part of, a team.
(e) Finally, the NGO should have internal stability so as to assure
long-term support to the project.



- 303 -
Annex 19
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
Institutional Study Report - N.W. Plummer, P.S. Rao.
Operation and Maintenance Study Report - I. Moorhouse, R. Chopra,
B. Sandhu, S. Nageswaran, G. Subramanian, V. Pineda, E. Isleta, S. Lele,
May 1993.
Maintenance Study Report - I. Moorhouse, Aug. 1993.
Project Report (Modernization) for Palar, Chaiyar and Poiney Anicut
Systems - R.Chopra, B.Sandhu, G. Subramaniam, Aug. 1993.
TNWRCP Project Report (Modernization) for Sathanur, Kodaiyar,
Marudhanadhi, Amaravathy, Sethiathope, Cumbum Valley & Tamarabarani Sub
Projects - PWD, Aug. 1993.
Parambikulam Aliyar Project Report (Modernization) - S.Nageswaran,
K.Venkatasubramaniam, Muthusamy, Aug. 1993.
Farmer Organization and Turnover Component Summary Report - D.
J.Groenfeld, Feb. 1994.
Farmer Organization and Turnover Component Outline of Training
Activities - D.J. Groenfeld, G. Elumalai, Feb. 1994.
Project Report (Farmer Organization) - S.N. Lele, Oct. 1993.
The amendment of the Provisions of the Constitution of India pertaining
to Panchayats and Proposals for Formation of Farmers Council - A Review
- S. Desikan, Mar. 1994.
Analysis and Recommendations on Cost Recovery - A. Rajagopal, May 1993.
Land Acquisition and Rehabilitation & Resettlement Situation in TNWRCP -
Operations Research Group, Jan. 1994.
Socio - Economic Surveys and Land Acquisition Action Plans; Various
Commands - Operations Research Group, Mar.- Sept. 1994.
Environmental Assessment - HR Wallingford, Nov. 1993.



- 304 -
Annex 1g
Page 2 of 2
Environmental Appraisal -Bhavani River Basin - B.B. Sundaresan, Oct.
1993.
Flood Hydrology and Dam Safety Studies; (a) General Reports, (b)
Geology, (c) Flood Hydrology, (d)Design, Construction & Dam Safety
Aspects - WAPCOS, Mar.- Apr. 1994.
Environmental Action Plan Establishment of Environmental Laboratories -
B.B. Sundaresan, Apr. 1994.
Scope for Fisheries Development in TNWRCP - V.D. Singh, Apr. 1994.
Inception Report - WAPCOS, Dec. 1993.
TNWRCP Project Report - PWD., Jan. 1994.






IMAGING
Report No:        13506 IN
Type: SAR



