Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2745 IN
                       Development Credit Agreement
            (Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project)
                                  between
                                   INDIA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated September 22, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2745 IN
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated September 22, 1995, between INDIA, acting by
its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated
November 1, 1994, from Tamil Nadu describing sector reforms
that constitute the framework for improving the development of
water resources in Tamil Nadu including policy, institutional
and administrative reforms (hereinafter called the Policy
Reform Program), and declaring Tamil Nadu's commitment to carry
out such Policy Reform Program.
      (B)   the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project;
      (C)   the Project will be carried out by the State of Tamil
Nadu (Tamil Nadu) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Tamil
Nadu the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and Tamil Nadu;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                ARTICLE  I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to
read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
            otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a)
            on account of expenditures in the territories of any
            country which is not a member of the Bank or for
            goods produced in, or services supplied from, such
            territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment
            to persons or entities, or for any import of goods,
            if such payment of import, to the knowledge of the
            Association, is prohibited by a decision of the
            United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
            VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Tamil Nadu" means the State of Tamil Nadu, a State
of the Borrower, or any successor thereto;
      (c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Tamil Nadu of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
      (d)   "TNEB" means Tamil Nadu Electricity Board;
      (e)   "WRO" means Tamil Nadu Water Resources Organization
of the Public Works Department, or any successor thereto; and
      (f)   "NGO" means non-governmental organization.
                                ARTICLE  II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01.  The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred eighty one million nine
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 181,900,000).
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
Page  3
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Reserve Bank of India on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04.  (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06.  Commitment charges and service charges
shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each
year.
      Section 2.07.  (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c)
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and
November 15 commencing November 15, 2005 and ending May 15,
2030.  Each installment to and including the installment
payable on May 15, 2015 shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-
1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
Page  4
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08.  The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of
the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE  III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or
restriction upon any of its other obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause Tamil Nadu to perform
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all
the obligations of Tamil Nadu therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable Tamil Nadu to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Tamil Nadu in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the
States of India.
      Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03.  The Borrower and the Association hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by
Tamil Nadu pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE  IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the
basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                  at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Page  5
                  Account was made; and
           (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                  to examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the
                  Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than nine
                  months after the end of each such year the
                  report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                  scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested, including a
                  separate opinion by said auditors as to whether
                  the statements of expenditure submitted during
                  such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                  and internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals; and
           (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records and
                  accounts and the audit thereof as the
                  Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
                                ARTICLE  V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   Tamil Nadu shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   An event has occurred which shall make it improbable
that the Policy Reform Program or a significant part thereof
will be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified,
namely, that any event specified in Section 5.01 (a) and (b) of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01.  The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Tamil Nadu, and is
legally binding upon Tamil Nadu in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.02.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
Page  6
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of
the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government of India
            Department of Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance
            New Delhi, PIN 110001
            India
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                      953-3166175
                  New Delhi
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
                  Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                                 64145 (WUI) or
                                                197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  INDIA
                  By /s/ N. Valluri
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Heinz Vergin
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                               South Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
Page  7
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated               % of
                            (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)  Civil works              143,000,000           90%
(2)  Goods                     10,800,000           100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 80% of
                                                    local expenditures
                                                    for other items
                                                    procured locally
(3)  Consultants'              12,800,000           100%
     services, studies
     and training
     (including NGO's
     services)
(4)  Incremental staff           600,000            90% until
     salaries and                                   March 31, 1997,
     allowances, and                                80% until
     incremental                                    March 31, 1998,
     operation and                                  60% until
     maintenance costs                              March 31, 1999,
     for Part E of the                              40% until
     Project                                        March 31, 2000
(5)  Unallocated              14,700,000
                              __________
         TOTAL               181,900,000
                             ===========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "incremental staff salaries and allowances"
means staff salaries and allowances in respect of posts created
for Part E of the Project on or after July 1, 1994, and
"incremental operation and maintenance costs" means operation
and maintenance costs of additional vehicles, equipment and
office space incurred for Part E of the Project on or after
July 1, 1994.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed (i)
SDR 1,000,000,  may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures under Category (1), before that date but after
October 31, 1993; and (ii) SDR 6,100,000  may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after June 30, 1994.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Page  8
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for (a) goods and works under contracts not
exceeding $200,000 equivalent except for the first five
contracts of each civil works and goods; (b) services under
contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent for employment of
consulting firms and $50,000 equivalent for employment of
individual consultants, respectively; (c) training and
fellowships; (d) works procured under force account; and (e)
incremental salaries and allowances and incremental operation
and maintenance costs, all under such terms and conditions as
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist Tamil Nadu in:
(i) introducing water resources planning by river basins across
all uses of water; (ii) improving agricultural productivity
through modernization and completion of irrigation systems, and
upgraded water management and farmer participation; (iii)
assuring sustainability of water infrastructure and the
environment; and (iv) improving institutional and technical
capabilities for managing water resources.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   System Improvement and Farmer Turnover
1.  Rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation,
drainage and bulk water supply facilities covering about
660,000 hectares (ha) in Tamil Nadu, including on-farm
development works on about 425,000 ha, and provision of
equipment, vehicles, training and consultants' services.
2.  Promoting beneficiary participation in irrigation
development, operations and maintenance through (i) provision
of training, consultants' and NGOs' services, equipment,
vehicles and civil works; and (ii) progressive turnover of
select commands of the system rehabilitated and modernized
under A.1 above to the beneficiary farmers for operation and
maintenance.
Part B:   Scheme Completions
1.  Completion of viable investments on on-going irrigation,
drainage and bulk water supply schemes including Poigayar,
Nambiyar, Sothuparai, Mordhana, Rajathopekanar, Kodumudiyar,
Vadakku-Pachayar, Adavinainarkoil, and Gridhammal II.
2.  Provision of equipment, vehicles, training and consultants'
services.
Part C:   Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research
1.  Strengthening of multi-sectoral water planning through
improvement and updating of basin plans and state water plan,
provision of civil works, equipment, vehicles, training, and
consultants' services.
2.  Strengthening of WRO's environmental management capabilities
through institutional and procedural improvements of, and
provision of civil works, training, equipment, vehicles,
consultants' services, studies and field actions including eco-
restoration of catchments.
3.  Establishment of a water resources research fund within WRO
for supporting water sector related research and technology
development.
Page  9
Part D:   Institutional Strengthening
    Strengthening the capabilities of WRO in all functional
responsibilities and management support areas in Tamil Nadu
through the provision of civil works, equipment, vehicles,
training, consultants' services and study tours.
Part E:   Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation
1.  Provision, with the assistance of NGOs, of economic
rehabilitation, asset maintenance grants and access to
government development schemes for about 1460 Project Affected
Persons, affected by the acquisition of about 570 ha of land.
2.  Strengthening WRO's capabilities for implementing land
acquisition and economic rehabilitation programs, through the
provision of consultants' services, training, civil works,
vehicles and equipment.
                                *    *    *
    The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$5,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 33,000,000.
2.  (a)   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
    (b)   Each payment (including a payment under a letter of
credit) for an eligible expenditure in an amount equal to or
less than the equivalent of $3,000,000 shall be made
exclusively out of the Special Account.  The Association may
from time to time, by notice to the Borrower, revise the
threshold amount specified in the preceding sentence.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
Page  10
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Association shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall,  at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if,  at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if,  at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02  of the
General Conditions; and
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Page  11
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will  not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
