                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31721

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-27450)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 181.9 MILLION (ORIGINALLY US$282.9 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                    TO

                                                  INDIA

                                                FOR THE

                 TAMIL NADU WATER RESOURCES CONSOLIDATION PROJECT




                                              May 31, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                     (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                     Currency Unit = Rupee (Rs.)
                                            Rs. 32 = US$ 1 (at appraisal 1995)
                                            US$ 1 = Rs. 45.05 (at completion 2004)

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                  Government of India, State of Tamil Nadu - April 1 to March 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AED       Agricultural Engineering Department
AMG       Asset maintenance grant
CE        Chief Engineer; CE (PF) Chief Engineer (Plan Formulation)
DOA       Department of Agriculture
EC        Environment Cell
ERR       Economic rate of return
FAO/CP    FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program
FC        Farmers' Council
FMIS Act  Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation Systems Act 2000 (Act No.7 of 2001)
FOT       Farmer organization and turnover
GOTN      Government of Tamil Nadu
IAIP      Irrigated agriculture improvement program
ICR       Implementation completion report
IDA       International Development Association
IMTI      Irrigation Management Training Institute of WRO
IWS       Institute of Water Studies
LAER      Land acquisition and economic rehabilitation
MTR       Mid-term review
NGO       Non-governmental organization
O&M       Operation and maintenance
PAP       Project-affected person
PWD       Public Works Department
RG        Rehabilitation grant
SAR       Staff appraisal report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SIFT      System improvement and farmer turnover
TC        Territorial constituency
TNEB      Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
WRCP      Water Resources Consolidation Project
WRCRC     Water Resources Control and Review Council
WRO       Water Resources Organization of the PWD
WRRF      Water Resources Research Fund
WUA       Water Users' Association


                                   Vice President:     Praful C. Patel
                                 Country Director      Michael F. Carter
                                  Sector Manager       Gajanand Pathmanathan
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal

                                            INDIA
                     Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project
                             Implementation Completion Report


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            35
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            36
Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)                             52

Project ID: P010476                                                  Project Name: Tamil Nadu WRCP
Team Leader: Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal                                TL Unit: SASAR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: May 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Tamil Nadu WRCP                                          L/C/TF Number: IDA-27450
   Country/Department: INDIA                                                              Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (33%); Agricultural extension and research
                            (22%); Other social services (19%); Water supply (15%);
                            Sub-national government administration (11%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Participation and civic engagement
                            (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural policies and
                            institutions (P); Other rural development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/01/1993                                     Effective: 10/21/1995                12/14/1995
     Appraisal: 02/10/1994                                         MTR: 12/01/1997                  12/01/1998
      Approval: 06/20/1995                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/Government of Tamil Nadu (GoTN) Water Resources Organization
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Heinz Vergin (Acting)
Country Director:               Michael F. Carter                              Heniz Vergin
Sector Manager:                 Gajanand Pathmanathan                          Shawki Barghouti
Team Leader at ICR:             Srinivasan Raj Rajagopal                       Keith Oblitas
ICR Primary Author:             R. Paterson


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project's primary objectives were to: (a) introduce water resources planning by river basins across all
uses of water; (b) improve agricultural productivity through modernization and completion of irrigation
systems, upgraded water management and farmer participation; (c) assure sustainability of water
infrastructure and the environment; and (d) improve institutional and technical capability for managing the
state's water resources.

3.1.1 Assessment. The objectives were clear, realistic and highly relevant to the development plans of India
and Tamil Nadu, which gave priority to alleviating poverty and creating employment. The long-term
strategy of the Government of India was to stimulate agricultural growth and promote rural development
through improved water and land management, enhanced efficiency of irrigation and drainage networks,
strengthened research services, increased attention to environmental protection and improved rural
infrastructure. The objectives were in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy, which aimed to
support policy, institutional and expenditure reforms for key sectors. The project was ambitious in scale
and scope and demanding to the borrower and implementing agency. It spread across 20 districts and
involved policy, institutional and public expenditure reform, changes in planning and decision making
processes, training and capacity building and mobilization of water users. Some project activities involved
coordination across eight line departments, several Government and university institutions and
nongovernment organizations (NGOs). However, these were quite appropriate given the degree of change
needed in Tamil Nadu.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised during project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:
The project had five original components: (a) System improvement and farmer turnover (SIFT) (US$143.1
million at appraisal, 55% of project investment base costs); (b) Scheme completions (US$76.8 million at
appraisal, 29% of investment base costs); (c) Water planning, environmental management and research
(US$21.0 million, 8% of investment base costs); (d) Institutional strengthening (US$17.7 million, 7% of
investment base costs); and (e) Land acquisition and economic rehabilitation (LAER) (US$3.9 million, 1 %
of investment base costs). The components were appropriate to the objectives. The project involved
implementing reorganization of the pre-existing Tamil Nadu Public Works Department (PWD) into the
Water Resources Organization (WRO), and assigning them the tasks related to improving the irrigation
infrastructure. Although the project objectives sought to improve agricultural productivity, there was no
agricultural activity in the original components. The project was unusual at the time of preparation in
having a separate component for land acquisition. This was an innovative component involving the
provision of a rehabilitation grant and an asset maintenance grant which enabled the project affected
persons to maintain a similar or better standard of living while the land acquisition payments were
processed. This was also an incentive to the implementing agency to complete the land acquisition
payments as quickly as possible so that the asset maintenance grant expenses could be minimized.

3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were maintained throughout the project. At the time of mid-term review (MTR) in
November-December 1998 it was agreed to include an irrigated agriculture intensification program (IAIP)
to improve productivity of water in the project areas and to promote intensification and diversification of
agriculture. This program had four sub-components: On-farm development works undertaken by
Agricultural Engineering      Department (AED), crop demonstrations undertaken by Department of
Agriculture (DOA), adaptive research trials conducted by Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU),


                                                    - 2 -

and training of farmers and officers of line departments organized by Irrigation Management and Training
Institute (IMTI), State Agriculture Management Institute and seven Farmer Training Centers of the DOA.
The overall coordination of the component was the responsibility of IMTI. In 2002, a sub-component was
added for completion of works begun under the Bank's Dam Safety Project. Rehabilitation of 620
non-system tanks was also added to the SIFT component at that time taking advantage of project savings
arising from currency fluctuations.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project grew out of a long dialogue between the Bank and the Central and State governments. This
dialogue and careful and extended preparation with assistance from FAO/CP and international and national
consultants benefited the project design. The project design took account of the Bank's safeguard policies
for environmental assessment and involuntary resettlement. The project design could have been improved
by the inclusion of an agricultural component at the outset. This aspect was remedied during the mid-term
review. Considering the various innovative aspects of the project at that time and the project readiness for
implementation, the Quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is satisfactory. The project has achieved its main objectives and exceeded some. For
instance, the passing of the Groundwater Act and the Tamil Nadu Farmers' Management of Irrigation
Systems Act 2000 (FMIS Act) and the formation of River Basin Boards (first of their kind in South Asia)
were not envisaged at appraisal. Substantial institutional development has taken place, both in resource
management and in service delivery. All targeted physical construction activities have been completed and
additional activities have been undertaken and completed. Modern construction techniques have been
introduced together with piloting of advanced irrigation technologies. Environmental considerations related
to the water sector have been mainstreamed. Knowledge-base creation and continuous updating is under
way. Agricultural productivity gains through improved water use and crop husbandry practices. The
project is economically viable with a positive net present value when cost and benefit streams are
discounted at 10 percent. The project is expected to achieve satisfactory development outcomes with only a
few shortcomings.

4.1.1 Introduce water resources planning by river basins across all uses of water. The project has
achieved this objective and ensured that water resources planning is now based on river basins. A State
Framework for Water Resources Development has been drafted and operational strategies are being
developed. Macro-level plans and environmental status reports have been completed for sixteen out of the
consolidated seventeen river basins of the State. The Cauvery basin, which is an inter-state basin under
adjudication, was not covered in the preparation of these plans due to the unresolved water-sharing dispute
between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Micro-level plans have been completed for five basins and work is
under way for the remaining eleven basins. Two Basin Management and Development Boards (the first
such broad stakeholder forums in South Asia) have been set up and are slowly taking shape. A good data
base for has been developed for all river basins and analytical capacity for water planning has been
enhanced through significant strengthening of the Institute of Water Studies (IWS). Consideration of
multi-sectoral aspects of water resources development has been enhanced through the water resources
research fund (WRRF). National and international training was given by the project to improve capability
in water planning and management.

4.1.2 Improve Agricultural Productivity. Agricultural productivity has been improved by rehabilitation
and system improvement, organization of farmers and turnover of operation and maintenance (O&M) to



                                                     - 3 -

water users' associations (WUAs) in 16 major and medium irrigation systems, 25 minor schemes and 620
non-system irrigation tanks, covering some 638,000 ha. Nine unfinished schemes undertaken by the State
have been completed to serve a further 16,000 ha, considerably enhancing agricultural production. The
estimated increase in agricultural production due to the project would include 376,900 t/year of paddy and
31,000 t/year of groundnuts. (See Annex 3.)

4.1.2.1 An IAIP, introduced in 1998 (see 3.4), took about 18 months to establish the procedures for release
of funds to different agencies and activities were initiated only in mid-2000. A sample of 205 farmers
participating in IAIP indicated that the average yield of paddy obtained by participants was 18% higher
than that obtained by nonparticipants. The average water used by participants was about 25% less than
that used by nonparticipants. Adaptive research trials in the farmers' fields showed that the use of
improved methods and schedules of irrigation in conjunction with improved varieties of crops and efficient
resource management resulted in better crop growth and productivity, improved on-farm water
management and input use and better economic returns. The outcome of the demonstration of a new system
of rice cultivation is impressive and DOA has taken this up for large-scale adoption. Improved water use
and crop husbandry practices coupled with agricultural diversification are leading to better incomes.

4.1.2.2. During the last phase of the project (September 2003) an area of about 3000 ha in Hanuman Nadhi
sub-basin was taken for development as an innovative model for agriculture intensification, diversification
and commercialization using modern methods of irrigation, including drip and sprinkler. The AED, DOA,
Departments of Horticulture, Fisheries, Forests, Social Welfare and Agricultural Marketing are working
with WRO for integrated development of this area. This approach fosters engineer-extensionist-farmer
linkages. Demonstrations were focused on crop diversification to high value crops. This model has helped
agencies to work better together and some mind-set change is perceptible, but it is too soon to accurately
estimate other benefits. The model may be difficult to replicate due to substantial subsidies introduced to
make the pilot attractive and workable. The outcome of the efforts of this model has captured the attention
of the policy-makers and the GoTN intends to try and replicate this approach using their own resources
until their request for a follow-up project is processed by the Bank.

4.1.3 Assure sustainability of water infrastructure.           The project included the rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation systems and some dam safety works to improve the sustainability of the water
infrastructure. The quality of the construction of the works has generally been reported to be satisfactory.
The sustainability of the irrigation systems will therefore largely depend on adequate funds being made
available for maintenance works. Recent overall expenditure on maintenance by WRO has corresponded
with estimates made by international consultants of typical maintenance requirements. Indications are that
this level of funding will continue. It would seem to be adequate if it was evenly distributed. However, there
is a tendency to divert more resources to areas that have not had the benefit of WRCP. A further worrying
tendency is to defer needed repairs in schemes assisted by WRCP in the hope that they will be included in
some future project. Maintenance of canals serving less than about 700 ha and structures in the project
area is now the responsibility of WUAs. The WUAs have only recently been formed and will require
considerable training and practical guidance to perform their O&M duties satisfactorily. However, they
understand that it is in their own interests to ensure that their canals are adequately maintained and it is
likely that they will do this. Enhanced river basin planning, improvement in the legislative framework for
groundwater management and better consideration of environmental issues will improve infrastructure
sustainability.

4.1.3.1 Based on the recommendations of a Water Services Charges Committee, GOTN plans to meet the
cost of the maintenance of irrigation infrastructure by means of an Additional Assessment and Additional
Water Cess. This would be a component of Land Revenue enhanced from Rs15/acre to Rs 70/acre (Rs


                                                      - 4 -

173/ha) for wet crops and Rs. 60/acre (Rs.148/ha) for dry crops. The enhancement would be apportioned
in the ratio 7:3 for WRO:WUA (WUAs would share their 30% with Distributary Committees in medium
irrigation projects and also with Project Committees in major projects), or about Rs.115/Rs. 50. This would
not cover WRO's costs for the main system but would help WUAs, which are allowed, in addition, to raise
up to Rs 500/ha/year from their members for O&M. The sustainability of the SIFT and Scheme
Completion works is considered likely.

4.1.3.2 Although some lower level canals have been jointly managed by WRO and farmers' councils (FCs,
the predecessors of WUAs) since about 2000, the first elections for WUAs were completed only in March
2004 and the newly elected WUAs have so far had little opportunity to demonstrate their capabilities to
raise resources and maintain their systems to an adequate standard. Many WUAs would benefit by
receiving training in the operation and maintenance of their systems. The higher level Distributary
Committees and Project Committees necessary for the operation and maintenance of the main systems have
not yet been elected. The implementation completion report (ICR) mission was assured that GOTN would
quickly clear the notification for elections for Distributary and Project Committees and ensure that
adequate budget is available to continue training WUAs to make them fully functional. It is likely that this
objective will be substantially achieved.

4.1.4 Assure sustainability of the environment The project has contributed to improving the environment
by developing a State environmental planning framework, by creating an environmental cell (EC) in the
office of Chief Engineer (Plan Formulation) (CE (PF)), formation of three WRO EC divisions (in
Coimbatore, Chennai and Madurai) as focal points for environmental activities in the WRO, creating and
strengthening an environmental wing at the Institute of Water Studies              (IWS), addressing strategic
environmental issues in the Palar Basin through the Palar River Basin Organization, building capacity of
the technical secretariats of the basin organizations for environmental aspects and building private-public
partnerships for environmental issues (e.g. with environmental pilots with industry, research, etc.). The
Groundwater (Development and Management) Act set the tone for restrictions to excessive exploitation of
groundwater and hence sustainable use of water resources. WRO's capability for environmental assessment
was strengthened. Strategic environmental assessment was made for the Palar river basin as a pilot. Many
of the research studies carried out through the Water Resources Research Fund (WRRF) contributed to
better understanding of environmental impacts and assisted in estimation of economic implications.
Environmental and social assessment, environmental action plans and environmental status reports were
produced for 16 river basins. Further, 5 micro-level basin studies were carried out that included more
detailed examination of environmental issues. A water and soil monitoring programme was operated at 407
sampling locations, analysing 35 and 27 quality parameters respectively across the river basins. Innovative
technologies being used include some to improve water quality. The environmental benefits of water
conservation and improved agricultural practices were demonstrated. Based on these efforts, environmental
concerns have been mainstreamed into the irrigation service delivery mechanisms. Good awareness of the
issues and the need to solve them in innovative manner has been created. For instance, with increasing
population pressure, some of the inflows to small reservoirs are heavily contaminated with domestic sewage
whcih has resulted in deterioration in the quantity and quality of the agricultural produce. Now, the WRO
staff are in a position to tackle these issues. District administrations are requesting WRO with assistance in
tackling water-related environmental issues. This is commendable given the fact that there was very little
(almost none) environmental capability in the organization at the start of this project. The overall
performance of this sub-component has therefore been considered highly satisfactory. It could demonstrate
a model approach among Indian states in addressing environmental issues in the water sector. It is hoped
that this objective will be exceeded by achieving environmental improvements.

4.1.5 Improve institutional and technical capability for managing the state's water resources. This


                                                        - 5 -

objective has been achieved. There has been considerable improvement in the institutional and technical
capability for managing the state's water resources. The WRO is now well established as the water
resources wing of the PWD, with four regional Chief Engineers designated as River Basin Managers. River
Basin Boards and their technical secretariat have been formed. Specialist units for Plan Formulation,
Design Research and Construction Support, Operation and Maintenance, and the State Ground and Surface
Water Data Center have been established. A Water Planning Unit has been established in the IWS. A
special unit for LAER has been established in the PWD Secretariat. The project provided computers, video
conferencing, office equipment, conference rooms and regional quality control laboratories. Knowledge of
geographic information systems and remote sensing has been considerably strengthened and the IWS
remote sensing facility has now been recognized as a State Remote Sensing Centre. In addition, the project
assisted modernization of the AED Remote Sensing Unit. However, the very late procurement of computers
and the introduction of a management information system delayed the benefits that could have been
obtained. Relationships between WRO and other agencies have improved through project activities such as
the formation of a multi-disciplinary project preparation panel and the WRRF.

4.1.5.1 A significant achievement during the project was the passing of the Tamil Nadu Groundwater
(Development and Management) Act 2003. However, the regulations to establish the Tamil Nadu
Groundwater Authority, essential for the implementation of the Act, have not yet been issued. The ICR
mission was assured that GOTN would soon establish the Groundwater Authority The WRO has
performed well in conducting a detailed well census covering the entire state (the first such in South Asia).
There is now a need for the CE, Groundwater, and the CE, IWS, to follow up with detailed analysis to
enable enforcement of the Act.

4.1.5.2 The Tamil Nadu FMIS Act and its implementation, including establishing participatory irrigation
management in Tamil Nadu, have been major achievements of this project. The Act and the involvement of
farmers have generally been well accepted by WRO engineers. However, the time taken to pass the Act and
arrange for WUA elections has caused the formation of the higher level committees envisaged by the Act to
be delayed beyond the completion of WRCP. The WRO successfully established 1965 FCs (1272 under
SIFT, 73 under Scheme Completion and 620 under non-system tanks). Following the passing of the FMIS
Act, the FCs were rearranged into 1566 WUAs for conducting elections in 20 districts, covering 654,000
hectares. The WUAs represent 7,874 Territorial Constituencies (TCs), each looking after canals serving
less than about 50 ha. The elections have been completed except for 14 posts of WUA presidents and 170
TC members. There is small yet significant participation of women, with 30 (2% ) women presidents of
WUAs and 208 (3%) women members in TCs. About 20% of land-holding WUA members are women.
Training has been provided by the senior farmer organization and turnover (FOT) advisor and IMTI to
most of these councils and associations. IMTI has trained 1552 WUA Presidents and 7704 TC members
and about 1000 junior level WRO officers, completing about 40% of the persons to be trained. Following
closure of the credit, the GOTN plan to spend an estimated Rs. 8 million on completing the remaining
training programs by March 2005. Training has touched upon the basics of the FMIS Act and the rules and
regulations to be followed by the farmers as well as the WRO. This is only the beginning of a process of
participatory irrigation management and the farmers have now a sense of ownership of the distribution
systems and have started feeling responsible for maintaining their systems. Contributions ranging up to
Rs.100 per hectare have been collected by some WUAs. Those trained have been made aware of their
rights and responsibilities under the FMIS Act and there is a good chance that, with continued support and
training, where needed, from WRO, WUAs will develop into good institutions for operating and
maintaining their irrigation and drainage systems. The close involvement of FCs in implementing small
rehabilitation contracts helped to forge strong partnership between WRO and FCs.




                                                     - 6 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1 System Improvement and Farmer Turnover The nine schemes identified in the staff appraisal report
(SAR) for Stage I (priority design changes and structural improvements) and the seven schemes for Stage
II (further improvements to performance and conveyance efficiency) as well as 25 minor schemes and 620
rainfed tanks have been completed and the operation and maintenance of the systems serving areas less than
about 700 ha turned over to WUAs. In addition, 912 minimum rehabilitation program works were
completed, 76% of which were constructed by FCs, and a model rehabilitation project in the Hanuman
Nadhi sub-basin was implemented. The central feature of Stage I SIFT was to have been the `structuring'
of the system (SAR 2.10) at the point where the WUAs take control. Below this level, control structures
were to be provided at all offtakes to distribute water without manual control. This change in distribution
policy has not been generally adopted.

4.2.1.1. Supervision missions reported that performance in implementing civil works was very good after a
slow start and that the works had been planned and executed with proper quality control measures. The
ICR mission noted that the quality of construction was generally satisfactory. The expertise of the WRO in
execution of both large and small civil works has been considerably strengthened in this process assisted
further by appropriate training at relevant institutions.

4.2.1.2 The GOTN decided in 2003 that additional water charges of Rs.175 per hectare on Class I &II
lands for wet crops and Rs.150 per hectare for dry crops, should be levied from 1 July 2003 but the
implementation of this was delayed due to the prevailing drought and now may be implemented in
2005.This will be apportioned in the ratio of 70:30 WRO:WUA for their use for O&M. In addition, the
GOTN has allocated Rs.100 per hectare to WUAs as an establishment grant to set up an O&M fund.

4.2.2 Scheme Completions. The nine schemes started before the project began and identified in the SAR
have been completed, generally at a cost per ha higher in rupees than estimated at appraisal, often due to
design changes and inclusion of additional work but, generally lower than expected in the SAR when
expressed in US dollars. One of the objectives of the scheme completion component was that only viable
schemes would be included in the project and therefore completed. However, it seems that this did not cause
unviable schemes to be dropped from the GOTN non-WRCP program.

4.2.3 Water Planning, Environmental Management and Research

4.2.3.1 Water Planning. A Water Resources Control and Review Council (WRCRC) was established in
1993 but, being chaired by the Chief Minister and comprising ministers and heads of government
organizations, it has only met twice. This situation has been resolved through the formation of thematic
Subcommittees which meet often and formulate policies,and scrutinize proposals for submission to the
Council. IWS is now the main central water resources planning body in Tamil Nadu and has prepared the
river basin plans described in Section 4.1.1.above. Decision support system tools have been developed and
employed in basin planning which allows real-time decision making to be introduced. These analytical
capabilities will further enhance the water productivity in the State. Two River Basin Management Boards
have been established in Palar and Tambaraparani Basins. The Tamil Nadu Groundwater (Development
and Management) Act 2003 has been passed but the Groundwater Authority needed to enforce its
provisions has not yet been constituted. An expert committee on rainwater harvesting and groundwater
protection was formed. An inventory of groundwater wells throughout the State has been completed. The
Remote Sensing Unit at IWS is fully operational and that at the AED has been significantly strengthened.

4.2.3.2. Environmental Management. Environmental status reports have been prepared for two



                                                      - 7 -

sub-basins of the Cauvery and for all other sixteen river basins. ECs have been established at Chennai,
Madurai and Coimbatore as well as in the office of the CE (PF). The ECs created widespread awareness,
including amongst irrigation engineers, of the importance of sustainable and efficient management of
Tamil Nadu's scarce water and land resources. The ECs conducted 159 seminars/awareness sessions
involving farmers, students, professionals, industries and the engineers from WRO with good media
exposure. Newsletters in English and in Tamil are produced and widely circulated. A number of research
and pilot studies were carried out through the WRRF and under the environment sub-component.

4.2.3.3 Research. GOTN has so far deposited Rs. 9.5 million in an interest-bearing account to finance the
WRRF and is expected to deposit a further Rs. 2 million before finalization of WRCP accounts. Some 38
studies, including those mentioned above, have been completed at a cost of Rs 34.5 million. The WRRF
has been successful in achieving its objective of promoting applied research among water and irrigation
professionals. Research has addressed problems in the water resources sector and promoted cooperation
between WRO and research institutions from Tamil Nadu and India.The concept of creating a mechanism
for progressive increase of the fund as the fund gets used has provided a framework in which further
research can be supported.

4.2.4 Institutional Strengthening There has been extensive institutional strengthening both of WRO and
WUAs. Although WRO and Buildings Organizations have been functioning as separate entities since April
1996, orders were only recently issued orders to form a specialized water resources cadre and GOTN
intend that a combined seniority list will be maintained for WRO and the Buildings Division until 2008. A
special unit in the PWD Secretariat has been created for LAER. Environment Cell Divisions have been
created under CE(PF). Some 500 vehicles were procured, 1100 computers and 132 photocopiers as well as
topographical survey equipment and construction quality control laboratory equipment. Some 370
renovation and new building works were completed. An "OK card" system for quality control of
construction was introduced. International consultants prepared design, O&M and other manuals.The
design and procurement capabilities of WRO have been strengthened. After the enactment of the Farmers
Management of Irrigation Systems Act, staff of WRO have been given training in working with WUAs in
managing the system. This aspect needs further work. Similarly, the WUAs who have been trained so far
need further support and guidance before they can assume their full responsibilities.

4.2.4.1 Staff trained by the project include 18,211 from WRO, 1725 from DOA, 4997 from the Revenue
Department. Some 13,931 farmers and 658 others received training. In addition, 10,700 farmers and 400
field staff were trained under the IAIP, 150 adaptive research trials were conducted and 45 agricultural
extension campaigns were completed. Two executive engineers trained at Wallingford, UK and 20 officers
trained at the Pollution Control Board. Two assistant executive engineers trained in USA. A number of
staff have been trained in construction technology and Bank procurement guidelines. It is worthwhile to
point out GoTN is adopting the Bank guidelines in its own system of procurement in the future and this
strengthening of skills would be helpful.

4.2.5 Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation Although some contracts were reported in 1997 to
have been delayed due to slow land acquisition, over 758 ha of private land was successfully acquired for
the Scheme Completion and SIFT components. In addition, 292 ha of government land has been
transferred. A further 203 ha has yet to be transferred. Already 109 ha of forest land has been transferred
and a further 199 ha is yet to be transferred. The LAER component has been successful in achieving its
objective of ensuring that project-affected persons (PAPs) are as well off or better than their previous
situation. Surveys conducted before and after land acquisition report that PAPs in scheme completion
sub-projects are now better off. Surveys have not been carried to indicate whether the 1343 PAPs in SIFT
sub-projects are better or worse off. More than 99% of rehabilitation grant (RG) and asset maintenance


                                                    - 8 -

grant (AMG) paid has been utilized and the assets have been retained. However, payment of RG and AMG
to 1009 PAPs (18% of the total) is still pending, awaiting the outcome of court cases concerning land
ownership, with the amounts of the grants deposited in non-interest-bearing "K" accounts. This process is
likely to be prolonged and PAPs will loose income on the grants. PAPs who lost land for canals in
Nambiyar have been given replacement land but are not receiving irrigation due to the riparian rights of
upstream farmers, for whom the water is diverted to tanks. This needs to be resolved with farmers and
WRO jointly.

4.2.6 Dam Safety Works carried over from the World Bank Dam Safety Project (Cr.2441-IN and
Ln.3325-IN) at Vidur, Sathanur, Gomukhi and Sethiathoppu Dams and additional works at Willington
Dam have been completed.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
An economic analysis, similar to that done at appraisal, has been made as detailed in Annex 3. The
economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is calculated as the combined ERR for the two construction
components, SIFT and scheme completions, and LAER (about 88% of project costs), and estimated to be
13.4% (SAR: 17%). The ERR for the SIFT component is 14.7% (SAR: 19%) and for scheme completions
10.4% (SAR: 15%). Benefits have not been quantified for other components. If the costs of other
components are included without ascribing benefits, the ERR would be 11.9% (SAR 13%). ERRs are less
than estimated at appraisal due to longer construction, higher costs, delayed benefits and lower estimated
future parity price for the dominant crop, paddy, offset by higher incremental production. In addition, the
over all project cost also included other add-on components like dam safety, institutional strengthening,
software components, well census and Hanumannadhi sub-basin activities accounting for 11% of the
project costs at 2004 prices whose benefits will have system wide impacts but not quantified in ICR
analysis. Rainfed tank component with an ERR of 14.6% did improve the overall return but its low weight
(only 7% of the project cost going for rainfed tanks) limited its overall impact.When cost and benefit
streams are discounted at 10% the net present value is positive.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
The SAR did not estimate financial rates of return and this has not been done for the ICR.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact has been substantial. The WRO is now established as an independent
organization in PWD, structured on river basins. The new organization was a radical change involving, as
well as the division of PWD, creation of new decentralized field management under basin managers and
creation of specialist units for water planning, design and construction, O&M, land acquisition and in
support areas such as Plan & Budget, management information system and procurement. A considerable
change is evident in the approach of many engineers from pure construction to one aimed at improved
agricultural production and in the fact that now farmers and WRO engineers share the O&M of irrigation
systems. Improved integration of environmental concerns and establishment of institutional arrangements
for land acquisition are important advances. The process of developing and revising the State Water Policy
and the State Water Plan strengthened the planning capability of WRO. The provision of computer
equipment, software and training has had a very positive impact on the efficiency of WRO operations,
enabling WRO engineers to be computer literate. Adequate budget for maintenance of computers will be
needed to maintain this. Many of the WUAs set up by the project are still maturing and need to be nurtured
and reinforced.




                                                    - 9 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
There were elections for the state government in 1996 and May 2001, each of which resulted in a change of
state government and considerable change in senior level officials, including the empowered committee and
the contract award committee, resulting in delays of at least four months in making many important
decisions. At the early stages of the project, reorganization of PWD to form WRO affected most staff and
caused disruptions over several months as staff were progressively redeployed in the new structure.
Successive significant droughts affected large parts of the state from 2001 to 2003. Many FCs and WUAs
had no water and therefore no need for maintenance or for the collection of water charges and therefore
sometimes little justification for their existence: recipients of IAIP interventions were often unable to put
into practice what they had been taught. This drought situation has affected the monitoring and evaluation
procedures put in place. Baseline surveys were carried out and impact evaluation studies were carried out
but due the prevalence of the drought, regular updating of information was not possible. This has led to
some of the economic analyses at ICR to be based on reasonable projections. Devaluation of the Indian
rupee relative to the US dollar and SDR increased the number of rupees available for the project which
enabled the rehabilitation of 620 non-system tanks to be taken up.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The long period of policy dialogue pre-project on water resources issues and the long, detailed project
preparation provided a sound basis for the project. The SAR stated that the project was ready for
implementation with detailed design and procurement packaging for 70% of the contracts in the two main
components complete However, the formation of a new government immediately after project approval
resulted in substantial delays in implementation. There were long delays in making decisions concerning the
award of contracts. The MTR reported that it took six months from receipt of tenders to award of contact.
The international consultants were initially handicapped by absence of proper counterparts and staffing for
the Environment Cells was delayed: there was difficulty in recruiting non-engineers. This led to less
effective use of the international consultants in building environmental capacity. Following the MTR,
staffing and training for the ECs improved. Flow of funds was not always satisfactory. State financial
constraints slowed implementation in 2001-2002. The covenant related to tariff and reduction of subsidy to
the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board was not complied with, but towards the end of the project measures
towards achieving the substance of the covenant were begun such as the efficiency of agricultural pumping
and related aspects.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Due to a lack of experience with Bank requirements for bid documents and the Bank approval process, as
well as disruption due to the reorganization of WRO, implementation progress was extremely slow until
1997. The senior staff members of the WRO had severe doubts about the reasonableness of paying very
high rates (by local standards) for international consultants. This contributed to considerable debate and
delay in the appointment of the consultants and it was not till December 1997, about two years after Credit
effectiveness, that the international consultants were appointed. After some initial reluctance WRO became
energetic and effective in promoting formation of WUAs.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The SAR estimated project cost at current prices including all contingencies to be Rs 11,434 million.
Actual expenditure up to 30 September, 2004 is Rs 10,830 million, 95% of the SAR estimate. In US dollar
terms the actual costs are US$245.2 million, 78% of the appraisal estimate of US$ 315.6 million. The
SIFT and scheme completion components were close to the SAR estimates in US dollars but took three
years longer to complete than planned. The LAER component exceeded the SAR estimate due to an
increased area to be acquired and more PAPs than estimated in the SAR. The increased cost in institutional


                                                     - 10 -

strengthening was offset by a reduction in the water planning, research and environment component. Out of
the total IDA Credit of SDR 181.9 million (US$ 282.9 million equivalent), an amount of SDR 20 million
was canceled in 2002 and an amount of SDR 153.1 million has been disbursed (equivalent to historical
disbursed amount of US$ 206.1 million). An undisbursed balance of SDR 8.8 million will be canceled from
the Credit.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the SIFT and Scheme Completion works is considered likely, as explained in 4.1.3.
The Government of Tamil Nadu (GOTN) has still to take the administrative and legislative measures
required to make the Basin Boards and associated technical secretariat permanent and fully operational.
The ICR mission was assured that, to sustain the institutional achievements of the project, GOTN would
establish the Groundwater Authority, enable the existing River Basin Development Boards and their
technical secretariats in IWS to continue and establish four more such Boards, enable the LAER Cell and
ECs to continue and ensure that the Multi-disciplinary Project Preparation Panel continues.The
Government has provided adequate state funds in the budget for the next financial year to sustain the River
Basin Boards and the technical Secretariat. In addition, recognizing the positive outcomes related to
integrated river basin management, the GoTN is preparing plans to extend the concept to four more basins.
These actions imply recognition by GoTN of the importance of continuing with the institutional
achievements of the project.

On the water charges side, appropriate gazette notifications and Government Orders have been issued
increasing water charges to a level which would meet the Operation and Maintenance expenses and
empowering WUAs to collect additional funds as required. However, this has not been implemented during
the last two years (since the notification) due to the continuous devastating drought prevailing in the region.
Implementation of these measures is essential for sustained operation and management of the systems. In
other words, instruments are in place, GoTN has indicated its resolve to implement these and it is expected
that these would indeed be implemented when the climatic conditions improve and assured irrigation
deliveries are provided.

As a precursor to the establishment of the Groundwater Authority and , a detailed well census has been
prepared covering about 3.3 million wells in the State. However, the rules for implementing the
Groundwater Act have not been framed yet and the Groundwater Authority has not been formed yet.
Effective enforcement of the Groundwater Act is essential to sustainably manage and develop this resource.
At the implementing agency level, actions are being taken such as developing business plans for integrated
management. GoTN needs to take immediate action to set up the Authority and enforce the Groundwater
Act.

Capacity building in the WRO on several disciplines that has been successfully carried out will assist in
sustaining the investments as well. Proper functioning of the WUAs would further assure sustainability of
the secondary and teriary systems. The WUAs need further training and support to ensure this. GoTN has
indicated its decision to pursue this through their budget allocations.

GoTN has requested the Bank for further assistance which would enable it to continue and build upon the
impressive reforms and physical achievements.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
SIFT schemes were already in operation before the project. No major changes were needed in the WRO for



                                                     - 11 -

transition to regular operation. For scheme completions, some changes were made by WRO following
completion of construction. For both, the major change is that WUAs are now responsible for the O&M of
canals serving less than about 700 ha. For both the SIFT and the Scheme Completions there is a need for
considerable training of WUAs in their responsibilities and duties for O&M. This is likely since the GoTN
has allocated funds under the state budget to support this activity in this financial year after the closure of
Bank assistance. Continued efforts in this regard would further improve the outcomes of this project. The
GOTN has requested a successor project (prepared by a multi-disciplinary project preparation panel) to
strengthen reforms initiated under WRCP and provide further investments for water infrastructure. Further
assistance to the State would help in consolidating the impressive gains obtained under this project and to
move further in the improved management of water resources and irrigation services in the State.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory in project preparation and appraisal. The Bank provided valuable
assistance to the borrower and implementing agency through frequent and detailed consultations over a
period of about three years. Many Bank missions assisted with the preparation of the project, and a Bank
consultant was employed to advise and assist with institutional reorganization. However, project design
gave inadequate emphasis to agricultural development. The economic analysis of the SIFT and scheme
completion sub-projects did not take account of the value to downstream users of the leakage water that
was saved by the project works. While other components of the project, especially on the institutional side,
were mostly in advanced readiness by project commencement, the status of detailed design and procurement
documents, and capacity to prepare them was overestimated and civil works had a slow start.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision missions played a key role in assisting the borrower and implementing agency in keeping
the project on track. The Bank fielded 15 full supervision missions, a mid-term review mission and several
smaller missions. Staff mix through supervision was appropriate and adequate. The supervision missions
cooperated well with GOTN, extending the scope of the project to include Dam Safety, extending the SIFT
component to include IAIP and 620 rainfed tanks and agreeing to the postponement of the MTR by one
year. The Bank agreed to extending the Credit three times, twice by one year and then by a further six
months to permit the project to support elections for TCs and WUAs and the construction of the Hanuman
Nadhi sub-basin development. Bank supervision missions provided substantive technical guidance related
to construction techniques, basin planning and decision support system development, procurement aspects,
irrigation technologies, participatory irrigation management, environmental aspects and strategies and
agricultural diversification. The Bank agreed to cancel SDR 20 million from the Credit in February 2002.
Supervision missions were very successful in getting policy issues to the forefront and in ensuring that the
main project works were satisfactorily completed, though with considerable delay, but, despite strenuous
efforts, there has been little actual progress on removing subsidies to Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
(TNEB) and the WRO cadre is not yet fully separate.However, the Bank team managed to instill concepts
of energy efficiency in agricultural pumping and enabled the TNEB to conduct required studies for future
implementation. The Quality Assurance Group of the Bank rated the project supervision twice during
implementation and gave ratings of Highly satisfactory and Satisfactory respectively. Bank supervision was
satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory




                                                   - 12 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower made considerable achievements during project preparation. Activities included: (i) the
creation of the WRO from the former construction-oriented irrigation wing of the PWD, (ii) the
establishment of the WRCRC to oversee multi-sectoral water planning and allocation, (iii) the formulation
of a State Water Policy, (iv) overhaul of priorities for public expenditure to give emphasis to maintenance
and improved water management rather than new construction, (v) increased state allocations for
maintenance of irrigation systems, (vi) starting a program to involve farmers in irrigation investment,
operation and maintenance, (vii) WRO's institutional capability for environmental management was
strengthened and an environment action plan prepared, (viii) new structure and procedures for land
acquisition were established and a LAER action plan prepared. At negotiations, GOTN submitted a Letter
of Development Policy describing policy and institutional strengthening measures to be implemented during
WRCP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
GOTN generally performed well in successfully completing the project. However, GOTN has not
processed fully the separation of WRO and Buildings cadres. GOTN is not in compliance with the
covenant in Schedule 2 of the Project Agreement relating to reducing subsidies to TNEB. Of course, this
covenant was should not have been adopted in this project. Inordinate delay in the release of funds due to
procedural problems in the state were reported in January 2001. The required flow of funds was not
maintained in the last two quarters of FY 2001/2. The project faced suspension due to non-submission of
an audit report for year 1997/8. This continued for several years and affected the IAIP. Staff vacancies at
the field level, as well as delay in the appointment of FOT teams and NGOs and FOT advisor, seriously
delayed the start-up of the FOT sub-component.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, WRO has performed satisfactorily and has become an effective water resources development
agency. The project has been implemented successfully, though completed 3 years late. The SIFT and
scheme completion components have been completed satisfactorily but late. Initially, there was very slow
procurement due partly to weak WRO capabilities in design and knowledge of Bank procedures as well as
cumbersome state procurement procedures. In November 1997, it was reported that reorganization of the
Empowered Committee and the Contract Award Committee was streamlining clearance and decision
making but that fundamental changes were needed from old ways (poor technical practices, lack of staff
continuity and specialization). No draft annual review, action plan and budget were prepared for several
years. Even at MTR, award of contracts was taking about six months from receipt of bids. There was some
uncertainty about design standards, particularly flood hydrology. There was a marked reluctance to recruit
international consultants. However, these difficulties were overcome by about 2000 and the implementation
speeded up and a good pace of progress was maintained. The FOT and environmental management
sub-components have been real successes.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory

8. Lessons Learned

8.1 The FMIS Act is a much better basis for irrigation management than the Societies Act on which the
SAR was based.

8.2 A separate component for Land Acquisition and Economic Rehabilitation, with a separate LAER Cell,



                                                    - 13 -

works well for acquiring land but there are still limitations in the ability to economically rehabilitate project
affected persons.

8.3 An extended policy dialogue between the Bank and the Borrower and careful, detailed preparation
provide a sound basis for successful project implementation.

8.4 The economic impact of an irrigation project will be improved by the inclusion of an agricultural
component with strong agricultural support services at the outset. A multi-disciplinary approach to
agricultural development should be continued. Investment in agricultural services should be flexible enough
with government extension services and tied to marketing networks.

8.5 More efficient procurement organization and procedures might avoid some serious delays in project
implementation. Frequent training in the Bank's procurement procedures during implementation is
necessary, given the turn-over of middle-level staff, to avoid delays in procurement aspects.

8.6 Covenants such as that to reduce subsidies to TNEB, which have little direct relevance to project
activities and are difficult to enforce, should not be imposed since dealing with these takes considerable
time and effort of both the Bank and the Borrower with negligible returns.

8.7 Involving intended beneficiaries in planning, implementation and monitoring improves transparency,
instills a sense of ownership and can reduce conflicts.

8.8 NGOs can play a useful role in training farmers and WUAs but NGOs without adequate experience in
this work should only be employed in conjunction with other experienced organizations capable of training
the inexperienced.

8.9 Recognizing the role of WUAs as change agents, the involvement of women farmers and NGOs can
create a multiplier effect. Convergence of various development schemes operating in WUAs should be
routed through them to have additive effects.

8.10 It is better to contract reputed firms instead of local small firms for software development. In the case
of financial management software, the local firm to whom the contract was given was shut down and the
software was not successfully implemented. For contracts of this nature, it is always better to go for
quality-based selection (QBS).

8.11 Twinning consultancies is a good idea but the terms of reference for such consultancies must be
drafted with greater attention to details and the implementing agency should be supported derive maximum
benefit from such arrangements.

8.12 Focus on policy issues, institutional restructuring, cost recovery aspects should be consistent
throughout the project implementation period.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 8 and Annex 9

(b) Cofinanciers:
NA

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



                                                     - 14 -

NA

10. Additional Information

See Annexes




                              - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Outcome / Impact Indicators:
              Indicator               Projected in SAR   Actual/Latest Estimate
GOTN acting on State Water Policy Yes                    New projects accord with SWP.SWP being updated in
(SWP)                                                    accordance with National Water Policy 2002.
State Water Policy gazetted           Yes                Yes
Rapid assessment for 5 remaining      By 31 March 1995 Four by 2000. No assessment of Cauvery.
basins
State Water Resources Plan            31 December 1995 Prepared but being continually updated.
finalised
Establish Basin Advisory              17                 0
Committees
Establish Basin Development and       0                  2 Basin Boards established. 4 more in process.
Management Boards
No new wells in dark                  None               Well census completed. Number of overexploited
(overexploited) zones                                    blocks has increased from 53 in 1997 to 138 in 2003.
                                                         GW Authority not yet in place to enforce new
                                                         Groundwater Act
Controlled expansion in grey          Yes                Number of critical blocks increased from 132 in 1997
(critical) zones                                         to 142 in 2003. GW Authority not yet in place to
                                                         enforce this
Groundwater pumps metered             Yes                Not yet. No plans for this.
Draft legislation on groundwater      Yes                Groundwater (Development & Management) Act 2003
prepared                                                 passed
Groundwater legislation enacted       Yes                Groundwater (Development & Management) Act 2003
                                                         passed
Surface water legislation enacted     Yes                Not yet (but FMIS Act passed)
Intersectoral water allotted on basis Yes                Yes, initiated in Palar and Tambraparani river basins
of basin plan
Increased irrigated area due to SIFT 34,000 ha           60,259 ha
Improved irrigation due to SIFT       107,000 ha         95,391 ha
Increased irrigation due to Scheme    31,000 ha          12,878 ha
completions
Increased agricultural growth         Yes                Appreciable growth achieved
Increased cropping intensity         yes                 SCC intensity increased from 118% to 190%
Increased agricultural yields and    Paddy: 14-43%,      Paddy by from 14 to 44%, Groundnuts 30%,
productivity                         Groundnuts 15%      Sugarcane 29% See Annex 3
                                     Sugarcane 31%
Increased cost recovery               Not quantified     Zero, due to drought in recent years
Sustained level of O&M funding        Sustained          Increased
Proportion of establishment:works     Stable             Recent slight decline
stable
WUA's effectively maintaining         Some               WUAs in Madurai and Pollachi are effective but not
distributary system                                      yet in Chennai region. Nearly all need continued



                                                   - 16 -

                                                   support from WRO
Annual budget consistent with         Yes          Yes
established priorities
Tail-enders getting planned supply    Yes          In some areas
Decrease in water logging and         Yes          Some waterlogging reduced due to reduced leakage
salinity                                           from newly lined canals & construction of check dams.
                                                   8 blocks have become saline since 1997
Farmers maintaining registers         Yes          ICR mission observed that many WUAs were doing
                                                   this
Increased collection of water related yes          Not done due to drought
charges
Compensation payment timely           Yes          Yes for 82% of cases but 1009 await court decisions
Entitled farmers economically         Yes          Yes, but not all restored to previous incomes
rehabilitated
Engineer-in-Chief in position         Yes          Yes
Chief Engineers restructured along    4            4
Basin Boundaries.
Establish basin environmental cells 4              3 GOTN has indicated these would be sustained
Establish functional environmental    2            In IWS and CE (PF).. GOTN has indicated these
units in WRO                                       would
                                                   be sustained
Establish support unit for            1            1 but completion of computerisation is pending
Programme & Budget
Establish support unit for M&E        1            Unit for monitoring only
Establish support unit for            1            Yes
Strengthening Admin
Establish Directorate to regulate     1            CE GW & Surface Water and WR Data Centre
GW & surface water                                 created but GW Authority not yet established. Being
                                                   strengthened by bank-financed Hydrology and Second
                                                   Hydrology Projects.
Establish Research Advisory           Yes          Yes
Committee
Establish Water Resources Research Yes             Yes
Fund
Issue standards for: Planning         Yes          Yes CE (PF) has issued guidelines for project planning

                      Design          Yes          CE Design, Construction has prepared design manual
                      Operation       Yes          Consultants prepared O&M manual; circulated to
                                                   Basin Managers. CE (O&M) is also guiding WUAs
                      Maintenance     Yes          Consultants maintenance manual dated January 2002
                      Quality         Yes          Yes
control
Upgrade IMTI                          Yes          Library, computers & training materials provided.
                                                   Trainers trained. Proposal to outsource the director by
                                                   the GOTN
Implement a program for reducing     Yes           No



                                             - 17 -

subsidies to TNEB
Cause TNEB to improve cost           Yes              No
recovery & maintain sound financial
status



Output Indicators:
            Indicator/Matrix            Projected in SARActual/Latest Estimate
SIFT
2.10 Stage I rehabilitation &           508,108 ha       435,529 ha including area irrigated only every
modernization                                            other year
Stage II rehabilitation & modernization 7 schemes        7 Schemes
                                        222,072 ha       202,650 ha, including Periyar Vaigai
Stage I farmer organisations and        389,454 ha       431,174 ha (estimated)
turnover
Stage II farmer organisations and       152,949 ha       200,624 ha (estimated)
turnover
Scheme Completions
Schemes completed                       9                9
Area stabilized                         10,451 ha       10,048 ha
Improved irrigation                     2,737 ha        5,187 ha
New irrigation                         873 ha           781 ha
Total                                   14,061 ha        16,016 ha


2.19 Prepare framework water            By 31 Dec. 1995  Prepared in 1999. Discussed in National workshop
resources plan                                           in 2000. Cauvery excluded.
Detailed river basin plans              17               5 completed to date. Working on 11
State Water Resources Plan              By 31 March 1998 Plan prepared
2.21 Establish Groundwater regulation Yes                GW monitoring unit established. GW Authority
unit                                                     not yet established.
Establish Code of Practice for          Yes              Yes
construction environmental safeguards
Restore catchments with depleted cover Yes               1 Sub-basin of Cauvery only
Special studies                                         GW flow simulation model for Varahanadhi
                                                        Basin.
                                                        Cropping pattern change in Chittar
                                                        sub-basin
2.25 Decentralize to Basin Managers     4 basins         4 Basin Managers operating
Establish CE Plan formulation           Yes              Yes
Establish CE design, Construction &     Yes              Yes
Research
Establish CE O&M and WR Data            Yes              Yes
Centre
Water Planning to be in IWS             Yes              Yes
Create Groundwater regulatory           Yes              GW monitoring unit established



                                                - 18 -

directorate
Create special office for LAER             Yes                 Yes
2.27 Acquire farmed land                   570 ha              759 ha in SC + 81 ha in SIFT = 840 ha
Number of PAPs                             1460                4283 in SC + 1343 in SIFT = 5626
Number of dwellings affected               12                  12
2.36 Establish permanent WSCC              Yes                 Established but not permanent
Annual reports by WSCC                     Annually            Only one report produced
4.04 FO Teams deployed                     15                  17 groups of NGOs were appointed. 152 WRO
                                                               FOT team leaders trained
Institutional Advisers                     6
Senior Institutional advisor               1                   1
Number of WUAs formed                                          1566
Number of WUAs with elected officers                           1552
Number of territorial Committees                               7874
formed
Number of TCs with elected officers                            7704
4.09 Baseline survey completed             By 31 Dec 1995      Baseline survey Aug.2000. Post project evaluation
                                                               Dec 2003
4.10 ARAPB                                 By 31 Dec each      1 annual report only produced (for MTR)
                                           year
5.02 SIFT
Benefitted farm families                   700,000             636,500
Benefitted people                          3,900,000           3,200,000
Conversion from partial to full irrigation 107,000 ha         217,834 ha
New irrigation                             34,000 haa         73,144 ha
Increased value of crop output             Rs 1,040 milliona   Rs 1,549 million
Incremental grain production               170,000 t/yra       289,500 t/year of paddy (194,000 t of rice)
Incremental net income from unreliable Rs 2,100/ha/yr          Rs. 1,340/ha/year
irrigated
Incremental net income from unirrigated Rs 9,800/ha/yr         Rs. 9,900/ha/year
land
5.03 Scheme Completions
Incremental paddy production               47,000 t/year.     52,600 t/year
Incremental sugarcane production           88,832 t/year      91,328 t/year
Incremental groundnut production           5,234 t/year       6,670 t/year
Incremental area                           14,061 hab         16,016 ha
Incremental agricultural income            Rs 380 million/year Rs 1692 million/year
Beneficiaries                              26,000 families     17,300 families, 87,000 people
Incremental income                         Rs 12,600/ha/yr     Rs. 23,734/ha/year


Note: a. These are figures projected in para 5.02 of SAR. Para 29 of Annex 14 of SAR indicates that these
figures apply to only 530,000 ha of the 660,000 ha SIFT area.
        b. Para 5.03 of the SAR states 31,000 ha but para 2.16 shows this to be incorrect.




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                           Estimate     Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
System Improvement and Farmer Turnover                     143.10         141.60               99
Scheme Completion Works                                     76.80          67.60               88
Water Planning, environmental Management & Research         21.00            8.90              42
Institutional Strengthening                                 17.70          21.80              123
Land Acquisition & Economic Rehabilitaion                    3.90            5.30             137

Total Baseline Cost                                        262.50         245.20
 Physical Contingencies                                     24.00
 Price Contingencies                                        29.10
                          Total Project Costs              315.60         245.20
                   Total Financing Required                315.60         245.20


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            0.00          259.80         9.00         0.00         268.80
                                   (0.00)         (233.80)      (8.10)        (0.00)      (241.90)
2. Goods                           18.90            1.10         2.70         0.00         22.70
                                  (15.10)          (0.90)       (2.20)        (0.00)      (18.20)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00        21.80         0.40         22.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (21.80)        (0.00)      (21.80)
4. Land                             0.00            0.00         0.00         0.70          0.70
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00         1.20         0.00          1.20
Costs                              (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)        (0.00)       (1.00)
   Total                           18.90          260.90        34.70         1.10         315.60
                                  (15.10)         (234.70)     (33.10)        (0.00)      (282.90)




                                                - 20 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                            Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.       Total Cost
                                                                                  Other
   1. Works                                  0.00              213.00              4.39             0.00           217.39
                                            (0.00)             (191.83)           (3.73)           (0.00)          (195.56)
   2. Goods                                  3.18                4.55              1.97             0.00             9.70
                                            (2.53)              (3.66)            (1.62)           (0.00)           (7.81)
   3. Services                               6.59                9.69              0.00             0.00            16.28
                                            (6.59)              (9.56)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (16.15)
   4. Land                                   0.00                0.00              0.00             1.00             1.00
                                            (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Incremental Operating                  0.00                0.00              0.82             0.00             0.82
   Costs                                    (0.00)              (0.00)            (0.29)           (0.00)           (0.29)
        Total                                9.77              227.24              7.18             1.00           245.19
                                            (9.12)             (205.05)           (5.64)           (0.00)          (219.81)
   * ICR mission estimates
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Other Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
       contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
       related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 Bank        Govt.         CoF.         Bank        Govt.       CoF.       Bank    Govt.    CoF.
SIFT                           128.80        14.30                    126.00        15.60                  97.8    109.1
Scheme Completion               69.10        7.70                      60.20         7.40                  87.1     96.1
Water Planning                  21.00                                   8.10         0.70                  38.6
Environmental
Management & Research
Instit strengthening            17.70                                  20.30         1.60                 114.7
LAER                             1.00        2.90                       5.20         0.20                 520.0     6.9
Total Baseline Cost            237.60        24.90                    219.80        25.40                  92.5    102.0
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs            282.90        32.70                    219.80        25.40                  77.7     77.7
WRO recurrent Costs
Total Program Costs
Total Financing
Required




                                                             - 21 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits and Rate of Return Estimated in SAR

1.       Project economic analysis in SAR focused on quantifying benefits from irrigation investments
following standard methodology. Quantification of benefits was limited to irrigation benefits arising from
irrigated area expansion and stabilization in the scheme commands. Incremental agricultural production
benefits are derived from increased irrigated command areas, stabilized irrigated command areas, higher
cropping intensity, shifts in cropping pattern, and enhanced crop productivity following improved
agricultural support services in the rehabilitated/modernized/ completed irrigation schemes in the project
area.

2.       Economic analysis was done at scheme level using the crop budgets formulated for field crops and
horticulture crops for Scheme Completion (SCC) and System Improvement and Farmer Turnover (SIFT)
components. The analysis was carried out separately (i) for nine schemes under SCC; (ii) for SCC
component as a whole including land acquisition and economic rehabilitation (LAER); (iii) for SIFT as a
whole; (iv) for SCC and SIFT combined and (v) for over all project including all other costs also.
Import/export parity prices are estimated for the internationally traded farm commodities and inputs. The
project analysis was done for 30-year period at March 1994 prices using a SCF of 0.9 for farm inputs and
commodities that are not traded internationally and 12% opportunity cost of capital.

3.       In SAR, economic analysis for SCC rested on following assumptions; 11 to 40% increase in crop
yields and 54% increase in cropping intensity and potential agriculture benefits to be realized over a period
of one to three years for different schemes. For SIFT economic analysis, the assumptions are; rainfed crops
limited to only 50% of the non-irrigated land, 10% increase in yields and inputs with fully irrigated lands as
compared to partially irrigated lands, stabilized area limited to 30% of the presently irrigated CCA and
potential agriculture benefits to be realized over a period of five years.

4.       The estimated ERR was as follows: overall project, 13.3 %; SCC including LAER, 14.5%; SIFT,
19.2%; SCC and SIFT combined 17.5%. Component returns are high relative to overall project ERR since
the later includes all other costs like environmental action plan (EAP), institutional strengthening and water
planning not directly attributable to any specific component. As per SAR, implementation of WRCP is
expected to additionally produce 203418 t of paddy, 88833 t of sugarcane, 19489 t of groundnut, 1807 t of
pulses, 682 t of banana and 239 t of cotton per annum after full development benefiting 686000 farm
families from the project area as a whole.

ICR Estimation Methodology

5.       Estimation of costs and benefits for the ICR followed similar approach adopted in the SAR to the
extent feasible. The project benefits are assessed for two major components namely SCC and SIFT
accounting for 76% and for one add-on component namely Rainfed tanks accounting for 7% of the project
cost at 2004 prices. For ICR estimations, nine schemes under SCC are analyzed separately before
integrating them for evaluating SCC as a whole. SIFT component is analyzed separately before combining
with SCC and rainfed tanks for overall project analysis. The analysis was done at 2004 prices. The detailed
tables are provided in soft copies as Annexures separately. For economic analysis, crop budgets are
formulated using the data from multiple sources that include the SAR, WRO funded research studies, ICR
mission's field visit and published data from the Governments of Tamil Nadu and India. Besides, the cost
of cultivation of principal crops scheme run by GOI in Tamil Nadu covering the project areas for SCC and
SIFT was also utilized for supplementing the crop budgets with and without project. For ICR estimations,



                                                     - 22 -

available impact study reports from WRO, comparison with baseline data collected during the early stages
of project implementation, supplemented by secondary data sources, ICR Mission's field visits, Bank's
supervision reports and interactions with the project implementing agencies provided the necessary data
base for quantifying the physical benefits and assessing the project costs.


       T-1: Project-related impacts for SCC

 Crop         Type      Productivity  Net income
                           (t/ha)       (Rs/ha)
                        WOP WP      WOP    WP
 Paddy        Irrigated 4.6   5.7   13394  19053
 Paddy        Rainfed 2.5           5511
 Groundnut Irrigated 1.8      2.1   12197  15511
 Groundnut Rainfed 1.5              9321
 Pulses       Rainfed 0.5     0.7   5435   8427
 Chillies     Irrigated 1.2   1.4   20809  24821
 Cotton       Irrigated 1.5   2.0   14499  20433
 Banana       Irrigated 2000 2500 54153    78770
 (bunches)
 Sesame       Rainfed 0.9           13897
 Sorghum      Rainfed 1.5           3358
 Tomato       Irrigated 25.0 35.0 47087    69335
 Sugarcane    Irrigated 85.0 110.0 47424   62853




Scheme Completion Component:

6.      The targeted increase in irrigated area in SAR, following the implementation of SCC, is 14066 ha.
Incremental benefits arise from increase in irrigated command area, crop yields, cropping intensity and crop
diversification. As per ICR estimations: (i) irrigated command area increased by 15246 ha; (ii) cropping
intensity increased to 191%; (iii) crop yields increased by 17% to 40% for different field/horticulture crops
and (iv) net incomes increased by 19 to 55% for different field/horticulture crops (T-1). With the average
farm holding size of 0.88 ha for the WRCP area, 17325 farm families are benefited under SCC.

7.      The analysis in SAR used scheme models for various schemes to quantify the impact independently
for nine schemes. However, no system was set up for collection of disaggregated data at that level during
the project implementation period. Hence, project related impacts like cropping intensity, crop yield and net
income are validated to the extent possible with the help of ICR mission's field visits as well as from the
available field data generated by the WRCP sponsored impact studies and other published sources.

8.      For instance, as per SAR, the cropping intensity is projected at 228% for Adavinainarkoil as
against the ICR mission's estimate of 232%. Available database for Adavinainarkoil scheme is used as a
sample to assess this achievement. Adavinainarkoil scheme command area is distributed in two agro-zones
(Zone.I and Zone.II) of Chittar Sub-Basin. The Centre for Water Resources, Anna University collected
farm level data from a sample of 115 farms (78% small farms with less than 2 ha and 22% other farms
with above 2 ha) spread over two zones (64 sample farms from Agro Zone.1 and 51 sample farms from
Agro-Zone.2). Both these zones are characterized by no soil related constraints; assured surface water for
potentially growing crops in two seasons; and good quality ground water with scope for development.



                                                    - 23 -

Hence, the average cropping intensity recorded in the sample farms is reported to be over 210% across
zones with the maximum being above 230% in the canal irrigated farms of both the zones. It may also be
noted that in ICR analysis, the impact of increased cropping intensity along with the projected yield
improvement takes place gradually in phases over three years to reach the level of 232% and stabilize
thereafter. Similarly yield and income from major crops like paddy, sugarcane, groundnut and banana for
WP situation are validated from the available impact studies.(Change of Cropping Pattern: Study of Change
of Cropping Pattern in Drought Prone Chittar Sub-Basin of Tamaraparani River Basin of Tamilnadu by Centre
for Water Resources, Anna University, Chennai, Sep.2002; Impact Evaluation of Integrated Agriculture
Intensification Programme by Tamilnadu Agricultural University, Aug.2003; and TNWRCP Post Project
Evaluation Study of Irrigation Commands, Centre for Water Resources, Anna University, Chennai, Dec. 2003).
Similar approach was adopted for SIFT schemes also.

9.       Returns for the investment in SCC are estimated using nine scheme models namely;
Adavinainarkoil, Gridhammal II, Kodumudiyar, Mordhana, Nambiyar, Poigaiyar, Rajathopekanar,
Sothuparai and Vadakku Pachiyar. The ICR-estimated changes in crop area, crop yield and net income
between with and without project situations for each scheme are used to assess the incremental benefits due
to the project by schemes and for the SCC component as a whole including LAER.

System Improvement and Farmer Turnover:

10.      The targeted area under SIFT component is to stabilize and provide full irrigation to 107,000 ha of
land, which is receiving only partial irrigation and to bridge the gap of 34000 ha land by providing
irrigation, which is not getting water. Incremental benefits arise from increase in irrigated area (gap and
stabilized areas), cropping intensity, crop productivity and crop diversification. Following SAR, 50% of the
non-irrigated area is considered to be under rainfed cropping. As per TNWRO estimations: (i) 95391 ha of
land is stabilized and 60259 ha of land is the gap bridged by providing irrigation; (ii) crop yields increased
by 9% to 28% for different field/horticulture crops and (iii) net incomes increased by 7% to 35% for
different field/horticulture crops (T-2). For the entire SIFT area of 560119 ha covered under partially and
fully irrigated condition after the project, 636499 farm families are benefited based on an average farm
holding size of 0.88 ha in the WRCP area. In SAR also, whole SIFT area is considered while projecting the
number of beneficiaries.

         T-2: Project-related impacts for SIFT

Crop          Type       Productivity     Net income
                             (t/ha)         (Rs/ha)
                           WOP     WP     WOP      WP

Paddy         Irrigated      4.6   5.0   16487    17693
Groundnut     Irrigated      1.4   1.6    9242    10786
Sugarcane     Irrigated     90.0 115.0   46706    63051
Banana
(bunches)     Irrigated     1816 2281    61187    81484
Groundnut     Rainfed        0.3          1542
Pulses        Rainfed        0.2          1477



11.      Returns for the investment in SIFT are estimated using the scheme model for eight Stage-I schemes
and six Stage-II schemes which was scaled up for the SIFT component based on the actual irrigated area
stabilized and gap covered. The ICR-estimated changes in crop area, crop yield and net income between



                                                     - 24 -

with and without project situations are used to assess the incremental benefits due to the project for the
SIFT component as a whole.

Rainfed Tanks:

12.      This is one of the add-on component (not included in SAR) taken-up for rehabilitating 620 rainfed
tanks in Palar, Vaigai and Tamaraparani basins. Total area to be benefited under this component include
stabilization of 62286 ha and bridging the gap in 12792 ha of the registered ayacut. Incremental benefits
are expected to flow from expanded/stabilized irrigated area, enhanced crop yields and crop diversification.
As per TNWRO estimations; 620 tanks are rehabilitated, 62286 ha of ayacut is stabilized (100%
achievement) and 12539 ha of ayacut gap is bridged (98% achievement) benefiting 85028 farm families.
Paddy is the dominant crop with only 5% area getting diversified for other crops like groundnut. Using the
crop budgets of SIFT schemes, incremental benefits from stabilized area and gap area bridged with the
project was estimated. Only 75% of the incremental benefits are used as annual benefits to capture the
probability of rainfall deficit occurring once in four years. Even here, as in the case of SCC and SIFT
schemes, only projected benefits are used due to successive droughts in the project areas spreading over 2
to 3 years.

Economic Returns:

13.      The re-estimated ERR in SAR for the whole project was 13.3 % with a NPV of Rs 917 million at
12% discount rate at 2004 prices (T-3). For overall project analysis, all project costs are included along
with the incremental benefits arising from SCC, SIFT and rainfed tank components. At ICR, the ERR has
come down to 11.9%. Despite the realization of targeted increase in irrigated area, cropping intensity and
crop yields in the project scheme irrigated commands, the ICR estimated incremental benefits due to the
project are lower than the SAR estimates mainly due to; staggered investments extending the project ending
year by 2 to 7 years affecting all the scheme completion projects, enhanced investment costs and delayed
realization of benefits. (In many of the SCC and SIFT schemes, only projected benefits are used due to successive
droughts in the project areas spreading over 2 to 3 years)

         T-2: Project-related impacts for SIFT

Crop         Type         Productivity    Net income
                             (t/ha)         (Rs/ha)
                           WOP     WP     WOP        WP

Paddy        Irrigated        4.6   5.0   16487    17693
Groundnut    Irrigated        1.4   1.6    9242    10786
Sugarcane    Irrigated       90.0 115.0   46706    63051
Banana
(bunches)    Irrigated      1816 2281     61187    81484
Groundnut    Rainfed          0.3          1542
Pulses       Rainfed          0.2          1477



14.      Even small schemes like Gridhammal II with a SAR budget provision of Rs 35 million, planned to
be completed within one year from the date of start, took six years to complete. Investment cost for
Mordhana scheme nearly doubled from Rs 467 million (SAR estimated) to Rs 897 million at the time of
completion due to revised norms and design during the project implementation. Consequently, realization of
potential incremental benefits is delayed by two to eight years in different scheme completion projects.



                                                      - 25 -

Finally, the parity price for dominant crop namely paddy used in SAR is based on the world price forecast
for 2000 which was 24% higher than the projected world price used in ICR analysis.

15.      Following SAR approach, economic analysis is done for 9 scheme completions separately before
aggregating for SCC as a whole (T-4). The ERRs of the 9 schemes varied from 7% to 35%. Five schemes
namely Mordhana, Poigayar, Sothuparai, Nambiyar, and Adavinainarkoil registered less than 12% ERR.
ICR estimated costs and benefits are lower for all nine schemes except Rajathopekanar as compared to that
of SAR for the reasons outlined in para.13. Combined ERR for all the nine schemes has come down to
11% as compared to the SAR estimated ERR of 15%.

16.      Following SAR approach, economic analysis is done for project components namely SCC
including LAER, SIFT and SCC & SIFT combined (T-5). The ERR for SCC including LAER cost has
come down to 10.4 % since the benefit stream generated by LAER is not included in the absence of
adequate data. As in the case of SCC, SIFT also recorded less ERR (14.7%) as compared to SAR
estimated ERR of 19.2 % for SIFT. SCC and SIFT together gave 13.4% ERR, which is also lower than the
SAR estimated ERR of 17.5%.

                               T-4 ERR for nine schemes, SCC (Rs Million)

            Schemes               Present Value of        ERR           Present Value of       ERR
                               Benefits   Costs   NPV      (%)     Benefits  Costs    NPV      (%)
                                         SAR, 2004 prices                   ICR, 2004 prices
  Adavinainar koil                   597     612     -15     12%        286      302      -17    11%
  Gridhammal II                      239      50     188     62%          76      17       59    35%
  Kodumudiyar                        599     263     336     24%        222      130       91    21%
  Mordhana                           545     470      75     14%        302      455     -153      7%
  Nambiyar                           161     153       7     13%          89      97       -8    11%
  Poigayar                           126     119       7     13%          53      72      -19      8%
  Rajathopekanar                      37      36       1     13%          15      13        1    13%
  Sothuparai                         310     334     -24     11%        161      187      -26    10%
  Vadaku Pachyar                     349     312      37     13%        204      208       -3    12%

                 SCC Schemes        2962    2349     613     15%       1407     1482      -75    11%



Reasons for lower economic returns

17.      First the positive impacts in case of Scheme Completions (SCC) following the implementation of
the project; (i) irrigated area expanded by 15246 ha, 8% more than the SAR estimated area, (ii) ICR
estimated crop yields are 5 to 17% higher in case of paddy, groundnut, pulses, banana, tomato and
sugarcane than the SAR estimated yield levels. Under WOP situation, crop yields in case of sorghum and
tomato came down by 17 to 21% as compared to the projected yields used in SAR. Despite all these, the
gains are more than offset by; (i) delayed scheme completions by two to seven years, (ii) delayed realization
of potential benefits by two to eight years, (iii) cropping intensity (weighted by scheme command area)
increased to 191%, which is 3% less than SAR projected cropping intensity of 196% and (iii) increase in
crop yields under WOP situation for paddy, banana and sugarcane by 1 to 6%, (iv) limited crop
diversification with only 5% of the area under paddy getting shifted to sugarcane and groundnut, and
finally (iv) fall in the parity prices for paddy, which has 65% share in the gross irrigated area in SCC
schemes. Consequently, the ICR estimate for return on SCC investment (including LAER) turns out to be



                                                    - 26 -

lower than in the SAR (10.4% against 14.5%).

18.      In SIFT schemes, the project impacts are; (i) gap area brought under irrigation assessed at 60259
ha, 77% more than the SAR estimated level, (ii) ICR estimated groundnut yield with full irrigation 14%
higher than the SAR projected yield and (iii) incremental groundnut yield in stabilized area assessed at 0.2
t/ha, 50% higher than the SAR estimated level. However, the above gains are more than offset by; (i)
extended period of investment by three years, (ii) delayed realization of potential benefits by three years,
(iii) stabilized area estimated at 95391 ha, 11% less than the SAR estimated level, (iv) ICR estimated
incremental paddy yield in stabilized area at 0.4 t/ha, 20% less than the SAR projected yield, and finally
(iv) fall in the parity prices for paddy, which has 70% share in the command area of SIFT schemes.
Consequently, the ICR estimate for return on SIFT investment turns out to be lower than in the SAR
(14.7% against 19.2%).

19.      The ICR estimate of overall returns on project investment is lower than that of the SAR: 11.9%
instead of 13.3%. The most important reason for this is the difference between the forecast and actual
return on SCC, including LAER (down from 14.5% to 10.4%) and SIFT (down from 19.2% to 14.7%).
Another reason is that, the over all project cost also included other add-on components like dam safety,
institutional strengthening, software components, well census and Hanumannadhi sub-basin activities
accounting for 11% of the project costs at 2004 prices whose benefits will have system wide impacts but
not quantified in ICR analysis. Rainfed tank component with an ERR of 14.6% did improve the overall
return but its low weight (only 7% of the project cost going for rainfed tanks) limited its overall impact.

Incremental Production and Benefited Families

20.    Estimated incremental production in ICR covers Rainfed tanks component also along with SCC and
SIFT, while SAR estimate is only for SCC and SIFT. Large increase is achieved in paddy production
(T-6), 85% more than estimated level in SAR. Production level of groundnut, banana and sugarcane is also
higher by 60%, 26% and 20% respectively as compared to SAR. The reasons for significant increase in
paddy and groundnut production as compared to SAR are; inclusion of Rainfed tanks in ICR analysis, 58%
increase in irrigated/ stabilized area over and above the SAR targeted level, paddy and groundnut
occupying 74% and 16% of the total incremental irrigated area realized under SCC, SIFT and rainfed tank
components. For similar reasons stated above, number of beneficiaries due to the project is estimated at
0.74 million, 8% more than the SAR estimate.


     T-6 Incremental Production (t/annum)

                      Project       Change,
    Crops        SAR       ICR        %

    Paddy        203418     376881      85%
    Pulses       1807         1866       3%
    Banana       682           862      26%
    Groundnut    19489       31263      60%
    Sugarcane    88833      106785      20%




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/23/1993                4    OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);
                                             INSTITUTIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              November 1993             4    WATER RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1)
              10/25/1993              14     OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                             ENGINEER (3);
                                             INSTITUTIONS SPECIALIST
                                             (2); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PARTICIPATORS
                                             IRRIGATION MANAGEMENT
                                             (3); YOUNG PROFESSIONAL
                                             (1); OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); CHIEF AGRICULTURE
                                             OPERATIONS DIVISION (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              03/04/1994              10     OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                             (1); SOCIAL
                                             DEVELOPMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (2);
                                             NSTITUTIONS
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             WATER RESOURCES
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ASSISTANT
                                             (1); CONSULTANTS (2)


 Supervision

              02/05/1996                7    IRRIGATION ENGINEER (2);         S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (2); R&R
                                             SPECIALIST (2); WATER
                                             RESOURCES SPECIALIST (1)
              06/15/1996                7    WATER RES.SPL.(ASTEN) (1);       S               S
                                             ANTHROP. (FARMER ORG)
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (1);




                                              - 28 -

                 ENV.SPL. (ENVLW) (1);
                 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                 WATER RES.SPL. (1); R&R
                 SPECIALISTS (1)
10/26/1996    6  PROCUREMENT ENGINEER          S    S
                 (1); ENGINEER (CONS.) (1);
                 WATER RES. SPECIALIST (1);
                 R&R SPECIALIST (1);
                 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                 R&R SPECIALIST (CONS.) (1)
02/15/1997    7  ECONOMIST (1);                S    S
                 PROCUREMENT ENGINEER
                 (1); ENGINEER (CONS.) (1);
                 WATER RES. SPECIALIST (1);
                 IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);
                 R&R SPECIALIST (CONS.) (1);
                 R&R SPECIALIST (1)
06/30/1997    1  SR. WATER RESOURCES           S    S
                 ENGINEER (1)
11/29/1997    6  ENGINEER (1); R&R             S    S
                 SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATION
                 ENGINEER (1); WATER RES.
                 ENGINEER (1);
                 AGRICULTURE SPECIALIST
                 (1); ENVIORNMENTAL
                 SPECIALI (1)
06/26/1998    6  IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1);      S    S
                 WATER RES. ENGINEER (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT ENGINEER
                 (1); CONSTRUCTION
                 ENGINEER (1); R&R
                 SPECIALIST (1);
                 ENVIRONMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1)
06/26/1999    10 WATER RES. ENGINEER (2);      S    S
                 FINANCIAL MGM. SPL. (1);
                 ECONOMIST (1); AGRIC.
                 EXPERT (1); ENVIRONMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                 MGMT. SPL. (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); CON. ENGINEER (1);
                 FARER TURNOVER SPL. (1)
06/26/1999    7  CONSTRUCTIONSPECIALIST        S    S
                 (1); IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                 (2); FMS: CONSULTANT (1);
                 PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                 (1); ENVIRONMENT
                 SPECIALIST (1); R&R
                 SPECIALIST (1)
06/26/1999    11 TASK LEADER (1); CO-TASK      S    S
                 LEADER (1); FARMER
                 TURNOVER SPL. (1);



                 - 29 -

                ENVIRONMENT SPL. (1); R&R
                SPL. (1); AGRICULTURIST (1);
                CONSTRUCTION SPL. (1);
                FINANCIAL MANAG. SPL. (1);
                REGIONAL WATER ADVISOR
                (1); TEAM LEADER (1);
                CO-TEAM LEADER (1)
05/12/2000    6 WATER ROSOURCES                S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURE
                SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
11/24/2000    6 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                FOT SPECIALIST (1); WATER
                RESOURCES SPL. (1); R&R
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENT SPL. (1); FIN.
                MANAGEMENT SPL. (1)
06/14/2001    2 WATER RESOURCES ENGG.          S    S
                (1); FARMER TURNOVER
                SPECIALIST (1)
08/16/2001    6 WATER ROSOURCES                S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURE
                SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
05/28/2002    6 WATER RESOURCES                S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURE
                SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
12/05/2002    6 WATER RESOURCES                S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURE
                SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
12/16/2002    4 WATER RESOURCES                S    S



                - 30 -

                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
01/24/2003    1 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST
05/10/2003    2 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST(1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST(1)
05/15/2003    2 SECTOR MANAGER (1);          S    S
                WATER RESOURCES
                SPECIALIST(1)
06/06/2003    4 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); SR. WATER ADVISER (1)
08/21/2003    6 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                (1); AGRICULTURE
                SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                (1); CONSTRUCTION
                SPECIALIST (1)
09/19/2003    1 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                SPECIALIST (1)
11/27/2003    2 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1);
12/19/2003    2 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                SPECIALIST (2)
01/23/2004    5 SECTOR DIRECTOR (1);         S    S
                SECTOR MANAGER (1); ARD
                DIRECTOR (1); ARD
                AGRICULTURE ADVISOR (1);
                WATER RESOURCES
                SPECIALIST (1);
                ENVIRONMENTAL
                SPECIALIST (1)
09/13/2004    1 ENVIRONMENTAL                S    S
                SPECIALIST
10/05/2004    2 WATER RESOURCES              S    S
                SPECIALIST (1);
                AGRICULTURAL SPECIALIST
                (1)
10/11/2004    6 WATER RESOURCES              S    S



                - 31 -

                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                                           SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); AGRICULTURE
                                           SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                           (1); CONSTRUCTION
                                           SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               12/21/2004             6     WATER RESOURCES                   S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ENVIRONMENTAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                            DEVELOPMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            AGRICULTURE
                                            SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1);
                                            CONSTRUCTION
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         102.60                         194.20
  Appraisal/Negotiation              368.90                         245.00
  Supervision                        365.01                         552.48
  ICR                                  20.87                         54.34
  Total                              857.38                        1046.02




                                            - 32 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Aide Memoire of the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project (Cr. 2745-IN)
     Implementation Completion Report Mission
 2. Economic Analysis Files (Excel Files).
 3. GOTN, PWD, WRO Status report on Tamil Nadu Water Resources Consolidation Project presented
     to World bank ICR Mission 1 December 2004 and supporting documents.
 4. 80 reports prepared by WRO during the project.
 5. 38 reports on WRRF studies.




                                               - 35 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report (Unedited)

A.       INTRODUCTION

1.       The irrigation system of the State has been divided into 34 River Basins and grouped into 17 river
basins (some of these are groups of several minor basins), all flowing eastwards from the Western Ghats
and Deccan Plateau. Tamil Nadu either contains a basin in full or is a downstream riparian to another
State.

2.       Agriculture contributes 22% of the State Domestic Product. Cultivated area is 5.9 million ha (7.6
m. ha. including multiple cropping) or 45% of the States' area, the rest being primarily occupied by forest,
hill and waste land and urban development. The main crops are paddy (2.4m. ha), millets and sorghum
(1.6m ha) and pulses (0.6m. ha) The remaining 1.9m. ha are mainly in fruits and vegetables, spice,
sugarcane and cotton. Annual production of food grains has increased from 5.4 million tonnes in the 1960s
to 7.5 million tonnes in 1987/88. Despite this, production since 1970 expanded more slowly than
population. Farm sizes tend to be uniformly very small. The average holding size is 1 ha, with 71% of
holding less than 1 ha and 88% less than 2 ha.

3.       The States' irrigation system is the product of old investment in the case of many tanks dating back
to several centuries or more. New investment opportunities are limited by water availability, but large
opportunities are available for improving the efficiency of existing irrigation system. Neglected and under
funded maintenance has resulted in deterioration of most systems, unreliable water to head  end farmers,
and no water to tail enders. There are also opportunities to complete investment on a number of commands
in order to improve the water service and provide farm extension in command area.

4.       Environmental concerns in the State of Tamil Nadu are typically the same as those found in the
Water sector of any large State or Country. Ground Water resources are over exploited and in some coastal
belts this has resulted in saline intrusion. Effluents from industries cause pollution on a number of rivers
affecting reverine flora and faunae and the quality of drinking water. Though the State posses adequate
environmental management capabilities with the aid of specialised agencies such as Pollution Control
Board, Public Works Department, Public Health Department, Forest Department, Fisheries Department
etc., the inter- departmental co-ordination is bare minimum.

5.       The need to better manage the scarce and undependable water resources of the State and to have
effective coordination between various water user organizations of the State has lead to conceiving the
concept of Tamilnadu Water Resources Consolidation Project (TNWRCP). TNWRCP was conceptualized
after studies on Institutional, Operation & Maintenance (O & M), Water Resources, and Sectoral 
Environment Assessment. The Project has envisioned reforms in water sector bringing in new concept in
management in this critical sector emphasizing the participatory approach with the involvement of
stakeholders in O & M responsibilities and planning by river basins across all uses of water.

6.       The project's primary objectives were

1.       Introduce Water Resources Planning by river basins across all uses of water.
2.       Improve agricultural productivity through modernization and completion of irrigation system,
upgraded water management and farmer participation.
3.       Assure sustainability of water infrastructure and the environment.
4.       Improve Institutional and Technical Capability for managing the State Water Resources.



                                                     - 36 -

7.      Project Components, Estimated cost and Expenditure

Rs. in Million
Sl.    Component                    SAR            Revised   Retroactive Total
No.                                 Provision      Cost      Finance     Expenditure
(1)    (2)                          (3)            (4)       (5)         (6)
A.   Stage  I SIFT works
1.   Cheyyar                       66.600          61.063    -            58.336
2.   Chittar                       43.300          77.380    -            76.192
3.   Manjalar                      13.468          10.283    -            10.019
4.   Palar                         163.800         186.926   -            186.697
5.   Parambikulam Aliyar           1035.000        1525.818  -            1470.394
6.   Poiney                        41.604          65.003    -            63.994
7.   Thirukoilur                   53.000          93.800    -            90.174
8.   Tholudur                      63.218          48.087    -            47.460
9.   Vaigai Old Ayacut             368.600         586.672   -            542.265
10.  Minor Schemes
     (i)Chennai                    244.708         357.646   -            344.891
     (ii) Madurai                  83.835          125.440   -            120.194
     Sub Total                     2177.133        3138.118              3010.616
B.   Stage  II SIFT works
     Retroactive Finance                                    204.763       204.763
     for NWMP works
1.   Cumbum Valley                 58.530          60.070   -            59.775
2.   Kodayar                       292.900         373.176  -            366.170
3.   Marudhanadhi                  18.675          13.777   -            13.711
4.   Sathanur                      187.701         188.964  -            185.692
5.   Sethiathope                   95.604          136.428  -            100.350
6.   Tambaraparani                 279.391         403.911  -            363.869
7.   Periyarvaigai                 200.000         295.375   75.439       359.546
     Sub Total                     1132.801        1471.701  280.202     1653.876
     Total for SIFT works          3309.934        4609.819  280.202     4664.492

Rs. in Million
Sl.    Component                    SAR           Revised    Retroactive Total
No.                                 Provision     Cost       Finance     Expenditure
(1)    (2)                          (3)           (4)        (5)         (6)
C.   Scheme Completion
1.   Adavinainarkoil               614.947        642.876    1.380        641.308
2.   Gridammal                     34.907         25.058    -             25.058
3.   Kodumudiar                    210.442        305.000    1.370        315.921
4.   Mordhana                      467.484        823.057    125.577      897.089
5.   Nambiyar                      120.587        205.000    -            199.726
6.   Poigaiyar                     94.636         98.632     18.410       116.829



                                             - 37 -

7.    Rajathopekanar                   25.629        14.166        5.083          18.169
8.    Sothuparai                       304.160       327.200       20.000         342.520
9.    Vadakkupachayar                  306.128       453.799       -              452.788
10.   Additional Schemes               271.400                     -              -
      Total for Scheme Completion      2450.320      2894.788      171.820        3009.408
      Total for SIFT and Scheme5760.254              7504.607      452.022        7673.900
      Completion works
D.    FOT                              52.672        60.000       -              61.718
E.    Equipment for O&M                345.426       95.000       -              90.747
F.    IMTI                             45.800        150.000      -              144.960
G.    Water Planning and Research
      IWS                              234.780       170.000      -              164.539
      IHH                              172.224       65.000       -              61.074
      WRRF                             100.000       40.000       -              35.008
H.    Environmental Action Plan        113.642       100.000                     94.358
I.    LAER                             125.571       200.000      -              230.248
J.    Eco Restoration                  59.800        0.000        -              0.000


K.    Institutional Strengthening      565.645       767.853      -              776.356
L.    VHF Communication                36.000        0.180        -              0.180
M.    Additional Schemes
      Rainfed Tanks                    1062.600      780.000      -              777.672
      Dam Safety works                 357.000       190.000      -              182.700
      Institutional      Strengthening150.000        35.000       -              33.941
      (MIS)
N.    Model Rehabilitation works in                -               -             465.965
      Hanumanadhi Sub Basin
O.    Well census                                                 -              36.176
      Grand Total                      9181.414      10157.640     452.022        10829.542

8. Estimated Costs and Financing:
                                   Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign   Total
Project Investment Costs          --------- Rs. M      ----------  -------- US$ M    ----------
System Improvement &              4,001     577         4,578      125.1    18.0      143.1
Farmer Turnover
Scheme Completions                2,195     264         2,459      68.5     8.3       76.8
Water Planning, Environmental309            364         673        9.6      11.4      21.0
Management and Research
Institutional Strengthening       419       146         566        13.1     4.6       17.7
Land Acquisition & Economic       123       3           126        3.8      0.1       3.9
Rehabilitation
Total Baseline Costs              7,047     1,354       8,401      220.1    42.4      262.5
Physical Contingencies            670       99          769        20.9     3.1       24.0
Price Contingencies               1,956     308         2,263      25.9     3.2       29.1
Total Project Investment Costs 9,673        1,760       11,433     266.9    48.7      315.6
WRO Recurrent Costs               5,372     982         6,354      148.3    27.1      175.4

                                                - 38 -

Total Program Costs 1                 15,045    2,742       17,787      415.2    75.8         491.0
1 Including taxes and duties equivalent to US$ 34.4 million.

B.       PROJECT COVERAGE AND BENEFITS

9.       The project was designed to improve the irrigation distribution network and bring in wide ranging
reforms in terms of planning, management and related institutional capacity and policy changes. The
project concept also included various experiences the State gained through the implementation of National
Water Management Project (NWMP), a W.B. aided Water Resources Project implemented in early
90's.Emphasis has also been laid in the integration of infrastructures improvement with O&M funding and
Farmer's participation. The Project reflects the general belief that
(i)      efforts at cost recovery without service improvement are mostly unsuccessful.

(ii)     infrastructure improvements without attention to O&M and farmer participation are physically,
financially and institutionally unsustainable.

10.      The physical works included system improvements covering about 7.0 lakh ha, under a phased two
stage investment programme. Stage-I comprises focused low investment improvement to enable more
equitable and reliable water supply, based on a detailed command diagnostic (Crops, yields, hydrology,
current performance and problems) followed by preparation of a plan of operations and maintenance under
identification and design of infrastructure improvements to make this work. Under stage - I, priority design
changes and structural improvements have been carried out in association with farmers to ensure reliable
irrigation to the tail end section in 9 Major and medium commands, and about 25 minor schemes (5,08,000
ha).

11.      Under Stage-II a second round of investment to further improve performance and conveyance
efficiency (such as deweeding, lining, providing flow measuring devices etc.) especially at distributory
levels had been undertaken in the 7 systems where NWMP works were carried out (1,52,000 ha) confining
to the process of system improvements and rehabilitation / modernization.

12.      The participation of Water users is closely related to the physical improvement of Irrigation
Systems. The centerpiece of the participation programme is progressively increased involvement of farmers
moving from consultation to active management of O&M below the structured level.

13.      The second largest investment expenditure was scheme completion investment to improve the
reliability and availability of agricultural and domestic water supply in nine on going schemes covering
about 34,000 ha.

14.      The Institutional development component included development of State water plan, creation of
computer based Management Information System (MIS), training, development of expertise in the field of
environment, Research & Development studies, which were fairly new to Tamilnadu Government. The
policy reforms designed included the bifurcation of Public Works Department (PWD) to create a
specialized "Water Resources Organisation" (WRO) separate from buildings, revision of water rates for
full O & M cost recovery, participation of stakeholders in the irrigation management and introduction of
regulatory measures on controlling Ground Water exploitation etc.

15.      The scope of the project was limited to surface water area command with exclusion of lift



                                                    - 39 -

irrigation command and the Cauvery Delta command owing to the on going inter state dispute which has
become a source of weakness in water resources management in these areas.

16.      Though in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) mention has been made that Water Planning in the
Cauvery would be a part of the project but investment in the basin alone was not planned, in view of the
possibility of generation of conflicts of information in the proceedings of the Cauvery River Dispute
Tribunal water planning in Cauvery Basin was also not taken up.

17.      The introduction of participation of farmers in the O & M activities and the planning on River
Basin Approach are new concepts which led to initial problem in implementation due to lack of knowledge
and experience among the implementation staff in such wide  ranging reforms. Though only in a few in
selective systems they were conversant with the procurement procedures of the World Bank by way of
execution of NWMP and Dam Safety Projects, the staff in charge of implementation of TNWRCP spread
over the entire state required lot of training in procurement procedure which also contributed for delays in
procurement decisions in the initial years.

18.      The main benefits perceived from TNWRCP was that the project would consolidate the irrigation
systems, make the system responsive to the demands of the beneficiaries, improve equity and quality of
delivery, make itself sustainable and protect the environment, which was appropriate from the state's
perspective. The physical features and the support on institutional and policy reforms envisaged in the
project designs were rightly included to achieve the development objectives of the Project.

19.      Benefits in Irrigated Area: With the continuous drought in the last 3 years, the exact impact
evaluation could not be conducted. However with the Rapid impact evaluation study made by M/s. Anna
University, and M/s. TNAU, it is noticed that there is improved conveyance efficiency and tail enders are
mostly benefited. The yield from these lands also show significant increase. The retentivity period in the
tanks has also improved, thanks to the rehabilitation and eviction of encroachment in the feeder channel etc.
These benefits are also mostly due to adoption of modern techniques in the irrigation practices and
diversification of crops, despite the fact that the State faced continuous drought. The prevalence of heavy
machineries in the rehabilitation works show the Change of construction technologies for the quick and
better performance of the irrigation system. The awareness creation on the scientific methods of irrigation
and management have been successful as evidenced from the above changed environment in the sector. The
mingling of officials of various departments demonstrate that the integrated approach has been successful
and has started taking deep roots. The value addition consequent on the implementation of WRCP is
immeasurable while considering the invisible skill developments of the WRO staff and the interactive sense
developed among the staff and the stakeholders.

C. IMPLEMENTATION METHODOLOGY

20.      WRO faced a number of problems at the initial stages, the main being a lack of understanding and
awareness of the project concept amongst the implementing staff and delay in finalisation of procurement
procedures following the Bank's guidelines and the conflict stands taken in the design of flood discharges in
the scheme completion projects between the Dam Safety Panel and the Bank's Consultants etc. The project
also faced force-Majure like problems over which there was no control, such as change in Government
following the General elections and the delay in fulfilling the covenant relating to the reforms in Power
sector, creation of separate cadre for WRO and Farmers Organisation & Turn Over ( FOT) process.

21.      However after initial set backs, the progress picked up due to some concrete steps taken by the
Tamil Nadu government, with the help and guidance of the World Bank .The performance of the project


                                                     - 40 -

was reviewed at the time of Mid Term Review and revised targets were fixed keeping in view the past
results and future perspectives.

22.      The original cost of various components of the project was based on rough cost estimates and there
were wide variations in costs at the time of detailed estimations. At the time of Mid Term Review (MTR)
from 25.11.1998 to 14.12.1998, the cost aspect was also reviewed and fresh cost analysis was carried out.
The new targets and the cost thereof at the time of MTR reduced this gap substantially. The project
component changed further with the inclusion of spill over Dam Safety Works for 4 Dams, and new Dam
work for strengthening Willington Dam and rehabilitation of 620 Non-system tanks out of the variation in
exchange rates in the balance credit available. Further a new concept of involving a mix of departments
Viz. Water Resources Organisation, Agricultural Engineering, Agriculture & Tamilnadu Agriculture
University by way of new Pilot Project under `Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Programme' (IAIP) was
introduced with due involvement of the Farmers through demonstrations and Training activities, to launch
an integrated project.

D.       INSTITUTIONAL FRAME WORK AND OPERATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS

23.      A Water Resources Control and Review Council (WRCRC) was established in 1993 ie., during the
Appraisal Mission for the Project. With Hon'ble Chief Minister as the Chair person with Three key
Ministers (P.W.D, Urban Development and Rural Development) as vice Chairman the Council contains
representation of all the Departments concerned with usage and Environmental Management of water. An
Environmental sub Committee to WRCRC and an Environmental unit at IWS were also established to
focus on Environmental Management in water planning.

24.      Following a detailed Institutional study P.W.D was bifurcated into:
(i)      Water Resources Organisation (WRO) creating a specialized, a decentralized and more
functionally effective management organized along Basin lines and promoting Farmer participation in
Irrigation Management and
(ii)     Building Organisation ( B.O)

25.      To address the new challenges under WRO with innovative problem solving and technology
transfer a Water Resources Research Fund (WRRF) has been set up by WRO. This WRRF would be
administered by WRO but would be guided by six Member Research Advisory Committee (RAC).

26.      To process the working estimates and to hasten the implementation of the packages an Empowered
Committee under the Chairmanship of the Hon'ble Minister for Works was also constituted.

27.      To award the contracts a Contract Award Committee (CAC) was also constituted with Hon'ble
Minister for works as Chairman. When almost all the contract was settled only petty works remain the
CAC was re-constituted with Engineer-in-Chief, W.R.O, Chief Engineer (Buildings), Chief Engineer,
W.R.O, Chennai Region and Special Secretary, Finance Department as Members of Tender Award
Committee (TAC).

28.      As a pilot measure for Palar and Tambaraparani River Basins, Basin Management and
Development Boards, Basin Management Committees and a common Technical Secretariat with 13
experts to support the Committee were formed.

29.      To sensitize the W.R.O personnel on the different stages in the formation of Water Users'
Associations (WUA) and to develop a legal frame work such as Tamilnadu Farmers Management of


                                                    - 41 -

 Irrigation Systems (TNFMIS) Act with relevant rules for the Act and elections etc., a Senior Advisor (
 FOT) was also appointed on consultancy basis.

 30.      To handle monitoring of the project and to assist the Engineer-in-Chief in suggesting policy
 measures for smooth implementation of the project, an officer in the rank of Superintending Engineer
 designated as Joint Chief Engineer (WRCP) in the office of the Engineer-in-Chief was posted.

 31.      To introduce the new concept of Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) pilot projects
 such as Irrigated Agriculture Intensification Programme (IAIP) and model project in Hanumanadhi sub
 basin have been taken up. To stream line the activities a Multi Disciplinary Project Preparation Panel
 (MDPPP) consisting of officers from the different line Departments in the water sector and a Steering
 Committee with Development Commissioner and Finance Secretary as the Chairman with Secretaries of
 different Departments and Engineer-in-Chief, W.R.O as Members have been constituted.

 E. PROJECT ACHIEVEMENTS

 32.      Development Objective: 1.

 Introduce Water Resources Planning by River Basin, across all uses of water
 Achievement

 (1)        Out of 17 River Basins in the State, Micro level Water Planning has been completed for 5
            Basins. Keeping these as models, Water Planning in remaining Basins (except Cauvery) is under
            progress.

 List of River Basins:

     1.Chennai.                        7.Cauvery                         13.Vaippar
     2.Palar                           8.Agniar                          14.Kallar
     3.Varahanadhi                     9.PAP                             15.Tambaraparani
     4.Ponnaiyar                       10.Pambar Kottakaraiyar           16.Nambiyar
     5.Vellar                          11.Vaigai                         17.Kodayar
     6.Paravanar                       12.Gundar

 List of completed Basins:

          1.Palar    2.Vaippar      3.Kodayar     4.Vaigai     5.Tambaraparani.

(2)   State Frame work and Water Resources plan was prepared and discussed in National level seminar on
     2nd & 3rd May,2000 at Chennai and synergising the activities incorporating the suggestions are in
     progress for making it operational, with strategies to address the strategic issues for long and medium
     term action, without limiting it as engineering plan for engineers.

(3) For Palar and Tambaraparani River Basins, Basin Management and Development Boards, Basin
     Management Committees and a common Technical Secretariat with 13 experts to support the
     Committee were formed.

(4) 38 numbers of Research studies were undertaken. Under Water Resources Research Fund (WRRF),



                                                     - 42 -

    with the advice of the Research Advisory Committee (RAC) constituted on 31.12.1999.

(5) The Expert Committee on Rainwater Harvesting and Ground Water Protection (renamed as the Expert
    Committee on Development and Management of Water Resources in TamilNadu) constituted with 12
    Members has done an excellent job of crystallizing the key issues in the Water Sector, especially, the
    strong support for an integrated approach on a basin context and outlining an action plan.

(6) Environmental status reports for the following Basins have been prepared:

    Palar, Vellar, Chennai, Pennaiyar, Varahanadhi, Vaigai, Pambar, Kottakaraiyar, Gundar, Kallar,
    Vaippar, Tambaraparani, Nambiyar, Kodayar, Agniyar, PAP and Amaravathi, Noyyal and Bhavani
    sub basins of Cauvery basin.

(7) Strategic Environmental Assessment for Palar basin has been made on the following lines.

    A) Scoping B) Capacity Building C) Identification and Analysis of issues D) Forming the vision and
    Developing guiding principles.

(8) By engaging Twinning Consultancy, reports were developed on the following 9 Tasks through M/s
    TAHAL Consulting Engineers Limited, Israel.

(9)    Task  I: Irrigation Management

       Task  II: Operation and Maintenance

       Task  III: Design and Construction

       Task  IV: Construction Plan and Management

       Task  V: Environmental Management

       Task  VI: Water Planning

       Task  VII: Development of Computer Based MIS

       Task  VIII: Training

       Task  IX: Public Awareness


 (10)   Knowledge is enriched for W.R.O personnel and farmers by conducting training, workshops,
 meetings etc., through IMTI.Totally training was imparted to 39522 personnel (WRO  18211 Nos.,
 Agriculture  1725 Nos., Revenue  4997 Nos, Farmers  13931 Nos, and Others  658 Nos.)

 (11)   Model Project in Hanumanadhi Sub-basin is carried out as a pilot Integrated Water Resources
 Management (IWRM) investment involving the Line Departments.

 (12)   Knowledge on GIS / Remote Sensing and database has been developed. The Remote Sensing
 Centre functioning in the I.W.S recognized as the a State Remote Centre has prepared various thematic


                                                   - 43 -

maps derived from satellite data and aerial photographs on different scales for overlay analysis for surface
and ground water potential assessment, land use study, crop pattern study, waste land identification etc.
The Remote Sensing Centre is also assisting in preparing basin wise micro level water planning with the
application of GIS..

33.     Development Objective: 2

        Improve Agricultural productivity through modernization and completion of Irrigation
System, upgraded Water Management and Farmer Participation.

Achievement

1)      Under SIFT Programme, rehabilitation of 16 Irrigation Systems and 25 Minor schemes consisting
of 284 packages were taken up and completed.

(2)     Under scheme completion 9 ongoing projects with State Funds were included in WRCP and all 62
packages under this component were completed.

(3)     Rehabilitation of 620 Rainfed Tanks in Vaigai, Tambaraparani and Palar Basins were completed.

       Palar Basin                      462 Nos.
      Tambiraparani Basin                77 Nos.
      Vaigai Basin                       81 Nos.
                        Total            620 Nos.

 (4)    Formation of Farmers' Council 1965 (1272 under SIFT, 73 under Scheme Completion and 620
        under Rainfed tanks) have been made and subsequently grouped into 1566 in the WRCP area for
        conducting Elections and elections completed.

 (5)    To disseminate the Good rehabilitation works turned out and for adoption of modern Technology in
        Agricultural practices and Water Management a Component Irrigated Agriculture Intensification P
        rogramme (IAIP) integrating Water Resources Organisation, Agriculture Engineering Department,
        Agriculture Department and Tamilnadu Agriculture University was introduced and demonstrations/
        Training were conducted / given to farmers. The impact evaluation shows encouraging results of
        enhanced productivity, and the benefits realised by the tail enders in early supply of water etc.
 (6)    Adoption of Drip and Sprinkler irrigation prove substantial gains in water use efficiency and this is
        advocated in the model rehabilitation work in Hanumanadhi Sub Basin.
 (7)    Land valuation by negotiated settlement,        ensured quick settlement of compensation for land
        acquired. Rehabilitation Grant and Asset Maintenance Grant have been disbursed as additional
        incentives for the better livelihood of the Project Affected Persons.
 (8)    Baseline survey & impact evaluation studies were taken up in five experimental schemes and three
        control schemes by Centre for Water Resources, Anna University and the results indicate that there
        is improved conveyance efficiency and tail enders are mostly benefited.




34.     Development Objective: 3
Assure sustainability of Water infrastructure and the environment
Achievement


                                                     - 44 -

Water Infrastructure

(1)  Farmer's Council Members are given orientation training and sensitized for their effective
     participation in the maintenance and electoral systems.
     416 Training Programmes on FOT were conducted and 24042 Participants including 13931 Farmers
     were trained.

(2)  A Water Service Charges Committee with             Secretaries from Revenue, Land Administration,
     Finance, Agriculture, P.W.D., Industries, Municipal Administration and Managing Directors of
     Tamilnadu Water Supply and Drainage Board and Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and
     Sewerage Board as Members and also with a Co-opted Consultant Economist has been constituted
     and 15 sittings were held. Based on the recommendations of the Committee, to meet the maintenance
     cost, the Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess (AA&AWC) a component in Land
     Revenue was enhanced from Rs. 15 to Rs. 70 per Acre for Wet Crops and Rs. 60 per Acre for Dry
     Crops and this enhanced amount is further apportioned in the ratio of 70:30 for WRO: WUA
     ensuring participation of beneficiaries for sustainable maintenance of the infrastructure.

(3)  To update the knowledge of the WRO personnel with new technologies and innovations at global
     level, 798Nos of WRO personnel are made as life members in Indian Water Resources Society
     (IWRS), Roorkee, so that their Publications can help achieve this objective.

(4)  Environment:

(1)    As for as Environmental concern in Water Resources, Environmental cell Divisions with Chief
Engineer (Plan Formulation) as Nodal Officer is taking steps for Awareness creation through Seminars,
Workshop, exhibitions and releasing catchy and selective slogans. About Basin wise 159 programmes have
been conducted by the three Environmental Cell Divisions.

       Environmental Cell Division, Coimbatore                -      114 Nos
       Environmental Cell Division, Chennai                -        22 Nos
       Environmental Cell Division, Madurai                  -       23 Nos

(2)  Environmental planning Framework was developed and discussed in National Workshop on 23  24
       November, 2000 at Chennai and they act as guidelines for abatement of pollution and planning of
       environmental friendly project.

(3)    Pilot studies on various environmental issues including controlling aquatic weeds and micro level
       studies in River Basins were taken up. In addition, study on Environmental Social Assessment in
       River Basins has been also carried out.

(4)    To prevent over exploitation of Ground Water, the Tamilnadu Ground Water (Development &
       Management) Act 2003 was passed and its rules are under finalisation with the Law department.
       To help regulatory measures, well census survey for the entire TamilNadu has been carried out.
(5)    Journals like ENCELL News Letter, STREAM and Slogans for Awareness Programme are also
       published.

35.    Development Objective : 4
Improve institutional and Technical capability for managing the Water Resources.




                                                   - 45 -

Achievement

(1)      Bifurcation of PWD into Water Resources Organisation (WRO) and Buildings Organisation and
WRO headed by single Engineer-in-Chief was formed.
(2)      Decentralized Management of field activities through 4 Regional Chief Engineers (Basin
Managers) viz. Chennai Region, Trichy Region, Pollachi Region and Madurai Region with boundaries of
River Basin or group of basins was established.

(3)      Provided functionally specialized units each headed by Chief Engineer for Plan Formulation,
Design Research and Construction Support, Operation and Maintenance, State Ground and Surface Water
Resources Data Center, Water Planning under IWS and training support through Irrigation Management
Training Institute

(4)      Created a special unit in PWD Secretariat under Special Officer for Land Acquisition and
Economic Rehabilitation assisted by NGOs.

(5)      Environmental Cell Divisions were created under Chief Engineer (Plan Formulation) separately to
carry out the Environmental related works.

(6)      502 Vehicles were procured to facilitate easy mobility to field officers, 1106 Nos of computers,
132 Nos photo copiers, 7 Nos Plan Printers were procured for easy documentation and data base creation.

(7)      1368 Nos. of Sophisticated levelling Instruments, 7 Nos. of Total Stations, and 8 Nos. of
Electronic Theodolites were procured to facilitate quick preparation of projects.

(8)      Quality control Lab established on the recommendations made by NCB engaged as Consultant,
trainings at Quality Control Center (NCCB) were imparted and requisite equipments were procured besides
preparing and supplying a quality control manual to serve as guidelines to field officers. For maintaining
quality in execution, OK cards were introduced.

(9)      To help better scientific planning, sophisticated Remote Sensing equipments were procured. For
reasons not known the engineers of WRO are not fully involved in using the technology, though few
engineers are trained at Government cost.

(10)     Management Information System (MIS) unit in Engineer-in-Chief Office was established and
         Network connectivity is under progress. Only the interface shell of MIS has been developed and
         data input for the software developed for three disciplines (Budget, Personnel & Contract
         Management) are yet to be made. Video Conferencing arrangements have been also established in
         six places.

(11)     370 Building works (Renovation) improvement and new construction were completed. Further
improvements for Library and Conference Hall has been carried out.

(12)     Strengthening of Design office & Institute of Hydraulics and Hydrology (IHH), Poondi was also
made by way of procurement of equipments and imparting training on CAD etc.

36.      Policy reforms

(a)      Bifurcation of P.W.D in to W.R.O and Building Organisation was implemented.


                                                    - 46 -

(b)      Guidelines of the World Bank has been followed in all procurements (works, goods and
         consultancy).
(c)      Two pilot Basin Boards for Palar and Tambaraparani River Basins with supporting Management
         Committees and common Technical Secretariat have been constituted.
(d)      To ensure Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM), the Tamilnadu Farmers Management of
         Irrigation Systems (TNFMIS) Act was passed and the election for the first tier viz. ,Water
         Resources Associations (WUAs) have been completed in the WRCP area. Arrangement for
         completion of election for Distributory Committees (DC) and Project Committees (PC) are under
         way.
(e)      To ensure adoption of Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) concept in all future
         project, a Multi Disciplinary Project Preparation Panel (MDPPP) and a Steering Committee have
         been constituted.
(f)      To expedite land acquisition process with a suitable Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R)
         Policy, LAER Cell in the Secretariat P.W.D was established in P.W.D.

37.      Cost Recovery

    Water Service Charges Committee was constituted. It was finally recommended that the enhancement
of Additional Assessment and Additional Water Cess (AA&AWC)and revenue may be authorised. From
the existing Rs. 15 /- per acre it was enhanced to Rs. 70/- per acre wet crops and Rs. 60/- per acre for dry
crops and necessary amendment to AA&AWC act was also issued by the Government. It was further
ordered by the Government that the above enhanced amount shall be shared in the proportion of 70:30 by
WRO and WUA

38. Technology Development.
    (a) To enhance the skill of the W.R.O personnel and to update their knowledge with the Global state of
    art technology Twinning Consultancy lead by an International reputed Consultancy firm (M/s TAHAL
    Consulting Engineers Ltd., Israel) was engaged.

    (b) To adopt innovative measures in the Irrigation systems for better management, reputed Research
    Institutions have been assigned Research Studies both basic and applied Research. Their observations
    and recommendations have been disseminated through workshops to sizable W.R.O personnel.

    (c) Water planning across River Basin by scientific approach and application of Remote Sensing
    Techniques with Decision Supporting Systems (DSS) such as River Basin Models, THANNI Models
    have been made easy by appropriate training to W.R.O personnel

    (d) Environmental Planning Frame work was developed and training and awareness creation
    programmes have been imparted to W.R.O personnel to enable them for preparation of Environmental
    Impact Assessment (EIA) and Environmental and Social Assessment (ESA) for each River Basin.

    (e) Both National and International Training to W.R.O. personnel have been arranged through
    Irrigation Management and Training Institute (IMTI).

    (f) Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) for increasing the productivity of water and
    improve the social status of the farmers has been launched in a pilot measure in the Hanumanadhi sub
    Basin in the Tambaraparani
    River Basin introducing micro irrigation system, diversification of crops, fish farming in the newly
    created farm ponds and affording better marketing facilities.


                                                   - 47 -

39.      Sustainability Measures

    Government of Tamilnadu have ensured the continuity of these activities by allocating necessary funds
    for the following:
(a)      FOT activities.
(b)      Environment Cell activities.
(c)      Water planning - Technical Secretariat continuity .
(d)      Balance works in model IWRM project of Hanumanadhi sub Basin .
(e)      The Multi Disciplinary Project Preparation Panel (MDPPP) and Steering Committee are
permanent bodies to oversee the preparation of projects in           IWRM concept.

    F. PROJECT CONSTRAINTS AND AREA OF CONCERN

40.      During the Project implementation, financial constraints also hampered the pace of progress. This
was due to Change in State Financial Policies coupled with the additional burden on the establishment
budget following Pay Commission recommendation. The Budgeting procedure was quite irksome at times
restricting the utilization of funds only to the limited extent with stringent guidelines on the allocation of
funds. Despite these constraints, the implementation of the physical aspects has been satisfactory but the
implementation of software components of the project viz. FOT, Environmental Action Plan (EAP), and
Basin Planning etc. were rather slow due to the fact that the implementing agencies had lack of knowledge
in terms of human resources and institutional shortcomings. With the persistent monitoring of the progress,
remedial measures were taken then and there and the implementing agencies of the project were geared up
to meet the challenges.

41.      Covenants such as that to reduce subsidies to TNEB, which have little relevance to water resources
and are difficult to enforce, could not be complied with, though with strong political will the free power to,
agriculture purposes was lifted it was re-introduced by the Government after the Parliamentary elections in
May 2004.

    G. BANK'S PERFORMANCE

42.      Supervision Mission: The World Bank Supervision Mission (16 Supervision Missions) have taken
place at regular intervals. Though in the initial periods the exact concept and functions of the Missions was
not rightly understood by the Water Resources Organisation, this was realised as the project progressed
and an excellent workable partnership between implementing Agency and World Bank had emerged. The
supervision Missions have been quite helpful in dissemination of information, data, knowledge etc. through
interactive sessions arranged with the field officers during field visits. The educative informations from the
World Bank Mission were shared with all the officers of WRO thereby a transparency in the activities and
absence of communication gap have been established clearly defining the role of each officer in the
successful implementation of the project.

43.      Team Composition:        The Supervision Mission has comprised of specialists of all related fields
in Water sector and the team have been well balanced and they played an appreciable role in shaping the
function of the WRO in consonance with the need of the hour for the State Government. The guidance
from the Bank Missions in the formation of Basin Boards, Environmental Action Plan and creation of
specialized cadre, is quite laudable. The guidelines on design aspects, quality control measures, preparation
of bid documents and quality control manuals by the Consultant in the Mission enhanced the skills of WRO
personal quite appreciably. The World Bank Mission have played the role of facilitator having an healthy


                                                      - 48 -

impact on the implementing agencies. The team sprit exhibited by the Mission Members helped in frank
discussions by the field officers and adoption of correct course of activities. More realistic lessons were
learnt through their frequent Missions and advices.

44.      Timely Approval: Almost all approvals from the Bank were on time and there was no instance of
any delay in execution of works on account of delay of the Bank Proposals.

H.       BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

45.      The performance of the borrower in the State of Tamil Nadu can be termed as satisfactory as for
as implementation of the physical works (Hardware component) of the Project is concerned. The
implementation departments have risen to the need of the project and given the desired result despite initial
setback in the initial period. A brief summary of Policy reforms made is as below:

46.      Policy Reforms:

1.    The orders on the list of personnel working in WRO and B.O. are to be issued shortly by the
      Government. However, pending issue of G.O., the transfer between WRO and B.O are avoided.
2.    State Water Policy is under revision in consonance with the National Water Policy 2002.
3.    TNFMIS Act 2000 Rules for the Act and Election Rules, were framed and elections to WUAs
      completed in the WRCP area. Follow up action is in progress for constituting the Distributory and
      Project Committees.
4.    State Water Resources Plan & Planning Frame Work has been prepared.
5.    Increase in State allocation for maintenance of irrigation systems.
6.    The starting of a programme to involve farmers in irrigation investment and O&M.
7.    New structure and procedures for land acquisition were established and a Land Acquisition and
      Economic Rehabilitation (LAER) action prepared.
8.    State Environmental Planning Frame Work has been developed.
9.    Ground Water (Development & Management) Act 2003 was enacted.
10.   Revision of Water Rates were made.
11.   Scrapping free Electricity for Agricultural Sector but again reintroduced.

I.       LESSONS LEARNT

47.      On conclusion of TNWRCP, a number of lessons have been learnt, which can be mainly listed as
follows:

a.       Continuing of senior staff at the policy and decision making level is essential for Government
performance of the project.

b.       Participation of beneficiaries in planning, implementation and monitoring ensured transparency,
easy conflicts  resolution etc.

c.       Realizing and understanding the necessity of an integrated and holistic approach in planning and
management of Water resources has been the hallmark of the project.

d.       The WRO staff require still more skill developing trainings, and to update their knowledge on
advance technologies. In the case of Training abroad right from the initial stages of the project should be
planned.


                                                    - 49 -

e.      The interactive sessions, workshop, seminars etc. enhance the skill development process among the
WRO staff and other staff from different departments. The frequent review meetings with the construction
agencies helped keeping the agreed milestones and to maintain a good Progress in the implementation. The
disputes on the availability of materials for construction in the indicated quarries in the Agreement could be
resolved on practical counts.

f.  There is enough scope to refine the functioning of the WUA and they require more and frequent
training and updating of the Act.

g.      There is a need for the establishment of the separate State Water Resources agency as an
autonomous body to advise the WRCRC as the same is not able to meet frequently. The State Water
Resources Agency may be carved out with the amalgamation of IWS and part of data center from ground
water unit. Further deliberation with the Experts are needed.

h.      The effective utilization of the Water for the enhanced productivity can be achieved only through
integrated Water Resources Management Programmes involving the services of line department in the
Water Sector with diversification of crops.

i.      External monitoring and evaluation is necessary to identify the lapses and take timely corrective
actions during the course of the project.

j.      The project commencement should be only after completion of L.A process and complete
availability of full designs of all the infrastructures proposed and after clearance from the Basin Boards to
be formed to ensure full coordination by all departments.

k.      Revision of water rates involve not only political will but with the explicit assurance of better
performance of irrigation services and that the revenues so raised would be reinvested locally to upgrade
the service.

l.      On the contract management, the appointment of Adjudicator helped resolving the conflicts even in
the bud reducing the number of Court cases to a greater extent for settlement of dues in the contract i.e. the
contract documents are unbiased securing the interest of both the Government and the contractor.

48.     J.        LOOKING FORWARD  NEXT STEP

1.      Applying the real value addition of this project, Government of Tamilnadu has sanctioned a sum of
Rs. 81 M. under State funds to carry out the following works, as per G.O.Ms.No.27PW (WR1) D
dt.28.01.2005




                                                      - 50 -

(a) To continue the Technical Secretariat of Palar and Tambaraparani Basin and      Rs.2.00 M
to complete the THANNI MODELS for both these basins before 31.03.2005 and
on this basis to develop such models for other River Basins beyond 31.03.2005.
(b) To continue the water quality tests and to make preliminary arrangements forRs. 4.00M
taking up pilot studies etc., relating to Environmental concerns in the River Basins
(c) To Institutionalize the WUA through elections to Distributory Committee (DC)Rs. 3.00M
and Project Committee (PC) and to train the officers and farmers on the formation
of WUA, DC and PC in the non-WRCP area and documentation
(d) To ensure completion of the Model Project (IWRM) in Hanumanadhi subRs. 72.00M
Basin by 31.03.2005
Total                                                                               Rs. 81.00M

2.      To ensure full participation of all officers in the water sector in the MDPPP, Government of
Tamilnadu has issued orders nominating officers from Environment and Forest Department, Tamilnadu
Water supply and Drainage Board(TWAD), Electricity Board (EB), Agricultural Department in
Government Letter No.20284/WR1/2004-5 dated 10.01.2005.

3.      Business plans for synergising the well census activities with Basin water planning works are also
prepared by the Chief Engineer, State Ground and Surface Water Resources Data Centre with the support
of Chief Engineer, Institute for Water Studies.

4.      To ensure effective Training plans, and to accomplish the upgrading the skills and capacity
building of the WRO officers / farmers etc., outsourcing an efficient leader for IMTI through competitive
selection is under way .

5.      From the lessons learnt in Hanumanadhi sub basin, model project, Government is venturing to have
a replication of such model in Palar Basin under State Funds for which MDPPP is making preliminary
arrangements for preparing a model document for Agaramar sub basin in Palar Basin.

6.      Chief Engineer, Institute for Water Studies is keen in preparing water balance planning works for
rest of the River Basins following the model developed under WRCP for Palar, Vaippar, and Kodayar
River Basins.

7.      The Research Advisory Committee functioning under WRCP has been reconstituted to suit the
conditions under State funds with the interest from the matching grant deposited and issued
G.O.Ms.No.598 PW(WR1) D dated 31.12.2004 without altering the structure of the Terms of Reference.




                                                    - 51 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR (unedited)

        The WRO, GOTN thankfully acknowledges receipt of the Draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for comments. It is a well brought out document covering all aspects of WRCP
implementation. The ratings indicated are acceptable and the following are the responses of GOTN for
some of the observations.

a)      It is true that the Micro-level Water resources Planning by River Basins and the Constitution of
two River Basin Boards have enhanced the capacity of the WRO Engineers in preparing strategies for
economic and efficient water management and advocating for diversification of crops.

b)      The demonstration of new-system of rice cultivation to a sizeable member of farmers was possible
only through this project.


c)      The doubts expressed by the ICR Mission on the replicability of the Hanumanadhi Model is
clarified as below. It should not be construed as subsidy but it is an incentive to upper riparian farmers for
sharing the saved water with the lower riparian who were all along bereft of any water either from
Hanumanadhi or Karuppanadhi.


d)      The conclusions in para 4-1-3 that the enhanced River Basin Planning, improved legislative
framework of Ground Water Act and consideration of environmental issues, if followed through by GOTN,
will improve infrastructure sustainability is most welcome.


e)      The sustainability of the collection of enhanced water rates will be best known once the drought
conditions cease with better monsoon. At the present time due to occurrence of successive droughts, the
Government has waived the water charges even though measures have been put in place to increase them.
Also the Water Users Associations are expected to be empowered to collect additional charges. The
sustainable implementation of these principles is expected once the severe drought condition ceases.


f)      The borrower agrees with the observations of the ICR Mission that the Co-ordination across eight
line departments, engineers-extensionist-farmer linkages for Integrated Water Resources Management is the
need of the hour in water starved Tamilnadu. as successfully demonstrated in Hanumanadhi Sub Basin.


g)      The project has helped selected WRO Staff to acquire knowledge and skills in dealing with
environmental issues in Water Resources Management. The borrower agrees with the rating of "Highly
Satisfactory" provided by the ICR Mission: It is to be appreciated that the small-scale pilot project
implemented under environmental study in sewage treatment in Sulur Panchayat has attracted many local
bodies to replicate that model thereby the awareness creation on the consequences of environmental
damages to water bodies has also been accomplished.


h)      The ICR Mission guidelines in para 4.1.4.1 is really a welcome feature.


i)      The inclusion of additional works during the progress of works was absolutely necessary so that
the Irrigation network rehabilitation is pucca and shall ease the project maintenance of the system by the
WUA subsequent to the project. It is to be viewed that this is a long term measure from the Social aspects



                                                    - 52 -

to ensure the effective functioning of the network.


j)       As far as possible the payment of RG & AMG have been made where there is no legal issues and
the Government is keen to settle the payment to the correct legal heirs through legal forum and to ensure the
readiness of the Government for such payments, the amount has been deposited in `K' Deposit Account. In
as much as the PAPs have become litigants due to persuation of some vested interest with vicious notions,
this kind of procedure is an inevitable process.


k)       The dispute in sharing of water in the Nambiyar Reservoir as expressed in para 4.2.5 will be
resolved through the established WUA and suitable O & M regulation will be framed.


l)       The Borrower agrees with the findings of the ICR Mission regarding main factors causing the
lesser NPV than predicted in the SAR.


m)       The Borrower agrees with the observations of ICR Mission on the factors affecting implementation
and outcome overall.


n)       The observations of entrusting contracts to reputed firms on QBS method is well taken. However
as stated the TOR should be so drafted that these firms shall not only play a dominant role in developing
the software but should also be made responsible for testing and commissioning fully without any
restriction on the value of work.


o)       The Bank's performance has been satisfactory in all fronts from project preparation, appraisal,
supervision and successful implementation throughout the project period.




                                                                                           Secretary, PWD




                                                   - 53 -

- 54 -

