Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
IDA GRANT NUMBER H166-0-HA 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Economic Governance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 7, 2005 
 
Page  2
IDA GRANT NUMBER H166-0-HA 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 7, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF HAITI (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
The Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a)
 
“BPM”, means 
Bureau du Premier Ministre,
 the Recipient’s prime 
minister’s office and, specifically, the Human resource unit within it, in charge of 
implementing selected Project activities;
 
(b) “BRH” 
means 
Banque de la 
République d’Haiti, 
the Recipient’s Central 
Bank; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
“CEFOPAFOP” means 
Centre de Formation et de Perfectionnement des 
Agents de la Fonction Publique, 
the Recipient’s training center for civil servants and 
public employees; 
(d) 
“CNMP” means Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics, the 
Recipient’s National Commission for Public Procurement established and operating 
pursuant to a
 
décret
 
of
the Recipient dated December 03, 2004; 
 
(e) 
“CSCCA” means 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux 
Administratif, 
the Recipient’s Supreme Audit institution; 
(f)
 
“
Comité de Suivi
”
means a steering committee established by the 
Recipient for the monitoring by civil society of the Recipient’s economic governance 
reforms;  
(g) 
 “Donor” means any country, bilateral or multilateral agency, public or 
private financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, 
which is proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Recipient on a grant 
basis or under concessional terms to support a development program of the Recipient; 
(h) 
“Executing Agency” means either one among MEF,
 
MPCE, CSCCA, 
CNMP, the Human Resources unit of the BPM, the 
Comité de Suivi
 
and ULCC (all as 
herein defined), each responsible for implementing or assisting in the implementation of 
selected activities under the Project;  
(i)  
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(j) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing October 1 
and ending September 30 of the next calendar year; 
(k) “MEF” 
means 
Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances, 
the Recipient’s 
Ministry of Economy and Finance; 
(l)  
“MEP” 
means 
Manuel d’Execution du Project, 
the Project 
implementation manual referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
 
(m) 
“MPCE” means 
M
inistère du Plan et de la Coopération Extérieure, 
the 
Recipient’s Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated May 
10, 2005, covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation, as 
the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Section 
3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project 
implementation; 
(o) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(p)  
“UCP” 
means
 
Unité de Coordination du Projet,
 the Project coordinating 
unit established in MEF and referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and 
(q) 
“ULCC” means 
Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption
,
a
unit of MEF 
responsible for coordinating anticorruption activities in public transactions. 
ARTICLE II 
The Grant
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR1,400,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for carrying out the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in BRH on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2007 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
Page  5
-
4
-
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on May 15 and 
November 15 in each year. 
 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through MEF, assisted by UCP, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the MEP. 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
Page  6
-
5
-
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a plan 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of Project’s objective; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
Section 3.04. (a) the Borrower shall adopt an implementation plan, satisfactory in 
form and substance to the Association, setting forth rules, methods, guidelines, standard 
documents and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, including the following: 
(i) 
the Project administrative, disbursement, procurement, auditing, 
reporting and financial procedures including standard bidding 
documents in relation thereto; 
(ii) 
the plan for the evaluation, monitoring and supervision of the 
Project; and 
(iii) 
the detailed description of Project activities and their sequencing 
and the institutional arrangements in respect thereof. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the MEP throughout Project 
implementation; and (ii) only amend the MEP, from time to time, with the Association’s 
prior consent. 
(c) 
In the event that any provision of the MEP shall conflict with any one 
under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain at all times during the implementation 
of the Project, a Project coordinating unit:  
Page  7
-
6
-
(i) 
with staff adequate in numbers and with functions and resources 
at all times satisfactory to the Association; including a financial 
management specialist and a procurement
 
specialist, both to be 
selected in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(ii) 
responsible for the effective implementation of the Project, 
including procurement, financial management, audit, and 
monitoring and evaluation in relation thereto; and 
(iii) 
under the administrative authority, and subject to the monitoring 
and supervision of MEF to which it will report, on a semi-annual 
basis; and 
(b) 
ensure that UCP, through MEF, submits annual Project work plans and 
budget to the Association for its review and approval. 
Section 3.06. No later than 3 months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall 
appoint the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, with 
experience, qualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and shall 
select them in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.  
Section 3.07. The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about March 31 and September 30 in each FY, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by May 15 and November 15 in each FY, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Ass
ociation’s views on the matter. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and, thereafter, maintain 
throughout Project implementation, a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with consistently applied 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association
,
audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association): (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
Page  9
-
8
-
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section.  
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.07 of this Agreement, the Recipient shall prepare  and 
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE V
 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as a condition to the effectiveness 
of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, 
namely that the Recipient has adopted the MEP, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association;   
Section 5.02. The date January 5, 2006 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representatives of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the Recipient is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministre de l’Economie et des Finances 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(509) 299-1732 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 248423 
(MCI) 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
 
By /s/ Raymond Joseph 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Ulrich Zachau 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1) 
Works and goods 
175,000 
 
100% 
 
(2) Consultant 
services 
1,155,000 
 
100% 
 
training  and audits 
 
(3) 
Operating Costs 
35,000 
 
100 %   
 
(4) Unallocated 
35,000 
 
___________ 
 
TOTAL 1,400,000 
 
==========  
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) the 
term 
“training” in respect of “Consultant services, training and 
audits” means  the carrying out of seminars and workshops and in relation thereto: (i) 
reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures incurred by trainers and 
trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant training facilitators; (ii) 
course fees; (iii) training facility rentals; and (iv) training material preparation, 
acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses not otherwise covered under this 
paragraph; and  
(b) 
the term “Operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on 
account of Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle 
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration 
costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, salaries of locally contracted 
employees. 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditures under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient, including for expenditures made 
under contracts not subject to the Association
’s Prior Review pursuant to the terms of 
Section IV of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 2
 
Description of the Project
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in strengthening its 
institutional capacity in the areas of budgetary planning and execution, investment and 
project planning, auditing, procurement, transparency, participatory monitoring and 
reform constituency building. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Capacity Building for Financial Resource Management
Strengthening the capacity of MEF and the Executing Agencies
 
to carry out 
transparent and efficient budgetary planning and execution through the provision of 
technical advisory services for: 
1. 
the design and implementation of basic budgetary procedures and functions; 
2. 
(i) the carrying out of a needs evaluation of the CSCCA; (ii) the preparation of a 
plan for improving its performance as an ex-post public auditing body; and thereafter, 
(iii) the implementation of said plan, including through the organization of training 
programs and the acquisition of goods and equipment in relation thereto; and 
3. 
the provision of support for the institutional building and operations of the 
CNMP, including, 
inter alia
,
through the development of an adequate human resource 
base, the preparation of standardized documents for public procurement and the 
organization of training programs in relation thereto. 
Part B
:
Human Resource Development
Advancing the Recipient’s capacity to develop the human resource base 
necessary for economic governance reforms, through: 
1.
 
the preparation of a plan to develop the human resource unit currently within 
BPM into a strengthened human resources management office of the Recipient’s 
administration; 
Page  16
-
15
-
2.  
(i) the carrying out of seminars and workshops; and (ii) the provision of technical 
advisory services, to discuss the proposed reforms to the 
Recipient’s civil service law;
 
and
 
3. 
the carrying out of limited civil works for the rehabilitation and remodeling of 
CEFOPAFOP facilities to be used as public training centers. 
Part C
:
Public Transparency and Civil Society Participation
Strengthening transparency of all public transactions and operations through: 
1. 
the building of capacity in ULCC for anti-corruption programming, detection and 
sanctioning, including through the preparation of a modernized legal framework in 
relation thereto; and 
2. 
(i) the evaluation of the mechanisms for monitoring economic governance 
reforms and performance by civil society; and (ii) the provision of training to civil society 
organizations for interpreting budgetary information and thereafter disseminating all 
ensuing information, analysis and outcome reports to the public at-large. 
Part D
:
Project Management and Communication
Ensuring optimal efficiency of Project implementation through the provision of 
support to UCP for: 
1. 
(a) 
the establishment of communication mechanisms and strategies needed 
to disseminate the contents of the Recipient’s reform program in order to ensure wider 
ownership thereof among the public; and  
 
(b) 
the carrying out of Donor coordination activities in the economic 
governance area; and 
2. 
the management, coordination and monitoring of Project activities. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2007. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultan
ts’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract and 
works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  18
-
17
-
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method
.
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality - and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
5. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  19
-
18
-
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank.  
 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through  (3)  set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$300,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
Page  21
-
20
-
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
Page  22
-
21
-
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 5  
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.”  
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement”. 
Page  24
-
23
-
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02.
 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under 
the Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03.
 Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 4.06 (b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
7. (a)
 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
 
Treatment of Taxes
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit may be withdrawn to 
pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on 
the goods or services to be financed under the Credit, or on 
their importation, manufacture, procurement or supply. 
Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of 
its credits. To that end, if the Association shall at any time 
Page  25
-
24
-
determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect 
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is 
excessive or otherwise unreasonable, the Association may, by 
notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal 
set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the 
Development Credit Agreement as required to be consistent 
with such policy of the Association.” 
 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a) (ii) and (c) (i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.”
 
