                                           Document of
                                       The WorldBank

                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                          Report No: 32147-HT




                            PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              ONA

                                     PROPOSEDGRANT

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR 1.4MILLION
                              (US$2.0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                               TO

                                  THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                            FOR AN

          ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                          May 13,2005




PovertyReductionand Economic Management Sector ManagementUnit
CentralAmerica Country Management Unit
LatinAmerica andthe Caribbean Region

r
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World

                                Republicof Haiti
           EconomicGovernanceTechnicalAssistance Project

                  CURRENCYAND EXHANGERATES
                      US$1= HG$40(as of May 10,2005)

                                 FISCALYEAR
                              October 1-September 30

                   ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

AAN     AutoritC ABroportuaire Nationale (National Airport Authority)
AECI    Agencia Espaiiolade Cooperacih Internacional(Spanish Agency for International
        Cooperation)
AGD     Administration GenCrale des Douanes (Customs Administration Office)
APN     AutoritC Portuaire Nationale (National Port Authority)
BRH     Banque de la RCpubliqued'Haiti (Central Bank of Haiti)
CAE     Country Assistance Evaluation
CAMEP   Centrale Autonome MCtropolitaine d'Eau Potable (Metropolitan Water Authority)
CEP     Conseil Electoral Provisoire (Provisional Electoral Council)
CFAA    Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CLDA    Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
CMEP    Conseil de Modemisation des Entreprises Publiques (Council for the
        Modernization of Public Enterprises)
CNIMP   Commission National IntCrimaire des MarchCsPublics (Interim National
        Commission for Public Procurement)
CNMP    Commission Nationaledes MarchCsPublics (National Commission for Public
        Procurement)
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI     Transparency InternationalCorruptionPerception Index
CQS     Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
CSCCA   Cour SupCrieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (Supreme Audit
        Institution)
cso     Civil Society Organization
DCB     Direccion du ContrBle Budgetaire (Directorate of Budgetary Control)
DGI     Direction GCnCral des ImpBts (General Tax Directorate)
EDH     Electricit6 d'Haiti (National Electricity Company)
EERC    Emergency Economic Recovery Credit
EGRO    Economic Governance Reform Operation
EGTAG   Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
ERC     Economic Recovery Credit
EU      European Union
FBS     Fixed Budget Selection
FER     Fonds d'Entretien Routier (Road Maintenance Fund)
FMR     Financial Management Reports
FONHEP  Fondation Haitienne de 1'EnseignementPrivC (Haitian Foundationfor Private
        Education)
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GNI     Gross National Income
GoH     Government of Haiti

         ICB       International Competitive Bidding        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
         ICF       InterimCooperationFramework
         IDA       International DevelopmentAssociation
         IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
         IFMS      IntegratedFinancial Management System
         IMF       International Monetary Fund
         LCS       Least-Cost Selection
         LICUS     Low-IncomeCountries Under Stress
         MDG       MillenniumDevelopment Goals
         MEF       Ministry of Economy andFinance
         MENJS     Ministkrede I'Education Nationale, de laJeunesse et des Sports (Ministry of
                   National Education, Youth and Sports)
         MINUSTAH  UNMissionfor the Stabilization of Haiti
         MPCE      Ministkrede la Planification et de la CoopCration Externe (Ministry of Planning
                   and External Cooperation)
         MSPP      Ministkre de la SantC Publique et de la Population (Ministry of Public Health and
                   Population)
         NCB       National Competitive Bidding
         NGO       Non Governmental Organization
         OAS        Organization of American States
         OED        Operations Evaluation Department
         PAD       Project Appraisal Document
         PCN        Project Concept Note
         PCU        Project Coordinating Unit
         PNH        Police Nationale d'HaYti (Haitian National Police)
         PPIAF      Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
         PRSP       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
         QAT        Quality Assurance Team
          QBS       Quality-Based Selection
          QCBS      Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
          QER       Quality Enhancement Review
          SA        Special Account
          SBD       Standard Bidding Documents
          SME       Small and Medium Enterprises
          SMP       Staff Monitored Program
          TA        Technical Assistance
          TELECO    TClCcommunications d'Haiti S.A.M. (Telecom Utility)
          TI        Transparency Intemational
          TOR       Terms of Reference
          TSS       Transitional Support Strategy
          ULCC      Unit6 de Lutte Contre la Corruption (Anti-corruption Unit)
          UNDP      UnitedNations Development Programme
          USAID     United States Agency for Intemational Development
          WBI       World Bank Institute

                                    Vice President:       PamelaCox
                                 Country Director:        Caroline Anstey
                                    Sector Director:      Emesto May
                                   Sector Manager:        RonaldE.Myers
                                     Sector Leader:       Antonella Bassani
                                Task Team Leader:         LinnHammergren

This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.


                                                              HAITI
                      EconomicGovernanceTechnicalAssistanceProject

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                Page

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                              ..................................................................  1
 1. Country and sector issues ....................................................................................................                1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement.......................................................................................... 8
 3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes...................................................                                   10

B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION                       ................................................................................................    10
 1. Lending instrument............................................................................................................ 10
 2.  [IfApplicable] Program objective and Phases..................................................................                                10
 3.  Project development objective and key indicators ............................................................                                15
 4.  Project components............................................................................................................ 16
 5.  Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design ..........................................................                                19
 6.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.............................................................                               19

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                  .........................................................................................................     20
 1.  Partnership arrangements (if applicable) ...........................................................................                         20
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements.................................................................                               20
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults ................................................................                                21
 4.  Sustainability .....................................................................................................................         21
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects ...............................................................                            22
 6.  Loadcredit conditions and covenants ............................................................................... 23

D APPRAISALSUMMARY
 .                                         ..................................................................................................     23
  1. Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                       23
  2. Technical............................................................................................................................        23
  3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................       23
 4.  Social .................................................................................................................................     23
  5. Environment ......................................................................................................................           23
  6. Safeguard policies..............................................................................................................             24
  7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness ......................................................................................                       24

Annex 1:Country and ProgramBackground                           ...........................................................................       25

Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                          ..................35
Annex 3: Results Framework andMonitoring                          .........................................................................       37

Annex 4: DetailedProject Description                 ......................................................................................       41

Annex 5: Project Costs    ................................................................................................................        47

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                     ..................................................................................       49

Annex 7: Financial ManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                                  ......................................   53

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements                   .......................................................................................        57

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                       ..............................................................................       61

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues             .............................................................................................        63

Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision                           ......................................................................       65

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                     ..................................................................................       67

Annex 13: Statementof Loans and Credits                      ...............................................................................       69

Annex 14: Country at a Glance            ..................................................................................................        71

Annex 15: Map  .............................................................................................................................        73

                                        HAITI

                  GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANT

                           PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                           LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                        LCSPS


Country Director: Caroline D. Anstey        Sectors: Central government administration
Sector ManagerDirector: RonaldE.Myers       (70%);General public administration sector
                                            (30%)
                                           Themes: Public expenditure, financial
                                            management and procurement (P);Other
                                            accountability/anti-corruption
                                            (P);Administrative and civil service reform (P)
Project ID: PO93936                        Environmental screening category: Not
                                            Required
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance    Safeguard screening category: C




Borrower:
Republic of Haiti

Responsible Agency: Ministryo f Economy and Finance (MEF)

Expected effectiveness date: June 30,2005
Expected closingdate: December 31,2007
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant
respects?Ref. PADA.3                                                               [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD 0.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risksrated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                       [XIYes [ ] N o
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for
implementation?Ref. PAD D.7                                                        [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
The objective of the Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant (EGTAG) i s to assist the
GoHinstrengthening its institutional capacity inthe areas of budgetary planning and execution,
investment and project planning, internal and external control, procurement, accountability,
participatory monitoring, and reform constituency building. Specifically the EGTAG's
development objectives are to: (i)improve the central ministry's ability to program, execute and
track use of public resources andbetter link them to concrete development goals, ensure an
adequate performance of the external, ex-post control function by the CSCCA, and help the
CNMP grow into its role as overseer of procurement practices and make open, competitive
procurement the rule rather than the exception; (ii)
                                                   advancethe development of a human
resourcemanagementplan and system, especially as regardsensuring adequate capacity in the
financial management system; (iii) advancethe development of the ULCC as an effective check
on corruption while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society inits own
operations and as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv) ensure as part of the project
managementprocess, an adequate systemfor communicating information on the reform
programs and mobilizingpublic support for their furtherance.

Project description [one-sentencesummary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
Component 1-Financial ResourceManagement: This component will aim to develop the
Government's capacity to produce and execute abudget, track its implementation, andreduce
irregular uses and expenditures.

  Component 2-Human ResourceDevelopment: This component will support the
development of a HumanResourceManagement System and the strengthening of HR capacity
underthe direction of the HRUnitwithin the PrimeMinister's Office.

  Component 3- Anticorruption Unit. This component will strengthenthe Ministry of
Finance'sAnticorruption Unit andits special programfor civil society monitoring of economic
governancereforms.

  Component 4-Communication, Coordination and Project Management. This component
will strengthenthe MEF'sprogram for communication of economic governancereforms to the
public, enhanceMEF'sability to coordinate donor programs ineconomic governance and

otherwise strengthenthe Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
The project currently triggers none of the Bank'sEnvironmental or Social SafeguardPolicies. If
any changes of environmental or social significance should arise during project implementation,
Bankpolicies will apply.

Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Board presentation: None.

Loadcredit effectiveness:
The Borrower has preparedaProject Implementation Manual satisfactory to the Association.

Covenants applicable to project implementation: None.
The proposed project would not require any exceptions from Bankpolicies and would comply
with all applicable Bankpolicies.


A. STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE

This document describes a proposed US$2 million Economic Governance Technical Assistance
Grant (EGTAG)to the Government of Haiti (GoH) for the purpose of strengthening its economic
governance, thereby enhancing its ability to attract external funding and use this as well as its
own resources to advance its national development programs efficiently, effectively, and
transparently.   The operation builds on an exercise conducted by the Government with the
participation of donors to prepare an Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF) to guide their
collective activities. The exercise, carried out in April and May of 2004, included a component
on economic governance. As inthe other sectors, the needs and recommended actions identified
by the ICF may exceed what can be accomplished within the ICF's two-year time frame, but, as
agreed by the participants, it will serve as a base for planning all international assistance. The
ICF has already informed the preparation of two IDA operations - an Economic Governance
Reform Operation (EGRO) in the amount of US$61 million, approved by the Board in January
2005, and LICUS Trust Fund grants, approved in November 2004 in the amount of US$6
million, of which a grant of US$1.5 millionto support economic governance reforms.

The Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG) outlined here i s intended to
build on and support IDA'Soperations already underway, and to coordinate closely with on-
going and planned technical assistance activities of other donors. If the EGTAG successfully
meets its objectives, and conditions for economic governance reforms continue to be favorable in
Haiti, IDA would consider another technical assistance operation as part of the overall package.
Because the needs are so great, the international actors offering assistance so varied, and the
Bank's own assistance package staged in an incremental fashion, this operation takes a
somewhat broader look than usual at the situation being addressed. Rather than examining only
the conditions relevant to the present operation, it first addresses the overall challenges as
identified through the ICF, then examines initial progress made and estimates likely advances up
to the time the proposed operation would become effective, and finally, discusses the EGTAG's
objectives and components as part of the full spectrum o f planned donor support for the ICF
economic governance reforms.

1. Countryandsector issues

a. GeneralBackground: Situated on the western third of the island of Hispaniola, Haiti is the
poorest country in the western hemisphere. An estimated 76 percent of its 8.3 million population
lives below the poverty line (less than US$2 a day) while approximately 56 percent lives in
abject poverty (below US$1 dollar a day). At almost three times the regional average, Haiti's
poverty level can only be compared to that o f Sub-Saharan Africa,'              and income inequality i s
amongst the highest in the world2. Haiti ranks 153`d (out o f 177 countries) in the UN Human
Development Index. Life expectancy i s a dismal 52 years. Infant and maternal mortality rates
remain amongst the highest in the world. Fully half o f the population i s illiterate. Malnutrition
affects a third of all children, and ineffective public health and sanitation systems together with
widespread poverty provide fertile ground for the rapid spread of such infectious diseases as


  Haiti LivingConditions Survey 2003; basedon international poverty lines of US$2PPP and US1PPP per capita
fer day.
  As measuredby a Gini coefficient of 0.65.

HIV/AIDS3, tuberculosis, polio and human rabies.                       The widespread lack of solid waste
management and access to potable water also contributes to many waterborne illnesses and
preventable diseases and childhood deaths.

Despite its promising beginnings in the 19thcentury as the first slave colony to gain national
independence and second free republic of the Western Hemisphere, Haiti's subsequent history
has been fraught with problems. The 1986 termination of the 30-year dictatorships of Franqois
Duvalier and his son, noted for their corruption, police repression, and pillage of the country's
wealth, was followed by a series of short-lived governments also fraught with corruption. The
1990 election of President Jean Bertrand Aristide was initially hailed as a break with past
patterns. The seeming return to civilian rule was interrupted seven months later by a military
coup that prompted an international embargo and the suspension of all but humanitarian aid.
These actions further crippled Haiti's economy and produced a severe decline inthe already dire
living standards of its population. Activity in the textile and export-oriented assembly industries
(representingover three quarters of export earnings as well as a considerable share of formal
sector employment) virtually came to a halt; tax collection and expenditure control systems
collapsed; and maintenance of the country's economic and social infrastructure was all but
abandoned.

The return to constitutional rule, introduced via the U.S.-led reinstatement of Aristide's
presidency in 1994, was followed in 1995 by the election of President RenC PrCval. During the
early years of his administration, Prtval's adoption of an Emergency and Economic
Reconstruction Program (EERP) appeared to embark Haiti on a path of economic recovery.
However, by 1997 rampant corruption, internal power struggles, weak institutions and poor
governance again took their toll on the economy4. Aristide's 1997 break from the Organisation
Populaire Lavalas (OPL)5that had backed him since 1990 and establishment by him of the
Lavalas Family (FL) unleashed a severe institutional crisis and a deadlocked parliament -
ultimately suspended in 1999. In the absence of a legislative body, no major legislation
(including budget laws) could be approved, ongoing reform programs were halted, and
ratification of new loans with international creditors was rendered impossible.

Aristide's highly-contested landslide victory in the 2000 elections spurred civil unrest that
continued to escalate over the next three years, provoking an armed rebellion that seized the
northern half of the country and culminated with Aristide's resignation on February 29, 2004.
H i s departure was followed by the creation of a Transitional Government6 with a mandate to

  Haiti also leads the Western Hemisphere in reported cases of HIV infection rates.
  The economic crisis was further compounded in September 1998 with the advent of Hurricane George. Private
transfers, largely in the form of remittances from migrants climbed from 1997 to 2001 to account for fully 18
percent of GDP. Such transfers were key to offsetting the impact of economic stagnation that grasped Haiti as a
result of the political crisis and furthermore provided a much needed safety net for the Haitian poor inthe absence of
international aid.
  The OPL was later renamed the Organisation du Peuple en Lutte, soon to become the leading opposition party.
  The creation of this Transitional Government, with Supreme Court President Boniface Alexandre as Provisional
President in accordance with Haiti's 1987 Constitution, was endorsed by a UNSecurity Council Resolution.
Thereafter, a Council of Wise Men made up of seven eminent personalities from key sectors of Haitian society,
designated Gerard Latortue as Interim Prime Minister, and on April 4, 2004, the Transitional Government, political
parties (with the exception o f the Lavalas) and civil society representatives signed a political pact agreeing on,inter
alia, the organization of elections in late 2005 and the transfer of power to an elected government in early 2006.


                                                            2

hold democratic elections in end-2005 and hand over power to a new government in early 2006.
Faced with the formidable challenge of confronting deep-seated political instability, weak
institutions, inefficient use and allocation of resources, and the resulting mistrust of its citizenry,
inApril 2004 the Transitional Government joined forces with the donor community to draft the
Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF.)               The ICF identifies priority interventions and
associated financing needs to support Haiti's path to economic, social and political recovery
throughout the July 2004-September 2006 transition period. It also constitutes the foundation
upon which a future medium-term Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) encompassing the
period 2006-2009 will be prepared. The ICF is based on 4 pillars: (i)        Strengthening political
governance and promoting national dialogue; (ii)Strengthening economic governance and
contributing to institutional development; (iii) Promoting economic recovery; and (iv) Improving
access to basic services. The ICF also takes into consideration cross-sectoral issues, notably
crisis prevention, humanrights, gender, and HIV/AIDS.

b. Sector Specific Issues: For a variety of reasons, not the least of which are the weaknesses of
its institutionalbase, Haiti's economic governance deteriorated severely over the past ten years
leading up to the departure of the second Aristide government. Donor dissatisfaction with
management of the funding they provided was a principal cause of their withdrawal of programs
executed by the government at the end of the last decade, after which conditions continued to
worsen. That donors remainedpresent as long as they did was partly due to their ability to rely
on Haiti's non-governmental organizations andor to channel funds outside the government's
normal financial management system, but as the GoH has continuously remarked, that strategy
did not resolve and arguably may have compounded existing weaknesses. Services can indeed
be provided through direct payments to NGOs, but the practice is neither sustainable nor a
substitutefor awell-functioning set of public sector institutions.

Following the installation of the Transition Government, there have been signs of improvement,
as well as a willingness of donors to support its policy reform and institutional strengthening
efforts. Before turning to these changes, this section reviews the existing situation and trends in
the areas of economic governance. Although institutional weaknesses extend to all levels and
sectors of government, attention here is on the functions and organizations most directly related
to the programming and use of public resources- financial management inits most ample sense.
As further developed below, the Bank has identified this area as critical to the success of its
interventions as well as to Haiti's sustainedrecovery and future development.

Budgetary Process: Haiti's Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) has the responsibility for
overall budget formulation, execution, andcontrol, sharing programming and oversight of public
investment with the Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation (MPEC).              However, the
1985 Budgetary Law (replaced in 2004) defining the basic procedures, was never fully
implemented, and critical positions and offices were simply not created. Offices that did exist
were often understaffed and under-equipped. Parameters for budget analysis and data for budget
preparation were weak, and the budget did not reflect all expenditures or revenues. Its contents
were not linkedto programs or higher level government goals (e.g. poverty reduction), but rather
presented in line item form.       The Treasury, which should manage liquidity and program
disbursements according to available funds, had become little more than a mechanism for
endorsing checks to employees and suppliers and processing accounts on an accrual basis.



                                                   3

Typically, deficit control was accomplishedby tapping into reservesheldby the Central Bank or
accumulating internal and external arrears. The overall cash management system was weak and
didnot allow for proper control and synchronizationbetweendisbursementsand receipts.

From 1997 through 2001, the government operated without an approved budget. The three
following budgets were approved late into their fiscal years (which run from October 1 to
September 30). The budget for 2004-05 was approved on time but by executive decree owing to
the closure of the Parliament. Since 1997 an increasing share of public resources (reaching 60
percent in 2002-03) was channeledthrough multiplebank accounts heldby individual ministries
(called comptes courants) and/or largely assigned to a catch-all category called "autres
interventions publiques." While it was not expected that funds so assigned be programmed
beforehand, the requirement that their uses be subsequently documented and reported was
routinely ignored.

Public Investment: On the investment side, officially managedby the Ministry of Planning and
External Cooperation (MPCE), expenditures were not identified and planned in a coherent
framework. Like the operations budget, investment projections were limited to a single-year
timeframe. Sectoral ministries' planning offices (Unite`sde Programmation) played little part in
the process, and in many cases had simply disappeared. By the mid 1990s, public sector
investment had come to be driven by donor-funded and NGO projects. Donors typically set up
special accounts with the Central Bank, but without an automatic transfer of information to the
MEF. While the MEFeventually receivedinformation on these accounts and disbursements, aid
supplied in kind was not registered at all. Although the FY2004-05 public investment budget
rose to 6.2 percent of GDP (over the 2002-03 average of 2.1 percent), limited planning and
execution capacity, as well as a lack of sufficient transparency, poses concerns as it involves
vulnerability to misuse.

Control: Both internal control and external audit functions were also weak. Internal controls
were affected by the lack of a well-structured accounting system, fragmentation of the
accounting function, and the extensive use of comptes courants. The external audit of the
government budget has not been done for several years, as the supreme audit institution, the
Cour Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) had focused nearly
exclusively on ex-ante control, duplicating the functions of the Ministry of Economy and
Finance's Directorate of Budgetary Control (DCB). The posts of several of the CSCCA's ten
members had remained vacant for several years. The CSCCA also lacked sufficient staff and
equipment as well as funds for training. Under the 1985 budgetary law, the CSCCA's role inex-
ante and ex-post control, and its simultaneous functioning as an administrative court presented
potential conflicts of interest. Another usual source of external control, the Parliament, has not
beenin operation since early 2004, and was also closed during the periodfrom early 1999 to mid
2000. Given the poor quality of information managed and provided by the Executive, and the
Parliament' own institutional weaknesses, effective legislative review of the budget law and its
execution will be a challenge for that body once it i s reinstated following elections planned in
end2005.

Procurement: Untilrecently, public procurement operatedunder a 1989 decree which hadnever
been fully implemented. The law itself had several flaws, including its failure to regulate certain



                                                4

types of public procurement, overregulation of some areas (e.g., by establishing membership of
evaluation committees - jurys de selection, and the thresholds for the use of different
procurement methods), and the provision for the CSCCA's prior approval of contracts, a clear
conflict with its other roles. The system was decentralized, but the Commission Nationale des
Marche's Publics (CNMP), which was to oversee its implementation, had not existed since the
early 199Os, and the departmental commission had never been created. The ad hoc arrangements
created to fill this institutional void proved to be neither efficient nor transparent and gave rise to
accusations of corruption. Reduced operating budgets and salaries drove qualified procurement
specialists to seek employment in the private sector. Sole-source (gre'd-grk) contracts and
unadvertised     bidding (appels d'ofres restraints) had become the norm, there were no
standardized bidding documents or manuals, and information either on proposed or awarded
contracts was not publicized or collected in a central data bank. Chronically slow payments to
contractors, combined with a lack of legal recourse, resulted in higher prices, liquidity problems
for vendors, and the potential for additional abuses.

   Revenues: Bothtaxation and customs are decentralized agencies of the MEF,the Direction
Ge'ne'raledes Imp& (DGI)and the Administration Ge'ne'raledes Douanes (AGD), respectively.
The repeated political and economic crises have affected the operations o f both. During the
February 2004 civil conflict, customs and tax offices were pillaged and already-inadequate
equipment destroyed or removed. Despite some improvements begun in the mid 1990s (e.g., the
creation of 1'Unite' des Grands Contribuables (Large Taxpayers'Unit), and an office for
customer service for the DGI, and well as the modernization of its Pe'tion-Ville office;
improvements to Customs' information system), both entities remain inefficient, ineffective,
plaguedby corruption and fraud, and with an insufficient number of qualifiedpersonnel, who are
furthermore inadequately deployed. There are problems with the narrow base and inequity o f the
tax system, non-integration of information systems, a weak organizational structure, poor
working environment, and overly centralized decision making combined with inadequate
controls and monitoring. There has additionally been a problem of the retention (and incomplete
reporting) of revenues from fees and other sources by the agencies receiving them.

Public Enterprises and Infrastructure Management: Despite encouragement by the donor
community, efforts to privatize Haiti's public enterprises advanced little in the 1990s; only two
of the less important holdings were transferred to private hands. It appears that over the short run
the rest will continue to be state controlled. This initself may be less a problem than the fact that
the services delivered have deteriorated significantly over the past ten years, and that the
common practice has been either to milk the entities as cash cows or to use them to give
employment to political allies and friends. Consequently, they are a drain on the public budget,
are often overstaffed with nonessential personnel, and are known for their opaque, irregular, and
unprofessional management practices. A World Bank review done in 2003 determined that of
the five major public enterprises, only three were immediately auditable. The two others (Teleco,
telecommunications, and EDH, electricity) would first have to clean up and reorder their
accounts before an audit would be possible. Additionally, public infrastructure has suffered from
a lack of maintenance over the years. The Ministry of Public Works, in charge of the road
network, has lacked the required financial and human resources to ensure adequate road
maintenance. The Ministry also lacks the capacity, or an adequate regulatory framework, to
design and oversee policies inthe several sectors.



                                                   5

Corruption, Vertical Accountability, and Transparency: Since its initiation, Transparency
International's Corruption Perception Index (CPI) has placed Haiti in one of the three lowest
rankings worldwide. While a study by Transparency International's Haitian branch indicated
that the private sector believed corruption to be the leading constraint on economic growth and
investment7, it also showed corruption to be not only widespread, but also widely tolerated.
Government's own limited control of financial data, and the lack o f any law requiring
information to be made public, meant that citizens had little or no knowledge of how public
resources were being used. Media coverage remains uneven, and civil society groups are few,
tend to be concentrated in the capital city, and are relatively unprepared to deal with what
information i s available.     Within government control mechanisms - the judiciary, public
prosecution and police, as well as those already mentioned - remain weak, and are often
suspected of their own internal problems. The offices o f Fiscal and of Financial Control have yet
to be established to provide the required internal checks, respectively, on revenue collection and
expenditures.

Insufficient human resources:           One of the greatest impediments to successful financial
management in Haiti i s the quality and quantity o f human resources - the absence o f a sufficient
number of qualified personnel, within the MEF and the sector agencies to make the system work
and the lack of a good incentive system to attract, maintain, and motivate it. The legal framework
(a 1982 law and sections of the Constitution) emphasizes the importance of building a modern,
reliable and competent public service based on equal access to employment and selection on the
basis of merit. However, the cabinet-level office charged with overseeing the system was never
created and the necessary Arr&,            a detailed set o f specific regulations to govern the
administration o f personnel, has never been drafted.             A series of donor-sponsored studies
indicated that a majority of appointments has been made on the basis of political and personal
connections. For those that did get a job, by whatever means, incentives for good performance
were scarce. PubIic sector salaries lost fifty percent of their value between 1995 and 2000, and
dropped more rapidly afterwards.         There was little funding for training, and limits on the
possibilities for promotion (for good performance) through a formal career system. Donors,
NGOs, and the private sector often attracted the most qualified staff.

Human resource inadequacies took many forms. In highly technical offices (the statistical and
economic studies offices, procurement personnel in ministerial and independent project units),
while there were some qualified professionals, their number was often too small to accomplish
their mandate. In a few cases (e.g., commissionaires de douanes'), redundancies ("a useless
layer of extra semi-officials") were also a problem. The actual quality of existing staff had never
been assessed, but there were clearly many areas where numbers were just too few to allow
adequate implementation (taxation, customs, and local governments are mentioned inparticular).
Distribution of staff aggravated the problem, with most located in Port-au-Prince, meaning that
programs depending on decentralized execution or enforcement consequently suffered.

c. Recent changes:      The conditions described above were those confronting Haiti in 2003.
Since that time, a series of steps has been taken to begin to rectify the situation. Many of these
have involved the updating o f the legal framework - the passage o f a new FinancialManagement

'L a FondationHtritagepour Haiti,L'Etat des Liux de la Corruption en Haiti, 2003.
 World Bank (1999),RepubIicof Haiti : Country ProcurementAssessment Report,Draft, September.p. 21.


                                                       6

Law (enacted inNovember 2003, and published in August 2004) and a new Procurement Decree
(published in February 2005) are among the most important.           The former, in addition to
establishing the outlines of a new budgetary process, also mandated the creation of a new
accounting system,      distinguishing between authorizers (ordonnateurs) and approvers
(comptables) of expenditures, created the position of contrdleur financier (internal ex-ante
control) and a new internal auditing office (the Inspection des Finances), and removed the Cour
des Comptes' ex-ante control functions, thus leaving it to focus on ex-post auditing and so
eliminating one potential conflict of interest. The new Procurement Decree creates a Commission
Nationale des Marche`s Publics (CNMP) with a revised mandate and full-time members selected
transparently with input from both the public and private sectors. The new Procurement Decree
also formally establishes the requirement o f competitive biddingpractices over direct contracting
for government procurement and includes new provisions governing the procurement o f
intellectual (consulting) services. A new civil service law has been drafted and i s under study.
Both the CSCCA and the CNMP are also working on additional laws and regulations to permit
the implementation of their revised functions. A 2003 law created the Fonds d'Entretien Routier
(FER)to finance road maintenance, althoughit i s not yet fully operational.

Legal and institutional changes, including those effected before the transition, have produced
additional progress - the vacant positions in the CSCCA have been filled, the Commission
Nationale de Marchks Publics (CNMP) has been created and a director appointed, the FY2004-
05 budget was prepared on the basis of the requirements of the 2003 Financial Management Law
and presented in draft to the donor community and civil society organizations for consultations,
and a Co-ordination Unit in the Prime Minister's Office has taken on the human resource
functions, as a first step to establishing a new civil service law and agency to oversee its
implementation. The unit has drawn up an action plan for meeting short and medium term
human resource needs.       Civil service salaries were increased by 30 percent in 2004, in
consultation with the IMF; and an additional 15 percent increase i s under study. The Ministry o f
Economy and Finance has also established an Anticorruption Unit (the Unite` de Lutte Contre la
Corruption, ULCC) and an office which will promote civil society monitoring of selected reform
programs. The number of comptes courants has been reduced drastically (one per Ministry
being the ultimate goal), and the amounts fed into them dramatically cut to less than 10 percent
of cumulative non-salary current public expenditures since the beginning o f FY 2004-2005.

Haiti also has a self-developed automated financial management system, SYSDEP, which has
recently been installed in seven ministries. While it so far only tracks expenditures, and then
incompletely, its development over the past three years has greatly improved the timely input o f
financial information. With donor support, including that o f the World Bank, this information
will be used by the civil society and anticorruption offices, as well as by the Cour des Comptes
to facilitate the performance of their functions. The MEF i s aware o f the limitations o f the
present system and has sought donor assistance to expand its coverage and add additional
modules to cover budget preparation, investment, contracting/purchasing, accounting (a General
Ledger), human resources (especially salary management), and reporting.          It has also been
willing to entertain suggestions that SYSDEP be replaced by one of the several integrated
financial management systems developed commercially.




                                                  7

While donor support pledged since 2004 has been slow in materializing, several donors now
have recently approved projects inthe economic governance area. These are discussed in further
detail in the next section. Despite doubts about some aspects of the new Budget Law (e.g., its
continuing single-year timeframe and focus on expenditure profiles only, the CSCCA' s
maintenance o f its dual role as auditor and administrative court, lack of emphasis on
performance or results), it represents a clear improvement over its predecessor. If Haiti can
move to its full implementation, its ability to track, control, and demonstrate the use of public
resources should raise the quality of public sector expenditures as well as increase both public
and donor confidence. This will require considerable efforts to establish offices that still do not
exist, train or hire personnel to fill new positions, work out in detail how new procedures will be
carried out, and ensure that the sector ministries and agencies, and not just the office heading
each function, are able to carry out their work. Given the apparently bureaucratic nature of many
o f the contemplated changes, it will also be important to explain their content and wider
importance to nongovernmental constituencies, and to build support for the program with the
broader public.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

Consistency with the Transitional Support Strategy:                      Under IDA'S Transitional Support
Strategy' discussed by the Board in January 2005, during FY2005-2006 IDA would use a mix of
lending operations, trust fund grants, and non-lending services to "support the transition to
economic and social recovery, reduce the potential of a return to conflict, and lay the
groundwork for the Bank's longer-term objective in Haiti:                      inclusive growth and poverty
reduction through local development, institutional strengthening and support for productive
sectors." Two areas of focus are emphasized: delivering hope and quick wins, and restoring
credibility ininstitutions. The current proposal coincides explicitly with this second area, both in
its emphasis on strengthening economic governance and on promoting inclusion and consensus
on development priorities. It also will be an important input to the quick wins, in ensuring that
public investments are made in a productive, transparent fashion.

Complementarity with other Bank Activities: As noted, the proposed operation i s part of a
package of assistance the Bank i s providing to Haiti in the area o f economic governance. The
EGRO contains conditionality on economic governance reforms, and the LICUS Trust Fund i s
intended to provide the immediate technical and financial support needed to implement them.
However, given their timeframes, both are limited as to the amount o f change they can promote.
The EGTAG i s intended to build on their progress, and move Haiti toward more sustainable
patterns of good economic governance. It will also be necessary to ensure the desired returns to
other sector work included in the Bank portfolio. Since much of this work will be channeled
through government agencies, the latter's ability to program and execute their funds in an
efficient, effective, and transparent manner i s key to their success. For this reason, the EGTAG,
while implemented through and with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and providing
additional direct assistance to other central agencies (the CNMP, the MPCE, the CSSCA), will
coordinate with efforts by other donors (principally the IDB) focusing on building capacity for
good financial management within sector ministries.


  Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic o f Haiti, Report No. 30541, December 10,2004.


                                                            8

Complementarity with Other Donor Activities: The preparation of this operation has been done
inclose collaboration with other donor agenciesactive inthe area of economic governance (IDB,
USAID,CIDA, AECI, EU, IMFandthe French CooperationAgency). An economic governance
group led by the Government is now operating in Haiti to help coordinate donor work and to
ensure it meets Haitian priorities. The focus of this collaboration has been to ensure that the
direction of donor support i s consistentwith ICFpriorities and that there are no redundancies.

The actors with the broadest focus are the IMF, IDB, USAID, and the World Bank. Canadahas
begun some activities, focusing largely on the Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation
and the sector planning offices, and Spain i s beginning training programs to strengthen
administrative and managerial capacity, starting with a course on project design and
implementation. France intends to provide a few long-term advisors in the areas of customs,
taxation, and budgetary reform. The IMF has undertaken a financial management review, the
results of which have been incorporated in the EGTAG design. As regards donors working
directly in the area, complementarity i s being pursued by exchange of information and some
joint planning of interventions. For example, as USAIDhad already set up a missionto evaluate
SYSDEP and related aspects of tracking of budgetary information, both the IDB and the World
Bank agreed to hold off action here, and instead use USAID's assessment as a first cut at
identifyingneeds. As France and the IDB are taking the lead in customs andtaxation, the World
Bank will not be active there at this time. Likewise, several donors, including the World Bank,
are financing the pre-audit and audit activities needed by the five major public enterprises,
meaning that the EGTAG will not work there. Further work with the MEF, CSCCA, CNMP,
and MPCE will bejointly programmed with the agencies involved; for example, IDA has shared
i t s PCN for the EGTAG and its draft PAD with the IDB and USAID, the two agencies which
will also support these entities, and Bank staff has been invited to join IDB meetings with their
joint Government counterparts. The IDB and the World Bank also held ajoint mission to Haiti
in mid-April, coinciding with an IMF mission, and aimed at consolidating their joint and
individual proposals with the Government.               All work on economic governance is also
complementary to the wider range of donor activities (outside economic governance per se) as
improvedpublic resourcemanagementi s a sine qua non for effective project performance.

Lessonsfrom Past Assistance: As the 2002 OED review of Bank assistance to Haiti notes," a
predominant reason for the low success rate of Bank supported interventions had been assuming
the problems were only technical and financial rather than institutional and political.                     A
secondary problem had been the differences in priorities between the government and the Bank
(especially as regards privatization and civil service reform).             A third was the continuous
political turmoil and governance problems in Haiti, and a fourth was the offer, from all donors,
of a level of assistance that overwhelmed the country's absorptive capacity.                         Finally,
discontinuities in Bank staffing and the poor choice of some local hirings were identified as
contributing to a low success rate of Bank supported interventions. Other donors" remarked on
similar obstacles to their interventions, highlighting doubts about political commitment to
reform, institutionalweaknesses, and limited absorptive capacities. Similar lessons emerge from


lo  World Bank, OperationsEvaluation Department,Haiti Country AssistanceEvaluation, Report No. 23637,
February 12, 2002.
    United States GovernmentAccountability Office, GAO (2000), "Foreign Assistance: Any Further Aid to Haitian
Justice SystemShouldbe Linkedto Performance-RelatedConditions." (GAO-01-24), October 2000.


                                                      9

the LICUS Task Force report12 which concluded that development assistance to countries with
weak policies, institutions, and governance had been largely ineffective, and recommended that
continued engagement focus on a mix of knowledge and grant financing to support
improvements in policies, institutions, governance and basic service provision. The TSS'
emphasis on "restoring credibility in institutions" and strengthening economic governance
responds to these lessons, as does the proposed EGTAG. This i s evident first in the EGTAC
focus and coverage, but also inthe stress on:


     0   coordinating donor activities,
     0   ensuringgovernment ownership through the use of the ICF, and
     0   pursuingobjectives incrementally.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes
The higher level objectives to which this project contributes are those highlighted in the TSS -
"inclusive growth and poverty reduction though local development, institutional strengthening
and support of productive sectors." The emphasis in the proposed EGTAG i s on institutional
strengthening with an emphasis on economic governance. Without improvement inmanagement
of public resources (including those supplied by donors), sector programs focusing on growth,
poverty reduction, and emergency relief and recovery will not be effective, and the country may
face another withdrawal of external support. The operation also addresses the need for more
inclusive policies and programs by incorporating elements of civil society monitoring, access to
information, communication of reform contents and progress, and other mechanisms intended to
foment broader participation in and support for governance reforms.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

The choice of a Technical Assistance Grant follows the LICUS Task Force recommendations
(knowledge and grant funding) and its emphasis - as well as that of other donor programs -- on
technical assistance for institutional strengthening. To ensure GoH ownership, the EGTAG
supports ICF priorities and also includes benchmarks to facilitate monitoring of activities'
implementation and ensure timely execution. Coordination with other donors will perform a
similar function.

2. Programobjectiveand Phases
The operation proposed herein is part of an assistance package described in the TSS, but also
possibly extending beyond the period covered in that d~cument.'~Building on the measures
supportedunder the EGRO and the emergency assistanceunder the LICUS Trust Fundgrant, the
US$2 million EGTAG i s intended as the first step in a program of Bank support to Government
efforts to improve economic governance. This program i s based on the contents of the ICF,
additional discussions with the Government, and informationprovidedby other donors as to their
on-going and intendedsupport in the area. As should be clear from the preceding description of

'*World   Bank Group Work inLow-Income Countries Under Stress: A Task Force Report, September, 2002.
l3The TSS covers FY 2005 and 2006. It is expected that full achievement of the economic governance objectives
will take longer.


                                                      10

the situation, quite independently of the amount of resources available, an effective, sustainable
change program will require several years of concerted and sustained effort. The objectives
outlined in the ICF, while essential, cannot be accomplished quickly; for several of them,
experience in other countries suggests that a five-year time frame i s reasonable assuming no
setbacks. For this, both sustained government commitment and a substantial injection of donor
resources will be needed. The Bank's mediumterm assistanceprogram in the area of economic
governance would be complementary to those provided by other donors.                This somewhat
complicates the task of outward planning. While the Government has indicated what it would
like to achieve, the interested donors are also in the process of designing their medium-term
support. Hence, the following description of the Bank supported program i s subject to variation,
dependingon future additional donor commitments.

Movement into the next stages of the Bank-supported economic governance program will, of
course, be contingent on continuing government commitment to the reforms, the results of this
first stage, and advances madewith other donor assistance. Inthe next section, the content of the
EGTAG i s discussed in greater detail. In the present section, the overall goals and envisioned
content of the EGTAG and those of a possible second US$2 million TA operation that could be
presented to the Board in the later part of FY06 are reviewed. The areas included in the two
operations are similar except for the possible addition of a public enterprise component in the
second. There are differences in emphasis: the EGTAG will include more efforts to lay out
frameworks and strategies and to pilot new arrangements; the follow-on TA operation would
buildon the first, especially as regards implementing these strategic foundations and expanding
pilot efforts deemed worth replication. Both are relatively short-term operations, and as noted
above and below, a full medium-term assistance program will necessarily extend through five
years, and would require additional funding.

Financial Management

        Budgetary Processes - the goal set out under the ICF i s to: modernize the IFMS
         (SYSDEP); establish an accounting system compatible with international standards; set
         up a board of public accountants, strengthen budget preparation, strengthen the Ministry
         of Planning's ability in investment and project planning; and strengthen the role of the
         Treasury inmanaging all expenditures. These actions are centered inthe MEF and inthe
         MPCE, but also include strengtheningof other relevant ministries and agencies across the
         public sector. The EGTAGwill focus on providingsupport to the MEF and the MPCE in
         developing their capacities and systems, while support to the sector ministries and on
         SYSDEP would be covered by other donors. Under a possible follow-on TA operation,
         the Bank-supported program would continue support to the MEF and MPCE, but would
         also include a component on IFMS design, to ensure its consistency with the new
         procedures and organization. Current estimates are that the entire program, with funding
         from all sources, would cost US$8 million, of which less than half i s currently covered by
         existing and planned donor programs. However, funding available within the TSS time
         frame (FY05-06) appears adequate for what can be achieved during that period, taking
         into account the government's absorptive capacities.
     0   Control -the ICF goal i s to ensure that the regulatory framework matches the provisions
         of the new Organic Law on financial administration. Bank support under the LICUS



                                                 11

       Trust Fund grant, the EGTAG and a possible follow-on TA operation, is a continuing,
        iterative process, helping the CSCCA to design its new organizational and normative
        framework and providing assistance (through specialized consultants, training, and
        equipment) to ensure it can perform its role adequately. Under a possible follow-on TA
        operation, more emphasis would be placed on the training of the controleurs financiers,
        responsible for internal control, and on ensuring the coordination of their work with that
        of the CSCCA. Estimated costs of activities are US$1 million, of which the Bank would
        provide the major portion.
    0  Procurement - the ICF goal i s to establish a central control mechanism (the CNMP) and
        ensure its ability to carry out its work, strengthen sector procurement offices, strengthen
        private sector capacity to tender bids, and consolidate the judicial and regulatory
        framework.      As with control, Bank support under the LICUS Trust Fund grant, the
        EGTAG, and a possible follow-on TA operation would be an iterative processing,
        focusing largely on the CNMP and dependingon other donors (largely the IDB) for work
        on the sector ministries. Estimated costs are US$2.5 million, of which the Bank would
        provide roughly half. While these activities will take longer than the TSS timeframe,
        considerable progress should bepossible within that period.
    0  Revenue management - the ICF includes two objectives: finalizing and implementing
        the strategic plan to reorganize and modernize the Customs Office, and finalizing and
        establishing a strategic plan to reorganize and modernize the Directorate General of
        Taxes. The Bank does not currently contemplate support here, as other donors (IDB,
        France and IMF) are taking the lead. Should additional assistance be necessary, it could
        beprovidedoutside of the TSS timeframe.

Human Resources      -ICF    goals include adoption of a new normative and legal framework for
human resource management; short- and medium-term training for staff; and development of
mechanisms to improve staff incentives. EGTAG supports the first and second objectives; the
possible follow-on T A operation would continue this support, but substantial improvements in
the second and third areas will be a longer term process, and in the end require financial
investments beyond those immediately available through any identified source. The most likely
scenario i s a larger program, with Bank and other support, initiated after the TSS period.
Nonetheless, because of the centrality of this theme, and because other donors, while providing
training, will not otherwise address it, it was decided to include a small component to keep it on
the table.

Anti-corruption and Civil Society Monitoring - ICF objectives in the anti-corruption area
include creation of an anti-corruption unit (accomplished), an anti-corruption survey (underway
with Bank support), strengthening of the unit's capacities in investigation, anti-corruption
programming, and public education; and development of a longer-term anti-corruption strategy.
As substantial funding has been made available through the LICUS Trust Fund grant and other
donors' programs, Bank support under both the EGTAG and a possible follow-on TA operation
will continue at modest levels, focusing on targeted capacity strengthening assistance.
Objectives in regard to civil society monitoring include development of a mechanism under the
MEFto provide financial and technical support to civil society monitors. The Bank is currently
the only donor providing support to civil society monitors. Since overall financing needs for the




                                                  12

      civil society monitors are estimated at US$1 million, and therefore exceed EGTAG's budget,
      additional Bank grant facilities are being sought to finance further activities inthis area.

      Communication and Outreach - ICF objectives include establishing a communications
      programthat explains the vision and goals of the government's economic governance reform and
      provides public information on public resourcesandhow they are managed and spent. The Bank
      i s also supporting additional government and donor efforts around public communications and
      the ICF through the LICUS Trust Fund grant and plans to continue supporting communications
      efforts under the proposed EGTAG. Activities to be financed include the publication of reports
      from civil society monitors and press, television, and radio coverage of the economic governance
      reforms.

      Public Enterprisesand InfrastructureManagement - ICF objectives include the auditing of
      accounts of five main public enterprises and actions to improve their management, including but
      not limited to private sector participation in or assumption of their administration (via
      management contracts). The LICUS Trust Fund grant provides funding for one audit; other
      donors (the EU, CIDA, the IDB) and in the case of TELECO, its parent the Central Bank, are
      funding additional audit and (where needed) pre-audit activities. A possible follow-on TA
      operation may provide some support for the second goal (already being explored through World
      Bank funded studies) and for the development of a regulatory framework, although the funding
      and temporal requirements suggest the activity may require its own program, with separate
      funding from the Bank and other donors.

      The table below summarizes proposed Bank support through EGTAG and a possible follow-on
      T A operation.    As indicated above, it should be stressed that some of the ICF objectives
      (especially in the areas of budget, human resources, private enterprises, and revenue collection)
      will require a longer time frame than that covered by the ICF or the TSS. The Bank's possible
      medium-term program in fact would extend beyond the TSS and the funding it includes.


                  Table 1:Medium-TermProgramto SupportEconomicGovernance

                    Objectivesand Funding                                                PossibleWorld Bank
                             Needs                                                           Follow-on TA


                   Developmentof budgetary  Support to the     LICUS Trust         Upto US$1millionfor
processes          system, including        MEFandthe          Fund Grant          continuation of EGTAG
                   investmentbudget and     MPCE in            $77,000; USAID,     assistance and coordination with
                   IFMS                     developing their   US$1.2 million      I F M S development
                                            capacities and     for I F M S
                   EstimatedUS$8 million    systems.           evaluation and
                                                               equipment; IDB
                                            US$550,000         US$2.5 million
                                                               for equipment and
                                                               support to sector
                                                               ministries; CIDA
                                                               and AECI support
                                                               for project design
                                                               and management


                                                        13

r                  Table 1:Medium-Term Programto Support Economic Governance

                    Objectives and Funding                                                  Possible World Bank
                             Needs                                                             Follow-on TA
                                                                   2apabilities.
B) Procurement     Developmentof CNMP          Supportto           LICUS Trust        Up to US$500,000 to
                   and sector procurement      CNMP                FundGrant          :ontinue EGTAGassistance
                   system, new processes,      strengthening       US$231,800for
                   andtraining of staff and                        CNMP;
                   private vendors innew       US$500,000          IDB:US$1.34
                   processes                                       million for
                                                                   support to sector
                   Estimated US$2.5 million                        ministries
C) Control         Developmentof external      CSCCA               LICUS Trust        ContinueEGTAG assistancewith
                   and internal control        strengthening       FundGrant          :mphasis onthe training of the
                   systems                                         US$270,000; IDB    controleurs financiers and on
                                                                   for internal       :nsuring the coordination of their
                   Estimated US$1.0 million US$250,000             control, part of   work with that of the CSCCA.
                                                                   componentA
                                                                   above              Uuto US$250.000
                   StrengthenDGIand            Not included        IDBUS2.3           Not included
                   Customs capacities,                             million; France
                   reorganizations, training,                      and IMF,
                   and equipment                                   provision of
                                                                   consultants
Human Resources    Create humanresource        Work on             Support for        Development of humanresource
                   agency and program,         normative and       training from      unitand capacityfor
                   strengthenlegal             legal framework;    AECI and as part   implementing meritcareer system
                   framework, provide          limited support to  of other donor
                   training                    training institutes programs

                                               US$300,000
                   Estimated US$750,000                            Incremental
                   for basic program                               funding, currently
                   Policy implementation                           US$250,000 from
                   amount TBD                                      AECI
                   Create and strengthenanti-  TA for capacity     LICUS Trust        Continue EGTAGassistance
and Civil Society  corruption unit and         building in both    Fund Grant
Monitoring         programfor civil society    areas               US$448,000;
                   monitoring of governance                        IDBto provide
                   reforms and service                             financing for
                   delivery                                        ULCC including
                                                                   procurementdata    Upto US$200,000 for both
                   EstimatedUS$2 million       US$230,000          base               subcomponents
                                                                   (US$500,000);
                                                                   USAIDfinancing
                                                                   for equipment and
                                                                   connectionsto
                                                                   SYSDEP (amount
                                                                   TBD)
                   Audit principalenterprises, Not included        LICUS Trust        A possible follow-onTA
and Infrastructure improve management, and                         Fund grant to      operation could provide support
Management         build regulatory                                provide financing  for developing model for public
                   framework and institutions                      for one audit:     enterprisemanagement, including



                                                            14

                   Table 1:Medium-Term Programto Support Economic Governance

                    Objectives and Funding      EGTAG                                  Possible World Bank
                             Needs                                                         Follow-on TA
                                                                                 via private sector participation in
                                                               and the Central   or assumptionof their
                                                               Bank financing    administration (via management
                                                               other audits;     contracts).
                                                               PPIAFs for FER;
                                                               developmentand    up to us$200,000
                                                               study of
                                                               management
                                                               contract for EDH
Communication      Develop program to build Funding to         LICUS Trust       Dependingonresults and further
and Donor          public understandingof,  continue           Fund Grant for    needs may contribute up to
coordination       and constituency for,    communication      communication     US$SO,OOO for both.
                   economic governance      program begun
                   reforms; buildcapacity   underthe LICUS
                   within MEFto coordinate  TrustFund Grant
                   donor assistance in      and to strengthen
                   economic governancearea  PCU's ability to
                                            coordinatedonor
                                            assistance in
                                            economic
                                            governance area




      3. Project development objective and key indicators

      a. Project Development Objective:       The objective of the Economic Governance Technical
      Assistance Grant (EGTAG) i s to assist the Government in strengthening its institutional capacity
      in the areas of budgetary planning and execution, investment and project planning, control,
      procurement, transparency, participatory monitoring, and reform constituency building. It i s
      designed to advance changes begun with the EGRO and LICUS Trust Fund grant and to
      overcome weaknesses undermining Haiti's planning and implementation of its current and
      investment budget, the efficacy of all donor assistance, and public trust in public sector
      institutions.   Specifically, the EGTAG's development objectives are to: (i)improve the
      government's ability to program, execute and track use of public resources and better link them
      to concrete development goals, ensure an adequate performance of the external, ex-post control
      function by the CSCCA, and help the CNMP grow into its role as overseer of procurement
      practices and make open, competitive procurement the rule rather than the exception; (ii)
      advance the development of a human resource management plan and system, especially as
      regards ensuring adequate capacity in the financial management system; (iii)advance the
      development of the Anti-Corruption Unit as an effective check on corruption while also
      encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in its own operations and as a monitor of
      economic governance reforms; and (iv) ensure as part of the project management process, an
      adequate system for communicating information on the reform programs and mobilizing public
      support for their furtherance, and coordinating activities financed by different donors.



                                                        15

b. Indicators: Specific results expected by project completion are listed in Annex III(Results
Framework). Altogether, implementation of the EGTAG (incollaboration with activities of other
donors) will provide an improved institutionaland operational framework for the preparation and
execution of the current and investment budget, tracking and control of expenditures, the
implementation of the new procurement decree, identification, hiring, and training of key staff,
and dissemination of information on the reforms and processes to Haitian citizenry. Emphasis
will be on bringing existing structures and practices into conformity with the improved legal
framework as preparation for subsequent steps leading to further institutional strengthening and
public sector modernization. Because of the short life of the project, and the emphasis on
institutional change, results indicators will focus on the latter, not on downstream impacts. They
will measure the extent of adoption of new practices and structures in the following areas, as a
necessaryprelude to producing improvements in output:


    0   Implementation of key processes, staff, and offices defined by the new budget law and
        procurement decree;
    0   Advances inthe creation of a systemto managehuman resources, compliance with
        normative framework, and development of improvedregulations;
    0   Advances inthe development and activities of the anti-corruption office and civil society
        monitoringprogram; and
    0   Advances indonor coordination, communication and outreach.

4. Project components
The project includes four main components: (i)        financial resource management; (ii)   human
resource development; (iii)anti-corruption and civil society engagement; and (iv)
communication, coordination, and project management. Below i s a detailed description of each
project component.

Component 1 Financial Resource Management: this i s the largest component, absorbs the
                --
majority of the EGTAG's resources, and i s presentedas a single component becausethe parts are
so closely interrelated. As the key area for economic governance, this component aims at the
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce
irregular uses and expenditures. The 2003 Budget Law and the 2004 Procurement Decree
represent improvements over their predecessors, but like them could remain largely
unimplemented and so have little impact.           Aside from further implementing regulations
(ArrMs), effective operationalization will require detailed design of new procedures,
redistribution and possibly the addition of personnel (both in the MEF and in other agencies,
including the MPCE and sector ministries), the creation of new functions and offices, training of
personnel in their modified functions and procedures, and some improvements as regards
management of information, ICT equipment, and the roll out and upgrading of SYSDEP. As
USAID has programmed an evaluation of SYSDEPand has funds for equipment, it will take the
lead there, with additional equipment financed by the IDB. Similarly, an IDB grant will provide
funding for the development of a data base on procurement to be managed by the CNMP (and
shared with the other agencies, including the ULCC). As regards other areas, the IDB and the
World Bank have worked on the basis of the MEF's requests, each focusing its assistance as
notedbelow.




                                                  16

0 Subcomponent 1.1 -Budgeting: The IDB and USAID will finance most equipment
  needs and the latter will, incoordination with the IDB and World Bank, provide financial
  and technical assistanceto evaluate SYSDEP and plan its expansion or replacement. The
  EGTAG will instead focus on design and implementation of basic budgetary procedures
  and functions as established in the new Organic Law. This will include supporting the
  MEF and MPCE to help staff implement procedures and instructions focusing on:
  developing a structure for budget elaboration, with increasing elements of a program-
  activity format; developing the accountability process still absent from the Financial
  Management Law; developing and implementing a sound cash-management system;
  implementing the internal ex ante control process (support for ex-post internal control
  will be providedby the IDB); and integrating at the central (MEF and MPCE) and in the
  sector ministries, the investment and current cost budgets and programming process.
  The IDB and CIDA will focus on supporting key sector ministries in implementing
  programming proceduresdeveloped inthe MEF and MPCE with World Bank assistance.

  The LICUS Trust Fundgrant finances two related activities: a study tour to review other
  integrated financial managements systems (which will be coordinated with U SAID'S
  initial findings) and a consultant to help the MEF develop a plan for implementingthe
  new law, and possibly moving beyond it toward a more programmatic budget format
  (with some connection to a results framework, poverty reduction indicators, and a multi-
  year focus). This consultancy will provide the more specific design and action program
  for the activities listed above.


0 Subcomponent 1.2 - External Control: The LICUS Trust Fund grant funding for the
  Cour Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) will support
  class-room and on-the-job training of auditors in their new ex-post control function and
  the drafting of an updated Organic Law. Under the EGTAG, the CSCCA's initial
  experience with ex-post auditing will be evaluated, and further personnel, equipment,
  budgetary, and training needs identified, resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency's
  performance over the following two to three years.           The EGTAG will support
  implementation of and further adjustments to this plan. Work will be coordinated with
  assistance provided by the IDB in the area of ex-post internal control, the only other
  donor agency to contemplate assistanceinthis area.

0 Subcomponent 1.3 Procurement: The EGTAG builds on assistance provided under
                         -
  the LICUS Trust Fund grant to support the newly created Commission Nationale des
  Marche`s Publics (CNMP).         It will support the CNMP's transformation into the
  permanent body mandated by law, the creation of a public-sector wide corps of
  procurement officials, and the development of and training in standardized procurement
  procedures. It will also continue work initiated under the LICUS Trust Fundgrant inthe
  development of standardized bidding documents, publication of information on bids and
  contracts, and the education of potential bidders and the general public on the
  procurement process.        At the same time, IDB technical assistance will support
  strengthening of procurement departments within key sector ministries (Health,
  Education, Agriculture, Public Works, and Justice) and the CNMP's creation of a
  centralized database on suppliers and consultants available for government contracts,



                                           17

        with input from and for use by all contracting entities. The IDB may also support work
        to prepare a new procurement law to present to Haiti's new legislature in 2006, building
        on the improvements introduced by the decree of February 2005. As with all elements
        under this component, this is an incremental process in which new procedures will be
        tested and modified according to preliminaryresults. It i s contemplated that a consulting
        firm will be hiredto support the Government in these activities, and that segments of its
        contract will be paid through the LICUS Trust Fund grant, the EGTAG, and the IDB
        programs.

Component 2      -- Human Resource Development: during the identification missions and as
part of the ICF, a Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial
plan for meeting the public administration's most critical human resource needs. This plan will
be the basis for further development of this area, but given the plan's estimated costs (in excess
of US$lOO million), the EGTAG will support the Human Resource Unit in the Prime Minister's
Office to focus selectively on three areas to lay the foundations for subsequentwork:


    4   Subcomponent 2.1.- Strengthening of Human Resource Program: this will provide
        support to the Prime Minister's Office (pending creation of a Ministry for the Public
        Function) to develop its capacity for monitoring human resources needs, policy, and
        programs and its ability to help other executive agencies develop plans for meetingtheir
        personnelneeds over the next five years.
     0  Subcomponent 2.2 Civil Service Reform: Working with the Human Resource Unit
        and other agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including the necessary
        legal foundation. Under a possible follow-on technical assistance operation, steps would
        be taken to initiate implementation, probably on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-
        function basis.
     0  Subcomponent 2.3 - Further development of training capacity:               Enhancing the
        Human Resource Unit's ability to plan training and the capacity of public sector training
        institutions to deliver the training needed for the first three areas. While course design
        will be financed under the other components of this operation or by other donors (e.g.,
        AECI, USAID, IDB), the emphasis in this sub-component i s on upgrading the overall
        planning capabilities and physical facilities of public sector's training institutions (the
        latter with the goal of eliminatingthe need to rent hotel conference rooms).

Component 3 Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement: the LICUS Trust Fundgrant
                 -
i s supporting establishment of the Unite`de Lutte cuntre la Corruption (ULCC) and a program of
civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms. The U SAID and IDB "anticorruption"
projects will fund some ULCC activities directly. The EGTAG will help develop the ULCC's
capacity for anti-corruption programming, including skills and techniques needed for diagnosing
institutional vulnerabilities (corruption maps) and the design of remedies, provide assistance in
drafting improved laws (notably, a freedom of information law) and fund an evaluation of the
early performance of the mechanisms for monitoring of economic governance reforms by civil
society organizations.

Component 4 -Communication, Donor Coordination, and Project Management: the
program supported by the EGTAG will be implemented under the project management



                                                  18

mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund grant, and will have an overall coordinator as
well as an individual responsible for the area of budget reform (the MEF's own activity). The
overall coordinator will have oversight of the World Bank, IDB and USAID activities in the
areas covered by EGTAG; the budget reform coordinator will have oversight of IDB, USAID,
World Bank, and other donor assistance in this specific complex reform area. One or more
liaison officers will be responsible for tracking progress in the other components and entities,
identifying difficulties inimplementation of their programs, and helpingaddress them. The PCU
will also coordinate all donor assistance to economic governance, including holding periodic
meetings (through the Table Sectorielle and related mechanisms) and the creation of a data base
to track activities.

In addition, through the EGTAG the Bank will continue to provide support for communications
activities around the EGRO that have been launched by the MEF with the LICUS Trust Fund
grant support. This includes implementing a communications strategy and promoting two-way
communications between the government and stakeholders to build consensus on reforms,
increase understanding of economic reforms and their objectives, and promote input from
stakeholders. It will be critical to ensure public understanding and support for reforms to ensure
their sustainability.

5. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design: Aside from the general lessons
applicable to all LICUS countries, experience in Haitiover the last year indicates three important
lessons: (i) the need to work incrementally; (ii) importance of constant communication and
                                                   the
coordination among and within governmental agencies and among donors; and (iii) key role
                                                                                      the
played by the counterpart agency and its PCU in effecting this coordinating function. Also, while
the government has shown a capacity to draft and pass new laws, their implementation has
lagged. Before supporting the adoption of new legislation or systems, it therefore appears
important to assist the authorities in implementingexisting legislation. The new budget law and
procurement decree include many worthwhile innovations, and it will be important to ensure
they are implementedin full. As a result, the EGTAG focuses on assisting the Government in
puttinginto effect the innovations it has recently introduced by law. It has also been apparent
that despite the recent greater emphasis on donor coordination, more attention i s needed to
enhance this further and this has been a main focus in the preparation of the EGTAG and the
definitionof its project managementarrangements.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection: A larger technical assistanceoperation
was considered and rejected for the following reasons: (i)  a new Government will enter in office
inearly 2006, at which time the World Bank, incoordination with other donors, will discusswith
it the next phase of technical assistance needs in the economic governance area that could be
supported by a possible follow-on TA operation, thereby ensuring full government ownership;
and (ii) the need to link additional assistance to performance in implementation of the program
and achievement of results on the ground. It was thus decided to provide assistance to Haiti on
economic governancereforms in a two-phase approach as described in Section 2.




                                                 19

C. IMPLEMENTATION
1. Partnershiparrangements. Not applicable

2. Institutional and implementationarrangements: A project coordination unit (PCU)
already exists in the MEFto oversee the LICUS Trust Fundgrant execution. Since the EGTAG
will work with the same group of entities, inaddition to the MEF, the same unit will be used, and
will also oversee the IDB projects. As day-to-day activities for each component or
subcomponent, in the EGTAG and other operations, would be handled by different government
agencies, the major responsibilities of the PCU are to: (i)   ensure that the implementation of the
various components is on track; (ii) an overall vision and keep implementationin line
                                       provide
with it; (iii); compliance with GoH and other donor procurement and financial
                ensure
management regulations; and (iv) design and implement the MEF-specific component (the
budgetary process). It i s the last item in particular that requires strengtheningas during project
preparation it has become clear that if there i s a single MEF vision on directions and priorities
(the plan for implementing the new budget law), this needs to be better communicated to all the
relevant parties inthe public administration. The PCU will also needto add either a full- or part-
time employee to overseefinancial management as well as another to complete the processing of
procurement actions.

The EGTAG will benefit from agency experience under the LICUS Trust Fund grant and the
EGRO, in that by the time it comes into operation, all of the agencies will have a basic
understanding of the project cycle and Bank procedures, know how to do a work plan, how to
access funds, and how to apply procurement procedures and identify and hire consultants.
Rather than ask the PCU to take over this job for the EGTAG, a development which would
require a substantial expansion, the EGTAG will continue the current practice of using a local
consultant to work directly with the various agencies. A coordinating body including
representativesof the entities beyond the MEF, the overall coordinator, and PCU liaison officials
will hold regular meetings to ensure overall inter-agency communication and coordination.
Either in conjunction with this group, or separately, the PCU will hold periodic meetings with
the donors financing these activities to ensure adequate coordination of their assistance. As
needed, the EGTAG may also finance TA for the PCU, to deal with issues crossing agency
borders.
3. FinancialManagementarrangements
Accounting. The MEF will have overall financial management responsibility for the project,
following to a large extent the mechanisms put in place under the LICUS Trust Fund grant.
Accounting of the LICUS grant operations i s handled by the Accounting Unit of the MEF. One
accountant was given specific tasks to keep a separate set of book of accounts for the grant while
the usual approval and control mechanisms of the MEF were followed. Financial operations of
the LICUS grant are therefore recorded and reported separately. Similar arrangements will be
usedfor the EGTAG.
The same PCU will be used for both the EGTAG and the IDB financed technical assistance
project. The current manual accounting system may thus require upgrading to cope with larger
financing and facilitate reporting.




                                                 20

Disbursement. A project special account (SA) denominated in U S Dollars will be opened at the
Central Bank of Haiti or in a commercial bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and
be managed by the MEF. Funds deposited in the SA will be used to finance the activities
implemented directly by the respective entities. The MEF will disburse the funds directly to
suppliers of goods and services upon request from the implementing entities and after control of
all relevant supporting documentation. The authorized allocation to the SA will be limited to
US$300,000 (representing approximately four months of expenditures.) Disbursements will be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures.
Reporting. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be preparedreflecting all components of
the project and submittedto IDA. The FMRs will be an integral part of the activity report, and
accordingly will follow the same periodicity. Given the nature of the activities to be financed
(essentially consultant services and training), the FMRs will focus mainly on the financial
situation of the project, while information on the physical progress and procurement activities
will be providedinthe activity report.
Auditing. Annual financial statements will be prepared by the PCU, and audited annually by
independent auditors, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and terms of
reference acceptable to IDA. The auditors will be recruited no later than six months after grant
effectiveness.

4. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeshesults: Monitoring and supervision of project
implementation would focus on the achievement of expected results. The overall project
monitoring and results framework i s presented in Annex 3 and includes component- and
subcomponent-specific indicators as well as aggregate monitoring indicators agreed upon with
the government for supervision purposes.

Each componenthubcomponent implementing agency would evaluate its progress vis-&vis
expected results and would inform the project PCU of the same in order to have aggregate
progress reports prepared twice annually. The Bank would conduct, at a minimum, quarterly
supervision missions to evaluate achievement of intermediate results and to agree with the
participating agencies on adjustments when necessary. Since it i s intended that the project be
implemented within a 12-18 monthtimeframe, no mid-termreview will be undertaken.


5.   Sustainability: Government commitment to and ownership of the project i s strong as
indicated by its sponsorship of the ICF process which provides the basis for the activities
included. The ICF was also instrumental in unifying donor views on the objectives and activities
requiring support, and in encouraging an unusually high level of donor coordination in the
preparation of their individual operations. The GoH's insistence on creating mechanisms to
broaden citizen understanding of the reform process and to involve civil society in the
monitoring of advances will also be critical in establishing and maintaining an external reform
constituency and so helping the program sustain its impetus after the change of administrations.
As these three factors - government commitment, consistency across donor programs, and
citizen demand - are among the most important determinants of sustainability, the operation
enjoys decided advantagesthere.




                                               21

           It is also important to note that the operation is not an isolated intervention, but rather is part of a
           longer-term IDA package and of a coordinated set of activities financed by other donors. It
           builds on activities already underway and, if successful, will be followed by additional technical
           assistance. Hence its sustainability must be measuredwithin this context. This i s an incremental
           process inwhich the EGTAG and the larger program aim to support the GoH inthe attainment of
           the goals it has set out, and to accompanying it as it further develops its own vision.

           6. Criticalrisksandpossible controversial aspects

                                                                RiskMitigationMeasures


To Project Development
Objectives
Proximity of next elections and     The project has been designed to support the first phase of implementation of           S
the chance that the new             economic governance reforms over a short time frame (12-18 months). When the
government will not support the     new Government comes in office, IDA staff will discuss a possible follow-on TA
project, or that becauseof the      operation to support the next phase of reforms. This incremental approach will
elections (or their failure to be   encourage Government ownership inthe medium-term and will also provide a
held) civil violence will escalate  means of determining whether it is appropriate to continue Bank assistance on
                                    economic governance areas. Inaddition, various project components (e.g. the
                                    communications strategy, the anti-corruption and civil society activities) are
                                    intended to build broader support for its goals and so decrease the chances of
                                    government's shifting direction. Ifthe security situation were to deteriorate to the
                                    point of preventing the execution of the EGTAG, the Bank would remained
                                    engaged in the economic governance area through policy dialogue, analytical work
                                    and donor coordination.
Insufficient donor coordination     Government-donors coordinating meetings in Haiti and in Washington will be held        M
impedes advances inkey areas        regularly, and project planning is being done in a coordinated fashion
To Component Results
MEF'sfailure to establish aclear    Proposedjoint donor project implementation arrangements for the activities             M
direction for implementation of     supported by the EGTAGwill contribute to improved coordination for the
the budget law makes it difficult   implementation of the budget law. The Minister of Economy and Finance has said
to program activities, in this and  he will follow IMFrecommendations and that these will provide the direction for
inthe other areas                   support provided by other donors

Weak institutional capacity in any  As with the LICUS Trust fund grant, the EGTAGwill use a local consultant to            M
or all components and failure to    work with the agencies inputting together their work plans and making
enact enabling legislation prevents procurements. While waiting for a new Parliament to be seatedfor the approval of
forward movement in one or more     complex legislation, the current Government has been passing decrees to ensure
of them                             enactment of critical legislation.

GoH i s unable to provide the staff Training will be used to bring staff already inplace closer to the required             M
needed for one or more of the       capabilities, but for the MEF, CNMP, CSCCA Government's commitment to fill
agencies                            required posts will be critical. Staff from the diaspora financed by donors i s also
                                    being hired.




                                                                    22

7. Grant conditions and covenants

The preparation of a project implementation manual acceptable to the Bank will constitute the
sole condition for effectiveness. The inclusion of this condition will ensure that the work i s kept
on track and will guarantee that the project i s implemented per the original agreements and
understandings with the GOH.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY
1. Economic andfinancialanalyses
Although the proposed US$2.0 million project would have a minimal direct economic and
financial impact, in as much as the project aims at improving the use of public sector resources,
reducing corruption and waste, and increasing public (and donor and investor) confidence, its
indirect impacts are expected to be considerable. Moreover, if the EGTAG successfully meets
its objectives, it should at the very least encourage the donor community to increase their
programs in Haiti and with the Haitian government in particular. It should also ensure that
public funds are invested in a manner that would increase public benefits and substantially
reduce leakage towards nonproductive uses.

2. Technical

The project poses no technical issues.

3. Fiduciary
Fiduciary and capacity assessments of the MEF and other participating entities have been
undertaken. Both assessments have concluded that all units would be adequately prepared to
manage the proposed project's procurement processes and finances upon completion of certain
recommendations set forth inAnnexes 7 and 8.

4. Social
This project currently triggers none of the Bank's social safeguard policies.

5. Environment
This project currently triggers none of the Bank's environmental policies.




                                                23

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard PoliciesTriggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                              [I                     [x 1
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                          [I                     [x 1
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                             [I                     [x 1
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                               [I                     [x 1
  Involuntary Resettlement(OP/BP 4.12)                                                  [I                     [x 1
  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                 [I                    [x 1
  Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                   [I                    [x 1
  Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                            [I                    [x 1
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)'                                              [I                    [x 1
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                    [I                    [x 1

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness
The proposedproject would not require any exceptions from Bank policies andwould comply
with all applicable Bankpolicies.




* By supporting theproposedproject, theBank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                           24

                             Annex 1: Country and ProgramBackground
                     HAITI: Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant


A. Country Overview
Situated on the western third of the island of Hispaniola, Haiti i s the poorest country of the
Western Hemisphere. With a population of approximately 8.3 million, an estimated 76 percent
lives below the poverty line (less than US$2 a day) while approximately 56 percent live in abject
poverty (below US$1 dollar a day). At almost three times the regional average, Haiti's poverty
level can only be compared to that of Sub-Saharan Africa,14 and income inequality i s amongst
the highest in the world15.         Haiti ranks 153rd (out of 177 countries) in the UN Human
Development Index. Life expectancy i s a dismal 52 years. Infant and maternal mortality rates
remain amongst the highest in the world. Fully half of the population i s illiterate. Malnutrition
affects a third of all children, and ineffective public health and sanitation systems together with
widespread overty provide fertile ground for the rapid spread of such infectious diseases as
HIV/AIDS'f       tuberculosis, polio and human rabies.             The widespread lack of solid waste
management and access to potable water also contribute to many water borne illnesses and
preventable diseases and childhood deaths.


B. PoliticalContext
Despite its promising beginnings in the 19thCentury as the first and only slave colony to gain
national independence and second free republic of the Western Hemisphere, Haiti's subsequent
history has been fraught with political and economic instability. During the mid 20thCentury
Haiti endured a 30 year dictatorship characterized by corruption, repression, and the pillage of its
wealth.    Its termination in 1986 was followed by a series of short lived governments also
wrought with corruption, which led to the 1990 election of now exiled President Jean Bertrand
Aristide.

Initially hailed by a hopeful populace as the "first leader of the people" since Haiti's hard-fought
independence, Aristide had little time to effect his promises to end political instability, conflict,
andcorruption. Seven months into his administration, the military overthrew him, promptingan
international embargo and the suspension of all but humanitarian aid. These actions further
crippled Haiti's economy and prompted a severe decline in already dire living standards.
Activity in the textile and export-oriented assembly industries (representing over three quarters
of export earnings as well as a considerable share of employment) virtually came to halt; tax
collection and expenditure control systems collapsed; and maintenance of the country's
economic and social infrastructure was all but abandoned.

The return to constitutional rule introduced via the U.S.-led reinstatement of Aristide's
presidency in 1994, was followed a year thereafter by the election and presidential term o f


l4Haiti Living Conditions Survey 2003; based on international poverty lines of US$2PPP and U S1PPP per capita
rfr day.
  As measuredby a Gini coefficient of 0.65.
l6Haiti also leads the Western Hemisphere inreported cases of HIV infectionrates.


                                                      25

President RenC PrCval.               Over the next two years, PrCval's Emergency and Economic
Reconstruction Program (EERP) showed promise towards embarking Haiti on a path of
economic recovery. Indeed, economic indicators for the period 1995-1998 reveal that measures
adopted by the Government to improve economic management had a favorable impact.
Unfortunately, by 1997 corruption, internal ower struggles, weak institutions and poor
governance had begun to reverse this progress." Aristide's 1997 break from the Organisation
Populaire Lavalas (OPL)'*that had supported him since 1990 and establishment by him of the
Lavalas Family (FL) unleashed a severe institutional crisis and a deadlocked parliament -
ultimately suspended in 1999. Absent a legislative body, no major legislation (including budget
laws) could be approved, ongoing reform programs were halted, and ratification of new loans
with international creditors was renderedimpossible.

Aristide's highly contested landslide victory in the 2000 elections spurred civil unrest that
continued to escalate throughout the next four years. This unrest ultimately gave rise to an
armed rebellion that seized the northern half of the country and culminated with Aristide's
resignation on February 29, 2004 and the establishment of a Transition G~vernment'~with a
mandate to create the conditions necessary to hold democratic elections in end-2005 and hand
over power to a new government inearly 2006.

C. The TransitionGovernment Pavingthe Roadfor DemocraticReform
                                            -
The 20th century legacy of predatory presidencies, founded on, preserved and safeguarded
through corruption, pervasive rent seeking, and brutal human right violations, devastated Haiti's
economy, political institutions and infrastructure, not to mention the plight of the population at
large. Facedwith the formidable challenge of confronting deep-seatedpolitical instability, weak
institutions, inefficient use and allocation of resources, and the resulting mistrust of its citizenry,
inApril 2004 the Transition Governmentjoined forces with the donor community to preparethe
InterimCooperationFramework(ICF.)




l7The economic crisis was further compounded in September 1998 with the advent of Hurricane George. Private
transfers, largely in the form of remittances from migrants climbed from 1997 to 2001to account for fully 18
percent of GDP. Such transfers were key to offsetting the impact of economic stagnation that grasped Haiti as a
result of the political crisis and furthermore provided a much needed safety net for the Haitian poor.
l8The OPL was later renamed the Organization du Peuple en Lutte, soon to become the leading opposition party.
l9The creation of this Transitional Government, with Supreme Court President Boniface Alexandre as Provisional
President in accordance with Haiti's 1987 Constitution, was endorsed by a UNSecurity Council Resolution.
Thereafter, a Council of Wise Men made up of seven eminent personalities from key sectors of Haitian society,
designated Gerard Latortue as Interim Prime Minister, and on April 4, 2004, the Transitional Government, political
parties (with the exception of the Lavalas) and civil society representatives signed a political pact agreeing on,inter
alia, the organization of elections in late 2005 and the transfer of power to an elected government in early 2006.

               Box 1:Summary of the ICF                                  The     ICF    identifies  priority

Pillar 1.Improving political governance and promoting national           interventions    and     associated
dialogue: This pillar covers security, police, and demobilization,       financing needs to support Haiti's
disarmament and reintegration, justice, prisons and human rights; and    path to economic, social and
the electoral process.                                                   political recovery throughout the
Pillar2. Strengthening economic governance and promoting                 July 2004-September 2006 period.
institutional development: This pillar focuses on economic
governance, strengthening institutional capacity, and regional, urban    It also constitutes the foundation
and local development and decentralization.                              upon which a future medium-term
Pillar 3. Promotingeconomic recovery. This pillar seeks to support       Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
macroeconomic stability, electricity, private sector, notably SMEs,      (PRSP) encompassing the period
development, rapidjob creation and microfinance, agriculture, roads      2006-2009 will be prepared. The
and transport, and environmental protection and rehabilitation.
Pillar 4. Improving accessto basic service. This pillar focuses on       ICF i s founded on 4 pillars: (i)
urgent humanitarian aid and post-disaster reconstruction; water and      Strengthening political governance
sanitation; health and nutrition; education, youth and sports; culture,  and promoting national dialogue;
the media and communication; food security; slum upgrading; solid        (ii) Strengthening       economic
waste; and safety nets and social protection.                            governance and contributing to
Source: Haiti Country Overview                                           institutional  development;    (iii)
Promoting economic recovery; and (iv) Improving access to basics services. The ICF also takes
into consideration the cross-sectoral issues of crisis prevention, human rights, gender, and
HIV/AIDS (refer to Box 1above.)

D. JumpstartingGrowthandPoverty Reductionthrough Improved Governance
As indicated in the ICF, it is now widely agreed that poor economic governance and weak
institutional capacity have constituted the key impediments to economic growth and
poverty reduction in Haiti and that in the absence of fundamental economic governance
reforms, no other reforms can be achieved much less sustained. Hence, the strengthening of
Haiti's economic governance structure i s considered a sine qua non to the success of the ICF and
ultimately Haiti's future.

In response to the Government's program, on January 6, 2005 the Bank's Board approved a
Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which provides assistanceto Haiti for the implementation
of the ICF. The TSS provides a two-year strategy for Bank support comprised of a mix of
credits, grants and non-lending services totaling up to US$l50 million. Beyond supporting
efforts to meet basic and urgent needs and promoting income generating opportunities, the
launch of reforms that promote longer-term economic governance and institutional development
i s central to the Bank's support of the Transition Government's ICF.

The ICF identified 5 critical areas in need of reform if long-term economic governance and
institutionaldevelopment are to take root and thrive, namely: (i)            public procurement; (ii)budget
process; (iii)   ex-ante and ex-post financial control (including by the Superior Court of Accounts
and Administrative Litigation and the fight against corruption); (iv) public enterprise
management; and (v) strengthening of human resources for policy formulation and program
implementation.




                                                          27

E. Economic Governance Overview of PrevailingChallenges and PlannedReformsand
                                -
Activities
During preparation of the ICF, the Government and the donor community identified the
structural obstacles prevailing in each of the 5 areas targeted for reform under Pillar I1of its
reform agenda (i.e, Strengthening economic governance and contributing to institutional
development) together with measures aimed at rectifying existing deficiencies. What follows i s a
summary of said findings and proposals.20

Challenge 1: Public Procurement.
The legislative framework prevailing in`2003 was founded on the Public Procurement Decree of
1989 which called for a decentralized national procurement system whereby sector ministries,
administrative units and public enterprises were entrusted responsibility over public procurement
management under the supervision of a national public procurement commission (Commission
Nationale des March& Publiques - CNMP) with auditing responsibilities bestowed on an
independent agency. However, a regulatory framework necessary to implement the Public
Procurement legislation had not been enacted. Furthermore, the CNMP had not functioned since
the early `90s. This was due to an institutional void caused by the absence of a Ministry of Civil
Service, which according to the procurement decree, was mandated to coordinate the CNMP's
functions. Inthe absence o f the necessary regulatory legislation and oversight, ministries and
agencies found themselves hard-pressed to adopt altemative methods to procure goods and
services - rendering them open to opportunities for and allegations spanning from inefficient
procurement practices at best and to large-scale corruption at worst. The situation further
deteriorated as ever-decreasing levels of public expenditures coupled with increasing non-
compliance with procurement procedures prompted qualified procurement staff to abandon the
ranks of the civil service.

Inorder to rectify these deficiencies the ICFproposedthat the following measures be adopted.

9        Establishment of an interim public procurement commission under the authority of the
Prime Minister tofill the current void in the supervision of thepublic procurementfunction. This
interim body21 comprised of five two-year full-time staff, recruited through a competitive
selection process, would exert control and oversight functions over the system of public
procurement and contracts. All meetings would be opened to observers, NGO's and independent
project entities. The interim commission would be allocated sufficient operational budget to
allow it to recruit external expertise as necessary.

9        Recruitment of public procurement specialists. Fixed-term public procurement specialists
(agents) would be recruited by the interim commission to supervise procurement above a
threshold, yet to be determined.           These specialists/agents would train relevant interim
commission staff in all facets associated with the management and oversight o f public
procurement including the training of public and private sector enterprise staff so that oversight
responsibilities could be taken over b y the interim commission staff within a one-year period.



2oThis section draws heavily fromthe Economic Governance Strategic Group's Sectoral Report: Haiti's Interim
*'CooperationFramework, May 26, 2004
  The interimcommission could be formalized via passageof public procurement legislation.


                                                    28

>       Reinforcing transparency. The creation of an Anti-corruption Unit together with the
passage o f a professional code of ethics and dissemination of informatioddata on procurement
processes through both a website and daily journals would go a long way to reduce both the
opportunities for and perception of corruption on the part of civil servants involved in
procurement functions.
>       Strengthening of private sector capacity to tender bids for Government contracts and
procurement. To this end, the interim national commission would: (i)       hold discussions with the
Central Bank, commercial banks and insurance companies to identify measures to facilitate
private sector participation in public bidding; (ii)     impart training to the private sector on
procurement regulations; (iii)   facilitate the open tendering of bids; and (iv) ensure prompt
response to inquiries, claims or grievances on behalf of bidders.

>       Consolidation of Judicial and Regulatory Procurement Framework. The Government
would retain a legal consultant to assist in the preparation and implementation of new public
procurement and contract legislation and would furthermore formalize the status of the interim
commission.

Challenge2: Budgetprocess.
Between 1997 and 2002, Haiti had operated without a budget and in 2002/03, approximately 60
percent of government expenditures were spent through the respective Ministries' own accounts
(comptes courants)--so-called discretionary accounts which effectively evaded tracking
mechanisms thereby considerably reducing the transparency and control of public expenditures.
The ICF noted that the overall efficiency of the budget process i s undermined b y a combination
of weak capacity of the planning, monitoring and assessment structures throughout the Ministries
of Finance, Planning and all other sector ministries and agencies; delays in budget ratification,
deficiencies in both the parameters for budget analysis and data underpinning budget proposals,
and the pervasive use of comptes courants by the ministries to circumvent a lengthy and
cumbersome expenditure execution process. The latter were found to be particularly conducive
to mismanagement and corruption given their considerably discretionary nature and the fact that
use of such accounts i s neither subject to ex ante nor ex-post budgetary scrutiny.

The ICF proposed that the following measures be adopted to correct the above cited structural
inefficiencies:

>       Modernization of the State's automated financial management system.                Successful
implementation of this action would require that: (i)     the SYSDEP management team receive
assistance in drafting a development plan while actions would be taken in parallel to (ii)
operationalize the DAC System; (iii)    improve the existing SYSDEP module; and (iv) integrate
the State budget module into the D A C so as to facilitate real-time processing of State financial
transactions.

>       Establishment of a State accounting system. A unit would be established within the
Treasury Department to implement a module based on a standardized accounting code and
format that would facilitate the recording o f nearly all State financial operations in a double entry
fund accountingsystem thereby enhancing transparency.



                                                  29

9       Establishment of a Board of Public Accountants. To this end, qualified public
accountants would be recruited and trained and statutory orders and regulations would be drawn
upto clearly differentiate the functions of authorizer from those of accountants.

k       Strengthening of Budget preparation. This would entail inter alia strengthening the
analytical capacity of the MEF in budget planning and preparation and imparting training
programs on budget processingto key officials responsible for the budget function; ensuring that
budget information i s linkedto the Government's expenditure and poverty reduction goals; and
drafting of a public investment budget consistent with the ICF and a national strategy for poverty
reduction (PRSP).

9       Reinforcing the capacity of the Ministry of Planning in its role as coordinating public
investmentfor development activities. To ensure effective program and project monitoring, the
Evaluation and Control Directorate (Direction d'Evaluation et de Controle, DEC) as well as
departmental offices would be reopened and provided the support necessary to carry out their
respective oversight roles.

9       Strengthening the role of the Treasury and eliminating parallel institutional accounts. A
single Treasury Account (CUT) under the auspices of the Treasurer-General would be
established by transferring all state revenues (including comptes courunts) into a single Treasury
account. This would increase the Budget Office's capacity to assess the State's financial
standing prior to authorizing expenditures.

k        Completion and implementation of the strategic plan to reorganize and modernize
Customs Offices. The plan calls for inter alia (i)       decentralizing the monitoring system; (ii)
creating an ex-ante control unit to expedite document verification (iii)establishing an
information and documentation unit to track fraudulent activities and determine selection
criteria; (iv) creating an arbitration unit; (v) setting up a declarations assessment and assistance
unit in Port-au- Prince; and (vi) strengthening the quality of service of staff in the provincial
offices through training of same and refurbishingof offices.

9        Completion and implementation of a strategic plan to reorganize and modernize the
Directorate General of Taxes. This would entail: (i)       mobilizing resources; (ii)expanding and
strengthening the revenue envelope and modernizing the revenue collection roles;                (iii)
recovering overdue and outstanding taxes; (iv) improving the quality of assistanceto tax payers;
and (v) collecting other Statereceivables and claims.

Challenge 3: Financial Control
December 2003 saw the passage of the Organic Law on the Preparation and Execution of Laws
on Finance. This law modernizes and clearly delineates the roles of the Supreme Court of
Accounts and Administrative Litigation (CSSA) as well as other public finance institutions and
furthermore establishes a regulatory framework conducive to the efficient control of public
finances. Upon drafting of the ICF, overall control over public finances as called for in the 2003
Organic Law, was seriously undermined by a series of factors:




                                                  30

        CSSA. Although responsible for exercising exclusive oversight of the public finance audit
        functions, the CSCCA's energies and resources had hereto been limited to its ex-ante
        control functions due to such factors as lack of qualified personnel, training and
        competitive salary structures; outdated equipment and data systems; improper and/or lack
        of preparation of final accounts by the Accountants General; lack of cooperation among
        state institutions; and the wide scale use of comptes courants.

        Direction du Controle Budge`taire (DCB). This agency (located within the MEF) i s
        charged with the responsibility of enforcing compliance with investment and operational
        functions.     To this end, the DCB tracks the execution of budget expenditures and
        generates periodic reports that identify gaps between expenditures programmed and
        executed and formulates strategy for corrective actions. As in the case of the CSCCA,
        the overall efficiency of the DCB's operations i s seriously hampered by inadequate
        structure, personnel, and office infrastructure.

        Directorate of Fiscal Inspection. This agency exerts permanent control over all agencies
        responsible for the collection and recovery of duties, taxes, fees and other charges and
        revenues on behalf of the State. A key impedimentto its efficient functioning stems from
        its inability to inspect comptes courants which in turn undermines the Government's
        capacity to evaluate the economic, financial and/or social impact of such expenditures.

The following measureswere proposedby the ICFto correct the above inefficiencies:

P       Establishment of the Regulatory Framework for the new Organic Budget Law. This
action would entail (i) publication and dissemination of the new organic law, regulatory
                           the
provisions on the responsibilities of ordonnateurs and enabling legislation for the creation of a
board of public accountants; and (ii)     drafting the regulatory provisions on the status of the
financial comptrollers.

P       Provision of support to public finance control structures. Support would be provided to
the National Treasury, CSSA, DCB and DEC to bolster their ability to efficiently carry out their
functions in accordance with the Organic Law on the Preparation and Execution of Laws on
Finance. Actions would include but are not limited to: (i)     reorganizing the CSSA, training its
staff and providing logistical support as necessary; (ii)setting up a board of financial
comptrollers at the DCB and providing this office with the technical assistance and logistical
support necessary to reinforce its organization and control methodologies; (iii)  rationalizing the
management of comptes courants and eventually eliminating them; (iv) strengthening the
Directorate of Evaluation and Control (MPECE).

P       Strengthening the Directorate of Fiscal Inspection through such actions as: equipping it
with procedures manuals, and adequate informations systems; the hiring and training of staff in
the areas of accounting, auditing and information technologies; and the provision of necessary
logistical infrastructure.

P       Other. Finally, the feasibility of eventually creating an Inspectorate General of Finance
would be analyzed.



                                                  31

Challenge4: PublicEnterpriseManagement.
Historically treated as sources of funding or employment providers, Haiti's public enterprises
have fallen prey to a legacy of mismanagement that ultimately undermined their overall
efficiency and profitability. Within the context of the ICF, five state-owned enterprises (SOEs)
were chosen to spearhead a strategy geared to improve the management o f public enterprises as a
further venue to bolster national economic recovery and growth, i.e., the national electricity
(EDH);telephone (TELECO); airport authority (AAN); ports (APN); and potable water supply
(CAMEP) companies. In general, the ICF calls for a package of interventions in auditing and
management consultation in each of the five SOEs aimed at (i)increasing the overall
transparency of public enterprise management and (ii)      preparing them for increased private
sector participation in their management structures and recapitalization to ensure their technical
and financial viability.

Specifically, the following actions would be undertaken within the context of the ICF:

NationalAirport Authority (Autorite`Ae`roportuaireNationale,AAN).
>      External audit. An audit of AAN's FY2003 accounts, financial statements and financial
position would be undertaken.
>      Management Review/Assessment of Master Plan.          AAN's capacity to meet the civil
aviation and security service needs of the Haitian airports would be evaluated, and options and a
schedule proposed for private sector participation in the management and/or recapitalization of
same.

NationalPort Authority (Autorite`PortuaireNationale,APN).
>       Secure international certification for the Port au Prince Port so that international
maritime companies can continue to operate inHaiti.

k       External audit. An audit of APN's FY2003 accounts, financial statements and financial
position would be undertaken.
>       Strategic Review. APN's strategy would be assessedand options and a schedule proposed
for private sector participation in the management and/or recapitalization of the ports.
Furthermore, the institutional, financial, technical and operational viability of the Jacmel Port
would be undertakenon a pilot basis.

Metropolitan Potable Water Supply Agency (Centrale Autonome Me`tropolitaine d'Eau
Potable
>       -- CAMEP).
        External audit.    An audit of CAMEP's 2002/04 accounts, financial statements and
financial position would be undertaken.
>       Management Review of CAMEP. The overall viability of the strategies to improve
CAMEP's potable water and sanitation services inthe Port-au-Prince metropolitan area would be
assessed and options and a schedule to promote private sector participation in the management
and/or capitalization o f CAMEPwould be provided.



                                                32

Haiti Telecom(TELECO).
>      External audit. A review of the accounting records, automation of the data management
process and auditing of financial statements for FY 2003/04 would be undertaken.

>      Provision of advice on steps for securing private management of TELECO over a fixed
period. This would entail among other things the definition o f (i)        services to be included within
the management contract; (ii)   the strategy and process for establishing prerequisites and honoring
State commitments; (iii)  management contract cost estimations; (iv) criteria for selection; and (v)
the selection and negotiation of the associated management contract.

Haiti Electricity (Ebctricite`d'Haiti EDH).
                                       -
P      External audit. A review of the accounting records, automation of the data management
process and auditing of financial statements would be undertaken.

>       Provision of advice on steps for securing private management of EDH over a fixed
period. This would entail among other things the definition o f (i)        services to be included within
the management contract; (ii)   the strategy andprocess for establishing prerequisites andhonoring
State commitments; (iii)  management contract cost estimations; (iv) criteria for selection; and (v)
the selection and negotiation of the associated management contract.

Challenge 5: Strengthening Human Resources.

Although the 1987 Constitution and prevailing legal framework underscore the importance of
building a modern, reliable and competent public sector firmly grounded on equal employment
opportunities and merit-based recruitment and promotion practices, the Government's overall
efficiencies i s seriously undermined by a generalized insufficiency in the number of qualified
civil servants and the lack o f an incentive structure capable of attracting, maintaining and
motivating it. Moreover, Haiti's public agencies are particularly vulnerable to high turnover
associated with political fallout which in turn undermines efforts to professionalize career civil
servants. The level of technical expertise throughout all ranks of the public sector i s limited as
evidenced in the fact that: (i)  senior officials comprise 5.6 percent of public service employees;
(ii)technical personnel make up between 35 and 40 percent; while (iii) 65 percent o f the
                                                                                   fully
public sector i s comprised of support staff. To a large extent, the precarious state of the public
sector reflects in part the failure of Haiti's institutions of higher education and life-long learning
to develop policy management training programs that can meet the human resource needs of the
public service.22




22Economic Governance Strategic Group Sectoral Report: Haiti's Interim Cooperation Framework, May 26, 2004.



                                                    33

The ICF identified the following measures to address the above inefficiencies::
>       Hiring of critical staff at the decision-making, conceptual and execution levelsfor ICF
implementation. Over the short term, this could be achieved through: (i)     competitive recruitment
of qualified young professionals (Le., public service officials, staff or consultants); (ii)
participation of qualified executive of the Haitian Diaspora for 1 to 2 years; (iii) of    hiring
consultants b y lenders for 4 to 6 months.
>       Training of existing staff over short and medium term: Needs based training anchored in
the program offerings of existing training institutions could be imparted. With the collaboration
of foreign training institutions, the latter could be developed into individualized programs.

Adoption of an incentives-basedsystem to retain qualified civil servants. A system of incentives,
including salary increases, would be developed to attract and retain competent staff.




                                                   34

                 Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                              HAITI: Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant




 budget processesand financial control; public sector procurement; HR       Operation (EGRO) (IDA US$61.OM)
 management, public enterprise management, private sector participation in
 health and education; civil society monitoring of economic governance
reforms, the development of an anti-corruption strategy.
Capacity buildingfor governance reform inthree areas of public
   -    -                                                                  ILICUS Trust Fund Support for                    S




(sector offices)                                                          0082, US$5.0 million loan)
Implement legal framework for more efficient management of public         IDB-Public Finance Reform(U$25.0 millionPolicy
finances.                                                                 Based Loan)
Technical assistancein tax administration, Institute of Statistics, and   French Cooperation Agency - amounts and timeframe
Customs; undefined number of long and short term consultants              undefined


                                                                     35

36

                                        Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring
                               HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant

                                                          ResultsFramework




StrengthenGoH institutional capacity in         Percentage of non-salarycurrent public            Determineextent to which new budget
budgetary planning and execution,               expendituresgoing through comptes                 wles are taking hold; identify possible
investment and projectplanning, control,        courants                                          2ack sliding
procurement, transparency,participatory
monitoring, and reform constituency             Percentage of un-programmed budget
building                                        resources(inautres interventionspubliques)

                                                Inclusion of external financing
                                                (disbursements and expenditures) inpublic

 IntermediateResultsby Component                                 e Results Indicatorsb

Component One:
Practicesmandatedby Budget law and              Number of comptables designatedand                Check level of compliance with new
Procurementdecree enter into effect             trained in their functions                        Budget Law

                                                Number of auditors hired, trained and             Track CSCCA's progressinreorganizing
                                                carrying out audits                               itself to perform new functions.

                                                Percentage of direct (Le. noncompetitive)         Determine whether CNMP is assumingits
                                                procurements out of total                         new functions
Component Two:
Better enforcement of existing human            Number of public employees listed in              Determine extent of compliance with
resource regulations and development of         humanresourceunit's registry                      regulations on human resources
plan for improved system
                                                Development and approval of a plan to             Measure extent of progressin
                                                create a permanenthuman resource agency           systematizing human resource
                                                                                                  management
ComponentThree:
Development of anti-corruption and citizen      Corruption cases identifiedby ULCC                Assess ULCC efficacy
monitoring programs                             referred to judicial authorities for
                                                prosecution and follow-up
                                                                                                  Assess efficacy of civil society
                                                Numberof reports produced by CSO                  monitoring program, identify any needed
                                                monitors and actions taken in responseby          readjustments
                                                agencies monitored
ComponentFour:
Greater coordination among elements of          Coverage of donor economic governance             To determine whether PCUis performing
financial managementreform program              activities inPCU database                         coordination function

Greaterpublic understandingof, and              CSO members' ability to identify elements         Identify any neededchanges in content
support for, reform program content             of MEF'sreform programs       23                  and format of MEF's communication
                                                                                                  program



          23While ideally this shouldbe public and not CSO response, as the MEF will work directly with CSO groups, it will be easier
          (andnot requireadditionalfunding) to obtainthisinformationless formally from membersof thegroups involved.


                                                                     37

Arrangementsfor resultsmonitoring

Institutional issues: As this i s a project with multiple secondary counterparts (aside from the
prime counterpart, the Ministry of Economy and Finance), most monitoring will be carried out
by the agency directly responsible for a specific set of results. Thus the CSCCA will keep its
own records on hirings, number of audits carried out, and so on; while the ULCC will likewise
keep records o f its own investigations, complaints registered by individuals and the like. The
only exceptions to this general rule will be the few qualitative evaluations (for example of the
linksbetween the budget formulation and development objectives, the actions of the comptables
or the content o f the instructions for preparing the budgets). This part will be done through the
project's supervision budget, either by Bank staff or consultants. Information on public reactions
will either come from separate surveys or from more informal consultations. The PCU's role
will be in consolidating the information from the various agencies. Although the long term
impacts of the endeavor are aimed at the Haitian public as beneficiary, the short timeframe for
the project will mean that within-institution changes are the most that can be measured
realistically. The working hypothesis i s that if these within-institutional changes can be effected,
the improved use of public resources will bring more benefits for all Haitians. However, within
the life-of-project, it would be very difficult to measure that effect.

Datu collection: Data will be both qualitative and quantitative. Most will be derived directly
from the office outputs (budgets, number of audits, trainees, investigations, rules and document
designed) with some additional external evaluation of quality. While there i s always room for
manipulating results, this type of primary data (with the exception o f the qualitative assessments)
i s less susceptible to this effect.

Capacity: As all these offices tend to be short-staffed, collecting the data may be a challenge but
the approach proposed i s rather basic. Efforts put into collecting and presenting data normally
kept by the entities will be counted as counterpart inkind.




                                                   38

zA          2


2A  2    2




         0  0    B
                 .-e

3
3



           Y
           0
           C




           0
           yz
           U




*     3


*     f


     3
0    5

                             Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                  HAITI: Economic Governance TechnicalAssistance Grant

The proposed EGTAG (Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant) i s a US$2 million
grant intended to assist the Government of Haiti in strengthening its institutional capacity in the
areas of budgetary preparation and execution, investment and project planning, internal and
external control, procurement, accountability, participatory monitoring and reform constituency
building. It builds on needs and recommendations identified by the Interim Cooperation
Framework (ICF) in April and May of 2004. It i s envisioned as a medium-term undertaking,
building on progress already made under two existing Bank operations (the Economic
Governance Reform Operation, EGRO, and the LICUS Trust Fund grant) and preparing the way
for further assistance assuming progress under it and commitment to continued economic
governance reforms by the next Government. Since Haiti i s scheduled to hold elections in late
2005, and install a new government in early 2006, much depends on the latter's willingness to
continue in this line, as well, of course, as on the progress made by the present Transition
Government. Thus the time frame for the EGTAGi s intentionally short and the objectives more
narrowly defined than the existing situation might seem to dictate. For example, no activities are
planned for public enterprises under this operation.

In selecting the areas to be supported under the EGTAG, the project team has considered
progress likely to be made over 2005 by the EGRO and the LICUS Trust Fund grant; programs
underway or proposed by other donors; the areas considered most critical to immediate
improvements in economic governance (thereby narrowing the ICF list); and the relatively short
timeframe and existing resources for the proposed operation. The overall emphasis and logic
behind the selection of activities to be covered by the EGTAG i s the desirability of Haiti's
moving into full compliance with its current, vastly improved legal framework, as opposed to the
potential for introducing still further legal modifications, which over the longer run may be
desirable. Priority areas not covered under current World Bank and other donor programs may
be included in a possible follow-on TA operation assuming successful completion of the
EGTAG.

Component 1 Financial Resource Management: this i s the largest component, absorbs the
                --
majority o f the EGTAG's resources, and i s presented as a single component because the parts are
so closely interrelated. As the key area for economic governance, this component aims at the
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce
irregular uses and expenditures. The 2003 Budget Law and the 2004 Procurement Decree
represent improvements over their predecessors, but like them could remain largely
unimplemented and so have little impact. Aside from further implementing regulations (ArrMs),
their effective operationalization will require detailed design of new procedures, redistribution
and possibly the addition of personnel (both inthe MEF and in other agencies, including sectoral
ministries), the creation of new functions and offices, training of personnel in their modified
roles and procedures, and some improvements as regards management o f information, ICT
equipment, and the roll out and upgrading of SYSDEP.

Consultations with other donors indicate that immediate needs in some of these areas will be
covered by their programs. For example, as USAID has programmed an evaluation of SYSDEP


                                                41

and has funds for equipment, they will take the lead there, with additional equipment purchases
financed by the IDB. Similarly, an IDB grant will provide funding for the development of a data
base on procurement to be managedby the CNMP (and shared with the other agencies, including
the ULCC). Revenue management (taxes and customs) will be supported by the IDB and
France, with U SAID providing some support to improving information systems. As regards
other areas, the IDB and the World Bank have worked on the basis of the MEF's own
suggestions, each focusing its assistance as notedbelow.

       Subcomponent 1.1-Budgeting: The IDB and USAID would finance most equipment
       needs and the latter will, in coordination with the IDB and the World Bank, provide
       financial and technical assistance to evaluate SYSDEP and plan its expansion or
       replacement. The EGTAG will instead focus on design and implementation of basic
       budgetary procedures and functions as established in the new Organic Law. This will
       include supportiig the MEF and MCPE to help staff implement procedures and
       instructions focusing on: developing a structure for budget elaboration, with increasing
       elements of a program-activity format; developing the accountability process still absent
       from the Financial Management Law; developing and implementing a sound cash-
       management system; implementing the ex-ante internal control process (support for the
       ex-post internal control and the creation of the Inspection des Finance will beprovidedby
       the IDB); and integrating at the central ministries (MEF and MPCE) the investment and
       current cost budgets and programming process.         The IDB and CIDA will focus on
       supporting key sector ministries in implementing procedures for programming and
       executing recurrent and investment budgets developed in the MEF and MPCE with WB
       assistance. The MEF's own evolving budgetary model i s being further developed on the
       basis of IMFrecommendations.

       The LICUS Trust Fund grant will finance two related activities: a study tour to review
       other integrated financial managements systems (which will be coordinated with
       USAID's initial findings) and a consultant to help the MEF develop a plan for
       implementing the new law, and possibly moving beyond it toward a more programmatic
       budget format (with some connection to a results framework, poverty reduction
       indicators, and a multi-year focus). This consultancy will provide the more specific
       designand action program for the activities listedbelow.

       Activities under the EGTAG include the provision of consultants to help Budget and
       Treasury develop a diagnosis of current staffing patterns and needs, including those
       related to new functions within the Ministry (e.g expanded role for the Treasury and for
       the DCB) and throughout the public sector (e.g., the differentiation of the ordonnateur
       and comptable roles; addition of controleurs financiers) and offices (e.g. that for
       accounting in the Treasury); development and implementation of plans to fill staffing
       gaps; preparation and delivery of training programs within the MEF (to be coordinated
       with those financed by the IDB in the sector ministries), provision of short term
       consultants to assist agencies in applying and refining new procedures, and training inthe
       use and analysis of SYSDEP. As the Ministry of Planning manages the investment
       budget, the same objectives will be addressedthere, with Canada taking the lead in the
       development of sector ministries' programming units (Unite`s de Programmation). The



                                                42

 EGTAG will focus on coordination of the investment and operational budgets and the
  improved overall planning of both.         Depending on progress made, and further
  developments in the MEF's own plans, the EGTAG may also provide consultancies to
  advance the progress toward a program budget, but this would be only after the initial
  objectives are achieved and most likely will be left for a possible follow-on T A
  operation. It i s envisagedthat the technical assistancewill be done provided a single TA
  contract with an institute or firm able to provide support in all the areas noted. The
  US$550,000 earmarked for this purposed should include the provision of one long-term
  consultant to oversee and coordinate the process, short-term consultants in more specific
  areas, and training costs for MEF and MPCE staff.


0 Subcomponent 1.2 External Control: The LICUS Trust Fund grant funding for the
                        -
  Cour Supe`rieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) will support
  class-room and on-the-job training of auditors in their new ex-post control function and
  the drafting of an updated Organic Law. The EGTAG will support: the CSCCA's: (i)
  evaluation of its initial experience with ex-post auditing; (ii)      identification of further
  personnel, equipment, budgetary, and training needs; and (iii)      development of a plan to
  upgrade its performance over the following two to three years. The EGTAG will also
  support the implementation of and further adjustments to this plan. Work will be
  coordinated with assistance provided by the IDB in the area of ex-post internal control
  (the creation of the Inspection des Finances), the only other donor agency to contemplate
  assistanceinthis area. Specific activities supportedby the EGTAGwill include:

      Restructuring of CSCCA and further development of its own auditing policy and
      standards aligned with internationally accepted policies and standards, and business
      process re-engineering (with a greater focus on modern informationtechnology, cross
      cutting functions, and improved oversight of internal CSCCA operations);

  0   Defining staffing policies and human resource management plan emphasizing
      training to ensure that the full range of skills, experience and expertise i s available
      and relevant to the audit tasks required for effectively fulfilling the CSCCA's
      mandate;

  0   Establishing measures to ensure quality control and quality assurance laid down in
      regulations, rules and procedures;

  0   Promoting effective communication within CSCCA and with key stakeholders
      externally, particularly Parliament (when it i s reinstated), the media andcivil society;

  0   Coordination with work related to accounting processes and internal control
      (formation of the controleursfinanciers) developed under subcomponent 1.1and with
      the IDB funded activities related to internal control (development of the Inspection
      des Finances.).


  Inputs will be a combination of long and short term technical assistance in the areas
  identified as needing readjustments (US$150,000), development and execution of further
  training programs for the CSCCA professional and administrative staff (US$50,000), and
  development and production of manuals (US$50,000).


                                           43

   0   Subcomponent 1.3 Procurement: The EGTAG builds on assistance provided under
                             -
       the LICUS Trust Fund grant to support the newly created Commission Nutionale des
       Mui-chks Publics (CNMP).         It will support the CNMP's transformation into the
       permanent body mandated by law, the creation of a public-sector wide corps of
       procurement officials (in coordination with IDB assistance), and the development of and
       training in standardized procurement procedures. It will also continue work initiated
       under the LICUS Trust Fund grant in the development of standardized bidding
       documents, publication of information on bids and contracts (coordinated with the data
       based developed with IDB support), and the education of potential bidders and the
       general public on the procurement process. At the same time, IDB technical assistance
       will support strengthening of procurement departments within key sector ministries
       (Health, Education, Agriculture, Public Works, and Justice) and the CNMP's creation of
       a centralized database on suppliers and consultants available for government contracts,
       with input from and for use by all contracting entities. The IDB may also support work
       to prepare a new procurement law to present to Haiti's new legislature in 2006, building
       on the improvements introduced by the decree of February, 2005. As with all elements
       under this component, this is an incremental process in which new procedures will be
       tested and modified according to preliminary results. It i s envisaged that a consulting
       firm will be hiredto support the Government in these activities and that segments of its
       contract will be financed through the LICUS Trust fund grant, the EGTAG, and the IDB
       programs.

                              Table A: Component 1,Cost Table

Subcomponents
1.1 Strengthening the Budgetary Process (including investment US$ 550,000
budget, MPCE)
1.2 Control                                                        US$ 250,000
1.3 Procurement                                                    US$ 500,000
Total Comnonent Cost                                               US$1.300.000


Component 2     -- Human Resource Development: during the identification missions and as
part of the ICF, a Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial
plan for meeting the public administration's most critical human resource needs. This plan will
be the basis for further development of this area, but given the plan's estimated costs (in excess
of US$lOO million), the EGTAG will support the Human Resource Unit in the Prime Minister's
Office to focus selectively on three areas:


    0  Subcomponent 2.1.- Strengthening of Human Resource Program. This will provide
       support to the Prime Minister's office (pending creation of a Ministry for the Public
       Function) to develop its capacity for monitoring human resources needs, policy
       (including enforcement of merit appointments), and programs, and its ability to help other
       executive agencies develop plans for meeting their personnel needs over the next five
       years, While donor-financed consultants may temporarily perform some core functions,



                                               44

       the longer term need i s to ensure Haiti can recruit, maintain, and compensate a permanent
       core staff. Inputs here will largely be technical assistance, aimed both at helping the
       present staff carry out their functions and developing a plan for building a more
       permanent unit with expanded functions (e.g. with a capacity for doing personnel
       inventories and job classifications).    Some equipment may be provided for ordinary
       office work and to expand the existing registry of government employees.
       Subcomponent 2.2 Civil Service Reform: Working with the above agencies to design
                             -
       a longer-term civil service reform, including the necessary legal foundation. Under a
       possible follow-on TA operation, steps can be taken to initiate implementation, probably
       on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-function basis. Technical assistance will be
       provided to work on the draft civil service law and to do non-legal analysis (economic
       studies) of its implications once entering into effect.
       Subcomponent 2.3       -  Further development of training capacity:        Enhancing the
       capacity of public sector training institutions to deliver the training needed for the first
       three areas. As specific courses will be developed within each of the other components,
       this subcomponent will provide funding for rehabilitating and equipping existing training
       institutes (e.g. CEFOPAFOP) which will be used as sites for training financed under the
       EGTAG or by other donors. In any possible follow-on TA operation, support may be
       added to help CEFOPAFOP and others develop programs prioritized by the Human
       ResourceUnit or by specific ministries.

                                 Table B: Component 2, Costs

Subcomponent                                                           cost
2.1 Strengthening of HumanResourceProgram                              us$loo,ooo
2.2 Civil Service Reform                                               US$ 50.000
2.3 Further Development of Training Capacity                           US$150,000
Subtotal                                                               US$300,000

Component 3 Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement: the LICUS Trust Fundgrant
               -
supports establishment of the Unite`de Lutte contre la Corruption (ULCC) and a programof civil
society monitoring of economic governance reforms. The U SAID and IDB "anticorruption"
projects will fund some ULCC activities directly. The EGTAG will do further fine-tuning in
both offices' programs, but owing to limitedresources will reserve further support for a proposed
second phase. In the case of the ULCC, it will help develop the unit's capacity for anti-
corruption programming, including additional training in skills and techniques needed for
diagnosing institutional vulnerabilities (corruption maps) and the design of remedies, provide
assistance in drafting improved laws (notably, a freedom of information law, FOIA) and
promoting national dialogues to build support for their passage, and continue the public
communication campaign.

The EGTAG will also fund an evaluation of the early performance of the mechanisms for
monitoring of economic governance reforms and performance by civil society organizations. It
also seeks to contribute by helpingto improve the undertaking's design, providing some further
training to CSO monitors and to these and other groups in interpreting budgetary information,
and ensuring the adequate dissemination of informationon the results of the exercise.



                                                45

                                Table C: Component 3, Costs

Subcomponent                                                         cost
3.1 LLCC (includes FOIA)                                             US$150,000
3.2 Civil Society Monitoring                                         US$ 80,000
Subtotal                                                             US$230,000

Component 4      -  Communication, Donor Coordination and Project Management:                 the
program supported by the EGTAG will be implemented under the project management
mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund grant and will have an overall coordinator as
well as an individual responsible for the area of budget reform (the MEF's own activity). The
overall coordinator will have oversight of the World Bank, IDB and USAID activities in the
areas covered by the EGTAG; the budget reform coordinator will have oversight of IDB, USAID
and World Bank assistance in this specific complex reform area. One or more liaison officers
will be responsible for tracking progress in the other components and entities, identifying
difficulties in implementation of their programs, and helping resolve them. The PCU will also
be responsible for coordinating donor activities in the economic governance area, and to this end
will ensure a continuation of the working table or similar mechanism for periodic meetings, as
well as develop a system to register and track relevant externally funded activities. The EGTAG
may support, as needed, specialized technical assistance not available through the other
components.

In addition, through the EGTAG the Bank will continue to provide support for communications
activities around the EGRO that have been launched by the MEF with LICUS support. This
includes implementing a communications strategy and promoting two-way communications
between the government and stakeholdersto build consensus on reforms, increase understanding
of economic reforms and their objectives, andpromote input from stakeholders. It will be critical
to ensurepublic understanding and support for reforms to ensuretheir sustainability.

                                Table D: Component 4, Costs

        Subcomponent                                         -   costs
        4.1 PCU (including donor coordination)                   US$ 50,000
        4.2 Communication Program                                US$ 70,000
        Subtotal                                                 us$120,000

An amount of US$50,000 hasbeenleft for future programming.




                                                46

                                  Annex 5: Project Costs
                 HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant



Project Cost By Component andor Activity              Local       Foreign       Total
                                                   U S $million U S $million U S $million
Financial Management
 a) Budget                                         $200,000    $350,000      $550,000
b) External Control                                $127,000    $123,000      $250,000
c) Procurement                                     $75,000      $425,000     $500,000
Human Resources
 a) Strengthening of program                       $25,000      $75,000      $ 100,000
 b)Civil Service Reform                            $20,000      $30,000      $ 50,000
 c)Training capacity                               $150,000                  $ 150,000
Anti-corruption, civil society                     $80,000      $150,000     $ 230,000
Project management and coordination,               $120,000                  $ 120,000
communication
To beprogrammed                                    $ 25,000     $  25,000    $   50,000
Total Baseline Cost                                $822,000     $1,178,000   $2,000,000


                               Total Project Costs 822,000      1,178,000    $2,000,000




                                             47

48

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                 HAITI: EconomicGovernanceTechnicalAssistance Grant


The project would be implemented over a period of 12 to 18 months, from July 2005 to July or
December 2006.       Various government agencies would take part in implementing project
components. They are the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), the MPCE, the CSCCA,
the CNMP, the ULCC (located within the MEF but operating with relative autonomy), the
Human Resources Unit within the Prime Minister's Office, and the MEF's Executive Secretary
and Oversight Committee for the civil society monitoring program. This Annex describes the
implementation arrangements related to (i)    project administration; (ii)
                                                                         implementation structure
and coordination of participating agencies and (iii) monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
ProjectAdministration:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within the MEF, the principal
counterpart for the project. In effect, it will be an extension of the PCU already established for
the EGRO, the LICUS Trust fund grant, and for the IDB activities, and will probably continue to
coordinate and oversee all economic governance activities undertaken by the two institutions.
The World Bank and IDB are in agreement on this arrangement, and believe it will both reduce
costs for the MEF and increase the efficiency and augment the coordination of its work. The
establishment of a satisfactory PCU i s a condition for effectiveness of the IDB's Sector Facility
Project for economic governance andwill also be a condition for the EGTAG's effectiveness.
While the existing PCU will have to expand to take on these new activities, it should not be an
extremely large unit. This i s because the agencies responsible for each component will continue
to do the more detailed work of elaborating annual plans, drafting terms of reference for
procurement, and overseeing contractors' performance. The PCU's role will thus be:

    0   Financial management (requests of disbursements, tracking andreporting of
        expenditures, payment of contractors and consultants).

    0   Oversight of procurement and contractual representative for the grant. The PCU will
        review all procurement documents, will participate directly incontracting procedures
        over a predetermined threshold and all procurements of equipment, and will be the
        government signatory to all contracts.

    0   Reviewing and channelling other documentation requiredby the Bank.

    0   Ensuringcompliance with BankandGoH regulations.

    0   Ensuringinter-agency communication andcoordination, andmonitoring physical
        advances ineach area (to ensure an adequate pace of work).
Each participating agency (including the MEF for its components) will designate a person
responsible for overseeing its own activities under the EGTAG and will assign, as needed,
members of its own staff to handle related administrative work.         Supervised by the agency
designee, this staff will prepare annual work plans, terms of reference, and handle selection of
consultants for amounts under the threshold list above.




                                                 49

 The IDB has agreed to pay for any additional staff needed by the PCU or top off salaries for
 ministry employees seconded to the unit. The EGTAG will provide funding for any technical
 assistanceneededto improve internal organization.
 ImplementationStructure and Inter-Agency Coordination:

 The direct responsibility for project implementation rests on six main execution entities,
 including those located within the MEF. For the budgetary subcomponent (l.l),        the MEF will
 designate an individual to coordinate the actions of the various internal offices involved (notably
 the Directorate General of Budget (DGB), Directorate General of Treasury (DGT), and
 Directorate General of the Ministry (DGM)). The five other entities (ULCC, Oversight
 Committee and Executive Secretary for civil society programs, CSCCA, CNMP, and Human
 Resource Unit of the Prime Minister's Office) will do the same, by designating the agency head
 or hisher representative. Agencies with programs with other donors (e.g., with the IDB or
 USAID)will be encouragedto namethe same individualto oversee them as well.

I Component                      IInstitution                      I Executing   Agency
  1.Financial Management
     a) Budget                    MEF(MPCE)                          DGB,Treasury, DCB,
                                                                     (MPCE)
    b) Control                    CSCCA                              CSCCA
    c) Procurement                CNMP                               CNMP
  2. Human Resources              Prime Minister's Office            HumanResourceUnit
  3. Anti-corruption,
 Transparency
    a) Anti-corruption            MEF                                ULCC
    b)Monitoring                  MEF                                Oversight Committee
  4. Management,                  MEF                                PCU
  communication, coordination

  Project and annual work plans and procurement plans will be elaborated by each agency for its
  respective component. Agencies will also be responsible for drafting TORS for procurement
  actions, referring them to the PCU for their clearance and that of the Bank, and for selecting
  consultants for amounts below the threshold stated above or participating in a selection
  committee with members of the PCU. Agencies will supervise performance by their own
  consultants and contractors (including those for goods and equipment), and will request that
  paymentsbe madeby the PCU upon satisfactory completion of work.

  To enhance coordination of the inevitably interrelated activities and to ensure satisfactory
  advances in each component, the PCU will also hold periodic meetings with a committee
  composed of each component head, or their designated representatives.               As necessary,
  representativesof donor agencies and/or principal long term consultants may also be invited to
  attend. For more targeted coordination issues (e.g. harmonization of internal and external control
  mechanisms; dissemination of budget or contracting information to the ULCC or civil society
  monitors) the PCUmay suggest the formation of smaller working groups.




                                                 50

Accounting, Reporting, and Auditing

The PCU will be responsible for all project finances, for compiling and submitting reports to the
Bank, and for arranging for required audits. Every implementation agency or unit will keep
records of their own physical operations and will provide the PCU, for transmittal to the Bank,
with annual and quarterly reports on progress. The project accounts maintained by the PCU and
progress records kept by the executing agencies will be audited periodically by independent and
qualified auditors acceptable to IDA, and in accordance with International Standards on Auditing
and the guidance provided in the "Guidelines: Annual Financial Reporting and Auditing for
World Bank-Financed Activities" (the Guidelines) and other guidance. Inorder to comply fully
with the revised Bank requirements per OP/BP 10.02, the PCU and the executing agencies will
implement planning, budgeting, accounting and reporting systems that substantially satisfy the
needs of the project.

Monitoring and Evaluation:

The PCU will monitor project execution through a set of key performance indicators, supported
by supervision missions. In coordination with the executing agencies, the PCU will provide a
consolidated first year work plan within two months of entrance into effectiveness and annual
work program for the subsequent year(s). Given the project's anticipated short time frame, there
will be a full final evaluation and an abbreviated mid-term evaluation, 12 months after the
project enters effectiveness. Semi-annual progress reports will be presented to the Bank no latter
than 30 days after the conclusion of each calendar semester, starting 6 months after the project
enters effectiveness.




                                                51

52

              Annex 7: FinancialManagement and DisbursementArrangements
                  HAITI: Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant

Introduction
This report summarizes the findings of the financial management capacity assessment conducted
by the Bank task team during the preparation phase of the project. The objective of the
assessment i s to determine whether the entities that will be involved in implementing the
EGTAG have acceptable financial management arrangements, including system of accounting,
reporting, auditing, and internal controls. An entity's arrangements are acceptable if they are
considered capable of recording correctly all transactions and balances, supporting the
preparation of regular and reliable financial statements, safeguarding the entity's assets, and are
subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. Bank policy requires that acceptable
accounting and internal control systems are inplace when project implementation begins.
Overall conclusion of the financial management assessment
The proposed financial arrangements are adequate given the size of the project, the nature o f its
activities and the volume of its transactions. The PCU located in the MEF, which will have
overall financial management responsibility of the project, has already acquired some knowledge
of the Bank's financial management requirements and procedures through the implementation of
the Economic Governance Grant financed b y the LICUS Trust Fund. A manual accounting
system was put in place for the LICUS grant, which also relied on the ministry's internal
disbursement approval and signatory mechanisms. An accountant o f the Ministry's accounting
unitis specifically dedicated to the LICUS grant operations.
Since the EGTAG will use the same financial management arrangements, the financial
management capacity i s considered satisfactory to a large extent. However, the EGTAGwill use
different disbursement mechanisms (Le. disbursement based on statements of expenditures as
opposed to tranches). Also, the financial management procedures under the LICUS grant have
not been formalized yet, which affected implementation as there was not common understanding
among the various implementing entities of the procedures to follow. For the purpose of the
EGTAG, these two weaknesses will be addressed through training of the accountant and
development o f an operations manual, respectively.
Project background
A detailed project description i s available in the main text and annex 4 of the PAD. A brief
summary i s presented below to highlight the main features affecting financial management
arrangements.
The EGTAG seeks to: (i)    improve the government's ability to program, execute and track use of
public resources and better link them to concrete development goals, ensure an adequate
performance o f the external, ex-post control function by the CSCCA, and hilp the CNMP grow
into its role as overseer of procurement practices and make open, competitive procurement the
rule rather than the exception; (ii) advance the development of a human resource management
plan and system; (iii)  advance the development o f the Anti-Corruption Unit (ULCC) as an
effective check on corruption while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in
its own operations and as a monitor of economic governance reforms; and (iv) ensure as part of




                                                53

the project management process, an adequate system for communicating information on the
reformprograms and mobilizing public support for their furtherance.
The EGTAG is designed to advance changes begun with the EGRO and LICUS grant. It will
provide support more or less to the same entities supported by these two operations (MEF,
CSCCA, CNMP, Prime Minister Office, and ULCC) by financing mainly consultant services,
training and operating costs. The institutional arrangements will follow largely the structure used
under the LICUS with a PCU in the MEF to oversee the execution and each of the entities
involved directly responsible for the implementation of their activities. Procurement and
financial management activities will be the responsibility of the PCU.
FinancialManagementresponsibilitiesand arrangements
Accounting. The MEF will have overall financial management responsibility for the project,
following to a large extent the mechanisms put in place under the LICUS grant. Accounting o f
the LICUS grant operations i s handledb y the Accounting Unit of the MEF.One accountant was
given specific tasks to keep a separate set of book of accounts for the grant while the usual
approval and control mechanisms of the MEF were followed. Financial operations o f the LICUS
grant are therefore recorded and reported separately. Similar arrangements will be used for the
EGTAG.
The Government will use the same PCU for both the EGTAG and the IADB financed technical
assistance project. Thus, the current manual accounting system may eventually require upgrading
to cope with larger financing and facilitate reporting.
Disbursement. A project special account (SA) denominated in US Dollars will be opened at the
central bank on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, and be managed by the MEF. Funds
deposited in the SA will be used to finance the activities implemented directly by the respective
entities. The MEF will disburse the funds directly to suppliers of goods and services upon
request from the implementing entities and after control o f all relevant supporting
documentation. The authorized allocation to the SA will be limitedto US$300,000 (representing
approximately four months of expenditures.) Disbursements will be made on the basis o f
Statements of Expenditures.
Reporting. Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be prepared reflecting all components of
the project and submitted to IDA. The FMRs will be an integral part of the activity report, and
accordingly will follow the same periodicity. Given the nature of the activities to be financed
(essentially consultant services and training), the FMRs will focus mainly on the financial
situation of the project, while information on the physical progress and procurement activities
will be provided inthe activity report.
Auditing. Annual financial statements will be prepared by the PCU, and audited annually by
independent auditors, in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and terms o f
reference acceptable to IDA. The auditors will be recruited no later than six months after grant
effectiveness.




                                                 54

Risks
Country fiduciary risks. Haiti's public financial management systems have experienced weak
performances over the last years. The Bank has not carried out a Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA), but a number of studies have highlighted major
weaknessesz6in the overall accountability framework, as described below. In the interim, the
government has been engaged in a number of reforms to improve public financial management.
Also, the risks are unlikely to affect the project as appropriate internal control mechanisms will
be built into the procedures that will be used specifically for the project. Although the country
fiduciary risk i s high, its impact on the project i s medium.
Project risks. Given the nature of the project activities and institutional set up, no major inherent
fiduciary risk i s identified. The risk level i s ratedlow.
Relevant issues to be included inthe legal documents
The legal documents should include the standard financial management provisions:

    0   Requirement for the MEFthrough its PCU to maintain an adequate financial management
        system, produce quarterly interim financial statements and submit annual audited
        financial statements.

    0   One special account denominated inU S dollar will be opened at the Central Bank
        (Banque de la Rbpublique d'Hai'ti or BRH), and will be replenishedusing statement of
        expenditure method.

    0   The sole condition of effectiveness i s the existence of a project implementation manual
        for the project, inform and substance satisfactory to the World Bank and including a
        section on financial management.27
Action plan
          AredAction                                            Responsibility/To be completed by
           1.Flow ofFunds
           1.1.PCUto open the project bank                      MEFPCU, project effectiveness
           accounts: the Special Account inU S
           dollars inthe bank selected, and the
           Project account inlocal currency inthe
           bank selected.
           2. Staffing
           Project Accountant                                   PCU, project launch
           Complete training on World Bank
           financial management anddisbursement
           procedures, with specific emphasis on
           statement of expenditures and financial
           reporting
           3. Accounting and Internal Control

26See Economic Governance Reform Operation Program Document
27 The inclusion of this condition will ensure that the work is kept on track and will guarantee that the project i s
implementedper the original agreements and understandings with the GOH.



                                                        55

   3.1. Open separate book of accounts for      PCU, project effectiveness
   the project with a chart of accounts to
   reflect the disbursement categories for the
   project andproject activities.
   3.2. Prepare the project Operations          PCU, project effectiveness
   Manual, with a section on Financial
   Management, including FMorganization,
   flow o f funds. FMRsformats. etc.
   4. External Audit
   4.1. Submit final Audit TORSto the Bank      PCU, no later than six months after
   for review and clearance.                    project effectiveness
   4.2. Once the Bank clears the TOR,           PCU, no later than six months after
   proceed with the appointment of the          project effectiveness
   auditors.




Expenditure Category              Amount of the Grant                 Financing
                                    Allocated (US$)                  Percentage
Consultants services           $1,650,000                                100
Works, Goods                   $ 250,000                                 100
Operating Costs                $   50,000                                100
Unallocated                    $   50,000                                100
Total                          $2,000,000                                100




                            1,200,000         800,000
         ~Annual
          Cumulative        1,200,000       2,000,000




                                          56

                              Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                   HAITI: Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant

A. General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutionalcapacity.

Procurement of Works: The only works that would be procured under the project would by
minor renovations required to upgrade training institute facilities. This procurement would be
done using StandardBidding Documents (SBDs) agreed with the Bank.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procured under this project would include computers, equipment
and furnishings for the training institute and for other agencies involved in project
implementation. The procurement will be done using SBDs agreedwith the Bank.

Procurement of non-consulting services: Procurement of printing services for publication of
manuals and training materials will also be done usingSBDs agreed with the Bank.

Selection of Consultants: The bulk of the technical assistance to be financed by the grant will
be composed of discrete technical and advisory assignments with the various implementing
agencies, which can be performed most effectively by individual consultants. For assignments
where teams of consultants are required to ensure coordination and/or centralization of
responsibility, consulting firms will be hired. Short lists of consultants for services estimated to
cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of national
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. For
some contracts the services of civil society organizations (CSOs), NGOs, universities,
government research institutions, public training institutions, and other specialized organizations
may also be required.

Operating Costs: Operating costs (e.g.: office utilities, travel costs, operation and maintenance
of office equipment financed with the proceeds of the Grant, and non-durable goods) and
logistical costs of training activities (e.g.: travel costs and per diem of facilitators, rental of
training facilities andequipment, andtrainingmaterial) would also be financed by the project and
procured using the Ministry of Finance's administrative procedures, which were reviewed and
found acceptableto the Bank.




                                                 57

The procurement procedures and SBDs to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for works and goods procured, will be presented in the project Operations
Manual.

Thresholds recommended for the use of each method discussed above are identified in the table
below, which also establishes the notional thresholds for prior review. The agreed procurement
plan will determine which contracts will be subject to Bank prior review.

                       Thresholds for PpocurementMethods and Prior Review

        Expenditure         Contract Value           Procurement          Contracts Subject to
           Category          (Threshold)                Method              Prior Review
                            US $ thousands


   1.Works                      >1,000                    ICB                    All
                               100-1,000                  NCB                    All
                                 <loo                   Shopping                 All
   2. Goods                      >loo                      ICB                   All
  I                    I        25-100         I          NCB           I         All          I
                                  <25                   Shopping                  All
   3. Consulting
   Services
   -3.A Firms              Regardless of value   QCBS,QBS,FBS,LCS                 All
                                 <loo                     cos                     All
  I                    I   Regardlessof value  I      Single Source     I         All          I
   -3.B Individuals        Regardlessof value   Comparisonof 3 CVs in             All
                                                accordance with ChapterV
                                                    of the Guidelines




B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Most of the technical input for procurement activities will be provided by the six agencies
receiving the goods and/or consulting services (Le.: MEF, ULCC, Oversight Committee,
CSCCA, CNMP and PMO/HR unit). These agencies have varying levels o f procurement skills
and experience, so all contracts will be signed by the expanded PCU in the Ministry of Finance,
which will also be responsible for coordination and oversight of all procurement financed by the
grant. As described in Section C-2 o f the PAD on implementation arrangements, the existing
PCU will be expanded to include an employee with specific responsibility for reviewing all
procurement documents and ensuring that they are submitted as needed for Bank prior review.

The Bank's assessment of the capacity o f the PCU to implement procurement actions for the
project has been based on performance to date in implementing the LICUS grant, which has been
satisfactory. However, this assessment will need to be updated after the additional PCU staff has


                                                58

been recruited for the EGTAG and the project implementation manual has been prepared and
circulated to all the participating agencies.

The key issues and risks concerning procurement implementation for the project arise from the
many weaknesses in the Haitian procurement system, as identified in the body of this PAD.
While the Government's commitment to reform procurement institutions and practices i s clear
from the actions already taken under the EGRO, real change will take time. In addition to the
technical assistance to be provided to the newly created CNMP by the EGTAG, corrective
measures such as the development of operating manuals for Bank-financed projects and the
broad dissemination of information on new procurement procedures to all purchasing agencies
are expected to mitigate some risks. However, the overall project risk for procurement remains
HIGH.

C. Procurement Plan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower and the Project Team on May 9, 2005 and will be available in the project's database
and in the Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the
Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

D. Frequency of ProcurementSupervision

Supervision will be carried out primarily through the prior review by the Bank of all
procurement actions. This exceptional level of Bank oversight will be made possible by the
engagement by the Bank of a local consultant to work with the PCU and the various participating
agencies. In addition, day-to-day procurement supervision will be supplemented b y supervision
missions every quarter.

E. Details of the ProcurementArrangements

1. Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

N o contract packages are expected to be procured following ICB or direct contracting.




                                               59

         r
2. Consulting Services

(a) List of consulting assignmentswith short-list of international firms.


                              L                           A            5           6

             Ref. No.    Descriptionof  Estimated     Selection      Review     Expected
                          Assignment      cost         Method       by Bank     Proposals
                                                                     (Prior I  Submission
                                                                      Post)       Date
          1.A.4         TA to define   $150,000         F B S         Prior   July 2005
                        roles and
                        processes for
                        ordonnateurs
                        ,comptables,
                        and
                        contrdleurs
                        financiers
          1.c.1         TA to           $425,000      QCBS or         Prior   July 2005
                        support                         FBS
                        Commission
                        Nationale
                        des Marchks
                        Publics
                        (CNMP)

(b) All selectionprocesses for consultancy services will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

(c) Short lists composedentirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be composed entirely of
national consultantsin accordancewith the provisions of paragraph2.7 of the Consultant
Guidelines.




                                                60

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                   HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant

The proposed operation will focus on capacity building activities, and it i s therefore difficult to
quantify outputs and benefits, and to precisely calculate rates of return. Nevertheless, since
positive fiscal impacts are expected, project implementation i s projected to generate economic
gains. The most noteworthy economic and fiscal savings are expected to result from: (i)          the
implementation of a budgetary process inaccord with the new Organic Law and its incorporation
in an expanded automated expenditure tracking system (SYSDEP), the latter supported largely
by assistanceprovided by and coordinated with the IDB and USAID: (ii)     the implementation and
further strengthening of the commission (CNMP) charged with overseeing procurement and
ensuring greater transparency and competitiveness in the process; (iii)   developing the ex-post
audit function of the Cour Supe`rieuredes Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSCCA) and
coordinating this with a strengthened internal audit and control capacity; (iv) enhancing the
capabilities of the human resource unit to oversee new appointments, ensuring they follow legal
procedures and incorporate an emphasis on merit, and ensuring a facility for the delivery of
training programs for this and other public sector operations; (v) strengthening the capacity of
the new anti-corruption office (ULCC) and publicizing its presence and activities; (vi) further
developing the system of civil society monitors and the MEF's communication program to
inform all citizens of the content and progress of the package of economic governance reforms;
and (vii) further developing mechanismsto ensure greater coordination of all donor activities in
economic governanceoperations.

All of these measures aim at improvingthe government's ability to program and track the use of
public resources, including external assistance and human resources, strengthening the internal
and external controls used to promote transparency, fight corruption, and reduce waste, and
increasing all citizens' understanding of and support for the changes sought. Better management
of the government's resources should lead to improved performance and increased efficiency by
strengthening the linkages between inputs and outputs and ensuring that funds are no longer
assigned to un-programmed catch-all categories (autres interventions publiques). The fiscal
impact of improved resource allocation, better planning and execution may be significant, as
efficiency gains translate into reduced investment and recurrent costs for a given level of output.
These in turn will contribute to a better investment climate, which in Haiti i s essential for long-
term economic growth, the reduction of unemployment and the improvement of critical social
conditions.

The cost effectiveness of the components i s discussed inthe following table:




                                                61

                              Cost Effectiveness of EGTAGInterventions

    Components and
    Subcomponents            Possiblefiscal impact          Expected economic gains         Expected social gains

1.1New budget             Fiscal savings through           Increased impact of         [mproved allocation o f funds in
practices put into effect improved capacity for            programs through better     social programs aimed at
                          allocation of public             budget allocation           poverty reduction.
                          resources inpriority areas;      decisions and better
                          reduce risks for duplicate       expenditure tracking.
                          andlor ineffective activities
1.2 Development of        Lower prices paid for same More competitive and              More of money going into
CNMP's capacity to        levellquality of goods and       open procurement process, social programs actually
wersee procurement        services purchased by State. encouraging participation       reaches and benefits the poor.
yystem                                                     of more efficient local and
                                                           international vendors
                                                           More effective monitoring Improved and more transparent
                                                           and control of financial    allocation of public funds for
control systems           and accounting mechanisms ,flows and reduced public          social programs aimed at
                                                                                       poverty reduction .
                                                                                       Improved programs with
Human Resource            because of better fit, and      1 of human resources and     greater benefits for the poor
Management System         availability of government        improved capacity of
                          facilities.                       those holding positions
3.1 Strengthening         Less financial leakage due        Greater protections for    More funds for social services
Capacity of Anti-         to diversion of resources         investors willing to start get to poor.
Corruption Unit                                             up economic activities in
                                                            Haiti.
3.2 Strengthen civil      Fiscal savings through            Reduced corruption and     Give civil society organizations
society monitors          increased incentives for          waste means greater        a place at the table in the
program                   public employees to use           returns on public and      evaluation and design of all
                          resources efficiently.            private investments.       government programs.




4.I Strengthen            To support impact of other        To support impact of other Citizens more involved in
communications            areas                             areas                      policy process, and better able
program                                                                                to understand and make
                                                                                       suggestions on resource use
4.2 Strengthen Donor      Fundsavailable buy more           Greater impact of funds    More donor funds available for
Coordination              inputs                            invested; more donor       social programs and greater
                                                            funds attracted            returns on investments




                                                             62

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                HAITI: Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant


The project currently triggers none of the Bank's Environmental or Social Safeguard Policies. If
any changes of environmental or social significance should arise during project implementation,
Bank policies will apply.




                                               63

64

                        Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision
                 HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant


                                                   Planned                 Actual
PCNreview                                        0111912005              02/03/2005
Initial PID to PIC                               01/26/2005              02/10/2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                              01/26/2005              02/08/2005
Appraisal                                        04/04/2005              05/05/2005
Negotiations                                     04/06/2005              0511012005
BoardIRVP approval                               06/07/2005
Planned date of effectiveness                    06/30/2005
Planned date of mid-termreview                   0611512006
Planned closing date                             1213112007

Key institutions responsiblefor preparation of the project:

Ministry of Economy and Finance
SupremeAudit Institution
Office of the PrimeMinister (National Commission for Public Procurement and the Human
ResourcesUnit)
Anti-Corruption Unit

Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                                Title                       Unit
LinnHammergren                   Sr. Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist            LCSPS
Auguste Tan0 Kouame              Sr. Country Economist                        LCSPE
PatriciaMcGowan                  Sr. Procurement Specialist                   LCOPR
Ahmadou MoustaphaNdiaye          Sr. Financial Management Specialist          LCOAA
MarkNelson                       Sr. Operations Officer                       WBIEE
SolangeAlliali                   Sr. Counsel                                  LEGLA
HilarionBruneau                  Sr. Finance Officer                          LOAGl
Luc Ladouceur                   Budget Specialist (Consultant)
BenjaminSantaMaria              HumanResourcesSpecialist (Consultant)
FrancaBraun                     Civil Society Specialist (Consultant)
Maria del Carmen Miiioso        Operations Officer                             LCSPS
Jes6s Martinez                  Operations Officer (ET Consultant)             LCSPS

Peer Reviewers
Tony Verheijen                   Sr. Public Sector Specialist                  ECSPE
Chris Parel                      Sr. Operations Officer                        LCSPS




                                                65

Bankfunds expendedto date on project preparation:
    1. Bankresources: $116,623.31
   2. Trust funds:   $0.00
   3. Total:         $116,623.3 1

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remainingcoststo approval: $10,376.69
   2. Estimated annual supervision cost: $116,490.00




                                            66

                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                HAITI: EconomicGovernanceTechnicalAssistance Grant

A. ProjectImplementationPlan

Draft Procurement Plan
Project Implementation Manual (condition for effectiveness)

B.BankStaff Assessments

Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
QAT Environmental and Social Comments on the PCN, PAD and associated Integrated
  Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
Country Procurement Assessment Report, September 30, 1999
La Fonction Publique: Le Renforcement des Capacith -Analyses et Propositions d'Actions,De
  Weerd, June 1999
Haiti Country Brief, December 16,2002
Haiti Country Assistance Evaluation, Operations and EvaluationDepartment, February 12, 2002
An Endto the Beginning: Resolvingthe "Interminable" Crisis andNeeting the Challenge of
  Governance inPost-Duvalierist Haiti,Ira Lowenthal, June 2, 2002
Economic Governance - Findings and Analysis, Ladouceur, November 2003
Decentralisation: Cour Supe`rieuredes Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif; Mission de la
  Banque Mondiale sur la GouvernanceEconomique, Laurence MCzin, October 13-18,2003
Haiti Interim Cooperation Framework -Economic Governance Strategic Group Sectoral Report,
  May 26,2004

C.Other

Project Concept Note
Project Appraisal Document
Review Meeting Minutes: PCN, QER, Decision and Negotiations
Peer reviewer and other reviewer comments on project cycle documents
Public Information Document
Component reports prepared by World Bank staff and consultants
Aide Memoires




                                              67

68

                                        Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                            HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant

                                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                                           expectedand actual
                                                                 Original Amount inUS$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID  FY     Purpose                                   IBRD         IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.     Ong.     Frm.Rev'd

PO89873     2005   HT EconomicGovernanceAdjustment Op            0.00     61.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     15.26      0.00        0.00
PO90159     2005   HT EmergencyRecov.& Disaster                  0.00      12.21    0.00      0.00      0.00     12.21      0.00        0.00
                   Management
                                                     Total:     0.00      73.21     0.00      0.00      0.00     27.47    - 46.85       0.00




                                                                   HAITI
                                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                       InMillions of U S Dollars

                                                                 Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                                IFC                                        IFC
        FY Approval   Company                      Loan        Equity      Quasi    Partic.    Loan        Equity      Quasi     Partic.

        1998          Microcredit                  0.00          0.40        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.40        0.00       0.00

                                 Total oortfolio:   0.00         0.40        0.00     0.00        0.00      0.40       0.00        0.00




                                                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval    Company                              Loan       Equity       Quasi        Partic.




                                            Total oending commitment:       0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                      69

70

                                            Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                     HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant

                                                                             Latin        Low
 POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                Haiti America       Income        Developmentdiamond'
 2003
 Population,mid-year (millions)                                     8.2        534       2,310
 GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                390      3,260          450                       Life expectancy
 GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                   3.3     1,741        1,038
 Average annual growth, 1997-03
 Population (%)                                                     1.9         1.9        2.1                             T
 Laborforce (%)                                                     1.9         2.1        2.3
 Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                                                                                       Gross
                                                                                                                                            primary
 Poverty (% of population belownationalpovertyline)                 65                               capita                              enrollment
 Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                             37          77          30
 Life expectancyat birth (years)                                    49          71          59                             1
 Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                             79          28          82
 Child malnutrition (% of childrenunder5)                           23                      42             Access to improved water source
 Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                46          86          76
 illiteracy (% of population a.9e 15t)                              48           11         36
 Net primary enrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                 56         129          92
     Male                                                           56          131                                  Low-incomegroup
                                                                                            99
     Female                                                         56         126          85

 KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                      1983         1993      2002        2003      ' Economic ratios'
 GDP (US$ billions)                                      1.6        1.7         3.5        2.9
 Gross domestic InvestmenffGDP                         16.3         6.9       25.0        31.1                          Trade
 Exportsof goods and SeniceslGDP                       17.5         9.0        12.2       16.4
 Gross domestic savings1GDP                              5.9       -6.9         1.6        0.2    I                        1
 Gross national savings/GDP                                        -3.5       22.0        28.8
 Current account baianceiGDP                                       -9.7        -4.9        -4.8      Domestic
                                                                                                                                  yi       investment
 interestpayments/GDP                                    0.4        0.0         0.2        0.3       savings
 Total debffGDP                                        37.5        46.9       36.1        45.0
 Total debt servicelexports                                         4.3         1.8        3.1                             1
 Presentvalue of debffGDP
 Presentvalue of debffexports                                                                                        Indebtedness

                                        1983-93   1993-03          2002      2003      2003-07
 (average annual growth)
 GDP                                        -0.7         0.7                                       1
                                                                   -0.5         0.4         1.7        ^___^  Haiti -Low-incomegroup
 GDP per capita                             -2.6        -1.4       -2.4        -1.8        -0.4
 Exportsof goods and services                0.8         4.7       -2.2       35.6         4.3

~




 STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                      1983         1993      2002        2003       Growth of investment and GDP (Oh)
 (% of GDP)                                                                                                                                          I
 Agriculture                                                                   28.0       27.9
 Industry                                                                      16.9       17.0      M

    Manufacturing                                                               8.4        8.4      10
 Services                                                                     55.2        55.1       0

 Privateconsumption                                    83.4       100.1       89.2        91.3      i o
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                          10.7         6.8         9.3        8.4    I                --GDI         ' 3 0 ' G D P       I
 Importsof goods and services                          27.9        22.8       35.6        47.2

                                                  1983-93      1993-03       2002        2003     (Growthof exports and imports (%)
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                                                                              I
                                                                                                    30
 Agriculture                                             1.7       -1.2        -3.7        0.3
 Industry                                               -5.2       -3.6         1.3         1.o     20

    Manufacturing                                       -1.5       -7.0         1.6        0.5      i o
 Services                                                1.6        3.0        -0.5        0.4        0

 Privateconsumption                                      2.2                                       -io
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                           -6.8
 Gross domestic investment                              -6.1       10.1        -3.9       24.9
 Importsof goods and services                            3.9        6.3        -2.1       33.4


 Note: 2003 data are preliminaryestimates.
 * The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing, the diamond will
     be incomplete.




                                                                      71

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                       1983  1993   2002  2003
Domestic prices
(% chan.qe)
Consumerprices                               20.2    8.7  32.5
ImplicitGDP deflator                    8.9  32.5   10.0  25.4
Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includes currentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                7.4    8.3    9.1                                  O1     O2
Currentbudget balance                        -1.5   -1.1   -0.3  I
Overall surplusldeficit                      -2.4   -3.1   -3.7           "a-    GDPdeflator
                                                                                 69            +CPI


TRADE                                                                                                             I
                                       1983  1993   2002  2003
(US$ millions)                                                    :xportand import levels (US$mill.)
Total exports (fob)                     166   131   304    361
 Coffee                                         9
 Sisal and sisal strings                        2                 ow

 Manufactures                                108    273    330    8W

Total imports (cia                           346    983   1,116   6W
 Food                                         144                  400
 Fuel and energy                              71                  2w
                                                                                                                  I
 Capitalgoods                                 22                     0

Export price index (1995=100)                                           97    98    69     w     01     02

Importprice index (1995=100)                                                      Exports          Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                                                                      O3



BALANCE Of PAYMENTS
                                       1983  1993   2002  2003
(US$ millions)                                                    urrent account balanceto GDPph)
Exportsof goods and services                  180    437   461
Importsof goods and Services                  409  1,239  1,400
Resourcebalance                              -229   -802  -939
Net income                                    -11    -15    -12
Net current transfers                          70    649   811
Currentaccountbalance                        -169   -168  -140
Financingitems (net)                          200    127    130
Changesin net reserves                        -31     41     10
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$millions)     20     36    228   207
Conversionrate (DEC, iocal/US$)         5.0  12.2   27.1   40.5

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                       1983  1993   2002  2003
IUS5 millions)                                                    Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt ouistandingand disbursed     610   817  1,251  1,313
  IBRD                                    0     0      0      0
  IDA                                   122   337    496    491                     245    351

Total debt service                      25      8     19     39
  IBRD                                    0     0      0      0
  IDA                                     1     0      0      0        1899
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                        49     72    135     96
  Officialcreditors                     38     -3     -3     -2
  Privatecreditors                       -6     0     41     30
  Foreigndirect investment                8    -3      5      8
  Portfolioequity                         0     0      0      0                        1608
World Bank program
  Commitments                           49      0      0      0   A. iBRD                           E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                         26      0      0      0   B IDA
                                                                    -        D.Other multilateral   F Private
  Principalrepayments                     0     0      0      0   C-IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                      ..
  Netflows                              26      0      0      0
  Interestpayments                        1     0      0      0
  Nettransfen                           26      0      0      0

DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                        12/7/04




                                               72

                 Annex 15: Map
HAITI: Economic GovernanceTechnical Assistance Grant




                       73


MAP SECTION


                              HAITI                                                                                                  73W               ATLANTIC                          OCEAN                     72W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank

                             SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                        le de la Tortue                                            Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                             DEPARTMENT CAPITALS                     20N                                                                              Palmiste                                                                                                                         20N

                             NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                        Port-de-Paix

                             RIVERS                                                      Passage
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          To
                             MAIN ROADS                                                         Mle St.-Nicolas   NORD - OUEST               Les Trois                                                                                                 Monte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Christi
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cap-Haitien
                             RAILROADS                                         Windward                                                                                          Limb
                                                                                                                                                                                 Limb
                             DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES                                                                                                     Gros-Morne
                                                                                                                                                                                       N O R D                       Fort-Liberte                                              To
                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                Baie de                                                                                                                                               Santiago
                                                                                                                      Henne                                                                                         Trou-              Ferrier
                                                                                                                                                                                         Grande Rivire
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Rivire       du-Nord
                                                                                                                                                                                                  du Nord

                                                           74W                                                                                                                    Ennery                  Saint-    NORD - EST
                                                                                                                                                                    Gonaives
                                                                                                                                                                          C                                Raphal
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Raphal
                                                                                                                                                                             e                  Saint Michel
                                                                                                                                                                              n  t
                                                                                                                                Golfe de                                          ra l
                                                                                                                             la Gonve                                                   P Guayampuo
                                                                                                                                                                                                de l'Attalaye



                                                                                                                                                                                             l
                                                                                                                                                              A R T I B O N I T E              a  t e        Massade
                                                                                                                                                                                                             Massade
                                           HAITI                                                                                                                                                      a  u               Hinche


                                                                                                                                                                          Verrettes Artibonite                                                        DOMINICAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                               C E N T R E                                                              19N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Lac de                          REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                     La Cayenne                                                                           Pligre
                                                                                                                             le de
                                                                                                                               le
                                                                                                                          la Gonve
                                                                                                                             Gonve           Anse--Galets
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Mirebalais                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 San Juan
                                                                                                                   Pointe--Raquette


                                                                                  Grande
                                                       Jeremie                    Cayemite
                                                             Roseaux
                                                                                                                                                                     PORT-AU-PRINCE                      Croix des
                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bouquets


                   Anse d'Hainault                                                                                                                                      Logne
                                                                                                                                                                        Logne                                  tang                                    Lago
                                                           l a  H o      t    t  e              G R A N D E -                                                                         O U E S T                Saumtre                                                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Enriquillo             Barahona
                                      M  a ss   if   d e
                                                                                                   A N S E              Miragone
                                                                                                                        Miragone
                                                                                                                                                      Petit-
                                                                                                                                                    Gove                                                       Chaine de la Selle
                                                                                         S U D                                                      Gove                                                          (2680 m )
                                                Les Anglais Camp-Perrin                                                                                                     S U D - E S T
                                                                                                                  Vieux Bourg                                                                                      Belle-
                                                                                                                    d'Aquin                                                   Jacmel                               Anse        Thiotte

                                                                                                                                        Ctes-de-fer
                                                                                                                                        Ctes-de-fer                                       Marigot
                                                                                      Les Cayes


                                                           Port-Salut
                                                                                         le  Vache
SEPTEMBER      18N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     18N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             IBRD
                   0      10    20  30    40 Kilometers                                                         Caribbean                     Sea                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Oviedo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 33417
         2004      0         10      20        30 Miles
                                                           74W                                                                      73W                                                                           72W

