Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC1229 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: February 8, 2005 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Haiti 
Project ID: P093936 
Project Name: HT Governance TAG 
Task Team Leader: Linn Hammergren 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 5, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 9, 2005 
Managing Unit: LCSPS 
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance 
Grant  
Sector: Central government administration 
(70%);General public administration sector 
(30%) 
Theme: Public expenditure, financial 
management and procurement (P);Other 
accountability/anti-corruption 
(P);Administrative and civil service reform 
(P) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team:  
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IDAD: 2 
Other financing amounts by source:  
($m) 
B.  Project Objectives  
The project’s objectives are to assist the Government of Haiti in developing the basic structures 
and practices essential to good financial management and thus to the government’s ability to 
program public resources transparently and effectively.  At project termination, Haiti will have a 
budgetary system which captures all proposed and effected operating and investment 
expenditures, an operational system for conducting financial and legal audits and for 
investigating alleged corruption, have met minimal personnel needs for financial management 
and supervision of service delivery, have developed and begun implementation of a plan to meet 
broader personnel requirements, and have engaged civil society in monitoring the results of these 
efforts and overall government performance. These objectives will be met through a package of 
assistance programs, of which this TAG is only one part.  However it is  the one most directly 
focused on providing sustained, medium term assistance, and responding to a projected 
requirement for support over a period of several years.
1
1
As the proposed  $2 million grant still falls short of the estimated needs, the CMU intends a follow-on grant or 
loan, pending progress made under this TAG. 
Page  2
C.  Project Description  
The overall assistance package includes a LICUS Trust Fund which entered effectiveness in late 
2004 and should be fully disbursed by December, 2005, and the recently approved Economic 
Growth Reform Operation (EGRO) which incorporates conditionality on economic governance, 
and the proposed TAG. The work is also coordinated with two technical assistance loans from 
the IDB focusing on budgetary and tax issues, although largely emphasizing automation systems, 
and IMF programs.
2
It is intended that the economic governance portion of the LICUS Trust 
Fund provide the shortest term, emergency assistance, with a particular emphasis on the new 
Anti-Corruption Unit, the Cour de Comptes (external audits), procurement, and civil society 
involvement.  Where the TAG starts depends in part on how much progress is made under the 
LICUS Trust Fund, and in the IDB projects.  Thus while we know where we will work, and what 
we want to achieve, the details of each of the four component outline below will be conditioned 
by developments under other Bank and non-Bank instruments.   
 
1) Financial Resource Management:
 
this is the key area for economic governance, the 
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce 
irregular uses and expenditures.   
 
a) 
Budgeting:
 
We assume the IDB will cover most equipment needs and will help 
design basic budgetary procedures (as established in the new Organic Law)  The TAG will focus 
on ensuring sufficient numbers of adequately prepared personnel occupy the required positions 
in the Ministry of Finance and other sectoral ministries.  Activities include a diagnosis of current 
staffing patterns and needs, preparation and delivery of training programs, provision of long and 
short term consultants to assist agencies in applying and refining new procedures, and 
development and implementation of plans to fill the staffing gaps. As the Ministry of Planning 
manages the investment budget, the same objectives will be addressed there, along with steps to 
ensure coordination of the investment and operational budgets and to strengthen project 
development capacity. 
 
b) 
Control:
 
The  LICUS-
grant funding for the Cour Supèrieure des Comptes e du 
Contentiuex Administratif (CSCCA) will support class-room and on-the-job training of auditors 
in their new ex-post control function.  Under the TAG, the CSCCA’s initial experience with ex-
post auditing will be evaluated, and further personnel, equipment, budgetary, and training needs 
identified, resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency’s performance over the following two to 
three years.  The TAG will support implementation of and further adjustments to this plan. 
 
c)
 Procurement:
 
The TAG builds on assistance provided under the LICUS Trust Fund 
to support the newly created Commission Nationale Intérimaire des Marchés Publics (CNIMP.)  
The TAG will support the CNIMP’s  transformation into a more permanent body (CNMP) as 
mandated by law, the creation of a public sector-wide corps of procurement officials, the further 
development of and training in standardized procedures and mechanisms, and the creation of a 
centralized database on suppliers, businesses, consultants, and procurements conducted within 
the CNIMP/CNMP or at the individual agency level. It will also continue work initiated under 
the LICUS in the development of standardized bidding documents, publication of information on 
bids and contracts, and education of potential bidders and the general public on the procurement 
2
Again the EGRO documentation provides more information. 
Page  3
process.  As with all elements under this component, this is an incremental process in which new 
procedures will be tested and modified according to preliminary results.   
 
2) 
Human Resource Development
:
During the identification missions and as part of the ICF, a 
Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial plan for meeting the 
most critical human resource needs.  This plan will be the basis for further development of this 
area, but given the consultant’s estimates of what the GOH’s minimal proposal would cost (in 
excess of $100 million) the TAG’s support will focus selectively on five areas: 
 
·
(Covered under component 1, above) Ensuring minimal human resource needs are met 
for financial management, control, and procurement systems, within the core agencies 
and the rest of the central ministries. 
·
Ensuring key ministries responsible for service delivery have adequate personnel, 
appropriately placed and trained, to plan and oversee this function.  
·
Working with the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister’s Office (pending creation of a 
Ministry for the Public Function) and other executive agencies to develop plans for 
meeting their personnel needs over the next five years.  While donor-financed consultants 
may temporarily perform some core functions,  the longer term need is to ensure Haiti 
can recruit, maintain, and compensate a permanent core staff.  These plans, unlike the 
first effort, will also have to take financial limitations into account. 
·
Working with the above agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including 
the necessary legal foundation.  Under any follow-on loan or grant, steps can be taken to 
initiate implementation, probably on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-function basis. 
·
Enhancing the capacity of public sector training institutions to develop and deliver the 
training needed for the first three areas, and financing pilot courses. 
 
3) 
Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement
:
The LICUS Trust Fund supports 
establishment of the anti-corruption unit and a program of civil society monitoring of governance 
reforms.  The TAG will do further fine-tuning, help develop a capacity for anti-corruption 
programming, including skills and techniques needed to identify areas of vulnerability and 
design remedies, and expand mechanisms for monitoring of governance reforms and 
performance by civil society organizations and ordinary citizens .  Training in  investigation of 
actual cases can be met by other donors.   
 
4) 
Project Management and Communication
:
The TAG will use the project management 
mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund.  Funding for expenses will be shared with the 
GOH, and the TAG will finance any additional equipment needs.  Special emphasis will be 
placed on developing mechanisms for communicating the content of reform proposals and their 
advances to ensure greater understanding and wider ownership of the efforts among all Haitian 
citizens. 
 
D.  Project location  
 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti  
 
Page  4
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies  
 
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged in the 
world.  For the past twenty years, the country has struggled to emerge from a cycle of internal 
conflicts that devastated its economy, augmented levels of poverty, and provoked the withdrawal 
of external assistance to the government.
3
In March 2004, following the resignation of President 
Jean Bertrand Aristide and pending elections now scheduled for November,  2005, a Transition 
Government was put in place and initiated a program aimed at increasing political and social 
stability and jump starting the economy.  In Spring 2004, the Transition Government led the 
donor community in putting together an Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF)
 4
 to guide future 
efforts.  Because of its broad experience in the area, the World Bank, along with the IDB, 
accepted the Government of Haiti (GOH) invitation to collaborate in the design and 
implementation of the sections on economic governance.  That said, the proposed technical 
assistant grant focuses on economic governance, as opposed to a broader public administration 
reform, a civil service program, or targeted attention to individual sector ministries where we 
propose activities, because poor resource management lies at the heart of Haiti’s public sector 
weaknesses.  If the government can develop a system, including the necessary personnel, to plan, 
direct, and track resource use, and to identify and control deviations, it will have the minimum 
essential tools to carry out its additional programs.  The proposal outlined here and the 
underlying assessment are the result of on-going dialogue with the government, a series of 
missions to identify and discuss needs, and prior diagnostic work by the Bank and others 
focusing specifically on weaknesses in financial management, procurement, and over all public 
administration. 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[NA] 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[NA] 
Natural Habitats
(
OP
/
BP
4.04) 
[NA] 
Pest Management
(
OP 4.09
)
[NA] 
Involuntary Resettlement
(
OP
/
BP
4.12) 
[NA] 
Indigenous Peoples
(
OD 4.20
)
[NA] 
Forests
(
OP
/
BP
4.36) 
[NA] 
Safety of Dams
(
OP
/
BP
4.37) 
[NA] 
Cultural Property
(draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
)
3
Donors remaining worked largely through NGOs or other nongovernmental channels. 
4
Details are provided in the Economic Growth and Recovery Operation (EGRO), approved on January 6, 2005,  the 
Transition Support Strategy for Haiti. 
Page  5
[NA] 
Projects in Disputed Areas
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[NA] 
Projects on International Waterways
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50) 
Environmental Assessment Category:
 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain determinants of classification and give steps that will be taken to determine that 
EA category (mandatory): 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared. 
 
March 5, 2005 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS 
 
N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
5
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
 
N/A
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Linn Hammergren 
Date 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Name: Jean-Roger Mercier (Acting) 
Date 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Name: Ronald E. Myers 
Date 
Comments 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas.  
 
5
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.  
 
Page  6
