Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1384 
Project Name 
Governance Technical Assistance Grant 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (70%);General public 
administration sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P093936 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
204 Palais des Ministeres 
Port-au-Prince, Republic of Haiti 
Tel. : (509) 221-7899          Fax: (509) 223-4491 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 30, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
May 3, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
June 9, 2005 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
a) General. 
Following the resignation on February 29, 2004 of President Jean Bertrand Aristide, 
a
Transitional Government
1
was created with a mandate to hold democratic elections in end-
2005 and hand over power to a new government in early 2006.  Faced with the formidable 
challenge of confronting a devastated economy, deep-seated political instability, weak 
institutions, inefficient use and allocation of resources, and the resulting mistrust of its citizenry, 
in April 2004 the Transitional Government joined forces with the donor community (i.e., the 
European Community, the Inter-American Development Bank [IDB], the United Nations, and 
the World Bank) to draft the 
Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF.)
 
The ICF identifies 
priority interventions and associated financing needs to support Haiti’s path to economic, social 
and political recovery throughout the July 2004-September 2006 period.  It also constitutes the 
foundation upon which a future medium-term 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 
(PRSP) 
encompassing the period 2006-2009 will be prepared. The ICF is based on 4 pillars: (i) 
Strengthening political governance and promoting national dialogue; (ii) Strengthening 
economic governance and contributing to institutional development; (iii) Promoting economic 
recovery; and (iv) Improving access to basics services.  The ICF also takes into consideration 
cross-sectoral issues including 
inter alia
,
crisis prevention, human rights, gender, and HIV/AIDS  
 
b. Sector Specific Issues
 
1
The creation of this technocratic Transitional Government was initiated through a UN Security Counsel Resolution 
transferring power to Boniface Alexandre, President of the Court of Appeals in accordance with the 1987 
Constitution. Thereafter, a Council of Wisemen made up of seven eminent personalities of key sectors of the Haitian 
Society designated Gerard Latortue as Interim Prime Minister, and on April 4, 2004, the Transitional Government, 
political parties (with the exception of the Lavalas) and civil society representatives signed a political pact agreeing 
inter alia, on elections to be organized in 2005 and that an elected government be inaugurated in 2006.   
Page  2
Although institutional weaknesses extend to all levels and sectors of government, attention here 
is on the functions and organizations most directly related to the programming and use of public 
resources 
–
financial management in its most ample sense. As further developed below, the Bank 
has identified this area as critical to the success of its interventions as well as to Haiti’s sustained 
recovery and future development. 
 
Budgetary Process:
 
Haiti’s Ministry of Economics and Finance (MEF) has the responsibility for 
overall budget formulation, execution, and control, sharing programming and oversight of public 
investment with the Ministry of Planning and Economic Cooperation (MPEC).  However, the 
1985 Budgetary Law (replaced in 2004) defining the basic procedures, was never fully 
implemented, and critical positions and offices were simply not created.  Offices that did exist 
were often understaffed and under-equipped.  Parameters for budget analysis and data for budget 
preparation were weak, and the budget did not reflect all expenditures or revenues.  Its contents 
were not linked to programs or higher level government goals (e.g. poverty reduction), but rather 
presented in line item form.  The Treasury, which should manage liquidity and program 
disbursements according to available funds, had become little more than a mechanism for 
endorsing checks to employees and suppliers and processing accounts on an accrual basis. 
Typically, deficit control was accomplished by tapping into reserves held by the Central Bank or 
accumulating internal and external arrears.   The overall cash management system was weak and 
did not allow for proper control and synchronization between disbursements and receipts. 
 
From 1997 through 2001, the government operated without an approved budget.  The three 
following budgets were approved late into their fiscal years (which run from October 1 to 
September 30).  That for 2004-05 was approved in time but by executive decree owing to the 
closure of the Parliament.  Since 1997 an increasing share of public resources (reaching 60 
percent in 2002-03) was channeled through multiple bank accounts held by individual ministries 
(called 
comptes courants
)
and largely assigned to a catch-all category called “
autres 
interventions publiques
.”
While it was not expected that funds so assigned be programmed 
beforehand, the requirement that their uses be subsequently documented and reported was 
routinely ignored.    
 
Public Investment:
 
On the investment side, officially managed by the Ministry of Planning and 
External Cooperation, MPCE), expenditures were not identified and planned in a coherent 
framework.  Like the operational budget, investment projections were limited to a single-year 
timeframe.  Sectoral ministries’ planning offices (
Unités de Programmation
)
played little part in 
the process, and in many cases had simply disappeared.  By the mid 1990s, public sector 
investment had come to be driven by donor-funded and NGO projects.  Donors typically set up 
special accounts with the Central Bank, but without an automatic transfer of information to the 
MEF.  While the MEF eventually received information on these accounts and disbursements, aid 
supplied in kind was not registered at all.  Although the FY2004-05 public investment budget 
rose to 6.2 percent of GDP (over the 2002-03 average of 2.1 percent), limited planning and 
execution capacity, as well as a lack of sufficient transparency, pose concerns as it involves 
vulnerability to misuse. 
 
Control:
 
Both internal control and external audit functions were also weak.  Internal controls 
were affected by the lack of a well-structured accounting system, fragmentation of the 
Page  3
accounting function, and the extensive use of 
comptes courants
.
The external audit of the 
government budget has not been done for several years, as the supreme audit institution, the 
Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif 
(CSCCA) had focused nearly 
exclusively on ex-ante control, duplicating the functions of the Ministry of Economy and 
Finance’s Directorate of Budgetary Control (DCB).  The posts of several of its ten members had 
remained vacant for several years.  The CSCCA also lacked sufficient staff and equipment as 
well as funds for training.  Under the 1985 budgetary law, the CSCCA’s role in ex-ante and ex-
post control, and its simultaneous functioning as an administrative court presented potential 
conflicts of interest.  Another usual source of external control, the Parliament, has not been in 
operation since early 2004, and was also closed during the period from early 1999 to mid 2000.  
Given the poor quality of information managed and provided by the Executive, and the 
Parliament’ own institutional weaknesses, effective legislative review of the budget law and its 
execution will be a challenge for that body once it is reinstated following elections planned in 
end 2005. 
 
Procurement:
 
Until recently, public procurement operated under a 1989 decree which had never 
been fully implemented.  The law itself had several flaws, including its failure to regulate certain 
types of public procurement, overregulation of some areas (e.g., by establishing membership of 
evaluation committees – 
jurys de selection, 
and
 
the thresholds for the use of different 
procurement methods), and the provision for the CSCCA’s prior approval of contracts, a clear 
conflict with its other roles.  The system was decentralized, but the 
Commission Nationale des 
Marc
hés Publics
 (CNMP), which was to oversee its implementation had not existed since the 
early 1990s, and the departmental commission had never been created.  The pragmatic 
arrangements created to fill this institutional void proved to be neither efficient nor transparent 
and gave rise to accusations of corruption.  Reduced operating budgets and salaries drove 
qualified procurement specialists to seek employment in the private sector. Sole-source (
gre-à-
gre
)
contracts and unadvertised  bidding (
appels d’ofres restraints
)
had become the norm, there 
were no standardized bidding documents or manuals, and information either on proposed or 
awarded contracts was not publicized or collected in a central data bank.  Chronically slow 
payments to contractors, combined with a lack of legal recourse, resulted in higher prices, 
liquidity problems for vendors, and the potential for additional abuses.   
 
Revenues:  
Both taxation and customs are decentralized dependencies of the MEF, the 
Direction  
Générale des Impôts (GDI)
 and the 
Administration Générale des Douanes (DGD)
,
respectively.  
The repeated political and economic crises have affected the operations of both.  During the 
February 2004 civil conflict, customs and tax offices were pillaged and already inadequate 
equipment destroyed or removed.  Despite some improvements begun in the mid 1990s (e.g. the 
creation of 
l’Unité des Grands Contribuables
,
and an office for customer service for the DGI, 
and well as the modernization of its 
Pétion-Ville
 office; improvements to Custo
m’s information 
system), both entities remain inefficient, ineffective, plagued by corruption and fraud, and with 
an insufficient number of qualified personnel, who are furthermore inadequately deployed.  
There are problems with the narrow base and inequity of the tax system, non-integration of 
information systems, a weak organizational structure, poor working environment, and overly 
centralized decision making combined with inadequate controls and monitoring.  There has 
additionally been a problem of the retention (and incomplete reporting) of revenues from fees 
and other sources by the agencies receiving them.   
Page  4
Public Enterprises and Infrastructure Management:
 
Despite encouragement by the donor 
community, efforts to privatize Haiti’s public enterprises advanced little in the 1990s; only two 
of the less important holdings were transferred to private hands. It appears that over the short run 
the rest will continue to be state controlled.  This in itself may be less a problem than the fact that 
the services delivered have deteriorated significantly over the past ten years, and that the 
common practice has been either to milk the entities as cash cows or to use them to give 
employment to political allies and friends.  Consequently, they are a drain on the public budget, 
are often overstaffed with nonessential personnel, and are known for their opaque, irregular, and 
unprofessional management practices.  A World Bank review done in 2003 determined that of 
the five major public enterprises, only three were immediately auditable. The two others (Teleco, 
telecommunications, and EDH, electricity) would first have to clean up and reorder their 
accounts before an audit would be possible.  Additionally, public infrastructure has suffered from 
a
lack of maintenance over the years.  The Ministry of Public Works, in charge of the road 
network, has lacked the required financial and human resources to ensure adequate road 
maintenance.  The Ministry also lacks the capacity, or an adequate regulatory framework, to 
design and oversee policies in the several sectors 
 
Corruption, Vertical Accountability, and Transparency: 
 Since its initiation, Transparency 
International’s Corruption Perception Index (CPI) has placed Haiti in one of the three lowest 
rankings, worldwide.  While a study by Transparency International’s Haitian branch indicated 
that the private sector believed corruption to be the leading constraint on economic growth and 
investment
2
,
it also showed corruption to be not only widespread, but also widely tolerated.  
Government’s own limited control of financial data, and the lack of any law requiring 
information to be made public, meant that citizens had little or no knowledge of how public 
resources were being used.  Media coverage remains uneven, and civil society groups are few, 
tend to be concentrated in the capital city, and are relatively unprepared to deal with what 
information is available.  Within government control mechanisms – the judiciary, public 
prosecution and police, as well as those already mentioned – remain weak, and are often 
suspected of their own internal problems.  The offices of Fiscal and of Financial Control have yet 
to be established to provide the required internal checks, respectively, on revenue collection and 
expenditures.   
 
Insufficient human resources:
 
One of the greatest impediments to successful financial 
management in Haiti is the quality and quantity of human resources – the absence of a sufficient 
number of qualified personnel, within the MEF and the sector agencies to make the system work 
and the lack of a good incentive system to attract, maintain, and motivate it. The legal framework 
(a 1982 law and sections of the Constitution) emphasizes the importance of building a modern, 
reliable and competent public service based on equal access to employment and selection on the 
basis of merit. However, the cabinet-level office charged with overseeing the system was never 
created and the necessary 
Arrêté, 
a
detailed set of specific regulations to govern the 
administration of personnel, has never been drafted.  A series of donor-sponsored studies 
indicated that a majority of appointments have been made on the basis of political and personal 
connections.  For those that did get a job, by whatever means, incentives for good performance 
were scarce.  Public sector salaries lost fifty percent of their value between 1995 and 2000, and 
2
La Fondation Héritage pour Haiti, 
L’Etat des Liux de la Corruption en Haiti, 2003
 
Page  5
dropped more rapidly afterwards.  There was little funding for training, and limits on the 
possibilities for promotion (for good performance) through a formal career system.  Donors, 
NGOs, and the private sector often attracted the most qualified staff. 
 
Human resource inadequacies took many forms.  In highly technical offices (the statistical and 
economic studies offices, procurement personnel in ministerial and independent project units), 
while there were some qualified professionals, their number was often too small to accomplish 
their mandate.  In a few cases (e.g. 
commissionaires de douanes
3
), redundancies (“a useless layer 
of extra semi-officials”) were also a problem.  The actual quality of existing staff had never been 
assessed, but there were clearly many areas where numbers were just too few to allow adequate 
implementation (taxation, customs, and local governments are mentioned in particular). 
Distribution of staff aggravated the problem, with most located in Port-au-Prince meaning that 
programs depending on decentralized execution or enforcement consequently suffered.    
 
c. Recent changes:  
Following the installation of the Transition Government, there have been 
signs of improvement, as well as a willingness of donors to support policy reform and 
institutional strengthening efforts.  A series of steps have been taken to begin to rectify the 
situation, many of which have involved the updating of the legal framework – the passage of a 
new Financial Management Law (enacted in November 2003, and published in August 2004) 
and a new Procurement Decree (signed December 3, 2004 and published in February 2005) are 
among the most important.  The former, in addition to establishing the outlines of a new 
budgetary process, also mandated the creation of a new accounting system, distinguishing 
between authorizers (
ordonnateurs
)
and approvers (
comptables
)
of expenditures, created the 
position of 
contrôleur financier
 (internal ex-ante control) and a new internal auditing office (the 
Inspection des Finances
), and removed the 
Cour des Comptes’
 ex-ante control functions, thus 
leaving it to focus on ex-post auditing and so eliminating one potential conflict of interest. The 
new Procurement Decree creates a 
Commission Nacionale des Marchés Publics
 (CNMP) with a 
revised mandate and full-time members selected transparently with input from both the public 
and private sectors.  The new Procurement Decree also formally establishes the requirement of 
competitive bidding practices over direct contracting for government procurement and includes 
new provisions governing the procurement of intellectual (consulting) services.  A new civil 
service law has been drafted and is under study.  Both the CSCCA and the CNMP are also 
working on additional laws and regulations to permit the implementation of their revised 
functions. A 2003 law created the 
Fonds d’Entretien Routier
 to finance road maintenance, 
although it is not yet fully operational 
 
Legal and institutional changes, including those effected before the transition, have produced 
additional progress 
–
the vacant positions in the CSCCA have been filled, the 
Commission 
National de Marchés Publics 
(CNMP) has been created and a director appointed, the FY2004-05 
budget was prepared on the basis of the requirements of the 2003 Financial Management Law 
and presented in draft to the donor community and civil society organizations for consultations, 
and a Co-
ordination Unit in the Prime Minister’s Office has taken on the human resource 
functions, as a first step to establishing a new civil service law and agency to oversee its 
implementation.  The unit has drawn up an action plan for meeting short and medium term 
human resource needs.  Civil service salaries were increased by 30 percent in 2004, in 
3
World Bank (1999), Republic of Haiti :  Country Procurement Assessment Report, Draft, September. p. 21. 
Page  6
consultation with the IMF; and an additional 15 percent increase is under study.  The Ministry of 
Finance has also established an Anticorruption Unit (the 
Unité pour la Lutte Contre la 
Corruption
,
ULCC) and an office which will promote civil society monitoring of selected reform 
programs.  The number of 
comptes courants
 has been reduced (to one per Ministry), and the 
amounts fed into them dramatically cut to less than 10 percent of cumulative non-salary current 
public expenditures since the beginning of FY 2004-2005.   
 
Haiti also has a self-developed automated financial management system, SYSDEP, which has 
recently been installed in seven ministries.  While it so far only tracks expenditures, and then 
incompletely, its development over the past three years has greatly improved the timely input of 
financial information.  With donor support, including that of the World Bank, this information 
will be used by the civil society and anticorruption offices, as well as by the 
Cour des Comptes
 
to facilitate the performance of their functions.  The MEF is aware of the limitations of the 
present system and has sought donor assistance to expand its coverage and add additional 
modules to cover budget preparation, investment, contracting/purchasing, accounting (a General 
Ledger), human resources (especially salary management), and reporting.  It has also been 
willing to entertain suggestions that SYSDEP be replaced by one of the several integrated 
financial management systems developed commercially. 
 
While donor support pledged since 2004 has been slow in materializing, several donors recently 
approved projects in the economic governance area.  Despite doubts about some aspects of the 
new Budget Law (e.g., its continuing single-year timeframe and focus on expenditure profiles 
only, the CSSCA’s maintenance of its dual role as auditor and administrative court, lack of 
emphasis on performance or results), it represents a clear improvement over its predecessor, and 
if Haiti can move to its full implementation, its ability to track, control, and demonstrate the use 
of public resources should raise the quality of public sector expenditures as well as increase both 
public and donor confidence.  This will require considerable effort to establish offices that still 
do not exist, train or hire personnel to fill new positions, work out in detail how new procedures 
will be carried out, and ensure that the sectoral ministries and agencies, and not just the office 
heading each function, are able to carry out their work.  Given the apparently bureaucratic nature 
of many of the contemplated changes, it will also be important to explain their content and wider 
importance to nongovernmental constituencies, and to build support for the program with the 
broader public.   
 
2. Objectives 
The objective of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG) is to assist the 
GoH in strengthening its institutional capacity in the areas of budgetary planning and execution, 
investment and project planning, internal and external control, procurement, accountability, 
participatory monitoring, and reform constituency building.  Specifically the EGTAG's 
development objectives are to:  (i) improve the central ministry's ability to program, execute and 
track use of public resources and better link them to concrete development goals, ensure an 
adequate performance of the external, ex-post control function by the CSCCA, and help the 
CNMP grow into its role as overseer of procurement practices and make open, competitive 
procurement the rule rather than the exception; (ii) advance the development of a human 
resource management plan and system, especially as regards ensuring adequate capacity in the 
financial management system; (iii) advance the development of the ULCC as an effective check 
Page  7
on corruption while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in its own 
operations and as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv) ensure as part of the project 
management process, an adequate system for communicating information on the reform 
programs and mobilizing public support for their furtherance. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Consistency with the Transitional Support Strategy:   
The CMU’s Transitional Support 
Strategy
4
proposes that during the two-year period covered the Bank use a mix of lending 
operations, trust fund grants, and non-lending services to “support the transition to economic and 
social recovery, reduce the potential of a return to conflict, and lay the groundwork for the 
Bank’s longer-term objective in Haiti:  inclusive growth and poverty reduction through local 
development, institutional strengthening and support for productive sectors.”  Two areas of 
action are emphasized:  delivering hope and quick wins, and restoring credibility in institutions.  
The current proposal coincides explicitly with this second area, both in its emphasis on 
strengthening economic governance and on promoting inclusion and consensus on development 
priorities.  It also will be an important input to the quick wins, in ensuring that investments here 
are made in a productive, transparent fashion. 
 
Complementarity with other Bank Activities:  
As noted, the proposed operation is part of a 
package of assistance the Bank is providing to Haiti in the area of economic governance.  The 
EGRO contains conditionality to push for the earliest changes, and the LICUS is intended to 
supply the immediate support needed to achieve them.  However, given their short timeframes, 
both are only intended as emergency measures.  The EGTAG is intended to build on their 
progress, and move Haiti toward more sustainable patterns of good economic governance.  It will 
also be necessary to ensure the desired returns to other sector work included in the Bank 
portfolio.  As much of this work will be channeled through government agencies, the latter’s 
ability to program and execute their funds in an efficient, effective, and transparent manner is 
key to their success. For this reason, the EGTAG, while implemented through and with the 
Ministry of Finance, and providing additional direct assistance to other central agencies (the 
CNMP, the MPCE, the CSSCA) will also focus on building capacity for good financial 
management witchin sector ministries.   
 
Complementarity with Other Donor Activities:  
The planning of this grant has been done in 
close collaboration with other donor agencies active in the area of economic governance.  An 
economic governance table is now operating in Haiti to help coordinate donor work and to 
ensure it meets Haitian priorities.  As the table had only met once when preparation of the 
EGTAG began, additional individual meetings were held with the key donors (IDB, USAID, 
CIDA, AECI, EU, and the French Cooperation Agency) to ensure consistency within and across 
programs.  As the GoH’s needs are great, there is sufficient work to go around, and our concern 
has been ensuring the direction is consistent and that there are no redundancies.     
 
For a variety of reasons, donors have been slow in mounting programs in the economic 
governance area.  It appears that the actors with the broadest focus will be the IDB, USAID, and 
the World Bank.  The Canadians have begun some activities, focusing largely on the Ministry of 
Planning and Economic Cooperation, and the Spanish are beginning training programs to 
4
Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Haiti, Report No. 30541, December 10, 2004. 
Page  8
strengthen administrative and managerial capacity, starting with a course on project design and 
implementation.  The French have promised a few long-term advisors in the areas of customs, 
taxation, and possibly the Treasury.  As regards donors working directly in the area, 
complementarity is being pursued by exchange of information and some joint planning of 
interventions.  For example, as USAID had already set up a mission to evaluate SYSDEP and 
related aspects of tracking of budgetary information, both the IDB and WB agreed to hold off 
actions here, and instead use USAID’s assessment as a first cut at identifying needs.  As the 
French and IDB are taking the lead in customs and taxation, the Bank will not do work there at 
this time.  Further work with the MEF, CSCCA, CNMP, and MPCE will be jointly programmed 
with the agencies involved; for example, the World Bank has shared its PCN for the EGTAG and 
its draft PAD with the IDB and USAID, the two agencies which will also work in these there, 
and the Bank staff has been invited to join IDB meetings in Washington with their joint 
counterparts.  The IDB and WB are also planning a joint mission to Haiti in mid April for the 
purpose of consolidating their joint and individual proposals with the GoH.  All work in 
economic governance is also complementary to the wider range of donor activities (outside 
economic governance per se) as improved public resource management is a sine qua non for 
effective project performance. 
 
4. Description 
The operation proposed herein is part of a medium-term assistance package described in the 
TSS, but also extending beyond the period covered in that document.
5
Building on the measures 
supported under the EGRO and the emergency assistance under the LICUS Trust Fund grant, the 
US$2 million EGTAG is intended as the first step in a program of Bank support to Government 
efforts to improve economic governance.  The proposed operation includes four main 
components: (i) financial resource management; (ii) human resource development; (iii) anti-
corruption and civil society engagement; and (iv) communication, coordination, and project 
management as follows:. 
 
Component 1
 --
 
Financial Resource Management:
 
this is the largest component, absorbs the 
majority of the EGTAG’s resources, and is presented as a single component because the parts are 
so closely interrelated.  As the key area for economic governance, this component aims at the 
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce 
irregular uses and expenditures. The 2003 Budget Law and the 2004 Procurement Decree 
represent improvements over their predecessors, but like them could remain largely 
unimplemented and so have little impact.  Aside from further implementing regulations 
(
Arrètés
), effective operationalization will require detailed design of new procedures, 
redistribution and possibly the addition of personnel (both in the MEF and in other agencies, 
including the MPCE and sectoral ministries), the creation of new functions and offices, training 
of personnel in their modified functions and procedures, and some improvements as regards 
management of information, ICT equipment, and the roll out and upgrading of SYSDEP. As 
USAID has programmed an evaluation of SYSDEP and has funds for equipment, it will take the 
lead there, with additional equipment financed by the IDB.  Similarly, an IDB grant will provide 
funding for the development of a data base on procurement to be managed by the CNMP (and 
shared with the other agencies, including the ULCC).  As regards other areas, the IDB and the 
5
The TSS covers only FY 2005 and 2006.  Full achievement of the economic governance objectives will take 
longer.   
Page  9
World Bank have worked on the basis of the MEF’s requests, each focusing its assistance as 
noted below. 
 
·
Subcomponent 1.1 -Budgeting:
 
The IDB and USAID will finance most equipment 
needs and the latter will, in coordination with the IDB and World Bank,  provide 
financial and technical assistance to evaluate SYSDEP and plan its expansion or 
replacement.  The EGTAG will instead focus on design and implementation of basic 
budgetary procedures and functions as established in the new Organic Law.  This will 
include supporting the MEF and MPCE to help staff implement procedures and 
instructions focusing on:  developing a structure for budget elaboration, with increasing 
elements of a program-activity format; developing the accountability process still absent 
from the Financial Management Law; developing and implementing a sound cash-
management system; implementing the internal ex ante control process (support for ex-
post internal control will be provided by the IDB); and integrating at the central (MEF 
and MPCE) and in the sectoral ministries, the investment and current cost budgets and 
programming process.   The IDB and CIDA will focus on supporting key sector 
ministries in implementing programming procedures developed in the MEF and MPCE 
with World Bank assistance. 
 
The LICUS Trust Fund grant finances two related activities:  a study tour to review other 
integrated financial managements systems (which will be coordinated with USAID’s initial 
findings) and a consultant to help the MEF develop a plan for implementing the new law, and 
possibly moving beyond it toward a more programmatic budget format (with some connection to 
a
results framework, poverty reduction indicators, and a multi-year focus).  This consultancy will 
provide the more specific design and action program for the activities listed above. 
 
·
Subcomponent 1.2 
–
External
 
Control:
 
The  LICUS Trust Fund grant funding for the 
Cour Supèrieure des Comptes e du Contentiuex Administratif
 (CSCCA) will support 
class-room and on-the-job training of auditors in their new ex-post control function and 
the drafting of an updated Organic Law.  Under the EGTAG, the CSCCA’s initial 
experience with ex-post auditing will be evaluated, and further personnel, equipment, 
budgetary, and training needs identified, resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency’s 
performance over the following two to three years.  The EGTAG will support 
implementation of and further adjustments to this plan.  Work will be coordinated with 
assistance provided by the IDB in the area of ex-post internal control, the only other 
donor agency to contemplate assistance in this area.   
 
·
Subcomponent 1.3 - Procurement
:
The EGTAG builds on assistance provided under 
the LICUS Trust Fund grant to support the newly created 
Commission National des 
Marchés Publics (CNMP)
.
It will support the CNMP’s transformation into the 
permanent body mandated by law, the creation of a public-sector wide corps of 
procurement officials, and the development of and training in standardized procurement 
procedures.  It will also continue work initiated under the LICUS Trust Fund grant in the 
development of standardized bidding documents, publication of information on bids and 
contracts, and the education of potential bidders and the general public on the 
procurement process.  At the same time, IDB technical assistance will support 
Page  10
strengthening of procurement departments within key sector ministries (Health, 
Education, Agriculture, Public Works, and Justice) and the CNMP’s creation of a 
centralized database on suppliers and consultants available for government contracts, 
with input from and for use by all contracting entities.  The IDB may also support work 
to prepare a new procurement law to present to Haiti’s new legislature in 2006, building 
on the improvements introduced by the decree of February 2005.  As with all elements 
under this component, this is an incremental process in which new procedures will be 
tested and modified according to preliminary results.  It is contemplated that a consulting 
firm will be hired to support the Government in these activities, and that segments of its 
contract will be paid through the LICUS Trust Fund grant, the EGTAG, and the IDB 
programs. 
 
Component 2 -- Human Resource Development:  
during the identification missions and as 
part of the ICF, a Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial 
plan for meeting the public administration’s most critical human resource needs.  This plan will 
be the basis for further development of this area, but given the plan’s estimated costs (in excess 
of US$100 million), the EGTAG will support the Human Resource Unit in the Prime Minister’s 
Office to focus selectively on four areas: 
 
·
Subcomponent 2.1.-  Strengthening of Human Resource Program.
 
this will provide 
support to the Prime Minister’s Office (pending creation of a Ministry for the Public 
Function) to develop its capacity for monitoring human resources needs, policy, and 
programs and its ability to help other executive agencies develop plans for meeting their 
personnel needs over the next five years.   
·
Subcomponent 2.2  Civil Service Reform:
 
Working with the Human Resource Unit 
and other agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including the necessary 
legal foundation.  Under a possible follow-on technical assistance operation, steps would 
be taken to initiate implementation, probably on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-
function basis. 
·
Subcomponent 2.3 
–
Further development of training capacity:
 
Enhancing the 
Human Resource Unit’s ability to plan training and the capacity of public sector training 
institutions to deliver the training needed for the first three areas.  While course design 
will be financed under the other components of this operation or by other donors (e.g. 
AECI, USAID, IDB), the emphasis in this sub-component is on upgrading the overall 
planning capabilities and physical facilities of public sector’s training institutions (the 
latter with the goal of eliminating the need to rent hotel conference rooms).   
 
Component 3 - Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement:
 
the LICUS Trust Fund grant 
is supporting establishment of the 
Unité pour la Lutte Contre la Corruption
 (ULCC) and a 
program of civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms.  The USAID and IDB 
“anticorruption” projects will fund some ULCC activities directly.
The EGTAG will help 
develop the ULCC’s capacity for anti-corruption programming, including skills and techniques 
needed for diagnosing institutional vulnerabilities (corruption maps) and the design of remedies, 
provide  assistance in drafting improved laws (notably, a freedom of information law)  and fund 
an evaluation of the early performance of the mechanisms for monitoring of economic 
governance reforms by civil society organizations.  
Page  11
Component 4 
–Communication, Donor Coordination, and Project Management:  
the 
program supported by the EGTAG will be implemented under the project management 
mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund grant, and will have an overall coordinator as 
well as an individua
l
responsible for the area of budget reform (the MEF’s own activity).  The 
overall coordinator will have oversight of the World Bank, IDB and USAID activities in the 
areas of financial management, human resources, and anti-corruption and civil society 
engagement; the budget reform coordinator will have oversight of IDB, USAID,  World Bank, 
and other donor assistance in this specific complex reform area.  One or more liaison officers 
will be responsible for tracking progress in the other components and entities, identifying 
difficulties in implementation of their programs, and helping address them.  The PCU will also 
develop a mechanism to coordinate all donor assistance to economic governance, including 
holding of periodic meetings and the creation of a data base to track activities.  
 
The EGTAG will also provide funds to develop mechanisms for communicating the content of 
reform proposals and their advances to ensure greater understanding and wider ownership of the 
efforts among all Haitian citizens. This activity was begun under the LICUS, and developments 
there will be evaluated for impact, readjustments made to the design, and funds provided to 
continue with or add activities according to what appears most effective. 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE 
2.0 
 Total 
2.0 
6. Implementation 
A
project coordination unit (PCU) a
lready exists in the MEF to oversee the LICUS Trust Fund 
grant execution.  Since the EGTAG will work with the same group of entities, in addition to the 
MEF, the same unit will be used, and will also oversee the IDB projects.  As day-to-day 
activities for each component or subcomponent, in the EGTAG and other operations, would be 
handled by different government agencies, the major responsibilities of the PCU are to: (i) 
ensure that the implementation of the various components is on track; (ii) provide an overall 
vision and keep implementation in line with same; (iii); ensure compliance with GoH and other 
donor procurement and financial management regulations; and (iv) design and implement the 
MEF-specific component (the budgetary process).  It is the last item in particular that requires 
strengthening as during project preparation it has become clear that if there is a single MEF 
vision on directions and priorities (the plan for implementing the new budget law), this needs to 
be better communicated to all the relevant parties in the public administration.  The PCU will 
also need to add either a full- or part-time employee to oversee financial management as well as 
another to complete the processing of procurement actions. 
 
The EGTAG will benefit from agency experience under the LICUS Trust Fund grant and the 
EGRO, in that by the time it comes into operation, all of the agencies will have a basic 
understanding of the project cycle and Bank procedures, know how to do a work plan, how to 
access funds, and how to apply procurement procedures and identify and hire consultants.  
Rather than ask the PCU to take over this job for the EGTAG, a development which would 
require a substantial expansion, the EGTAG will continue the current practice of using a local 
Page  12
consultant to work directly with the various agencies A coordinating body including 
representatives of the entities beyond the MEF, the overall coordinator, and PCU liaison officials 
will hold regular meetings to ensure overall inter-agency communication and coordination. 
Either in conjunction with this group, or separately, the PCU will hold periodic meetings with 
the donors financing these activities to ensure adequate coordination of their assistance.  As 
needed, the EGTAG may also finance TA for the PCU, to deal with issues crossing agency 
borders.   
 
Each component/subcomponent implementing agency would evaluate its progress vis-
à-vis 
expected results and would inform the project PCU of the same in order to have aggregate 
progress reports prepared twice annually.  The Bank would conduct, at a minimum, quarterly 
supervision missions to evaluate achievement of intermediate results and to agree with the 
participating agencies on adjustments when necessary.  As it is intended that the project will last 
between 12-18 months, no mid-term review will be undertaken. 
 
7. Sustainability 
Government commitment to and ownership of the project is strong as indicated by its 
sponsorship of the ICF process which provides the basis for the activities included.  The ICF was 
also instrumental in unifying donor views on the objectives and activities requiring support, and 
in encouraging an unusually high level of donor coordination in the preparation of their 
individual operations.  The GoH’s insistence on creating mechanisms to broaden citizen 
understanding of the reform process and to involve civil society in the monitoring of advances 
will also be critical in establishing and maintaining an external reform constituency and so 
helping the program sustain its impetus after the change of administrations.  As these three 
factors – government commitment, consistency across donor programs, and citizen demand – are 
among the most important determinants of sustainability, the operation enjoys decided 
advantages there. 
 
It is also important to note that the operation is not an isolated intervention, but rather is part of a 
longer-term IDA package and of a coordinated set of activities financed by other donors.  It 
builds on activities already under way and, if successful, will be followed by additional technical 
assistance.  Hence its sustainability must be measured within this context.  This is an incremental 
process in which the EGTAG and the larger program aim to support the GoH in the attainment of 
the goals it has set out, and to accompanying it as it further develops its own vision. 
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Aside from the general lessons applicable to all LICUS countries, experience in Haiti over the 
last year indicates three important lessons:  (i) the need to work incrementally;  (ii) the 
importance of constant communication and coordination among and within governmental 
agencies and among donors; and (iii) the key role played by the counterpart  agency and its PIU 
in effecting this coordinating function.    Also, while the government has shown a capacity to 
draft and pass new laws, their implementation has lagged.  Before supporting the adoption of 
new legislation or systems, it appears thus important to assist the authorities in implementing 
existing legislation. The new budget law and procurement decree include many worthwhile 
innovations, and it will be important to ensure they are implemented in full.   As a result, the 
EGTAG focuses on assisting the government in putting into effect the innovations it has recently 
Page  13
introduced by law.  It has also been apparent that despite the recent greater emphasis on donor 
coordination, more attention is needed to enhance this further and this has been a main focus in 
the preparation of the EGTAG and the definition of its project management arrangements 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[ 
x] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
x] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
x] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
x] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
Financial Management Assessment 
Procurement Capacity Assessment 
QAT Environmental and Social Comments on the PCN, PAD and associated Integrated  
 
Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS) 
Country Procurement Assessment Report, September 30, 1999 
La Fonction Publique: Le Renforcement des Capacités – Analyses et Propositions d’Actions
,
De 
 
Weerd, June 1999 
Haiti Country Brief, December 16, 2002 
Haiti Country Assistance Evaluation, Operations and Evaluation Department, February 12, 2002 
An End to the Beginning: Resolving the “Interminable” Crisis and Neeting the Challenge of  
 
Governance in Post-Duvalierist Haiti, Ira Lowenthal, June 2, 2002 
Economic Governance – Findings and Analysis, 
Ladouceur, 
November 2003 
Decentralization: Cour Supérieure des Comptes de du Contentieux Administratif, Misión de la  
 
Banque Mondiale sur la Gouvenance Economique
,
Laurence Mézin, October 13-18, 2003 
Haiti Interim Cooperation Framework – Economic Governance Strategic Group Sectoral Report,  
 
May 26, 2004 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Linn A. Hammergren 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2975 
Fax: 9202) 522-3134 
Email: lhammergren@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  14
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
