Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  05/04/2005 
Report No.:  AC1452
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Haiti 
Project ID:  P093936 
Project Name:  Governance Technical Assistance Grant 
Task Team Leader:  Linn A. Hammergren 
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 4, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 9, 2005 
Managing Unit:  LCSPS 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  Central government administration (70%);General public administration sector 
(30%) 
Theme:  Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);Other 
accountability/anti-corruption (P);Administrative and civil service reform (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
2.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG) is to 
assist the GoH in strengthening its institutional capacity in the areas of budgetary 
planning and execution, investment and project planning, internal and external control, 
procurement, accountability, participatory monitoring, and reform constituency building.  
Specifically the EGTAG's development objectives are to:(i) improve the central 
ministry's ability to program, execute and track use of public resources and better link 
them to concrete development goals, ensure an adequate performance of the external, ex-
post control function by the CSCCA, and help the CNMP grow into its role as overseer of 
procurement practices and make open, competitive procurement the rule rather than the 
exception; (ii) advance the development of a human resource management plan and 
system, especially as regards ensuring adequate capacity in the financial management 
system; (iii) advance the development of the ULCC as an effective check on corruption 
while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in its own operations and 
as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv) ensure as part of the project management 
process, an adequate system for communicating information on the reform programs and 
mobilizing public support for their furtherance.   
 
Page  2
3. Project Description 
The operation proposed herein is part of a medium-term assistance package described in 
the TSS, but also extending beyond the period covered in that document. Building on the 
measures supported under the EGRO and the emergency assistance under the LICUS 
Trust Fund grant, the US$2 million EGTAG is intended as the first step in a program of 
Bank support to Government efforts to improve economic governance.  The proposed 
operation includes four main components: (i) financial resource management; (ii) human 
resource development; (iii) anti-corruption and civil society engagement; and (iv) 
communication, coordination, and project management as follows:.  
 
Component 1 -- Financial Resource Management:  this is the largest component, 
absorbs the majority of the EGTAG's resources, and is presented as a single component 
because the parts are so closely interrelated.  As the key area for economic governance, 
this component aims at the development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, 
track its implementation, and reduce irregular uses and expenditures. The 2003 Budget 
Law and the 2004 Procurement Decree represent improvements over their predecessors, 
but like them, could remain largely unimplemented and so have little impact.  Aside from 
further implementing regulations (Arretes), effective operationalization will require 
detailed design of new procedures, redistribution and possibly the addition of personnel 
(both in the MEF and in other agencies, including the MPCE and sectoral ministries), the 
creation of new functions and offices, training of personnel in their modified functions 
and procedures, and some improvements as regards management of information, ICT 
equipment, and the roll out and upgrading of SYSDEP. As USAID has programmed an 
evaluation of SYSDEP and has funds for equipment, it will take the lead there, with 
additional equipment financed by the IDB.  Similarly, an IDB grant will provide funding 
for the development of a data base on procurement to be managed by the CNMP (and 
shared with the other agencies, including the ULCC).  As regards other areas, the IDB 
and the World Bank have worked on the basis of the MEF's requests, each focusing its 
assistance as noted below.  
 
*
Subcomponent 1.1 -Budgeting:  The IDB and USAID will finance most equipment 
needs and the latter will, in coordination with the IDB and World Bank,  provide 
financial and technical assistance to evaluate SYSDEP and plan its expansion or 
replacement.  The EGTAG will instead focus on design and implementation of basic 
budgetary procedures and functions as established in the new Organic Law.  This will 
include supporting the MEF and MPCE to help staff implement procedures and 
instructions focusing on:  developing a structure for budget elaboration, with increasing 
elements of a program-activity format; developing the accountability process still absent 
from the Financial Management Law; developing and implementing a sound cash-
management system; implementing the internal ex ante control process (support for ex-
post internal control will be provided by the IDB); and integrating at the central (MEF 
and MPCE) and in the sectoral ministries, the investment and current cost budgets and 
programming process.   The IDB and CIDA will focus on supporting key sector 
ministries in implementing programming procedures developed in the MEF and MPCE 
with World Bank assistance.  
 
Page  3
The LICUS Trust Fund grant finances two related activities:  a study tour to review 
other integrated financial managements systems (which will be coordinated with 
USAID's initial findings) and a consultant to help the MEF develop a plan for 
implementing the new law, and possibly moving beyond it toward a more programmatic 
budget format (with some connection to a results framework, poverty reduction 
indicators, and a multi-year focus).  This consultancy will provide the more specific 
design and action program for the activities listed above.  
 
*
Subcomponent 1.2 - External Control:  The  LICUS Trust Fund grant funding for the 
Cour Superieure des Comptes e du Contentiuex Administratif (CSCCA) will support 
class-room and on-the-job training of auditors in their new ex-post control function and 
the drafting of an updated Organic Law.  Under the EGTAG, the CSCCA's initial 
experience with ex-post auditing will be evaluated, and further personnel, equipment, 
budgetary, and training needs identified, resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency's 
performance over the following two to three years.  The EGTAG will support 
implementation of and further adjustments to this plan.  Work will be coordinated with 
assistance provided by the IDB in the area of ex-post internal control, the only other 
donor agency to contemplate assistance in this area.  
 
*
Subcomponent 1.3 - Procurement:  The EGTAG builds on assistance provided under 
the LICUS Trust Fund grant to support the newly created Commission National des 
Marches Publics (CNMP).  It will support the CNMP's transformation into the permanent 
body mandated by law, the creation of a public-sector wide corps of procurement 
officials, and the development of and training in standardized procurement procedures.  It 
will also continue work initiated under the LICUS Trust Fund grant in the development 
of standardized bidding documents, publication of information on bids and contracts, and 
the education of potential bidders and the general public on the procurement process.  At 
the same time, IDB technical assistance will support strengthening of procurement 
departments within key sector ministries (Health, Education, Agriculture, Public Works, 
and Justice) and the CNMP's creation of a centralized database on suppliers and 
consultants available for government contracts, with input from and for use by all 
contracting entities. The IDB may also support work to prepare a new procurement law to 
present to Haiti's new legislature in 2006, building on the improvements introduced by 
the decree of February 2005.  As with all elements under this component, this is an 
incremental process in which new procedures will be tested and modified according to 
preliminary results.  It is contemplated that a consulting firm will be hired to support the 
Government in these activities, and that segments of its contract will be paid through the 
LICUS Trust Fund grant, the EGTAG, and the IDB programs.  
 
Component 2 -- Human Resource Development:  during the identification missions and 
as part of the ICF, a Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an 
initial plan for meeting the public administration's most critical human resource needs. 
This plan will be the basis for further development of this area, but given the plan's 
estimated costs (in excess of US$100 million), the EGTAG will support the Human 
Resource Unit in the Prime Minister's Office to focus selectively on four areas:  
 
Page  4
*
Subcomponent 2.1.-  Strengthening of Human Resource Program.  this will provide 
support to the Prime Minister's Office (pending creation of a Ministry for the Public 
Function) to develop its capacity for monitoring human resources needs, policy, and 
programs and its ability to help other executive agencies develop plans for meeting their 
personnel needs over the next five years.  
 
*
Subcomponent 2.2  Civil Service Reform:  Working with the Human Resource Unit 
and other agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including the necessary 
legal foundation.  Under a possible follow-on technical assistance operation, steps would 
be taken to initiate implementation, probably on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-
function basis.  
 
*
Subcomponent 2.3 - Further development of training capacity:  Enhancing the Human 
Resource Unit?s ability to plan training and the capacity of public sector training 
institutions to deliver the training needed for the first three areas.While course design will 
be financed under the other components of this operation or by other donors (e.g. AECI, 
USAID, IDB), the emphasis in this sub-component is on upgrading the overall planning 
capabilities and physical facilities of public sector?s training institutions (the latter with 
the goal of eliminating the need to rent hotel conference rooms).  
 
Component 3 - Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement:  the LICUS Trust Fund 
grant is supporting establishment of the Unite pour la Lutte Contre la Corruption (ULCC) 
and a program of civil society monitoring of economic governance reforms.  The USAID 
and IDB anticorruption projects will fund some ULCC activities directly. The EGTAG 
will help develop the ULCC's capacity for anti-corruption programming, including skills 
and techniques needed for diagnosing institutional vulnerabilities (corruption maps) and 
the design of remedies, provide  assistance in drafting improved laws (notably, a freedom 
of information law)  and fund an evaluation of the early performance of the mechanisms 
for monitoring of economic governance reforms by civil society organizations.   
 
Component 4 - Communication, Donor Coordination, and Project Management:  the 
program supported by the EGTAG will be implemented under the project management 
mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund grant, and will have an overall 
coordinator as well as an individual responsible for the area of budget reform (the MEF's 
own activity).  The overall coordinator will have oversight of the World Bank, IDB and 
USAID activities in the areas of financial management, human resources, and anti-
corruption and civil society engagement; the budget reform coordinator will have 
oversight of IDB, USAID,  World Bank, and other donor assistance in this specific 
complex reform area.  One or more liaison officers will be responsible for tracking 
progress in the other components and entities, identifying difficulties in implementation 
of their programs, and helping address them.  The PCU will also develop a mechanism to 
coordinate all donor assistance to economic governance, including holding of periodic 
meetings and the creation of a data base to track activities  
 
The EGTAG will also provide funds to develop mechanisms for communicating the 
content of reform proposals and their advances to ensure greater understanding and wider 
Page  5
ownership of the efforts among all Haitian citizens. This activity was begun under the 
LICUS, and developments there will be evaluated for impact, readjustments made to the 
design, and funds provided to continue with or add activities according to what appears 
most effective.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Port-au-Prince, Haiti   
 
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Mr Justin Jacinto (LCSEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
No safeguard issues are expected to apply.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable   
Page  6
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not applicable   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Linn A. Hammergren 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Justin Jacinto 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Jean-Roger Mercier 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ronald E. Myers 
 
Comments:   
