Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1328 
Project Name 
HT Governance TAG 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Central government administration (70%);General public 
administration sector (30%) 
Project ID 
P093936 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance  
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
February 8, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 5, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 9, 2005 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged in the 
world.  The causes of this situation are complex and long-standing.  For the past twenty years, 
the country has struggled to emerge from a cycle of internal conflicts that devastated its 
economy, augmented levels of poverty, and provoked the withdrawal of external assistance to 
the government.
1
In March 2004, following the resignation of President Jean Bertrand Aristide 
and pending elections now scheduled for November 2005, a Transition Government was put in 
place and initiated a program aimed at increasing political and social stability and jump starting 
the economy.  Its commitment to fighting corruption, encouraging civil society participation, and 
managing public resources in a fully transparent and efficient manner has already been 
demonstrated by such concrete steps as its preparation of a 2005 budget consistent with rules set 
forth in a new Organic Law, restrictions on the number and value of 
comptes courrantes
 
(unprogrammed funds given to minist
ries to finance “unanticipated expenses”), the creation of 
an anti-corruption unit and a central procurement entity, and efforts to develop policy and make 
appointments on technical and not partisan criteria.   Donors have indicated they will resume 
support, but further progress is obstructed by a state apparatus that has suffered its own 
devastation over the prior two decades, and now has a severe shortage of adequately qualified 
and motivated personnel, features inefficient structures and procedures, many further 
undermined by widespread recourse to various informal mechanisms, includes key organizations 
which never had the resources to do their jobs, and which lacks the means of tracking the 
majority of expenditures. 
 
If the Transition Government and the elected government to follow are to make efficient use of 
their own and external resources, increasing, 
inter alia
,
the quantity and quality of  service 
1
Donors remaining worked largely through NGOs or other nongovernmental channels. 
Page  2
delivery, they will have to effect immediate improvements in the administrative structure and 
initiate a longer-term program of incremental capacity building.  The most critical area is 
economic governance, understood to encompass public resource management (financial, human, 
and material); the values informing it (e.g. discipline, ethics, transparency, and accountability); 
and the mechanisms for enforcing sanctions and taking corrective actions when legally mandated 
norms are violated.  Absent positive changes in all these areas, even the best intentioned 
administration will not be able to design and execute programs encouraging economic growth, 
respond to citizen needs, and build the public support required for its own survival.  It also will 
not be able to provide the necessary coordination and oversight for donor programs or discourage 
donors’ past tendencies to undermine government norms by circumventing or ignoring them.   
 
In Spring 2004, the Transition Government led the donor community in putting together  an 
Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF)
 2
 to guide future efforts.  Because of its broad experience 
in the area, the World Bank, along with the IDB, accepted the Government of Haiti’s (GOH) 
invitation to collaborate in the design and implementation of the sections on economic 
governance.  As experience in Haiti and elsewhere demonstrates, progress here is vital not only 
to the Bank’s own programs, but to those of the government and the entire community of donors.   
The task is enormous and will require a combination of emergency, short-term measures and a 
longer-term program tailored to the country’s considerable resource constraints.  Consistent with 
this approach, the proposed technical assistant grant focuses on economic governance, as 
opposed to a broader public administration reform, a civil service program, or targeted attention 
to individual sector ministries where we propose activities, because poor resource management 
lies at the heart of Haiti’s public sector weaknesses.  If the government can develop a system, 
including the necessary personnel, to plan, direct, and track resource use, and to identify and 
control deviations, it will have the minimum essential tools to carry out its additional programs.  
The proposal outlined here and the underlying assessment are the result of on-going dialogue 
with the government, a series of missions to identify and discuss needs, and prior diagnostic 
work by the Bank and others focusing specifically on weaknesses in financial management, 
procurement, and over all public administration. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The project’s objectives are to assist the Government of Haiti in developing the basic structures 
and practices essential to good financial management and thus to the government’s ability to 
program public resources transparently and effectively.  These objectives will be met through a 
package of WB and other donor assistance programs, of which this TAG is only one part.  The 
collective goal is to provide Haiti with a budgetary system which captures all proposed and 
effected operating and investment expenditures, an operational system for conducting financial 
and legal audits and for investigating alleged corruption, help the GOH meet minimal personnel 
needs for financial management and supervision of service delivery, develop developed and 
begin implementation of a plan to meet broader personnel requirements, and engage civil society 
in monitoring the results of these efforts and overall government performance.  Project 
preparation will focus on coordinating all donor efforts in this area, and carving out the sections 
specific to the TAG and to a follow-on loan or grant proposed for CY 07. 
2
Details are provided in the Economic Growth and Recovery Operation (EGRO), approved on January 6, 2005,  the 
Transition Support Strategy for Haiti. 
Page  3
Preliminary description 
 
The overall assistance package includes a LICUS Trust Fund which entered effectiveness in late 
2004 and should be fully disbursed by December, 2005, and the recently approved Economic 
Growth Reform Operation (EGRO) which incorporates conditionality on economic governance, 
and the proposed TAG. The work is also coordinated with two technical assistance loans from 
the IDB focusing on budgetary and tax issues, although largely emphasizing automation systems, 
and IMF programs.
3
It is intended that the economic governance portion of the LICUS Trust 
Fund provide the shortest term, emergency assistance, with a particular emphasis on the new 
Anti-Corruption Unit, the Cour de Comptes (external audits), procurement, and civil society 
involvement.  Where the TAG starts depends in part on how much progress is made under the 
LICUS Trust Fund, and in the IDB projects.  Thus while we know where we will work, and what 
we want to achieve, the details of each of the four component outline below will be conditioned 
by developments under other Bank and non-Bank instruments.   
 
A) Financial Resource Management:
 
This is the key area for economic governance, the 
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce 
irregular uses and expenditures.   
 
a) 
Budgeting:
 
We assume the IDB will cover most equipment needs and will help 
design basic budgetary procedures (as established in the new Organic Law)  The TAG will focus 
on ensuring sufficient numbers of adequately prepared personnel occupy the required positions 
in the Ministry of Finance and other sectoral ministries.  Activities include a diagnosis of current 
staffing patterns and needs, preparation and delivery of training programs, provision of long and 
short term consultants to assist agencies in applying and refining new procedures, and 
development and implementation of plans to fill the staffing gaps. As the Ministry of Planning 
manages the investment budget, the same objectives will be addressed there, along with steps to 
ensure coordination of the investment and operational budgets and to strengthen project 
development capacity. 
 
b) 
Control:
 
The  LICUS-
grant funding for the Cour Supèrieure des Comptes e du 
Contentiuex Administratif (CSCCA) will support class-room and on-the-job training of auditors 
in their new ex-post control function.  Under the TAG, the CSCCA’s initial experience with ex-
post auditing will be evaluated, and further personnel, equipment, budgetary, and training needs 
identified, resulting in a plan for upgrading the agency’s performance over the following two to 
three years.  The TAG will support implementation of and further adjustments to this plan. 
 
c)
 Procurement:  
The TAG builds on assistance provided 
under the LICUS Trust Fund to support the newly created 
Commission Nationale Intérimaire des Marchés Publics (CNIMP.)  
The TAG will support the CNIMP’s  transformation into a more 
3
Again the EGRO documentation provides more information. 
Page  4
permanent body (CNMP) as mandated by law, the creation of a 
public sector-wide corps of procurement officials, the further 
development of and training in standardized procedures and 
mechanisms, and the creation of a centralized database on 
suppliers, businesses, consultants, and procurements conducted 
within the CNIMP/CNMP or at the individual agency level. It will 
also continue work initiated under the LICUS in the development 
of standardized bidding documents, publication of information on 
bids and contracts, and education of potential bidders and the 
general public on the procurement process.  As with all elements 
under this component, this is an incremental process in which 
new procedures will be tested and modified according to 
preliminary results.   
 
B) Human Resource Development:  
During the identification missions and as part of the ICF, a 
Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial plan for meeting the 
most critical human resource needs.  This plan will be the basis for further development of this 
area, but given the consultant’s estimates of what the GOH’s minimal proposal would cost (in 
excess of $100 million) the TAG’s support will focus selectively on five areas: 
 
·
(Covered under component 1, above) Ensuring minimal human resource needs are met 
for financial management, control, and procurement systems, within the core agencies 
and the rest of the central ministries. 
·
Ensuring key ministries responsible for service delivery have adequate personnel, 
appropriately placed and trained, to plan and oversee this function.  
·
Working with the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister’s Office (pending creation of a 
Ministry for the Public Function) and other executive agencies to develop plans for 
meeting their personnel needs over the next five years.  While donor-financed consultants 
may temporarily perform some core functions,  the longer term need is to ensure Haiti 
can recruit, maintain, and compensate a permanent core staff.  These plans, unlike the 
first effort, will also have to take financial limitations into account. 
·
Working with the above agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including 
the necessary legal foundation.  Under any follow-on loan or grant, steps can be taken to 
initiate implementation, probably on an agency-by-agency, or function-by-function basis. 
·
Enhancing the capacity of public sector training institutions to develop and deliver the 
training needed for the first three areas, and financing pilot courses. 
 
C) Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement:
 
The LICUS Trust Fund supports 
establishment of the anti-corruption unit and a program of civil society monitoring of governance 
reforms.  The TAG will do further fine-tuning, help develop a capacity for anti-corruption 
programming, including skills and techniques needed to identify areas of vulnerability and 
design remedies, and expand mechanisms for monitoring of governance reforms and 
Page  5
performance by civil society organizations and ordinary citizens .  Training in  investigation of 
actual cases can be met by other donors.   
 
D) Project Management and Communication:  
The TAG will use the project management 
mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund.  Funding for expenses will be shared with the 
GOH, and the TAG will finance any additional equipment needs.  Special emphasis will be 
placed on developing mechanisms for communicating the content of reform proposals and their 
advances to ensure greater understanding and wider ownership of the efforts among all Haitian 
citizens. 
 
3. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
No adverse environmental impact is anticipated as a result of the activities to be supported, nor 
are safeguard policies expected to apply to the proposed operation. Key activities under the 
project would specifically be geared toward developing the basic structures and practices 
essential to good financial manageme
nt
and thus to the government’s ability to program public 
resources transparently and effectively.   
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE 
2 
 Total 
2 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Linn A. Hammergren 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-2975 
Fax: (202) 522-3133 
Email: lhammergren@worldbank.org
 
