                                  Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001374



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H1660)



                                    ON A

                                   GRANT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 2 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                   TO THE

                          THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                   FOR AN

       ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                March 30, 2010




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Haiti Country Management Unit (LCCHT)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2010)
      Currency Unit =    Special Drawing Rights
     1.55419 SDR = US$1
     0.643421 US$ = SDR 1


             FISCAL YEAR


 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


       Vice President: Pamela Cox
    Country Director: Yvonne M. Tsikata
     Sector Manager: Nick P. Manning
 Project Team Leader: Christine de Mariz Rozeira
    ICR Team Leader: Jenni Pajunen
                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BRH         Banque de la République d'Haïti (Central Bank of Haiti)
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CEFOPAFOP   Centre d'Education et de Perfectionnement des Agents de la
            Fonction Publique (Training Center for Public Administration)
CMEP        Conseil de Modernisation des Entreprises Publiques (Council for
            the Modernization of Public Enterprises)
CNIMP       Commission National Intérimaire des Marchés Publics
CNMP        Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics (National
            Procurement Commission)
CPAR        Country Procurement Assessment Report
CSCCA       Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif
            (Supreme Audit Institution)
CSO         Civil Society Organization
DGB         Direction Général du Budget
DSNCRP      Document de Stratégie Nationale pour la Croissance et pour la
            Réduction de la Pauvreté (Growth and Poverty Reduction
            Strategy Paper)
EGRO        Economic Governance Reform Operation
EGTAG       Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
EU          European Union
FM          Financial Management
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GOH         Government of Haiti
ICF         Interim Cooperation Framework
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
IFMS        Integrated Financial Management System
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IGF          Inspection Générale des Finances (Inspectorate General of
                        Finance)
ISR         Implementation Status Report
LICUS       Low Income Countries Under Stress
MDG         Millennium Development Goals
MEF         Ministry of Economy and Finance
MINUSTAH    UN Mission for the Stabilization of Haiti
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OMRH        Office de Management et des Ressources Humaines
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
PEFA        Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR      Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
            Review
PRSP        Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ROSC        Reports of Observance of Standards and Codes
SYSDEP      Système d'Informatisation des Dépenses (Expenditure
            Information System)
SYSGEP      Système de Gestion de l'Information sur les Programmes et
            Projets d'Investissement (Program and Project Investment
            Management Information System)
TOR         Terms of Reference
TTL         Task Team Leader
                                                      1
ULCC     Unité de Lutte contre la Corruption (Anti-Corruption Unit)
UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
VC       Video Conference




                                                   2
                                           Haiti
                       Economic Governance Technical Assistance Project




                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 23
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........... 25
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 31
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 32
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 34
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 35
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 36
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 38
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 39
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Governance Technical
Country:                Haiti                   Project Name:
                                                                          Assistance Grant
Project ID:             P093936                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H1660
ICR Date:               03/31/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          THE REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                     Borrower:
                                                                          HAITI
Original Total
                        XDR 1.4M                Disbursed Amount:         XDR 1.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 1.4M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy and Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/03/2005     Effectiveness:             12/19/2005       12/19/2005
Appraisal:            04/18/2005     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             06/07/2005     Mid-term Review:           12/19/2006       06/19/2007
                                     Closing:                   12/31/2007       09/30/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                             Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                            Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                               None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     100              100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                24                  15
Other accountability/anti-corruption                                   25                  10
Other public sector governance                                         13
Participation and civic engagement                                     13                  5
 Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                                       25                  70
procurement

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Pamela Cox                           Pamela Cox
Country Director:          Yvonne M. Tsikata                    Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:            Nicholas Paul Manning                Ronald E. Myers
Project Team Leader:       Christine de Mariz Rozeira           Linn A. Hammergren
ICR Team Leader:           Jenni Amanda Pajunen
ICR Primary Author:        Jenni Amanda Pajunen


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant (EGTAG) is to
assist the GoH in strengthening its institutional capacity in the areas of budgetary
planning and execution, investment and project planning, internal and external control,
procurement, accountability, participatory monitoring, and reform constituency building.
Specifically the EGTAG's development objectives are to: (i) improve the central


                                                ii
ministry's ability to program, execute and track use of public resources and better link
them to concrete development goals, ensure an adequate performance of the external, ex-
post control function by the CSCCA, and help the CNMP grow into its role as overseer of
procurement practices and make open, competitive procurement the rule rather than the
exception; (ii) advance the development of a human resource management plan and
system, especially as regards ensuring adequate capacity in the financial management
system; (iii) advance the development of the ULCC as an effective check on corruption
while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in its own operations and
as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv) ensure as part of the project management
process, an adequate system for communicating information on the reform programs and
mobilizing public support for their furtherance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target     Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from        Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value
                                              approval          Target        Completion or
                                            documents)          Values        Target Years
                Indicator Name:
Indicator 1 :
                Percentage of unprogrammed budget resources
                                                                             Target achieved.
                                                                             According to
                                                                             government
                                                                             estimates, the
                                                                             unprogrammed
                                                                             resources in budget
Value                                                                        year 2009-2010 are
quantitative or 4%                         2%                 2%             estimated to be 361
Qualitative)                                                                 million gourds,
                                                                             while the total
                                                                             budget is 88.9
                                                                             milliard gourds.
                                                                             The unprogrammed
                                                                             resources are 0.4%
                                                                             of the budget.
Date achieved 11/01/2005                   11/01/2005         11/01/2007     12/10/2009
Comments        Comments: (Source: Direction Generale du Budget) However, the Bank's FM
(incl. %        specialist has noted that while the government has made a significant effort to
achievement) capture all resources some such as those collected directly by some Ministries
                Indicator Name:
Indicator 2 : Percentage of non-salary public expenditures going through comptes courants

Value                                                        Eliminate the Achieved.
                10%                       <10%
quantitative or                                              use of comptes Currently estimated



                                              iii
Qualitative)                                                courants        at less than 3% of
                                                                            total nonsalary
                                                                            public
                                                                            expenditures.
Date achieved 11/01/2004                 11/01/2005         11/01/2007      12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
              Indicator Name:
Indicator 3 : Percentage of external financing included in public budget

                                                                            Target achieved.
Value                                                                       All external
quantitative or TBD                      100%               100%            financing is
Qualitative)                                                                included in the
                                                                            budget.
Date achieved 06/30/2005              11/01/2005        12/01/2007          12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %      Comments: Source: Direction Generale du Budget
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                          Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                              Revised
                                            approval                          Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                           documents)                         Target Years
                Number of comptables designated and trained
Indicator 1 :
                                                                            Achieved target
                                                                            exceeded: 39 have
Value                                                                       been designated
(quantitative   0                        20                 15              trained and
or Qualitative)                                                             deconcentrated in
                                                                            different
                                                                            institutions
Date achieved 06/30/2005                11/01/2005          12/07/2007      12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Number of auditors hired, trained, and doing audits for CSCCA (cumulative)
                                                                          Achieved. 30
                                                                          auditors from the
                                                                          CSCCA have been
Value
                                                                          trained. As a result
(quantitative   0                       15                  15
                                                                          the backlog of audit
or Qualitative)
                                                                          reports (fiscal years
                                                                          2003-2006) have
                                                                          been cleared.


                                              iv
Date achieved 06/30/2009               11/01/2005       12/07/2007         12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Percentage of noncompetitive procurements
                                                                          Achieved 20.8 % of
                                                                          non competitive
                                                                          procurement (so
                                                                          more than 20% of
                                                                          reduction) for the
Value
                                                                          2006-2007 period:
(quantitative   35%                      10% reduction      20% reduction
                                                                          as per CNMP data
or Qualitative)
                                                                          out of the 192 bids
                                                                          approved 20.8%
                                                                          were non
                                                                          competitive.see
                                                                          commentsinPDO
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 11/01/2005         12/07/2007    12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Number of public employees in Human Resource Unit record
                                                                          Achieved. All
                                                                          public servants
                                                                          were included in
                                                            50000 in OHR
Value                                                                     the OMRH
                                                            record
(quantitative   40000                    TBD                              database. Further
                                                            (transferred
or Qualitative)                                                           activities are
                                                            from MEF)
                                                                          planned to continue
                                                                          this HR process
                                                                          under EGTAG II
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 11/01/2005         12/07/2007    12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Development of plan for creation of permanent human resource office (Office for
Indicator 5 :
                Management and Human Resources, OMRH)
                                                                          Achieved and
                                                                          related
                                                                          implementing
                                                                          activities ongoing.
Value                                                                     The OMRH was
                                                            Approval of
(quantitative   No plan                  Approval of plan                 created by Decree
                                                            plan
or Qualitative)                                                           of 05/17/05 and the
                                                                          Programme Cadre
                                                                          de la reforme de l'
                                                                          Etat 2007-2012 is
                                                                          being implemented
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 11/01/2005         12/07/2007    12/10/2009



                                              v
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Corruption cases identified by ULCC referred to judiciary for prosecution and
Indicator 6 :
                follow-up
                                                                             The Anti-
                                                                             Corruption Unit
                                                                             (ULCC) transmitted
Value                                                                        12 cased to the
(quantitative   0                          8                8                competent
or Qualitative)                                                              authorities
                                                                             (administrative and
                                                                             judicial) and has
                                                                             been following up.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   11/01/2005       12/07/2007       06/22/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of reports produced by CSO monitors and actions taken in response by
Indicator 7 :
                agencies monitored
                                                                             Achieved; CSO
                                                                             produced 5 reports
                                                                             published on the
                                                                             EGRO I and are
Value                                                                        available at
(quantitative   0                          4/4              4/4              www.mefhaiti.gouv
or Qualitative)                                                              .ht/societe civile
                                                                             (last report
                                                                             published in June
                                                                             2006 and additional
                                                                             report to come
Date achieved 06/30/2005                   11/01/2005       12/07/2007       12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Coverage of donor economic governance activities in PCU data base
Indicator 8 :
                                                                              Not Achieved
                                                                              because not
                                                                              applicable; a draft
                                                                              data base was
                                                                              conceived by the
Value                                                          Database
                                          Database listing all                PCU at the
(quantitative   No database                                    tracks program
                                          programs                            beginning of the
or Qualitative)                                                progress
                                                                              project; however
                                                                              the PCU does not
                                                                              have the authority
                                                                              to get information
                                                                              on economic



                                               vi
                                                                           governance.
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 11/01/2005          12/07/2007    12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Ability of the general public to identify elements of MEF's reform programs.
                                                                            Partially Achieved
                                                                            through 2 comp. of
                                                                            the project:
                                                                            component 3 and 4
                                         25% of those        50% of those on civil society and
Value
                                         surveyed can        surveyed can communication
(quantitative   TBD
                                         identify four       identify four which raise
or Qualitative)
                                         elements            elements       awareness of civil
                                                                            society on
                                                                            governance
                                                                            reform(no survey
                                                                            expected)
Date achieved 06/30/2005                 11/01/2005          12/07/2007     12/10/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
        Date ISR
No.                             DO                        IP                Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                            (USD millions)
  1     02/22/2006        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       0.00
  2     07/29/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                0.30
  3     12/27/2006    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                0.54
  4     06/20/2007    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                0.66
  5     12/17/2007    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                0.86
  6     06/23/2008    Moderately Satisfactory   Moderately Satisfactory                1.19
  7     12/11/2008        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       1.68
  8     06/25/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.00
  9     07/29/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.00
 10     12/21/2009        Satisfactory              Satisfactory                       2.05


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                             vii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

The Economic Governance Technical Assistance (EGTAG1) implementation completion mission was carried out in
December 2009. The 7.0 Richter earthquake that hit Haiti on January 12, 2010 caused unimaginable human and
material destruction and according to the first estimates affected 3.5 million people. This implementation completion
review of EGTAG1 is based on the pre-earthquake scenario.

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

1.      Haiti was and continues to be the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and one of the most disadvantaged
in the world. The causes of this situation are complex and long-standing. For the past twenty years, the country has
struggled to emerge from a cycle of internal conflicts and natural disasters that devastated its economy, augmented levels
of poverty, and temporarily provoked the withdrawal of external assistance to the government.1 In March 2004, following
the resignation of President Jean Bertrand Aristide and pending elections that were scheduled for 2005, a Transition
Government was put in place and initiated a program aimed at increasing political and social stability and jump starting
the economy. There had been positive indications about its commitment to fighting corruption, encouraging civil society
participation, and managing public resources in a transparent and efficient manner by such concrete steps as the
preparation of a 2005 budget consistent with rules set forth in a new Organic Law, restrictions on the number and value of
comptes courants (unprogrammed funds given to ministries to finance unanticipated expenses), the creation of an anti-
corruption unit and a central procurement entity, and efforts to develop policy and make appointments based on technical
and non-partisan criteria.

2.      Donors had indicated that they would resume support, but further progress was obstructed by a state apparatus
that had suffered its own devastation over the prior two decades, and had a severe shortage of adequately qualified and
motivated personnel. Those staff were working within inefficient organizational structures and with procedures that
allowed widespread recourse to various informal mechanisms. The organizations rarely had the resources to do their jobs,
and lacked the means of tracking the majority of expenditures.

3.      At project appraisal, it was concluded that if the Transition Government and the elected government that followed
were to make efficient use of their own and external resources, increasing, inter alia, the quantity and quality of service
delivery, they would have to effect immediate improvements in the administrative structure and initiate a longer-term
program of incremental capacity building. The most critical area was economic governance, understood to encompass
public resource management (financial, human, and material); the values informing it (e.g. discipline, ethics, transparency,
and accountability); and the mechanisms for enforcing sanctions and taking corrective actions when legally mandated
norms are violated. Absent positive changes in all these areas, even the best intentioned administration would not be able
to design and execute programs encouraging economic growth, respond to citizen needs, and build the public support
required for its own survival. It also would not be able to provide the necessary coordination and oversight for donor
programs or discourage donors' past tendencies to undermine government norms by circumventing or ignoring them.

4.      In the spring of 2004, the Transition Government led the donor community in putting together an Interim
Cooperation Framework (ICF)2 to guide future efforts. Because of its broad experience in the area, the World Bank, along
with the IDB, accepted the Government of Haiti's (GOH) invitation to collaborate in the design and implementation of the
sections on economic governance. As experience in Haiti and elsewhere demonstrated, progress here was vital not only to


1 World Bank lending to Haiti was suspended between 1997 and 2003. Donors remaining in the country worked largely through NGOs or other nongovernmental
channels.

2 Details are provided in the program documents of Economic Growth and Recovery Operation (EGRO) (approved on January 6, 2005) and in the Transition Support
Strategy for Haiti.


                                                                             3
the Bank's own programs, but to those of the government and the entire community of donors. The task was enormous
and required a combination of emergency short-term measures and a longer-term program tailored to the country's
considerable resource constraints. Consistent with this approach, the technical assistance grant focused on economic
governance, as opposed to a broader public administration reform, a civil service program, or targeted attention to
individual sector ministries where activities were proposed, because poor financial resources management lay at the heart
of Haiti's public sector weaknesses. The assumption was that if the government could develop a system, including the
necessary personnel, to plan, direct, and track resource use, and to identify and control deviations, it would at least have
the minimum essential tools to carry out its additional programs. The project proposal and the underlying assessment
were the result of on-going dialogue with the government, a series of missions to identify and discuss needs, and prior
diagnostic work by the Bank and other donor agencies focusing specifically on weaknesses in financial management,
procurement, and overall public administration.

5.       EGTAG1 was part of a broader program of institutional strengthening in Haiti. EGTAG1 was preceded by a
LICUS Economic Governance Grant (FY05), which was the first emergency economic governance support operation after
the Bank's re-engagement. The LICUS grant was designed before IDA-financing became available to the country, but in
practice the two projects were implemented largely in parallel. This incremental approach was designed to facilitate the
Bank's re-engagement and to focus on knowledge transfer for rebuilding project implementation capacity in the country.
There are similarities, synergies and continuity in the design of the LICUS and EGTAG operations, which are explained
in detail in chapter 1.5 of the original project document. However, LICUS was implemented directly by the Ministry of
Finance, while a separate project implementation unit was created for the EGTAG1. Since 2004, IDA support for
economic management and a governance reform program has included (i) a total of US$96.5 million of development
policy loans under the three Economic Governance Reform Operations (EGROs); and (ii) two Economic Governance
Technical Assistance Grants (EGTAG 1 and 2) amounting to US$4 million. In addition, a number of supporting analytical
studies have been completed and the Bank portfolio in Haiti includes also sector investment operations such as an energy
project to provide support for the electricity sector. The technical assistance grants complemented other donors' support
for Haiti's economic reform program.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      Project Development Objective: The objective of the Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grant
(EGTAG1) was to assist the GoH in strengthening its institutional capacity in the areas of budgetary planning and
execution, investment and project planning, internal and external control, procurement, accountability, participatory
monitoring, and reform constituency building. The EGTAG1's development objectives were to: (i) improve the Ministry
of Finance's ability to program, execute and track use of public resources and better link them to concrete development
goals, ensure an adequate performance of the external, ex-post control function by the Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du
Contentieux Administratif (CSC/CA, Supreme Audit Institution), and help the Commission Nationale des Marchés
Publics (CNMP, National Procurement Commission) to grow into its role as overseer of procurement practices and make
open, competitive procurement the rule rather than the exception; (ii) advance the development of a human resource
management plan and system, especially as regards ensuring adequate capacity in the financial management system; (iii)
advance the development of the Unité de Lutte Contre la Corruption (ULCC, Anti-corruption Unit) as an effective check
on corruption, while also encouraging the greater involvement of civil society in its own operations and as a monitor of
public sector reform; and (iv) ensure, as part of the project management process, an adequate system for communicating
information on the reform programs and mobilizing public support for their furtherance.

7.      Indicators: The indicators to measure progress with the project development objective were defined as (i)
Percentage of non-salary current public expenditures going through current accounts; (ii) Percentage of un-programmed
budget resources (in autres interventions publiques); and (iii) inclusion of external financing (disbursements and
expenditures) in public budget. The other results indicators were: (iv) Number of accountants designated and trained in
their functions; (v) Number of auditors hired, trained and carrying out audits; (vi) Percentage of direct (i.e.
noncompetitive) procurements out of total; (vii) Number of public employees listed in the human resource unit's registry,
and of new appointments, those made through a merit-based process; (viii) Development and approval of a plan to create
a permanent human resource agency; (ix) Corruption cases identified by ULCC referred to judicial authorities for
prosecution and follow-up; (x) Number of reports produced by CSO monitors and actions taken in response by agencies
monitored; (xi) Greater public understanding of, and support for, reform program content; (xii) Coverage of donor
                                                             4
economic governance activities in the PIU data base; and (xiii) Civil Society Organization members' ability to identify
elements of Ministry of Finance's reform programs.3 Specific results expected in terms of project completion are listed in
Annex III (Results Framework) of the Project Appraisal Document.

8.       The implementation of the EGTAG1 in collaboration with activities of other donors was designed to provide an
improved institutional and operational framework for the preparation and execution of the current and investment budget,
tracking and control of expenditures, the implementation of the new procurement decree, identification, hiring, and
training of key staff, and the dissemination of information on the reforms and processes to Haitian citizens. Emphasis was
on bringing existing structures and practices into conformity with the improved legal framework in preparation for
subsequent steps leading to further institutional strengthening and public sector modernization. Because of the short life
of the project, the emphasis was on institutional change and the results indicators were intended to measure the extent of
adoption of new practices and structures

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

9.         The original Project Development Objective (PDO) and key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as
well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the project)

10.     The beneficiaries of EGTAG1 within the Government of Haiti include: (i) the Direction du Budget (including the
Debt Department); (ii) the Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics (CNMP, National Procurement Commission); (iii)
the Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif (CSC/CA, Supreme Audit Institution); (iv) the Unité
de Lutte Contre la Corruption (ULCC, Anti-corruption Unit); (v) the Office de Management des Ressources Humaines
(OMRH, the Human Resources Management Office); and (vi) Civil Society. The beneficiaries for the LICUS grant and
EGTAG1 were selected based on their relevance for recovery of the budgeting functions within the Government and
management of donor funding, as well as based on previous experience of working with the Bank during the 1990s.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

11.    Component 1 - Financial Resource Management: This key area for economic governance was defined as the
development of a capacity to produce and execute a budget, track its implementation, and reduce irregular budgetary use
and expenditures.

12.     Subcomponent 1.1 - Budgeting: It was assumed that the IDB would cover most equipment needs and help in
the design of basic budgetary procedures (as established at the time of the new Organic Law). The EGTAG1 focused on
ensuring that sufficient numbers of adequately prepared personnel occupy the required positions in the Ministry of
Finance and other sector ministries. Activities included a diagnosis of current staffing patterns and needs, preparation and
delivery of training programs, provision of long and short-term consultants to assist agencies in applying and refining new
procedures, and development and implementation of plans to fill the staffing gaps. As the Ministry of Planning managed
the investment budget, the same objectives were going to be addressed there, along with steps to ensure coordination of
the investment and operational budgets and to strengthen project development capacity.

13.     Subcomponent 1.2 - External Control: The LICUS-grant funding for the Supreme Audit Institution (Cour
Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentiuex Administratif, CSC/CA) was supporting class-room and on-the-job training of
auditors in their new ex-post control function. Under the EGTAG1, the CSC/CA's initial experience with ex-post
auditing was evaluated, and further personnel, equipment, budgetary, and training needs identified, resulting in a plan for
upgrading the agency's performance over the following two to three years. The EGTAG1 was designed to support
implementation of and further adjustments to this plan.

3
  While ideally this should be response by the public rather than by CSOs , as the MEF will work directly with CSO groups, it was considered to be easier to obtain this
information less formally from members of the groups involved. In addition, that approach would not require additional financing,


                                                                                   5
14.     Subcomponent 1.3 - Procurement: The EGTAG1 built on assistance provided under the LICUS
Trust Fund to support the newly created Commission Nationale des Marchés Publics (CNMP). The EGTAG1
supported the CNMP's assumption of the core regulatory functions mandated by law, including the creation of
a public sector-wide corps of procurement officials, the further development of and training in standardized
procedures and documents, and the creation of centralized databases of government suppliers and contract
awards. It also continued the work initiated under the LICUS grant on the development of standardized bidding
documents, publication of information on bids and contracts, and education of potential bidders and the
general public with respect to the procurement process. As with all elements under this component, this was
intended to be an incremental process in which new procedures were tested and modified according to
preliminary results.

15.     Component 2: Human Resource Development: During the project identification missions and as part of the
Interim Cooperation Framework (ICF), a Bank consultant worked with 22 government agencies to develop an initial plan
for meeting the most critical human resource needs. This plan was the basis for further development of this area but, given
the consultant's estimates of what the GoH's minimal proposal would cost (in excess of $100 million), the EGTAG1's
support focused selectively on five areas:
     (Covered under component 1, above) Ensuring minimal human resource needs are met for financial management,
        control, and procurement systems, within the core agencies and the rest of the central ministries.
     Ensuring that key ministries responsible for service delivery have adequate personnel, appropriately placed and
        trained, to plan and oversee this function.
     Working with the Ministry of Finance and Prime Minister's Office (pending creation of a Ministry for the Civil
        Service) and other executive agencies to develop plans for meeting their personnel needs over the next five years.
        While donor-financed consultants might temporarily perform some core functions, the longer-term need was to
        ensure that Haiti could recruit, maintain, and pay a permanent core staff. These plans, unlike the first effort, would
        also have to take financial constraints into account.
     Working with the above agencies to design a longer-term civil service reform, including the necessary legal
        foundation. Under any follow-on loan or grant, steps could be taken to initiate implementation, probably on an
        agency-by-agency, or function-by-function, basis.
     Enhancing the capacity of public sector training institutions to develop and deliver the training needed for the first
        three areas, and financing pilot courses.

16.     Component 3: Anti-corruption and Civil Society Engagement: The LICUS Economic Governance Trust Fund
supported the establishment of the anti-corruption unit and a program of civil society monitoring of governance reforms.
The EGTAG1 was designed to do further fine-tuning, help develop a capacity for anti-corruption programming, including
skills and techniques needed to identify areas of vulnerability and design remedies, and expand mechanisms for
monitoring of governance reforms and performance by civil society organizations and ordinary citizens. Training in
investigation of actual cases was intended to be financed by other donors.

17.     Component 4: Project Management and Communication: Special emphasis was placed on developing
mechanisms for communicating the content of reform proposals and their progress in order to ensure greater
understanding and wider ownership of the efforts among all Haitian citizens. Initially, EGTAG1 was supposed to use the
project management mechanism developed for the LICUS Trust Fund. However, a separate project implementation unit
was formed to manage both EGTAG1 and two IDB projects for institutional strengthening. Funding for expenses was
shared with the GoH and the EGTAG1 financed additional equipment and conference logistics needs.

1.6 Revised Components

18.     The design of the project remained unchanged during the lifetime of the project.

1.7 Other significant changes
(In design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding allocations)

19.    The delay between the EGTAG1 Board date and effectiveness was approximately six months and the project was
extended twice from its original December 31, 2007 closing date. The first extension was for 12 months until December
                                                              6
31, 2008 and granted on November 27, 2007 on the basis of the delayed effectiveness date. The second extension was
granted on November 13, 2008 for an additional 9 months and established September 30, 2009 as the closing date. This
additional extension was justified partly by the delays caused by serious natural disasters (four massive hurricanes hitting
the country in August-September 2008) and political unrest that prevented the government from implementing some of
the scheduled activities. The factors behind these changes are discussed in detail in paragraphs 1.1 and 2.2.




                                                             7
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account; risks and their mitigations identified; and
adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

20.     The present ICR finds the EGTAG1 quality of entry to be Satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG)
panel's report4 on EGTAG2 which also reviewed the EGTAG1 project, considered the overall objectives of EGTAG1 as
appropriate because it focused on key areas of economic governance. The QAG report also noted that the project was
ambitious in its coverage, working with five government agencies as beneficiaries. It also mentions that the project
includes "some innovative features in terms of the Bank's assistance to the country. EGTAG 1 and 2 introduce highly
desirable elements of civil society monitoring of GoH activities. Donor collaboration has been strong."

21.      Following the suspension of World Bank lending to Haiti from 1997 to 2003, the operation was prepared in 2004
under a transition government and implemented over a period when the country faced several political and natural
disasters. As explained earlier, EGTAG1 was designed to build on the measures supported under the EGRO and the
emergency assistance under the LICUS Trust Fund grant, and it was intended as one of the first steps in the Bank's
program supporting government efforts to improve economic governance.

22.      Bank technical assistance (TA) support was originally envisaged within the framework of a larger grant.
However, the available IDA envelope was limited to US$2 million, thereby precluding support in the form of a more
comprehensive $4 million operation. As a result, Bank TA took the form of two back-to-back US$2.0 million grants -
EGTAG 1 and 2 - which were presented to the Board within one year of each other. A larger technical assistance
operation (preparing the two economic governance technical assistance projects as one instead of splitting the total
$4million into two phases) was considered and rejected for the following reasons: (i) a new government was expected to
take office in early 2006, at which time the World Bank, in coordination with other donors, was going to discuss with it
the next phase of technical assistance needs in the economic governance area that could be supported by a possible
follow-on TA operation to ensure full government ownership, and (ii) the need to link additional assistance to
performance in implementation of the program and achievement of results on the ground. Due to the phased approach, the
second EGTAG1 operation was brought to the Board one year after the approval of EGTAG1 and the projects are largely
interlinked. In retrospect, while political factors, along with the need to link the assistance to performance, justified the
two phase approach for the EGTAGs, pooling funding should be considered for similar future operations. This would
ease the administrative burden both for the Bank teams as well as for the counterparts.

23.     EGTAG1 had a wide scope in terms of the thematic areas covered as well as the number of beneficiaries,
especially considering the limited amount of financing available. It might be argued that this subsequently contributed to
the delays in implementing the project. However, when designing the project, a broad-based approach to economic
governance seemed necessary. Considering the interconnections between the economic institutions, leaving some of the
agencies out of the scope of support could have had serious consequences on the results achieved under the other
components. The beneficiaries for LICUS and EGTAG1 were selected based on their previous experience of managing
donor funds and of working with the Bank during the 1990s, as well as for their relevance for recovering budgeting
functions within the Government.

24.     In addition, the following lessons learnt were considered during the preparation of the project (from the Project
Appraisal Document): "Aside from the general lessons applicable to all LICUS countries, experience in Haiti over the
last year indicates three important lessons: (i) the need to work incrementally; (ii) the importance of constant
communication and coordination among and within governmental agencies and among donors; and (iii) the key role
played by the counterpart agency and its PIU in effecting this coordinating function. Also, while the government has
shown a capacity to draft and pass new laws, their implementation has lagged. Before supporting the adoption of new

4
    QAG Review of Public Sector Governance Guidance Framework (EGTAG II), 30 April 2008


                                                                            8
legislation or systems, it appears thus important to assist the authorities in implementing existing legislation. The new
budget law and procurement decree include many worthwhile innovations, and it will be important to ensure they are
implemented in full. As a result, EGTAG1 focused on assisting the Government in putting into effect the innovations it
has recently introduced by law. It has also been apparent that despite the recent greater emphasis on donor coordination,
more attention is needed to enhance this further and this has been a main focus in the preparation of the EGTAG1 project
and the definition of its project management arrangements."

25.      Two risks to the project development objective (PDO) were identified in the preparation of the project. The first
risk, assessed as moderate, was "the proximity of next elections and the chance that the new government will not support
the project, or that because of the elections (or their failure to be held) civil violence will escalate." Although Government
ownership of the project did not decline as a consequence of the change of Government in 2006 and the security situation
did not significantly worsen over the implementation period, the project suffered from the political volatility and the
beneficiaries reported severe security issues that delayed project implementation. The second risk to the PDO, assessed as
substantial, was the fact that "insufficient donor coordination impedes advances in key areas." This was mitigated by
regular Government-donors coordinating meetings in Haiti, coordinated project planning and implementation
arrangements, as well as enhanced project supervision efforts. The project contributed to improving aid coordination in
the field of economic governance in Haiti, although donor coordination continues to be a challenge.

26.      In addition, three risks to individual project components were considered. The first, assessed as substantial, was
"MEF's failure to establish a clear direction for implementation of the budget law could make it difficult to program
activities, in this and in the other areas." Proposed joint donor project implementation arrangements for the activities
supported by the EGTAG1 were contributing to improved coordination for the implementation of the budget law and this
risk did not materialize. The second risk, assessed as moderate, was "weak institutional capacity in any or all components
and failure to enact enabling legislation prevents forward movement in one or more of them." This risk did in fact
materialize as project implementation was delayed as a consequence of capacity issues in the project implementation unit
and among the beneficiaries and to some extent due to the staffing changes within the Bank team. The third risk, assessed
as moderate, was that "GoH is unable to provide the staff needed for one or more of the agencies". The risk was mitigated
through training and Government's commitment to fill the positions in the MEF, CNMP, CSC/CA and ULCC, where
most key positions were staffed with qualified officials able to benefit from further capacity building support.

27.      The project was prepared under a tight timeline, which was an additional burden for both the Bank and the
counterpart teams. The Government was consulted during preparation of the EGTAG1 but, as part of the ICR reviews, the
local counterparts suggested that in future operations the Bank could increase involvement of the national authorities in
project design, while keeping in mind the capacity constraints and pressures from different donor organizations. It was
suggested that the preparation of the next EGTAG could be more consultative. In practice, this could mean additional
support to the Government and beneficiaries between approval and implementation. The terms of reference would need to
be drafted in such a way that the supported institutions have a better grasp of the contents, objectives and the procedures
of the project.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable)

28.      The implementation of the project is rated as Satisfactory. Overall, the project was implemented in a precarious,
difficult, and unpredictable political and natural environment. Between 2004 and 2009, there were three presidents and
six different prime ministers. In Haiti, there is always the risk that social unrest may destabilize the country and lead to
abrupt political changes that derail the reform process. Especially in 2008, Haiti experienced a series of natural disasters
that threatened macroeconomic stability and diverted resources away from government priorities. In addition to the
political stalemate following the food and fuel price riots, Haiti was hit by four back-to-back hurricanes (Fay, Gustav,
Hanna and Ike) and tropical storms in August-September 2008, which caused damages and losses estimated at nearly a
billion dollars, or about 15 percent of GDP. The security of Bank staff, project counterparts and the beneficiaries was
continuously at risk since staff work in a tense and dangerous political environment. The project counterparts have
reported serious security issues including kidnappings and a suspected murder over the implementation period.



                                                              9
29.      A mid-term review, carried out in early 20085, rated the project as `moderately satisfactory'. It pointed out the
considerable slippage in starting the project due to the delays in recruiting and building the project implementation
capacity of the PIU staff as well as among the project beneficiaries. Progress, especially in relation to activities with the
CNMP, DGB and CSCCA, was described as unbalanced. The mid-term review recommended revising the project
development objectives and indicators. This was not done because it was felt that the project was already at a late stage of
implementation. However, and as a consequence of this mid-term review, the team took some proactive measures to better
define the newly implemented EGTAG2 project. As a result, EGTAG2, along with the participation of the beneficiaries
was restructured in 2009 and the components, as well as the results framework, were revised. Sharing the PIU between
the WB and IDB was felt to be a positive experience, creating a natural space for more efficient aid coordination. The
effectiveness of EGTAG2 was delayed as a consequence of delays in EGTAG1. However, the QAG Panel report of
EGTAG2 commended the intimate knowledge of the two co-task team leaders, both of whom were fully committed to the
successful implementation of the projects, while noting that the Implementation Status Report (ISR) had been grossly
underutilized in the case of both EGTAG operations. In response to the report, the team agreed that conditions in Haiti
required intensive supervision. The intensified supervision measures included consolidating the governance portfolio
under one TTL in mid-2008 and establishing weekly videoconferences with the Project Implementing Unit (PIU) to
monitor closely implementation of both EGTAGs and to increase the capacity of both this unit and the Government.
Furthermore, the Haiti country office hired a field-based operations officer to support implementation of the portfolio; and
the team hired a local economic governance consultant to assist with implementation of the EGTAGs, the LICUS grant
and with donor coordination in the field. The task team at the Bank was also strengthened by the assignment of a senior
procurement specialist who dedicated significant time to reviewing and commenting on procurement documents,
providing advice to bring more efficiency to the contracting process. However, as is often the case in fragile states, even
with a large supervision budget, it can be difficult to mobilize on a long term basis specialists in all the areas addressed by
the project (civil society, anti-corruption work, budget reform, procurement reform, human resources reform).

30.     Project implementation was delayed because of frequent staffing changes both on the Bank and counterpart side.
On the Bank side, there were three task team leaders during the lifetime of the project as well as a number of other TTLs
monitoring other related governance projects. During the first years of project implementation, the Country Management
Unit (CMU) could have played a more active role in supervision. Some of the implementation status reports lacked
comments from the CMU. The initial supervision efforts were performed mostly by staff in headquarters and there could
have been a stronger involvement of the field office. However, it should be noted that at the time of project design the
Haiti Office had just been reopened and was in the process of being staffed, and that these issues were addressed in the
course of project implementation.

31.      On the Government side, especially in the early phase of implementation of the project, there was a lack of clear
vision of the goals that each government institution had to achieve. As a consequence, the team received ad hoc requests
for activities that were not necessarily priority initiatives. Furthermore, it can be argued that the high number of project
beneficiaries contributed to the delays in project implementation. As part of the preparation of an updated procurement
plan, some beneficiaries developed a strategic plan for their institutions (Unité de Lutte contre la Corruption, ULCC;
Office de Management des Ressources Humaines, OMRH; and Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux
Administratif, CSC/CA). EGTAG1 suffered from disbursement delays related to PIU capacity. The learning curve for the
PIU over the lifetime of the project was steep and its capacity still needs to be reinforced, especially if other EGTAGs are
to be prepared. The PIU coordinator noted that, due to staff shortages, PIU colleagues did not have sufficient time to
attend trainings.

32.    When the project closed, the EGTAG project implementation unit had a staff of four. The PIU is used for the
implementation of both EGTAGs as well as projects financed by the Inter-American Development Bank. The project
coordinator pointed out in the ICR interview that the dual role of the PIU was problematic ­ the PIU personnel are


5
   Haiti: Premier Projet d'Assistance Technique pour la Gouvernance Economique (EGTAG I) Evaluation à Mi-Parcours, portant sur la période du 5 décembre 2005 au
31 décembre 2007, 15 Mars 2008




                                                                             10
considered Ministry staff from the Bank perspective and Bank staff from the Ministry perspective. The implementation
unit exists in the government structure but should be better integrated. The PIU would also need resources to upgrade its
office space. Due to the limited number of staff, the PIU colleagues are often too busy to participate in training activities
and, consequently, the budget related to training has not been fully used. It would be necessary to hire a monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) specialist to work on the baseline data and continuous M&E. Some criticism was expressed of the
Bank's tendency to measure the effectiveness of projects based strictly on the speed of disbursements. The project
coordinator had not experienced serious delays with obtaining non-objections from the Bank, which he received normally
in less than a week. The weekly video conferences as well as the availability of the local consultant to support
implementation of the project were considered as improvements in supervision by the Bank. It was suggested that it would
be good to have the Bank staff based in Port-au-Prince, or visit more often.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.     The monitoring and evaluation design of the project is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

34.      Defining indicators for institutional reform in fragile states is extremely challenging and the results agenda at the
World Bank has evolved substantially since the preparation of the EGTAG1 project. The Bank's Quality Assurance
Groups' `Review of Public Sector Governance Guidance Framework' focused mainly on EGTAG2 but made also
references to EGTAG1. The report took a critical stance toward the scope of the PDO and the indicators as follows:
"current statement of development objective, while appropriate, is very broad and not supported by measurable and
monitorable indicators to enable monitoring of progress and defining success. The project lacks adequate indicators and
an appropriated monitoring and evaluation system. The project would benefit from a more realistic set of performance
indicators and baseline data. Having said that, in a fragile state such as Haiti, the results frameworks need to be developed
and utilized with caution. The indicators need to be few and realistic. They should be owned by local counterparts."

35.      While the project development objective was very relevant, it could have been more specific. Both the Bank and
government counterparts agreed that they had difficulties in identifying the baseline data for the monitoring and
evaluation system. The result indicators were selected mainly by the project beneficiaries, who at the time did not have
sufficient expertise on the subject matter. Although the project had several beneficiaries, there could have been fewer
results indicators. The EGTAG1 performance indicators could have been SMARTer i.e. more specific, measurable,
attributable, realistic and time-bound. The information about the achievement of the indicators was verified with the
government counterparts and other beneficiaries as part of the implementation completion mission consultations. Finally,
the project indicators were never changed and it was decided that, instead of undergoing a restructuring at such a late
stage of implementation, the original project indicators would be kept, while the monitoring and supervision arrangements
would be strengthened. The EGTAG1 experience helped to bring about changes in preparing more robust indicators
during the restructuring of the follow-up operation EGTAG2, which was restructured by increasing selectivity and
modifying the result indicators in November 2009. There were also issues with utilization of the Implementation Status
Report (ISR) that were addressed towards the end of the project. Table 2 in Annex 2 summarizes the ISR Ratings of the
project. The PIU would benefit from hiring a monitoring and evaluation specialist, especially if new EGTAGs are to be
prepared.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

36.     Because of the nature of the project, safeguard analysis is not applicable.

37.      The Government complied satisfactorily with Bank policy and procedural requirements. All the financial
management and procurement ratings of the project remained satisfactory or moderately satisfactory. The PIU staff, which
remained stable for the duration of project execution, became over time skilled in its tasks. The PIU was also responsible
for the administration of IDB projects. Project statement of expenditure and disbursement requests were submitted most
of the time in a timely manner, as were audit reports (which were also clean). No serious internal contractual issues arose
to the level of reporting conditions except minor ones that were ultimately properly addressed.



                                                             11
38.      As prior review thresholds for all projects in Haiti are fixed at zero, the team had to conduct an ex-ante review of
each contract. The senior procurement specialist assigned to the Bank team was able to offer intensive assistance to the
PIU staff on WB procurement methods and Guidelines based on the Bank review of all procurement processes. Over time
this high level of supervision of procurement actions led to strengthened capacity in the PIU.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation
& Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if
applicable)

39.      All the results achieved by the project as well as the post-completion arrangements were altered as a consequence
of the earthquake that hit Haiti on 12 January 2010 causing unimaginable destruction both in human losses and material
terms, leaving approximately 3.5 million people affected. However, the sustained engagement with the beneficiaries and
the donors working on Haiti throughout the implementation of the EGTAG1 project have positively contributed to
establishing constructive working conditions necessary in this ever more challenging environment. Before the earthquake,
the team in partnership with some beneficiaries had already started to prepare concise technical notes on the achievements
made by the project in the different areas supported by the EGTAG1 project. These notes will be useful to provide some
information on the reforms made by some institutions and restart the reform process.

40.      The Government ownership of reforms has been increasing over the past years and the beneficiaries have become
more acquainted with the Bank's rules. Under the pre-earthquake scenario, most project activities were going to be
continued through the restructured EGTAG2 that was focusing especially on strengthening budget formulation and
execution as well as budget monitoring and control. The strategy underlying the restructuring was to focus effort on areas
where the Bank has a definite comparative advantage such as implementation of the recommendations of the Public
Expenditure and Financial Management Accountability Report (PEMFAR) on budget planning, budget execution and
budget execution internal and external controls, leaving aside activities for which substantial financial resources are
available from other sources, be they from the World Bank or other donors. This refocusing of the program on these
priority areas was coupled with non-lending technical assistance geared to supplement the government-executed technical
assistance with more direct Bank inputs.

41.      In principle, the fact that most of the beneficiaries' activities were going to be continued activities under EGTAG2
financing improves the sustainability of the results achieved under EGTAG1, but it is clear that the January 12, 2010
earthquake caused significant damage to government systems and threatens the project's results. Even without the natural
catastrophe, considering the limited amount of national resources, the continuity of some of the results achieved under
LICUS and EGTAG1 might have been uncertain without continued Bank support or support from other donors, who are
increasingly coordinating with the Bank in the governance agenda. In view of the importance of economic governance for
the stability of Haiti, the satisfactory results achieved with the country's key economic institutions and the emergency
situation that the country is facing, it would be recommendable to proceed with the preparation of EGTAG3. As a
consequence of the restructuring of EGTAG2 and concentration of resources for a more focused number of beneficiaries,
some initially planned activities were not financed. The need for these should be revisited as part of the preparation of the
new project. Furthermore, in the emergency situation that Haiti is facing in early 2010, the priorities of all Bank
operations will need to be redefined.




                                                             12
3. Assessment of Outcomes
The Economic Governance Technical Assistance (EGTAG1) implementation completion mission was carried out in
December 2009. The 7.0 Richter earthquake that hit Haiti on January 12, 2010 caused unimaginable human and
material destruction and, according to the first estimates, affected 3.5million people. This implementation completion
review of EGTAG1 is based on the pre-earthquake scenario.

Overall Rating: Satisfactory

42.      The overall rating of the project is Satisfactory. The project was prepared under a transition government in a
situation where the Bank had not been engaged in Haiti for several years. Implementation of the project was delayed.
However, at closing most of the intended results were achieved and several indicators exceeded expectations. Without a
doubt, the EGTAG grants and the LICUS trust fund resources were crucial in building capacity for the re-engagement of
the Bank and in speeding up the preparation and disbursement of the EGRO loans. These grants were critical in starting
key economic governance reforms such as those in the area of debt management or procurement. They also help the
beneficiaries better define their goals and needs through the preparation of strategic plans for their institutions. The overall
economic governance support approach chosen with LICUS and EGTAGs draws on the World Bank lessons learnt in
fragile states. As such, starting the re-engagement with small pilots funded by trust funds that are scaled up with IDA
resources represents a good fragile state case example.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Rating: Satisfactory

43.       The Government remains committed to the reforms supported under the EGTAG1 operation. Both the LICUS and
EGTAG1 operations can be considered as highly relevant as they contributed positively by building capacity and
facilitating the Bank's re-engagement in Haiti, while supporting key pillars of the Government's poverty reduction
strategy, the DSNCRP, by building state capacity and improving management of public resources. In particular, the
operation contributed to: (i) modernizing and strengthening public financial management and capacity to raise and use
public resources in a more efficient and transparent manner; and (ii) strengthening and implementing the legal framework
for public procurement, thereby contributing to more transparent and cost-effective public expenditure. By addressing
weaknesses in public financial management, the operations also contributed to improvements in the PEFA indicators in
the medium term.

44.       The World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy covering the Bank's financial years 2009-12 outlined the support
to Haiti planned by the World Bank Group for the four-year period. The CAS was built on three pillars: (i) promoting
growth and local development; (ii) investing in human capital; and (iii) reducing vulnerability to disasters. Total IDA
allocations for the CAS implementation period were projected at roughly US$121 million. In addition, in January 2010,
the Bank mobilized a further US$100 million of emergency assistance for Haiti to cope with the consequences of the
January 12 earthquake. Cutting across the strategy was a two-pronged approach, combining longer-term institution
building (including economic governance reform) with support for the Government in the delivery of quick, visible results
to the population. This involves activities to (i) improve the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector
institutions; (ii) consolidate governance reforms including public financial management, from both the expenditure and
revenue perspectives, and procurement to strengthen core institutions; and (iii) strengthen key sector ministries that are
critical for service delivery.

45.     The significant role given in the new CAS for institution building and economic governance reform demonstrates
the relevance of the EGTAG operations for the development of Haiti. Both projects are well aligned with the Haiti CAS
objectives by sustaining support to the Government's institutional strengthening agenda, the main expected outcome of
which is an improvement in the effectiveness, transparency and accountability of public sector institutions. All
beneficiaries interviewed during the mission considered the projects under evaluation as highly relevant for the
development context of the country.
                                                              13
46.     EGTAG1 was designed to build on the measures supported under the EGRO loans and the emergency assistance
under the LICUS Trust Fund grant and it was intended as one of the first steps in the Bank's program to support
government efforts to improve economic governance.

47.     The EGRO I (FY2005) and EGRO II (FY2007) operations supported the same reforms as the EGTAG's in
governance, civil service, public finance management, and public procurement. These include: (i) improving budget
preparation and execution and monitoring through efforts to improve alignment of the budget with the DSNCRP,
reduction in the use of discretionary ministerial accounts (comptes courants), and the establishment of an automated
system to track expenditures; (ii) improving the control and reporting systems, including the deployment of financial
controllers and public accountants in line ministries and submission of government accounts to the Court of Accounts and
of the Budget Execution Law to Parliament; (iii) improving the accounting system with the adoption of budget and
accounting nomenclatures; (iv) rationalizing civil service management through the completion of the registry for state
employees of key line ministries and (vi) improving the state's capacity to fight corruption and enhancing the
accountability of public employees.

48.     As explained earlier, a larger technical assistance operation (preparing two economic governance technical
assistance projects as one instead of splitting the total $4 million into two phases) was considered and rejected and it was
thus decided to provide assistance to Haiti on economic governance reforms in a two-phase approach. In retrospect, for
future operations, pooling funding should be considered to ease the administrative burden for both the Bank teams and for
the counterparts.

49.     It is recommended that operations in fragile states be simple in design and well defined. As part of the
implementation completion reviews, some criticism was expressed suggesting that the scope and the number of
beneficiaries of both LICUS and EGTAG1 were too large for the amount of financing available. However, considering the
highly fragile and transitional circumstances in which the Bank re-engagement was being prepared, a broad-based
approach to economic governance seemed necessary. Considering the interconnections between the economic institutions,
leaving some of the agencies out of the scope of support could have had serious consequences on the results achieved
under the other components.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 2)

Rating: Satisfactory

50.     The project development objective was to `strengthen GoH institutional capacity in budgetary planning and
execution, investment and project planning, control, procurement, transparency, participatory monitoring, and reform
constituency building.' At closing, the project has met all the specific objectives, namely it: i) improved the Ministry of
Finance's ability to program, execute and track use of public resources and better link them to concrete development
goals; ensured adequate performance of the external, ex-post control function by the CSC/CA; and helped the CNMP
grow into its role as overseer of procurement practices while making open, competitive procurement the rule rather than
the exception; (ii) advanced the development of a human resource management plan and system, especially as regards
ensuring adequate capacity in the financial management system; (iii) advanced the development of the ULCC towards
becoming an effective check on corruption while also encouraging greater involvement of civil society in its own
operations and as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv) ensured, as part of the project management process, an
adequate system for communicating information on the reform programs and mobilizing public support for their
furtherance. The most significant results of the project include:(i) passing of the new procurement legislation; (ii) a new
debt management system up and running; (iii) budget preparation and execution manual prepared; (iv) national civil
service database set up, covering all civil servants; (v) improvement of both the capacity and equipment/facilities of
CNMP, CSCCA, ULCC, and CEPOFAPOP. The results by area supported are explained in detail below and the results
framework is included as Annex 2 of this report.

51. The EGTAG1 results by thematic area include:


                                                            14
     1. Improved Public Financial Resources Management: First, the project financed implementation of a public debt
        management system, including a database that enabled the Government to produce regular debt reports at the end
        of 2009. The debt management system was purchased through United Nations Conference for Trade and
        Development (UNCTAD). Second, the IDA funds also financed technical assistance to support the
        implementation of the new legal framework for budget formulation and execution. The resulting action plan for
        the budget reforms is the basis for a PFM framework to be financed by various donors. As a result of the project,
        the capacity of the Direction Général du Budget has improved and a new legal framework for budget formulation
        and execution has been adopted. All three related results indicators were achieved. According to the Direction
        Général du Budget, the unprogrammed resources were lowered to 0.4% in budget year 2009-10.6 The use of
        current accounts has nearly been eliminated as the percentage of non-salary public expenditures going through
        current accounts was below 3% and, according to the Ministry of Finance, all external financing was included in
        the budget. The formulation of a public financial management framework and a matrix of activities have been
        prepared with the support of various donors. It was endorsed by the Government in December 2009 (and it is
        taken into account when addressing the needs of the country after the devastating January 2010 earthquake).

     2. Supported the Upgrade of the National Procurement System: Haiti's legal framework for procurement was
        revised with the aim to bring it up to international standards with support from the EGTAG and LICUS grants.
        The Procurement Law prepared in 2007 with EGTAG financing was approved by Parliament in June 2009 and
        constitutes a solid legal basis for the establishment of a modern and transparent procurement system. The follow-
        on project will continue to support the consolidation of this and other procurement reforms introduced since 2004.
        Even before the new procurement law was adopted, the CNMP had introduced standard bidding documents and a
        procedures manual to government procurement staff (including newly-appointed members of Commissions
        Ministérielles and Commissions Spécialisées) through a series of seminars delivered in 2006 and 2007. These
        standardized procedures and documents were consistent with the law prepared by the CNMP for submission to
        Parliament and their distribution, in advance of the law's passage, was intended to speed the adoption of improved
        procurement practices once the new legal framework was in place. Further, since its creation in early 2005, the
        CNMP has assumed a leadership role and improved public procurement practices through its review/approval of
        hundreds of procurement processes each year, as well as hands-on training of procurement staff in key purchasing
        entities. As a result, there is strong evidence that the percentage of noncompetitive procurement has declined. The
        related results indicator for EGTAG1 was ill-defined at the outset ­ as the number (rather than the value) of
        contracts awarded without competition as a percentage of all contracts awarded. Nonetheless, according to
        CNMP data, the percentage of non-competitive procurement was reduced to 20.8% of the contracts awarded in
        the 2006-2007 fiscal year, as compared to the baseline of 35% of contracts, more than meeting the target of
        reducing non-competitive procurement by 20% (i.e. to 28% of all contracts awarded). An even larger decline in
        non-competitive procurement can be observed if measured in terms of the total value of such contracts, rather than
        the number of contracts.

     3. Helped to develop the Human Resources Management Plan: The project supported the recently created office
        for human resources management (Office de Management des Ressources Humaines, OMRH) through the design
        and implementation of a central human resource database of all salaried employees. The database was piloted in
        five key Ministries early in 2009 and is being rolled out for use by all central government ministries. All public
        servants are included in the database (which exceeded the target of 40,000 defined in the result indicator). An
        expansion of the system was contemplated with funds from the EGTAG2. In December 2009, the Government
        was undertaking civil service reform with funds from other donors.

     4. Strengthened Anti-Corruption and Civil Society Monitoring: First of all, the Auditor General Office
        (CSC/CA) benefited from support by the project, thanks to which it received training and equipment. The Reports
        of Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSC) seminar and workshop, financed with grant funds, and a
        reflection seminar were expected to bring more clarity to the CSCCA strategy as the discussions at those events
        centered on the new law being drafted for the new organizational structure of the entity. The project's training

6
  However, the Bank's financial management specialist has noted that while the Government has made a significant effort to capture all resources, some such as those
collected directly by certain Ministries, including university enrollment fees, sales of drugs or services, may not be captured and it is difficult to estimate what they
amount to.


                                                                                    15
        targets were exceeded: a total of 39 accountants were trained and decentralized in different government
        institutions. In addition, 30 auditors from the CSC/CA were trained, which helped clear the backlog of audit
        reports for fiscal years 2003-2006. Secondly, in the area of transparency and anti-corruption efforts, there have
        been many advances such as the establishment of an anti-corruption office (ULCC); campaigns to sensitize civil
        servants and citizens to the issues; nationwide dissemination of the results of the survey on corruption; and the
        enactment of a Law on Asset Declaration. The latter was approved in June 2008 and is available on the ULCC
        website. The report on first year compliance was submitted by the ULCC to the CSC/CA and to the Presidents of
        the Senate and Lower House on April 24, 2009. By the end of 2009, 395 persons had submitted their forms and,
        once the Asset Declaration Law becomes fully effective, the ULCC is expecting about 9,000 declarations. Twelve
        corruption cases were transmitted to the judicial and administrative authorities, which exceeded the target (eight
        cases).

    5. Built Communication Processes and Public Outreach: The project helped to move forward the civil society
       monitoring reports which review the progress of the economic governance reforms supported by the Country
       Strategy. The reports are available at www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht/societecivile. The fourth of these reports was
       completed in September 2009. The director of ULCC estimated that approximately 2000 people participated in
       the outreach activities supported by the Bank and considered that public understanding about the existence of the
       ULCC and of corruption had increased as a consequence of those activities (no surveys available).

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and comparisons; and
Financial Rate of Return)

52.     Technical assistance projects are usually not subject to cost-benefit- or economic analysis. Furthermore, it is
always difficult to measure the efficiency of institutional reforms, especially under fragile state conditions. As per the ICR
guidelines, efficiency in the outcome rating is gauged by asking whether the costs involved in achieving project objectives
were reasonable in comparison to both the benefits and recognized norms ("value for money"). It is worth noting that with
just US$2 million, the project leveraged a significant volume of results for six different beneficiaries. In that perspective
the project can be regarded as efficient. The project disbursed a total of $ 2, 056 418 or 103% of the original USD
equivalent funds, benefitting from a gain in the exchange rate.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)

Rating: Satisfactory

53.     A satisfactory overall outcome rating seems justified and it is in line with the implementation status ratings at the
end of the project. As explained earlier, EGTAG1 is considered as very relevant to Government and Bank priorities. It
contributed positively by building capacity and facilitating the Bank's re-engagement in Haiti and supported key pillars of
the Government's poverty reduction strategy. Despite delays in implementation and execution of the project, at closing,
the project has met all the objectives, namely it: i) improved the Ministry of Finance's ability to program, execute and
track use of public resources and better link them to concrete development goals; ensured an adequate performance of the
external, ex-post control function by the CSC/CA; and helped the CNMP grow into its role as overseer of procurement
practices, while making open, competitive procurement the rule rather than the exception; (ii) advanced the development
of a human resource management plan and system, especially as regards ensuring adequate capacity in the financial
management system; (iii) advanced the development of the ULCC as an effective check on corruption while also
encouraging greater involvement of civil society in its own operations and as a monitor of public sector reform; and (iv)
ensured, as part of the project management process, an adequate system for communicating information on the reform
programs and mobilizing public support for their furtherance. In terms of outcome indicators, all three project
development objective indicators have been achieved and in addition, a number of intermediate result indicators were
exceeded, including the indicators on the number of accountants trained (39, as opposed to the target of 15), the reduction
in non-competitive procurements (reduced to 20.8% compared to a target of 28%) and the number of corruption cases
processed (12, compared to a target of 8). This is a considerable achievement under the extremely fragile and volatile
circumstances in which the project was implemented.
                                                             16
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

54.      As the project focused on institution building and improving economic governance through technical assistance,
the poverty, gender and social development implications are of an indirect rather than direct nature. However, as
explained earlier, the project made positive contributions to improving civil society capacity. It can be argued that the
results achieved with the public financial management systems may alleviate poverty in the longer term and that
improving economic governance has the indirect positive effect of reducing poverty and promoting social development in
the country. Haiti has struggled to overcome a legacy of predatory governance, e.g. slavery, colonialism, dictatorship,
demagoguery, and narco-criminality, fueling cyclical social and political violence compounded by geographical
vulnerabilities exposing Haitians to repeated natural disasters. Encouraging greater accountability and transparency in
economic and other governance matters is critical for progress in normalizing state-society relations, which in turn is key
to enabling sustainable development and poverty reduction. However, the same reason that makes this issue of critical
importance also makes it extremely difficult to address: namely, the highly polarized and politicized nature of Haitian
society ­ which is then reflected in both civil society and in the public sector. Overall, the Bank's operations, especially
the capacity building initiatives, would benefit from sound social and conflict analysis of the stakeholders, dynamics,
interests and trends.

 (b)Institutional Change/ Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

55.     Both the LICUS grant and EGTAG1 helped to build government capacity, especially in budget preparation and
execution, procurement and anti-corruption measures. This has also had a positive impact on the country's budget support
absorption capacity. The capacity building achieved under the technical assistance grants enabled faster preparation of the
EGRO development policy loans. Overall, there have been significant improvements of public financial management
reforms in Haiti in recent years. The key areas of progress include budget preparation, execution, and control. The
FY2008 budget was submitted to Parliament before the start of the fiscal year. The FY2009 budget was also submitted to
Parliament, albeit late. This was mainly due to the political stalemate and exogenous shocks, which slowed the budget
preparation process. However, the FY2008 and FY2009 budgets reflect the key priorities of the DSNCRP. Moreover, the
coordination and consultation process between the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the spending ministries and the
Ministry of Planning has improved during budget preparation. The budget classification system has also improved on both
the expenditure and the revenue sides. The classification is based on the administrative and economic nature of the
expenditures and is relatively close to international standards. To this end, the FY2008 and FY2009 budget laws also
include a specific line for recurrent budget allocation for the Road Maintenance Fund (Fonds d'Entretien Routier, FER) as
well as a line item for counterpart funds of about 9 and 6 million gourdes, respectively. Public expenditures executed
through the "comptes courants" accounted for 3 percent of total operating expenditures excluding wages at end-February
2009.7

56.      The most important results related to the EGTAG1 include: (i) Passing of the new procurement legislation (ii)
New debt management system up and running (iii) Budget preparation and execution manual prepared (iv) National civil
service database set up, all civil servants included (v) Improvement of both the capacity and equipment/facilities of
CNMP, CSC/CA, ULCC, and CEFOPAFOP­the details are explained in the previous chapters as well as in the annexed
results framework. Several of the EGTAG1 activities are continued under EGTAG2. However, the consolidation of
EGTAG2 efforts around the budgeting functions and focusing on a more limited number of beneficiaries leaves out some
agencies that were expecting to benefit from Bank support. Therefore, the future needs of the EGTAG1 beneficiaries
should be revisited as part of the possible preparation of EGTAG3, especially considering the post-earthquake scenario.

57.     The project contributed positively to donor coordination in Haiti even if aid harmonization continues to be a
challenge. The Bank has had an active role in the economic governance coordination group led by the GoH. The
Government prepared an 18-month priority program ahead of the donor conference that took place in April 2009. The
7
World Bank: Haiti: Second Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGRO II), IDA Grant Number H269-0-HA, Release of the Floating Tranche ­ Proposed Partial
Waivers of Four Conditions, June 2009
                                                                          17
overall framework of the strategy is based on the DSNCRP and seeks to maintain stability, safeguard the progress already
achieved, overcome the current crisis, and ensure that the country continues on a path towards economic security. It calls
for immediate measures to: (i) balance public finances; (ii) create jobs rapidly; (iii) reduce vulnerability to natural
disasters; (iv) stimulate the economy; and (v) maintain access to basic services (health and education). It also outlines
proposals to strengthen development coordination.

58.     The World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) cooperated closely on analytical activities and
operations. The two institutions jointly prepared the Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
Review (PEMFAR), completed in 2008. Cooperation and coordination also took place at the project level in areas where
both institutions are active, including public financial management, civil service management, procurement, and anti-
corruption. Sharing the PIU with the IDB has been a promising experience and has helped to improve coordination and
find synergies between the different institutions supporting the same sector. Preparation of the follow-up operation
EGTAG2 was undertaken in close collaboration with other donor agencies active in the area of economic governance
including the IDB, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the European Union (EU), the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
However, the procedures used by the donors would also need to be harmonized, including the auditing processes that are
currently very labor intensive. It was suggested in various ICR consultation meetings that the new procurement
framework could be used as a platform for donor harmonization in Haiti. The matrix of donor support to economic
governance reform agenda in Haiti is included in Table 4 of Annex 9.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

59.    The project helped several supported institutions to define their strategic vision as some beneficiaries have
developed a strategic plan for their institutions (Unité de Lutte contre la Corruption, ULCC; Office de Management des
Ressources Humaines, OMRH; and Cour Supérieure des Comptes et du Contentieux Administratif, CSC/CA).

60.     The capacity built by EGTAG1 contributed positively to implementation of the Economic Governance Reform
Operations and other Bank-financed projects in the Haiti portfolio. The implementation of some of the planned reforms
under EGRO II was delayed due to difficult circumstances, including the precarious security situation, the political
stalemate and the food crisis in 2008. As a result, partial waivers for the release of the second tranche were provided in
four areas:8 (i) adoption by key sector ministries and public enterprises (Ministries of Education, Health, Public Works
and Justice, and EDH and APN) of standard bidding documents and a procedures manual prepared by CNMP; (ii)
improvement of human resource management by updating and thereafter maintaining an updated registry of state
employees and defining a system, applicability and procedures for new merit-based appointments and promotions; (iii)
competitive procurement in any further contractual arrangements for the purchase of power (whether through new
contracts or the modification or extension of existing contracts) for the supply of electricity to Port-au-Prince and the main
provincial towns, with due regard for IDA's environmental recommendations on that matter; and (iv) regular publishing
on the MEF website, circulation to the media and transmission to Parliament of summaries of civil society organization
quarterly monitoring reports after their adoption by the Consultative Committee and discussion with the MEF on progress
achieved. Based on the EGTAG1 implementation completion review, it seems that by the end of EGTAG1 there were
improvements in several areas where the waivers were issued.

61.      The EGRO III Program Document acknowledges the importance of the technical assistance grants for the
implementation of the EGRO loans. "Two ongoing Economic Governance Technical Assistance Grants (EGTAG 1 and 2,
US$2 million each) have been helping the Government to strengthen its institutional capacity in the areas of public
resource management. EGTAG1, approved by the Board in January 2005, was a core component of IDA's Transitional
Support Strategy (TSS) for Haiti, aimed at restoring the credibility of public institutions in the wake of the political
turmoil of the early 2000s. The project built on important advances made by the LICUS Economic Governance Grant
(US$1.5 million) program, approved in November 2004, which provided immediate technical and financial assistance for
institutional strengthening."


8
    For more information on the fulfillment of EGROII second tranche release conditions, see the EGRO Tranche Release Document.


                                                                                18
62.      By financing the debt management system through UNCTAD, EGTAG1 helped the Government meet one of the
triggers for debt relief under the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) initiative - enabling the Bank and IMF to cancel
$1.2 billion of Haiti's debt on schedule at the end of June 2009. An additional unforeseen benefit of the UNCTAD
contract was that it has served as a model for subsequent agreements signed by the Government with UN agencies for the
provision of other critical services. The experience gained by the EGTAG project implementation unit in negotiating the
UNCTAD contract enabled the Government to replicate quickly the positive experience of "contracting" UN agencies to
provide support to the Health Ministry (Pan-American Health Organization's agreement for Health Surveillance System)
and, most recently, to the Public Works Ministry (UNOPS for Labor-intensive Emergency works on Jacmel Road).

63.      In the establishment of a civil society monitoring mechanism, there was initially some confusion between its role
in promoting transparency and public accountability, on the one hand, and communications/public outreach of the
government's economic governance reforms, on the other. These two objectives, while complimentary, can be potentially
in conflict and for future operations it is recommended that they be carried out by separate agencies. Given the
fragmentation of civil society organizations in Haiti, it was decided to try to create a new mechanism to perform the
function of external monitoring. However, this proved to be difficult as a large part of the exercise then needed to be
devoted to establishing internal organization, a shared vision of this new mechanism and compatible policies ­ somewhat
delaying its ability to perform any monitoring role. The costs and benefits of trying to create a civil society mechanism de
novo should be careful weighed up in future operations. On the World Bank side, more could be made of the Bank's
convening power at senior levels of the GoH to ensure that civil society monitoring is taken seriously. Finally, given the
extremely weak capacity of civil society in Haiti, there should be more resources committed to capacity building of civil
society itself to be able to perform any monitoring function, and this should be provided through continuous in-country
support (possibly by a third party specializing in civil society capacity building). The exercise would also benefit from
more South-South learning (for both civil society and government - on lessons learned from similar experiences in other
countries). Overall, the Bank operations, especially the capacity building initiatives, would benefit from sound social and
conflict analysis of the stakeholders, dynamics, interests and trends.

64.      Most of the material development results achieved by the Government of Haiti were slashed overnight as a
consequence of the January 2010 earthquake. At the time of writing this implementation completion review the post-
disaster assessments have not been completed. It is, however, clear that both the results achieved by the project and the
implementation capacity of Haitian institutions has been dramatically affected by the earthquake. The intellectual results
such as the legislation, improvements to the budget process, and capacity built under the EGTAG1 project will hopefully
help in the rebuilding of Haiti. The US$65 million Haiti Infrastructure and Institutions Emergency Recovery
Project that was prepared in the aftermath of the earthquake has two components related to economic
governance and institutional support, where the EGTAG-experiences are of particular value. Component
2 of the project, re-establishing key economic and financial functions of the Government (US$10 million) includes the
reinstatement of the Ministry of Finance's regular functions and aims at enabling key government officials and ministries
to plan and direct the long term reconstruction program. Component 4 on Institutional Support, Reconstruction Planning
and Project Management (US$5 million) is also related to the EGTAGs as the component will support the functioning
capacity of key Haitian institutions that are part of the Government of Haiti crisis governance framework. It will also
contribute to supporting planning activities for the short, medium and long-term reconstruction phases. The lessons learnt
from the EGTAG should be considered in the design and implementation of the emergency operation.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
Not applicable.




                                                            19
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

65.      There are four main types of relevant risks: natural disaster-related risk, economic risk, political risk, and
institutional capacity risk. The results achieved by the EGTAG1 have changed as a consequence of the 2010 disaster. At
the time of writing of this report, the assessment of the emergency situation in Haiti is ongoing and it is not possible to
reflect the findings here, but it is clear that both the results achieved by the project as well as the implementation capacity
of Haitian institutions has been dramatically affected by the earthquake.

66.      Haiti is highly vulnerable to natural disasters including earthquakes, hurricanes and flash floods. Frequent
occurrence of large scale natural disasters derails the Government's reform efforts and diverts resources from the longer-
term development agenda towards more urgent recovery and reconstruction needs. The Bank's ongoing portfolio of
emergency recovery projects directly addresses this risk. In addition, the Bank will be able to respond to any future natural
disasters by reallocating funds from pipeline or existing projects or other sources, including trust funds.

67.      The economic downturn in major international economies could have a serious negative impact on Haiti,
through reduced remittances, donor funding and investment. There is evidence of an impact in these areas already,
which could jeopardize macroeconomic stability, poverty reduction, human development and private sector development
in Haiti. Support from the Bank and other donors will be a mitigating factor for Haiti in these areas, but a serious crisis
would also reduce the overall effectiveness of that assistance. In addition, the country is extremely susceptible to external
shocks. As in 2008, extreme poverty and dependence on imported food and fuel could exacerbate the effects of the
international commodity markets on Haiti. Strengthening food security, including through raising agricultural output,
which has become a strategic priority for the Government and donors, would help mitigate such a risk.

68.     Haiti remains vulnerable to the political and social instability that has historically undermined
development and the implementation of donor programs in the country. Violent protests on several occasions during
the implementation of the project illustrate the continuing fragility of Haiti. Difficult socio-economic conditions and
multiple elections increase the risk of the recurrence of instability in the coming years. However, the active participation
of government officials in the dialogue with development partners -- including the World Bank -- in the past provides
assurance that Haiti will stay the course and continue implementing key economic reforms supported by the present
Operation. Similarly, the presence of UN forces and the strong commitment of the international community, including the
Bank Group, to supporting the Government and its reform program are stabilizing factors.

69.     Weak institutional capacity and delays that could arise from capacity constraints also continue to
constitute important risks. Despite achievements in terms of building up capacity in the Ministries of Finance and
Planning, major constraints to the implementation of reforms remain due to weak institutional capacity to prepare,
implement and oversee reforms. The risk of limited implementation capacity is mitigated by (i) sustaining reforms that
have started generating positive results in terms of the country already having developed stronger capacity, for instance in
public finance management and procurement; (ii) concentrating on a limited number of themes/areas; (iii) ensuring that
the most difficult reforms are undertaken up-front; (iv) donor harmonization, which reduces the number of activities to be
implemented by the Government and helps target technical assistance more efficiently; and (v) funding for critical actions.
Haiti's development partners are providing financing for procurement, revenue mobilization capacity, transparency and
governance programs and budget management reforms. The Bank will coordinate with the community of donors to
enhance synergy and improve the efficiency of the EGRO III.




                                                              20
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     The operation was put together under a tight timeline right after a period when the Bank had not had operations in
the country (1997-2003). The project preparation and implementation had to be started with very low capacity levels,
which caused a six months' delay in effectiveness as it took longer than expected both to hire the PIU staff and help the
beneficiaries to get started with the project activities. In practice, this was also reflected in problems among the
beneficiaries understanding the financed activities, which in turn resulted in time-consuming requests for activities that
were outside the scope of the project.

71.     The project benefited from lessons learnt from earlier operations, and especially from the LICUS grant
experience, and the risks were adequately addressed. The fact that the project was prepared under a tight timeline and split
into two phases caused an additional burden for both the Bank and the counterpart teams. It can be argued that the high
number of project beneficiaries contributed later to the delays in project implementation. As explained earlier, the
monitoring and evaluation aspects of the project were not appropriately addressed, and there were issues with the baseline
data and the indicators. Considering the circumstances, the Bank's performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated as
moderately satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Satisfactory

72.      The supervision of EGTAG1 improved notably in the course of project implementation and is rated satisfactory at
the closing. Over the lifetime of the project, according to the implementation status reports, progress towards the project
development objectives, implementation progress, supervision, procurement and financial management were always rated
either satisfactory or moderately satisfactory. The most problematic area of supervision seems to be the monitoring and
evaluation, which was rated as satisfactory five times, moderately satisfactory three times and once as moderately
unsatisfactory. The staff turnover and especially the frequent change of TTLs had implications for project implementation.
During the first years of project implementation, the Country Management Unit (CMU) could have played a more active
role in the supervision. Some of the implementation status reports were lacking comments from the CMU. The initial
supervision efforts were performed mostly by staff at headquarters and there could have been a stronger involvement of
the field office. However, it should be noted that when the project was being designed, the Haiti Office had just been
reopened and it was in the process of being staffed, and that these issues were addressed during the implementation of the
project.

73.      Following the changes to the overall economic governance portfolio in 2008, the team developed with the
Government an approach that was more intensive than usual, both to ensure that the project would be implemented in a
timely fashion and also to boost the capacity of the different beneficiaries. The team, strengthened with a local consultant
in Port-au-Prince and a Senior Procurement Specialist, had weekly meetings with the PIUs and frequent interactions and
meetings with the beneficiaries. The ICR peer reviewer described the strengthened supervision arrangement as impressive
and the positive impact to the project results is highlighted in the Borrower's comments to the ICR. It is worthwhile to
notice that 68% of the project's disbursements were made from 2008 onwards.

74.    Arguably, some of the implementation delays could have been prevented if the strengthened supervision
arrangements had been in place from the start of the project. In addition, during the restructuring of the EGTAG2, the
                                                            21
team was able to have several strategic workshops with all the beneficiaries. Therefore, this project also acted as a
coordination device for the GoH. There are no major unsolved fiduciary issues to report.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

75.     Despite the political and natural disasters and the extremely fragile circumstances, the project managed to close in
a reasonable amount of time and achieved, and in some cases exceeded, the intended results. The project was extended
twice but both extensions were well justified, first because of delayed effectiveness and, second, because four major
hurricanes had hit the country. Especially after the re-organization of the economic governance portfolio in 2008, the
Bank team took a more proactive and innovative approach in project management that was perceived as very positive
improvement by the project counterparts. The EGTAG1 was crucial in building capacity, preparing the re-entry of the
Bank and speeding up the preparation and disbursement of the EGRO loans.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

76.     The commitment of the Government, at both senior (ministerial) and technical levels, was essential to the success
of the project. The Government was consulted during preparation of the project and had an active role in getting the
project effective and implemented. Political support for the project remained despite the frequent changes to the
Government. The counterpart funding was rated as satisfactory throughout the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies' Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

77.      The project implementation unit has experienced a steep learning curve since the beginning of the activities and
its performance at the end of the project is rated as satisfactory. The operation was prepared under a tight timeline right
after a period when the Bank had not had operations in the country (1997-2003) and the number of beneficiaries added
complexity to the implementation of the project. Consequently, project preparation and implementation had to be started
with very low capacity levels, which caused delays in both the effectiveness and implementation of the project. The
project beneficiaries reported some delays in eliciting responses to the non-objections from the PIU but the implementing
agency performance improved notably under the strengthened supervision arrangement. The PIU capacity would need to
be continuously reinforced, especially after the January 2010 earthquake and if other EGTAGs are to be prepared. It
would be recommendable to hire a monitoring and evaluation specialist for the PIU to work on the baseline and
continuous M&E.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

78.     The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above. The high number of
beneficiaries added complexity to PIU operations and explained to some extent the implementation delays. Borrower
performance has been a critical factor in the success of the project and achieving the results under difficult circumstances.




                                                             22
6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of broad general application)

79.    EGTAG1 was an invaluable learning experience for both the Bank and the Government of Haiti. The design and
implementation of the proposed operation teach us several important lessons:

80.      Re-engaging in Fragile States: The LICUS and EGTAG projects represented a good fragile state case example
of starting the re-engagement with small trust funded pilots that were scaled up with IDA resources. The trust funding was
crucial in building capacity and preparing the re-entry before the IDA financing was made available. The impact of the
technical assistance operations went beyond the results listed in the results framework by improving the budgeting
functions of the GoH and supporting the implementation of the rest of the Bank's portfolio in Haiti. Linking the technical
assistance and budget support created synergy and reinforced the Government's commitment to progress under the
technical assistance arrangement. The project also shows that it is extremely important to maintain close collaboration
with the Government and the donor community.

81.      Institutional reform in fragile states takes time and resources: The experience of EGTAG1 demonstrates that
institutional reform takes time and requires intensified supervision. Even with a large supervision budget, it is often
difficult to mobilize specialists in all the areas addressed by the project (civil society, anti-corruption work, budget reform,
procurement reform, and human resources reform). The fragile conditions - in the case of Haiti especially the political
instability, natural disasters and low capacity within the institutions supported - have an impact throughout the project
cycle by slowing down preparation and implementation and endangering the sustainability of the results. A step forward
can be followed at any time by a giant leap backwards. Keeping the fragile state operations as simple as possible would
likely contribute to shortening implementation delays. In fact, the EGTAG2 restructuring in November 2009 narrowed
down the follow-up project's scope and beneficiaries to focus on supporting the Government in its budgeting functions.

82.      Approaching Economic Governance and Project Design: While the two-phase approach of having two
separate projects for the EGTAGs was justified by political factors and by the need to link the assistance to performance,
for similar future operations, pooling funding for the Bank operations as well as between the different donors should be
considered in order to ease the administrative burden for the Bank teams as well as for the counterparts. The scope of the
project was wide for the limited amount of financing available. However, given the interconnections between the
economic governance actors, leaving some of the agencies out of the scope of support could have had serious
repercussions on the results achieved under other components. Selecting the beneficiaries based on their relevance for
performing core state functions, such as budget preparation, execution, control and procurement and previous experiences
with the Bank and other donors should always be considered. As a consequence of the delays in implementation, it was
felt that the needs of the beneficiaries had changed to some extent. This was tackled on two occasions by reallocating
resources within the components to better meet the needs of the institutions supported. This case confirms the need to
allow flexibility in fragile state situations..

83.      Security Issues: Several project beneficiaries suffered serious security problems during project implementation
of the project. Consideration needs to be given to ways in which the Bank could provide better security arrangements for
the colleagues, on both the Bank and Government side, who participate in the implementation of Bank-financed projects.
Security aspects should be taken into account during project planning and budgeting.

84.       Project Preparation: The Government was consulted during preparation of the EGTAG1, but it was pointed out
that, in future operations, such preparation could be more consultative, while keeping in mind the capacity constraints and
pressures from other donors. In addition, there could be additional support to the Government and beneficiaries between
approval and effectiveness ­ in practice that would mean, for instance, drafting the TORs and explaining to the supported
institutions the contents, objectives and procedures of the project.

85.     Project Implementation. The project was prepared and implemented under extremely challenging political and
natural circumstances, in a setting in which the capacity to implement projects is very low. These factors ended up
delaying the implementation of the project. However, at the closing, the project has achieved most of its initial objectives.
                                                              23
There are no shortcuts or quick wins in building project implementation capacity in fragile states. That inevitably takes
time and resources.

86.     Supervision: The Bank's supervision was proactive and the strengthened supervision arrangement toward the end
of the project was exemplary. In fact, in the case of EGTAG1, some of the implementation delays could have been
prevented if such arrangements had been in place from the start of the project. It is essential to have a frequent exchange
of information between the Bank and the project implementation staff as well as continued in-country support for
supervision of the project. It is important to have country-based colleagues to help to move the agenda forward and
participate closely in the supervision of the project. It is also essential to monitor the delays with non-objections. It
would be important to aim at reducing the rotation of the task team leaders in order to minimize disruptions to the
operations.

87.     Donor Coordination: Sharing the PIU with the IDB and the active participation of the Bank in the Economic
Governance group lead by the GoH have been promising experiences and have helped to improve coordination and to
find synergies between the different institutions. New innovative approaches are needed to enhance donor coordination.
Once it is fully implemented, the new procurement legislation could provide a platform for the donors to harmonize their
procurement procedures in Haiti. Pooling the funding from the donors supporting the same sectors would improve aid
effectiveness, help leverage the results of small-scale operations and put less stress fon the Government counterparts
implementing the projects.

88.      Enhancing civil society capacity in fragile states: It is recommended that, for future operations, promoting
transparency and public accountability, on the one hand, and communications and public outreach of the government's
economic governance reforms, on the other, would be conceptually separated. Overall, Bank operations, especially the
capacity building initiatives, would benefit from sound social and conflict analysis of the stakeholders, dynamics, interests
and trends. More could be made of the World Bank's convening power at senior levels of the Government to ensure that
civil society monitoring is taken seriously. Given the weak capacity of civil society in many fragile states, there should be
more resources committed to capacity-building of civil society itself, in order to enable it to perform any monitoring
function, and they should be provided through continuous in-country support (possibly by a third party specialized in civil
society capacity building). There could be also more South-South learning initiatives, based on lessons learned from
similar experiences in other countries for both civil society and government.

89.     Sustainability: Already in the pre-earthquake scenario, most of the results achieved under EGTAG1 were
dependent on continued Bank support. The situation after the earthquake is being assessed at the time of writing this
report but it seems inevitable that many of the steps taken forward have been dramatically reversed as the worst-case
scenario related to natural risks materialized in early 2010. The lessons learnt from the EGTAG1 project will be taken into
account in the design and implementation of the emergency recovery operations that the Bank supports.




                                                             24
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

90.      At closing of the project, the borrower hired an external consultant to carry out an independent evaluation of the
project.9 The borrower also prepared comments to the ICR that are included in Annex 7. Overall, the borrower shares the
Bank's perception on the project results. The borrower's comments to the ICR emphasize the need to keep the project
design simple, to continue to build the capacity of the PIU and the project beneficiaries, and to harmonize donor
procedures (especially between the World Bank and the IDB). The borrower's comments also stress the positive impact of
the strengthened supervision arrangements to achieve the results of the project.

91.      In addition, the key points raised by the PIU Coordinator during the implementation completion review meeting10
are the following:

               Context: The project was implemented under extremely challenging political and natural circumstances that
               ended up delaying implementation of the project (there were two extensions).
               The most successful results according to the coordinator at the closing of EGTAG1 include: (i) Passing of
               the procurement law (ii) Setting up HR and Debt management databases and (iii) Training and facility
               upgrades for CEFOPAFOP. All three institutions would need continued support to be able to implement the
               law and maintain the databases.
               The civil society component of EGTAG1 was felt to be problematic. Even though it is necessary to continue
               to improve the civil society organizations' capacity on transparency of public finances, the approach needs to
               be reconsidered. The Civil Society consultation committee that was set up experienced problems with
               representativeness. There are no existing national civil society consultation platforms in Haiti. Other donors,
               such as USAID and EU also provide support. The civil society debates and other events organized by the
               country office are felt to be useful.
               The PIU has experienced a steep learning curve since the beginning of the activities but its capacity would
               need to be reinforced, especially if other EGTAGs are to be prepared. The PIU currently has a staff of four.
               The coordinator feels that the dual role of the PIU is problematic ­ the PIU members are considered Ministry
               staff from the Bank perspective and Bank staff from the Ministry perspective. The PIU exists in the
               government structure but should be better integrated. The PIU would also need resources to upgrade its office
               space. Due to the limited number of staff, they are too busy to participate in training activities and
               consequently the budget allocations for training have not been used. The PIU would need a monitoring and
               evaluation specialist to work on the baseline and continuous M&E. Some criticism was expressed of the
               Bank's tendency to judge the effectiveness of projects too strictly by speed of disbursements.
               Donor coordination: Sharing the PIU with the IDB has been a positive experience and it has improved
               coordination between projects in the same sector. However, the procedures used by the donors would also
               need to be harmonized, including the auditing processes that are currently very labor intensive. It was
               suggested in various meetings that the new procurement framework could be used as a platform for donor
               harmonization in Haiti.
               Project design and effectiveness: The Bank needs to make sure that the national authorities are adequately
               involved in project design ­ although at the same time the GoH is suffering from capacity constraints ­
               especially considering the large amount of donor pressures from different organizations. It was suggested that
               the preparation of the next EGTAG could be more consultative and there would be additional support to the
               GoH between approval and effectiveness ­ for instance, in drafting the TORs and explaining to the supported
               institutions the contents, objectives and procedures of the project.
               Project supervision: The project coordinator had not experienced serious delays with obtaining non-
               objections from the Bank (normally they come through in less than a week) and the weekly video-conferences

9
  Government of Haiti (Ministère de l'Économie et des Finances, Unité de Coordination du Projet): Projet d'Assistance Technique à la Gouvernance Économique
EGTAGI H1660-HA, Évaluation Finale de EGTAG1, Rapport Final par Richard Mathelier, September 2009.
10
   Meeting with the Head of the PIU, EGTAG1, Port-au-Prince, Haiti, 7 December, 2009.


                                                                           25
   as well as the availability of the local consultant to support with implementation of the project were
   considered improvements to supervision by the Bank. The project coordinator suggested that it would be good
   to have the Bank staff based in Port-au-Prince, or to visit more often.
   Financial Management: At the closing of the project, a total of $ 2, 054 007 or 103% of the original USD
   equivalent funds was disbursed. The project benefited from the fluctuation of the exchange rates, which
   covered the additional 3%.
   Lessons learnt: An independent project evaluation report has been drafted by a consultant (Richard
   Mathelier). The Project Coordinator did not express views differing from the contents of the report.
   Next steps: The team reminded the PIU of the importance of completing the last disbursements by the
   deadline and discussed borrower responsibilities concerning the project completion report. The results for
   each component of the project were discussed; the findings are included under the assessment of the situation
   of each of the beneficiaries.




                                                  26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                         Appraisal Estimate                                  Actual/Latest Estimate
              Components                                                                                            Percentage of Appraisal
                                            (USD millions)                                      (USD millions)
 Component 1-Financial Resource
                                                 1.30                                                     1.430                             110%
Management
 Component 2-Human Resource
                                                 0.30                                                     0.324                             108%
Development
 Component 3- Anticorruption Unit                0.23                                                     0.197                              86%
 4-Communication, Coordination and
                                                 0.17                                                     0.105                              88%
Project Management11

                               Total Baseline Cost                     2.00                               2.05612                           103%
Physical Contingencies
                                                                       0.00                               0.00                               0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                                       0.00                               0.00                               0.00
                     Total Project Costs                               2.00                               2.056                             103%
Front-end fee PPF                                                      0.00                               0.00                               .00
Front-end fee IBRD                                                     0.00                               0.00                               .00
              Total Financing Required                                 0.00                               2.00




 (b) Financing
                                                                                            Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                                     Type of                                              Percentage of
                       Source of Funds                                                       Estimate        Estimate
                                                                   Cofinancing                                              Appraisal
                                                                                         (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                                               0.00            0.00            .00
 IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE                                                          2.00            0.00            .00




11
   At the appraisal, the allocation for `Project management, coordination and communication' was $120 000. The un-programmed $50 000 contingency is included
under component 4 in the appraisal estimate.

12
     The project benefited from a gain in exchange rates


                                                                              27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
EGTAG 1 Results Framework
                                               Status of agreed outcomes indicators:
    Indicators                                                        Measurement
                     Insert the measured value, or a qualitative indicator, or a brief explanation of why indicators are not available,
                                                        together with the date of the information
                           Baseline Value                         Progress To Date                       End-of-Project Target Value
                     Number or         Date                 Number or text                 Date         Number or text        Date
                       text
PDO indicator(s)
Percentage of        4%           11/01/2005      Target achieved. According to       12/10/2009       2%                11/01/2007
unprogrammed                                      government estimates, the
budget resources                                  unprogrammed resources in
(Text Description) -                              budget year 2009-2010 are
Custom Indicator                                  estimated to be 361 million
                                                  gourds, while the total budget is
                                                  88.9 milliard gourds. The
                                                  unprogrammed resources are
                                                  0.4% of the budget.
                     Comments:                    Comments: (Source: Direction Générale du             Comments:
                                                  Budget) However, the Bank's FM specialist has
                                                  noted that while the government has made a
                                                  significant effort to capture all resources, some,
                                                  such as those collected directly by some
                                                  Ministries such as University enrollment fees,
                                                  sales of drugs or services, may not be captured
                                                  and it is difficult to estimate what they amount
                                                  to.
Percentage of non- 10%            11/01/2004      Achieved. Currently estimated at 12/10/2009          eliminate use of 11/01/2007
salary public                                     less than 3% of total nonsalary                      comptes courants
expenditures going                                current public expenditures.
through comptes    Comments:                      Comments:                                            Comments:
courants(Text
Description) -
Custom Indicator
Percentage of        TBD          06/30/2005      Target achieved. All external       12/10/2009       100%              12/01/2007
external financing                                financing is included in the
included in public                                budget.
budget (Text         Comments:                    Comments: Source: Direction Générale du              Comments:
Description) -                                    Budget)
Custom Indicator
Intermediate
outcome
indicator(s)




                                                                 28
Number of           0             06/30/2005   Achieved target exceeded: 39     12/10/2009     15              12/07/2007
comptables                                     have been designated trained and
designated and                                 deconcentrated in different
trained (Text                                  institutions
Description) -      Comments:                  Comments:                                       Comments:
Custom Indicator
Number of auditors 0              06/30/2005   Achieved. 30 auditors from the 12/10/2009       15              12/07/2007
hired, trained, and                            CSCCA have been trained. As a
doing audits for                               result the backlog of audit
CSCCA                                          reports (fiscal years 2003-2006)
(cumulative) (Text                             has been cleared.
Description) -      Comments:                  Comments:                                       Comments:
Custom Indicator
Percentage of      35%            06/30/2005   Achieved 20.8 % of non           12/10/2009     20% reduction   12/07/2007
noncompetitive                                 competitive procurement (so
procurements (Text                             more than 20% of reduction) f or
Description) -                                 the 2006-2007 period: as per
Custom Indicator                               CNMP data, out of the 192 bids
                                               approved 20.8% were non
                                               competitive. See comments in
                                               PDO
                    Comments:                  Comments:                                       Comments:
Number of public    40,000        06/30/2005   Achieved. All public servants      12/10/2009   50,000 in OHR 12/07/2007
employees in                                   were included in the OMRH                       record
Human Resource                                 database. Further activities are                (transferred from
Unit record (Text                              planned to continue this HR                     MEF)
Description) -                                 process under EGTAG II
Custom Indicator    Comments:                  Comments:                                       Comments:
Development of       No Plan      06/30/2005   Achieved and related             12/10/2009     Approval of Plan 12/07/2007
plan for creation of                           implementing activities ongoing.
permanent human                                The OMRH was created by
resource office                                Decree of 05/17/05 and the
(Office for                                    Programme Cadre de la Réforme
Management and                                 de l'État 2007-2012 is being
Human Resources,                               implemented
OMRH) (Text          Comments:                 Comments:                                       Comments:
Description) -
Custom Indicator
Corruption cases      0           06/30/2005   Achieved and target exceeded.     06/22/2009    8               12/07/2007
identified by ULCC                             The Anti-Corruption Unit
referred to judiciary                          (ULCC) transmitted 12 cases to
for prosecution and                            the competent authorities
follow-up (Text                                (administrative and judicial) and
Description) -                                 has been following up.
Custom Indicator      Comments:                Comments:                                       Comments:




                                                             29
Number of reports 0              06/30/2005   Achieved; CSO produced 5         12/10/2009      4/4             12/07/2007
produced by CSO                               reports published on the EGRO I
monitors and                                  and are available at
actions taken in                              www.mefhaiti.gouv.ht/societe
response by                                   civile (last report published in
agencies monitored                            June 2006 and additional report
(Text Description) -                          to come)
Custom Indicator     Comments:                Comments:                                        Comments:
Coverage of donor   No data base 06/30/2005   Not Achieved because not            12/10/2009   Data base tracks 12/07/2007
economic                                      applicable; a draft data base was                program progress
governance                                    conceived by the PCU at the
activities in PCU                             beginning of the project;
data base (Text                               however the PCU does not have
Description) -                                the authority to elicit information
Custom Indicator                              on economic governance.
                    Comments:                 Comments:                                        Comments:
Ability of the       TBD         06/30/2005   Partially Achieved through 2    12/10/2009       50% of those    12/07/2007
general public to                             comp. of the project: component                  surveyed can
identify elements of                          3 and 4 on civil society and                     identify 4
MEF's reform                                  communication, which raise                       elements
programs. (Text                               awareness of civil society on
Description) -                                governance reform (no survey
Custom Indicator                              expected)



Table 2: Summary of the EGTAG1 ISR Ratings




                                                            30
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Not applicable




                                           31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                                     Responsibility/
              Names                            Title                     Unit
                                                                                       Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Solange A. Alliali           Sr Counsel                                LEGLA
Alexandre Arrobbio           Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.              LCSPS
Ana Bellver Vazquez-Dodero   Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec.              LCSPS
Franka Braun                 Carbon Finance Specialist                 ENVCF
Hilarion Bruneau             Consultant                                CTRFC
Susana Carrillo              Senior Governance Specialist              WBIGV
Joseph Irvens Denis          E T Consultant                            LCCHT
Auguste Tano Kouame          Lead Economist and Sector Lead            LCSPR
Stephanie Anne Kuttner       Consultant                                EASTS
Patricia E. Macgowan         Consultant                                LCSPT
Carmen Machicado             Operations Officer                        LCSPS
Jesus Martinez               E T Consultant                            LCSPS
Maria Del Carmen Minoso      Senior Operations Officer                 LCSPS
Fabienne Mroczka             Financial Management Analyst              LCSFM
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye     Manager, Financial Management             ECSC3
Mark Nelson                  Lead Specialist                           WBIPS
Chris Parel                  Consultant                                AFCSN
Fily Sissoko                 Sr Financial Management Specia            AFTFM
Antonius Verheijen           Lead Public Sector Specialist             AFTPR
Roberts Waddle               E T Consultant                            LCCHT
Yao Wottor                   Senior Procurement Specialist             LCSPT
Christine de Mariz Rozeira   Economist                                 LCSPS

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                   Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                                  USD Thousands (including travel
                                            No. of staff weeks
                                                                             and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                          33                              151.64
  FY06                                                                            0.00
  FY07                                                                            0.00
  FY08                                                                            0.00
                             Total:             33                              151.64
Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                                                            0.00
  FY06                                          17                              119.63
  FY07                                          18                               92.90
  FY08                                          19                              104.31
  FY09                                          28                                0.00
                             Total:             82                              316.84
                                                32
List of Colleagues met during the LICUS Economic Governance and Economic Governance Technical
Assistance ICR mission December 7-10, 2009 in Port-au-Prince, Haiti

Yves Jumelle, PIU Coordinator, EGTAG 1
Amos Durosier, Director (Unite de Lutte contre la corruption, ULCC)
Mr Hulzer Adolphe, Director(Commission Nationale des Marchés Publiques, CNMP)
Lucien Moise, Member (CNMP)
Martin Jean-Louis, Member (CNMP)
Francis Gratia, Coordinateur General, (Primature, OMRH)
Murielle Antoine, Director (Centre de Formation Professional pour Administration Publique, CEFOPAFOP)
Max Jarotte, Vice-Director (CEFOPAFOP)
Alfred Metellus, PIU Coordinator, (LICUS/Ministère de l'économie et des finances MEF)
Franz Carly, Accountant (LICUS/MEF)
Abel Metellus, Director (Direction Générale du Budget)
Joseph Affricot (DGB/Direction de la Dette Publique)
Marie Cheelip (DGB/Direction de la Dette Publique)
Jean Michel Silin (MEF/Direction des Etudes et la programmation budgétaire)
Lorrol Maurival MEF/Direction des Etudes et la programmation budgétaire)
Emmanuel Jean Pierre (MEF/Direction de Contrôle Budgétaire)
Jean Jean-Jacques (MEF/ Direction de Contrôle Budgétaire)

World Bank EGTAG1 ICR Team
Christine de Mariz Rozeira, Economist, TTL of EGTAG1, LCSPS
Jenni Pajunen, Jr. Professional Officer, ICR Team Leader, LCSPS
Carmen Machiado, Operations Officer, LCSPS
Patricia McGowan, Sr. Procurement Specialist, Consultant, LCSPT
Nick Manning, Sector Manager, LCSPS
May Olalia, Senior Operations Officer, LCSPS
Jonathan Cavanagh, Consultant/Editor, LCSPS

World Bank colleagues who were consulted during preparation of the ICR
Alain Trocher, Consultant, LCSPS
Auguste Kouame, Lead Economist, LCSPR
Joseph Denis, Economist, LCCHT
Linn Hammergren, former TTL of the Project (retired)
Luc Razafimandibmy, Senior Economist, LCSPE
Maricarmen Minoso, Sr. Operations Officer, LCSPS
Mary Morrison, Country Officer, LCC3C
Sally Burningham, Operations Adviser, LCSDE

World Bank Colleagues who commented on the ICR as part of the virtual Quality Enhancement Review (from
February 22 to March 1, 2010)

Adrian Fozzard, Lead Public Sector Specialist, Peer Reviewer, PRMPS
Alan Carroll, Country Operations Advisor, LCC3C
Auguste Kouame, Lead Economist, LCSPR
Stephanie Kuttner, Social Development Consultant, LCSOS/EAPVP
Patricia McGowan, Sr. Procurement Specialist, Consultant, LCSPT




                                                        33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable




                                             35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Le rapport de fin d'exécution du projet EGTAG I établi par la BM retrace, de façon claire le contexte de
préparation et de conception de ce projet d'assistance technique qui vise à améliorer la Gouvernance
Economique d'Haïti, pays le plus pauvre de l'hémisphère occidental et constamment aux prises avec des
conflits politiques internes et des désastres naturels catastrophiques qui n'arrêtent pas de mettre en péril les
faibles bases de son économie nationale.

Dès lors, les objectifs de ce projet de $ 2 millions de dollars sur 2 ans qui visent à réformer en Haïti le cadre
macroéconomique, la gestion budgétaire, le contrôle des dépenses publiques, la passation des marchés, la lutte
contre la corruption et la réforme du secteur financier, paraissent plutôt ambitieux et difficiles à satisfaire.
Ces objectifs ont été néanmoins poursuivis, et le projet EGTAG I a été organisé de manière pratique en 4
composantes orientées vers l'appui aux différentes réformes projetées :
    · Composante 1 : Développement de la capacité du gouvernement en matière de gestion des ressources
        financières ;

    · Composante 2 : Développement des ressources humaines ;

    · Composante 3 : Transparence publique et participation de la société civile ;

    · Composante 4 : Stratégie de communication.

Le rapport de la Banque a été alors plutôt analytique et a passé en revue les difficultés de mise en oeuvre, face
aux nombreuses Institutions bénéficiaires et compte tenu de la tache importante de coordination et de gestion de
l'ensemble des différentes activités définies et devant concourir à la poursuite des objectifs fixés.
L'UCP ne reviendra pas en détail sur ces différentes analyses qu'elle partage pour l'essentiel, mais complètera
plutôt les leçons apprises en signalant certaines difficultés rencontrées et que l'on gagnerait à éviter pour la
bonne exécution de tels projets.

   -   Au niveau de la conception du projet, il est nécessaire de bien définir la ligne de base du projet et
       d'associer davantage les bénéficiaires au « staff appraisal report » de ce projet ; de mieux adapter les
       indicateurs de résultats aux objectifs poursuivis et de s'assurer qu'une méthode de suivi/ évaluation du
       projet soit intégrée dans le processus même de gestion du projet.


   -   En matière d'achat, l'éclatement du budget en de multiples activités pour lesquelles il a fallu, à chaque
       fois, reprendre l'ensemble des procédures de passation de marchés entrainant une répétition d'actions
       similaires, a contribué à ralentir le rythme d'exécution des décaissements. Le projet gagnerait en
       efficacité si la plupart de ces différentes activités pouvaient être regroupées. Cependant, il n'a pas
       souvent été possible à l'UCP de faire cette conciliation qui aurait largement pénalisée les bénéficiaires
       les plus prompts et les plus aptes à présenter à temps leurs requêtes.


       De plus, l'UCP assurant également la gestion de projets financés par la BID, il serait également
       intéressant de pouvoir concilier les procédures de ces deux bailleurs.

       D'ailleurs, eu égard à la promulgation de la nouvelle loi sur la passation des marchés et à la publication
       des décrets d'application, il devient désormais utile pour la CNMP non seulement d'inviter les différents

                                                       36
    bailleurs à harmoniser davantage leurs procédures de passation, mais également et surtout, à s'assurer
    désormais du plein respect par ces bailleurs des nouvelles dispositions légales.

-   Il n'a pas toujours été facile de faire comprendre aux bénéficiaires la nécessité de retenir et de présenter
    des activités à financer où les besoins à satisfaire sont en harmonie avec les objectifs préalablement
    définis par le projet. Aussi, la mise au point des TDR a souvent été un exercice laborieux et fastidieux.
    On gagnerait au moment de la mise au point des projets, à mieux tenir compte des besoins des différents
    bénéficiaires et à retenir des objectifs davantage en harmonie avec lesdits besoins.


-   Le mode de supervision exercé par la BM à travers les vidéoconférences a été particulièrement
    intéressant et a permis de résoudre rapidement bien des divergences, permettant ainsi de compenser
    certaines faiblesses et de réduire de façon appréciable, les délais pour accorder les non objection.


-   Comme outil de coordination et d'exécution de projets, il importe d'insister sur l'importance de la mise
    en place des Unités de gestion de projets et sur l'intérêt de renforcer leur capacité de gestion et ancrage
    dans l'amélioration pratique de la gestion des projets.


-   Il est a noter qu'il serait important de prendre en compte dans le calendrier d'exécution des projets, les
    délais de mise en place, de structuration et d'opérationnalisation des Unités mais aussi et surtout les
    délais d'apprentissage des bénéficiaires à la dynamique d'exécution de projets.




                                                    37
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                             38
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Government of Haiti (Ministry of Planning and External Cooperation): Document de Stratégie Nationale pour la
Croissance et pour la Reduction de la Pauvreté 2008-2010 (Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper)
HAÏTI, November 2007

Government of Haiti (Ministère de l'Économie et des Finances, Unité de Coordination du Projet): Premier Projet
d'Assistance Technique pour la Gouvernance Économique (EGTAG 1), Don IDA-H1660 ­ Évaluation è Mi-Parcours,
portant sur la période du 5 décembre 2005 au 31 décembre 2007. March 2008.

Government of Haiti (Ministère de l'Économie et des Finances, Unité de Coordination du Projet): Projet d'Assistance
Technique à la Gouvernance Économique EGTAGI H1660-HA, Évaluation Finale de EGTAG1, Rapport Final par
Richard Mathelier, September 2009

Gouvernement Haitien/Banque Mondiale Fonds Licus: Rapport d'Évaluation de Fin de Projet par Hugues Foucault,
September 2009.

World Bank: Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant to the Republic of Haiti for an Economic Governance
Technical Assistance Project, Report No: 32147-HT, April 25, 2005

World Bank: LICUS Implementation Trust Fund Application Form for the LICUS Economic Governance Grant, FY04

World Bank: Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant to the Republic of Haiti for a Second Economic
Governance Technical Assistance Project, Report No: 35909-HT, May 16, 2006

World Bank/Quality Assurance Group: Review of Public Sector Governance Guidance Framework, April 2008

World Bank: Haiti: Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review, A World Bank Country Study
No. 44651, June 2008

World Bank/International Development Association/International Finance Corporation: Country Assistance Strategy for
the Republic of Haiti for the Period FY09-12, Report No 48284-HT, May 4, 2009.

World Bank/International Development Association: Program Document for a Proposed Grant to the Republic of Haiti for
a Third Economic Governance Reform Operation (EGROIII), Report No 49499-HT, November 2009

World Bank: Project Supervision Documents including aide-memoires, implementation status reports, requests for no-
objection, audit reports, extension memos as the documentation on EGTAG2 restructuring, EGRO I-III program
documents and tranche release reports. 2005-2009

Table 3: World Bank Support to Economic Governance in Haiti after the re-engagement 2004-2009

Support                    Approval     Size (million $)    Type
LICUS       Economic       FY05         1.5                 Technical Assistance
Governance    Reform
Grant
EGTAG1                     FY05         2                   Technical Assistance
EGRO I                     FY05         61                  Development Policy Loan
EGTAG2                     FY06         2                   Technical Assistance
EGRO II                    FY07         23                  Development Policy Loan
EGRO III                   FY10         12.5                Development Policy Loan
Country     Economic       FY07         n/a                 Analytical support
Memorandum (CEM)

                                                           39
Public        Expenditure FY07     n/a                  Analytical Support
Management           and
Financial Accountability
Review (PEMFAR)
Financial          Sector FY08     n/a                  Analytical Support
Assessment       Program
(FSAP)
Report on the Observance FY08      n/a                  Analytical Support
of Standards and Codes


Table 4: Donor Support to Economic Governance Reform Agenda in Haiti, 2009


Area                             Technical Assistance                 Budget support
Public Financial Management
   · Planning                    IDB (Prodev)
   · Budget preparation          IDB (Economic Governance             World Bank (EGRO
                                 Project)                             III)
                                 World Bank (EGTAG II)
                                 CIDA (PARGEP)
    ·   Budget execution         USAID                                IDB (Fiscal
                                 IDB (Economic Governance             Sustainability I)
                                 Project)
    ·   Monitoring and control   World Bank (EGTAG II)                IDB (Fiscal
                                                                      Sustainability I)
                                                                      World Bank (EGRO
                                                                      III)
    ·   Public debt management   World Bank (EGTAG II)                IDB (Fiscal
                                 CIDA (CEMLA)                         Sustainability I)
                                 IDB
Human Resources Management       World Bank (EGTAG II)
                                 IDB (HRM Project)
                                 UNDP
                                 CIDA (PARGEP)
Revenue mobilization             CIDA (PAMFR)                         IDB (Fiscal
   · General Tax Directorate     IDB (Economic Governance             Sustainability I)
       (DGI)                     Project)                             World Bank (EGRO
   · General Customs             USAID                                III)
       Administration (DGA)      CNUCED
Public Procurement               IDB (Economic Governance             World Bank (EGRO
                                 Project)                             III)
                                 World Bank (EGTAG II)
Electricity sector               World Bank (PREPSEL)                 IDB (Fiscal
                                 IDB                                  Sustainability I)
                                 CIDA                                 World Bank (EGRO
                                                                      III)
AWORLDBANKCOUNTRYSTUDY




                                                   40
MAP




      41
