Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No 20417
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
(Loan 3728-TU)
May 9, 2000
Private and Financial Sector Development Unit
Country Department VI
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of December 31, 1999)
Currency Unit   =    Turkish Lira
1 TL.         US$ 0.000002
US$1    =    540,445
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Yearly Averages)
Turkish Lira     =    Currency Unit
1990  -      2,060          =       US$1.00
1991  -      4,168          =       US$1.00
1992  -      6,864          =       US$1.00
1993  -      10,965         =       US$1.00
1994  -      29,668         =       US$1.00
1995  -      45,731         =       US$1.00
1996  -      80,785         =       US$1.00
1997  -      150,000                US$1.00
1998  -      306,846        =       US$1.00
1999 -       418,189        =       US$1.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GDC   -  General Directorate of Census
HUAK   -  Hacettepe University for Actuarial Sciences
IIBK   -  Turkish Employment Organization
KOSGEB   -  Small and Medium Industry Development Organization
LAP   -  Labor Adjustment Program
MENR   -  Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources
MOF   -  Ministry of Finance
MOL   -  Ministry of Labor
PA   -  Privatization Administration
PHC   -  Privatization High Council
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPA   -  Public Participation Administration
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facility
SEE   -  State Owned Economic Enterprise
SPO   -  State Planning Organization
TAL   -  Technical Assistance Loan
TOBB   -  Union of Turkish Chambers of Commerce and Industry
TURKEY'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
Vice President: Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
CountryDirector: Ajay Chhibber, ECCO6
Program Team Leader: Lalit Raina, ECSPF
Sector Manager: Ilham Zurayk, ECSPF



FOR OFFICUL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND
SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT (Loan 3728-TU)
Contents
Preface ................................................................................. 
Evaluation  Summary  .................................................... .                                                             ........................... ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment .                                      ................................................................................1
A.  Statement and  Evaluation  of Objectives .................................................................................                                      1
B.  Achievement of Objectives .................................................................................2
C.  I[mplementation  and  Major Factors Affecting  the Project .........................                                          ....................................4
D.  Project Sustainability .................................................................................5
E.  Bank Performance  .................................................................................6
F.  Borrower Performance .................................................................................6
G.  Assessment of Outcome  .................................................................................7
H.  Future  Operations .................................................................................  10
I.  Key  Lessons Learned ................................................................................                                                        10
Part II. Statistical Tables ................................................................................ 13
TABLE  1:  SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS ..........................................................                                          ....................... 14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .............................................................16
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ..................................... 16
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .................... 16
TABLE5:  KEY  INDICATORS  FOR  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ...........................                                                ................ ............... 17
TABLE  6:  KEY  INDICATORS FOR  PROJECT OPERATION  ....................................................................  17
TABLE  7:  STUDIES  INCLUDED  IN  PROJECT  ..........................................                                        ................................ 17
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ..........................................................................                                                                18
TABLE  8B:  PROJECT FINANCING  .......................................................................... 18
TABLE  9:  ECONOMIC  COSTS  AND  BENEFITS .................................................                                          ......................... 18
TABLE  10:  STA"TUS  OF LEGAL  COVENANTS ..........................................................................                                               19
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ...............                                                                   ............................ 21
TAI3LE  12:  BANK  RESOURCES:  STAFF INPUTS ..........................................................................                                             21
TABLE  13:  BANK  RESOURCES:  MISSIONS  ..........................................                                           ................................ 21
Appendixes:
A. Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has- a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the,
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET
PROJECT (LOAN 3728-TU)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization
Implementation Assistance and Social Safety Net Project in Turkey, for which loan 3728-TU in
the amount of US$100 million equivalent was approved on May 3,1994, and made effective on
February 28, 1995. The Original Closing Date of June 30, 1998 was extended to June 30, 1999
and furthermore the loan was kept open for two selected categories of expenditures until
December 31, 1999. Despite this, on an exceptional basis, the final disbursement took place in
February 2000. After being amended in 1997, 1998 and 1999, the original loan amount was
reduced to US$32.6 million and after the final adjustment, which took place on February 1,
2000, the balance of US$2.6 million is being cancelled.
The ICR was prepared by Gurhan Ozdora of the World Bank Ankara Office and
reviewed by Hans Morritz (former Task Manager), Vinod K. Goel (ECSPF), Lalit Raina
(ECSPF), Ilham Zurayk (Sector Manager, ECSPF), and Sally Zeijlon (ECCA4).
Preparation of the ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in
June 1999. It is based on material in the project files. The borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATIZATON IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET
PROJECT (LOAN 3728-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1. The process of economic liberalization during the 1980s exposed the weaknesses of
Turkey's State-Owned Economic Enterprises (SEEs). Originally established in the framework of
economic planning for industrial development and the provision of infrastructure, most of these
enterprises were not equipped to face the challenges of a dynamic market economy. Continuing
its economic liberalization program, the Government decided to privatize the SEEs. The main
objective of the Government's program was to promote efficiency and productivity in the
economy and achieve a permanent reduction in the fiscal deficit.
2. In 1986, a master plan for privatization was completed but not implemented. Following this,
in 1992 a new Government and subsequent changes in the management and structure of the
Public Participation Administration (PPA), the agency responsible for privatization, helped to
accelerate the pace of privatization. In 1993, another Government announced a renewed
privatization program coupled with the strengthening of the social security system and the
development of a social safety net targeted at redundant workers and affected communities. To
this end, the Government requested Bank assistance for the implementation of its privatization
program and the Bank responded with a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) in the amount of
US$100 million.
Project Objectives
3. The project aimed at accelerating privatization, helping to ensure a transparent and
professional process, and laying the basis for a sustained divestiture and fiscal contraction
process. It also aimed at building institutional capacity to manage the more complex workload
entailed by a larger restructuring and divestiture program. Another important objective was the
alleviation of the adverse impact of SEE downsizing and divestiture on displaced workers and
their families by fully integrating social safety net measures, including labor adjustment
programs, into the divestiture process. According to the Loan Agreement, in achieving these
objectives, part A of the project was to be carried out by the Privatization Administration (PA),
through a subsidiary project agreement with the Bank, parts B, C and E by the Treasury and part
D by the State Planning Organization (SPO).
4. Part A of the project provided technical and financial support to privatization for: (i) the
preparation and implementation of privatization transactions for the PA's existing portfolio and
for futLre transactions as they arise; (ii) the strengthening of PA's capacity to implement
privatization; (iii) the strengthening of Treasury's capability for debt management and
restructuring prior to privatization; (iv) the development and implementation of a public
information campaign to promote the Government's privatization program and broaden public



support; and (v) assessments of the environmental liabilities of relevant SEEs, and plant
reconfiguration for Sumer Holding prior to privatization.
5. Part B was designed to support the institutional strengthening of Treasury for pre-
privatization debt management and restructuring.  Here the project aimed at assisting the
Treasury with the review and analysis of SEE debt. Part C aimed at the development and
implementation of a social safety net. Here the project included: (i) labor adjustment programs to
deal with the increased demands for such services resulting from the privatization and
downsizing of SEEs (including assessments of work force redundancy, job counseling, retraining
schemes, and small enterprise development, including incubator programs, in regions
experiencing concentrated layoffs); and (ii) studies to analyze the social security/pension and
identifier systems.
6. Part D of the project was designed to support the preparation of a Regional Development
Program for Zonguldak region, aimed at diversifying the economic base of the region in
conjunction with the proposed divestiture/downsizing of Turkish Hard Coal agency (TTK) and
Karabuk Steel Plant (Kardemir). Part E of the project involved preparation of a study on the
regulatory framework for the privatization of telecommunications and an analysis of private
participation in infrastructure services, aiming at developing a more coordinated strategy for the
private provision of infrastructure in Turkey.
Implementation Experience and Results
7. Although the loan was signed on May 5,1994 and project implementation was scheduled
over a 4-year period the loan became effective more than nine months after its approval. The
difficulties encountered in the passage of the privatization law in mid-1994 were a major reason
for this delay. Since Parliamentary approval had to be sought for a new privatization law, there
were extensive delays in implementing the privatization program. Also, the loan could not be
declared effective since some of the conditions for achieving project objectives had been
negated. Following Parliamentary approval of the new privatization law in November 1994,
Treasury and the PA were in a position to complete the legal actions required to make the loan
effective and the loan became effective on February 28, 1995.
8. After the loan became effective, progress still remained slow due to political instability and
institutional weaknesses, which manifested themselves in difficulties in decision-making and
frequent replacements of the PA management. In addition to these, PA was confronted with the
difficult task of providing corporate governance to a large number of SEEs and, at least in some
cases, of restructuring those that would remain in its portfolio for some time. Lacking these
capabilities, the PA could not restrain itself from becoming preoccupied with governance and
restructuring functions, which deviated its attention from its main task.
9. The project failed to reach its original development objectives. The main problems
confronting the implementation of the PIAL in its original form have been the institutional
weakness of the Privatization Administration and the lack of political continuity and strong will
to advance the privatization process, which together resulted in the failure of Governments'
privatization programs. Since the Government did not come forward with timely and acceptable
proposals on the full use of the loan proceeds within the given time limits and the objectives of



the project, and did not respond to the Bank's recommendations concerning an acceleration of
the privatization process, the project was restructured three times, mainly by excluding the two
core project components-technical support for SEE privatization and for labor adjustment
services- and by including a comprehensive Energy Sector Reform study.
10. The implementation experience related to the remaining project components was
characterized by initial delays in starting the implementation due to contractual and
administrative issues and problems related to preparation, review and approval of the project
TORs. The final status of these components can be summarized as follows: (i) the first-phase of
the unique identifier system component has progressed well and was essentially completed by
the closing date; (ii) the studies on the energy sector reform and privatization were completed by
December 31,1999, as accepted by the third loan amendment in 1999; (iii) analysis of the social
security systems, as well as of related financial management and policy recommendations, was
completed and the reports have been submitted to the Treasury; (iv) the incubator in Zonguldak
has progressed well, is considered a success by KOSGEB, and is much appreciated by the local
authorities (KOSGEB intends to complete the original plan of establishing from two to three
incubators in other parts of the country); and (v) the actuarial training component has been
successful in creating a capacity for training of actuaries and supporting the "Center for
Research, Implementation and Education in Actuarial Sciences" (HUAK) within the Hacettepe
University in Ankara.
11. It should be noted that the implementation period for the privatization component was less
than 3.5 years (this component was cancelled after the project restructuring in mid-1998), which
is relatively short. Most other technical assistance loans have a longer implementation period
and, in addition, have often had their closing dates extended repeatedly (the Bank-wide
disbursement profile for TALs indicates that an average disbursement period of such projects is
about six years). Compared with such projects, the rating of the PIAL in the Bank's supervision
reports has probably been more critical. This was justified, however, by the slow progress in the
area of privatization.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
12. The project, because of its specific nature and implementation performance cannot in itself
be evaluated according to its sustainability. However, some of the project components that were
designed to create new or strengthen existing institutional capacities can be evaluated according
as to their continuity and sustainability. Of the five remaining project components, Unique
Identifier system (MERNIS) and Actuarial Training components can be regarded as being
sustainable since these components are actually parts of an existing and ongoing programs that
are supported by their parent agencies. Sustainability of the Zonguldak incubator may be
difficult without some financial and administrative support from KOSGEB. Sustainability of the
Social Security Studies and Energy Studies will have to be evaluated as to their acceptance by
the policy-makers and their influence on policies adopted.
13. The reasons for the delays and slow progress in privatization were mostly of a political and
institutional nature. Their resolution would have required drastic organizational and legal
measures. The experience with the project has shown that accelerated privatization can only be
achieved if either the Privatization High Council (PHC) commits itself to reach specific targets



and enforces compliance, or if the privatization process is depoliticized by changing the
composition and decision-making procedures of the PHC and strengthening the role of the PA by
giving it more autonomy. In addition to this, a strong Government commitment to an agreed
privatization strategy should have been a condition for Board presentation, in addition to the
number of SEEs to be privatized. Other more quantitative performance indicators, such as
savings to the Treasury through reductions in subsidies to SEEs, should have been established.
14. The main problem confronting the implementation of the project was its over-ambitious
design. Designed with the purpose of supporting the Government's privatization efforts, it tried
to achieve many objectives in synchronization with the privatization process. The project did not
take into consideration the fact that privatization is a highly political process and that it would
always be influenced by the changes in the domestic political scene. Since the main project
component was predominantly designed to support privatization of the SEEs, delays and slow
progress in this component due to political instability, caused disruption in the synchronization
of the other components, which were basically designed to support the main component. As a
result of this and restructuring of the project, where the privatization component was cancelled,
these supportive components lost their significance for the privatization program as was
originally intended and each component became an end in itself without much contribution to the
privatization process.
15. A major lesson that was learned through this project experience is the importance of not
going ahead with projects prematurely, where compliance with the loan covenants are subject to
changes in the relevant laws and are beyond the control of the implementing agencies. In
designing a project of this magnitude where there are many agencies involved, care should be
taken in defining the relations between the implementing agencies and more attention should be
given to possible sensitivities that might arise between these agencies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET
PROJECT (LOAN 3728-TU)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
1. Continuing the process of economic liberalization that had started in 1980s, the Government
decided to privatize the state-owned economic enterprises. The main objective of the
Government's program was to promote efficiency and productivity in the economy and achieve a
permanent reduction in the fiscal deficit. In 1986 a master plan for privatization was completed
but not implemented. Following this, in 1992 a new Government and subsequent changes in the
management and structure of the Public Participation Administration, the agency responsible for
privatization, helped to accelerate the pace of privatization. In 1993 another Government,
announced a renewed privatization program coupled with the strengthening of the social security
system and the development of a social safety net targeted at redundant workers and affected
communities. To this end, the Government requested the Bank assistance for implementation of
its privatization program and the Bank responded with a Technical Assistance Loan in the
amount of US$100 million.
2. The project aimed at accelerating privatization, helping to ensure a transparent and
professional process, and lay the basis for a sustained divestiture and fiscal contraction process.
It also aimed at building institutional capacity to manage the more complex workload entailed by
a larger restructuring and divestiture program and alleviation of the adverse impact of SEE
downsizing and divestiture on displaced workers and their families by fully integrating social
safety net measures, into the divestiture process.
3. To help meet these objectives, the project aimed at assisting in: (i) the provision of technical
and financial support to the preparation and implementation of privatization, including the
management of SEE liabilities pursuant to privatization; (ii) the development and
implementation of a social safety net, including labor adjustment programs (LAP) and studies to
provide a robust analytical base for Government decision-making regarding the reforms of the
social insurance/pension systems, and the design of a unique identifier system for Turkish
citizens; (iii) the preparation of a regional development program for Zonguldak region; and (iv)
studies to facilitate future privatization, including a study of the regulatory framework for
privatization of telecommunications and an analysis of the private provision of infrastructure
services.
4. Technical and financial support for privatization involved: (i) provision of resources for
hiring financial advisers and other consultants to assist in the process of preparation and
implementation of privatization transactions for Privatization Administration's existing and
future portfolio; (ii) strengthening of PA's capacity to implement privatization; (iii)



- 2 -
strengthening of Treasury's capability for debt management and restructuring prior to
privatization; (iv) development and implementation of a public information campaign to promote
the Government's privatization agenda and broaden public support; and (v) assessments of the
environmental liabilities of relevant SEEs and plant reconfiguration for Sumer Holding, prior to
privatization.
5. Development and implementation of a social safety net involved: (i) labor adjustment
programs to deal with the increased demands for such services resulting from the privatization
and downsizing of SEEs, including assessments of work force redundancy, job counseling
/retraining schemes, and small enterprise development, including incubator programs in regions
experiencing concentrated layoffs; and (ii) studies to analyze the social security/pension and
identifier systems. These studies would: (a) assess the financial status and management capacity
of the national pension schemes and evaluate alternative options for financially and operationally
viable social security/pension systems for Turkey; (b) develop a unique identifier system for tax
and social purposes; and (c) develop an implementation program for pension and social security
reform based on the recommendations of the social security/pension study.
6. Other objectives of the project were: (i) the preparation of a Regional Development Plan for
the Zonguldak region aimed at diversifying the economic base of the region in conjunction with
the divestiture and downsizing of Turkish Hard Coal Agency (TTK) and the Karabuk iron and
steel plant (KARDEMIR); (ii) to carry out a telecommunications study which would have three
objectives: a revised legal and regulatory framework, a plan for the corporatization of
telecommunications services and options for privatization. This study would, inter alia, consider
the options for competition and regulation in basic and value-added services; compare sector
structures and regulatory regimes in other countries, especially the EC; and present options for a
regulatory framework; and (iii) to carry out a study to develop a more coordinated strategy for
the private provision of infrastructure in Turkey, where the Government plans to increase private
sector participation in electric power, water and transportation sectors. These efforts would
benefit from more effective coordination and the development of an overall strategy that takes
into account the institutional, legal and regulatory framework for attracting local and foreign
investors
B.    Achievement of Objectives
7. As part of the loan agreement, seven "Criteria for Mid-Term Review" were agreed upon in
the loan negotiations as a benchmark for assessing overall progress in privatization. Out of these
criteria, five were related to objectives of the privatization component and two were related to
the social safety net component. According to the first criterion, PA was to complete by the
planned mid-term review in October 1995, the privatization of at least one half of the 10 SEEs,
12 affiliated partnerships and the 34 share participations in its January 1994 portfolio. In view of
the legal problems encountered in 1994 and subsequent delays in loan effectiveness, the mid-
term  review was postponed to November 1996.  Interim  targets were set involving the
privatization of three small and three major enterprises by the end of October 1995, and
privatization of additional three enterprises by the end of 1995.
8. Concerning the interim targets, three small enterprises (EBK, SEK and Adiyaman Cimento)
and two medium sized firms were privatized by the end of October 1995. However given the



- 3 -
elections in December 1995 and slippages in technical preparation, no major enterprise was sold.
Also, the target of additional three privatizations by the end of 1995 was not met. Concerning
targets for the postponed mid-term review, neither these nor the more modest targets, agreed
earlier for 1995 and the Governments targets for privatization revenues were met. By November
1996, more than one year after the agreed deadline, only three of the 22 enterprises and affiliated
partnerships and some of the 34 share participations that were included in PA's 1994 portfolio
were sold.
9. Progress in privatization, which started in 1985, had been very slow. Actual privatization
transactions have consistently constituted a small fraction of the Government's announced
privatization programs. Aggregate gross revenues from privatization between 1985 and 1999
amounted to about US$5 billion. In the same period, total privatization expenses were about
US$5.8 billion where 90% of the expenditures were related to the financing of the companies in
the PA's portfolio in the form of capital injections and loans. In 1998, privatization revenues
reached a record high of US$1 billion (US$465 million in 1997), of which about 77 percent
resulted from the privatization of EtiBank and IsBank (the rest from the sale of individual
assets). Given the PA's large privatization portfolio and the fact that many of the problematic
SEEs have been repeatedly prepared for privatization, this cannot be considered a breakthrough
(during the first months of 1999, privatization revenues were back to a very low US$3.4 million).
With few exceptions, the major loss-making enterprises that have been on the privatization list
for years have not been sold.
10. Another objective of the project and second criterion for mid-term review was to help build
popular support for the Government's privatization program through a public information
campaign. Recognizing the need for popularizing privatization in Turkey, the PIAL included
US$17 million for the financing of public information services. The campaign was implemented
with the assistance of a domestic public relations firm which was contracted for US$5.1 million
by PA in mid-1995 to develop a comprehensive public relations strategy and
monitoring/marketing plan and to prepare and implement on this basis, campaigns from time to
time. The media campaigns, launched in August and later in December 1995, when the public
attention was mainly focused on the general elections, were not based on a proper long-term
privatization strategy. For these reasons they did not have the desired and lasting impact on
public opinion and no major privatizations followed the campaign.
11. Another objective of the project and the third criterion for the mid-term review was
preparation of the SEEs in the PA's portfolio for privatization. The Treasury was to develop a
methodology for the evaluation of the liabilities of all SEEs subject to privatization and apply
that methodology to a set of selected SEEs. To enhance Treasury's capacity for pre-privatization
debt-management and restructuring, a team of consultants was contracted in July 1994 for a
period of two years. The consultants completed major reports on SEE financial performance and
debt restructuring, monitoring and control procedures based on lessons learned from previous
restructuring exercises. In addition, they prepared a number of enterprise-specific reports on
debt-management of companies in the PA portfolio. These studies, however, proved to be of
limited value, since the privatization plans for most of the involved companies did not
materialize. An important contribution of this component was the training of the Treasury staff
which will be capable of doing similar tasks as required in the future.



- 4 -
12. According to the fourth and the seventh criterion for the mid-term review, the Government
was expected to have adopted a policy for the settlement of the environmental liabilities for the
SEEs to be privatized and it was to make substantial progress in the restructuring and
privatization of the Sumer Holding, respectively. In both cases, the progress was not satisfactory.
No overall policy for the settlement of environmental liabilities was developed, and only seven
out of thirty Sumer plants were sold.
13. According to the fifth criterion of the mid-term review, the Government was expected by
October 1995 to develop the methodology and achieve substantial progress in the application and
delivery of assistance for SEEs and labor adjustment services to workers in relation to the
programs for SEE restructuring and privatization. As for the other components of the project,
the establishment and start of operations of the Labor Adjustment Program were also delayed.
However, the program, consisting of pre-layoff analysis and assistance and post-layoff services
was fully designed and procedures established, benefiting from the assistance of international
consultants, and it was "pilot-tested" in a first large privatization transaction. In addition, the
Local Economic Development Planning Program was implemented successfully by TOBB. The
LAP involved a number of "lead agencies" (IIBK, KOSGEB,TOBB) and was coordinated by the
Treasury. Since the LAP services were to be provided to workers laid off as a result of the
privatization, the implementation of the LAP depended on the progress achieved in the
Government's privatization program, and as progress in privatization was very slow, the systems
and procedures of LAP, developed with the help of consultants, were used to a very limited
extent, mainly in locations that were affected by the privatizations of Petlas and some plants of
Sumer Holding.
14. The objective of the Zonguldak Regional Development Plan component was to use this study
as the basis for a regional development project, for which a feasibility study would be prepared
under the PIAL. The project, executed by the State Planning Organization, supported the
preparation of a Regional Development Program for the Zonguldak region, aimed at diversifying
the economic base for the region in conjunction with the proposed divestiture/downsizing of
TTK and KARDEMIR. Draft reports on the "Zonguldak Regional Development Plan" and "TTK
and Kardemir Issue" were completed in March 1996 and December 1996, respectively, by a
consortium of consulting firms financed by a PPF of Yen 106 million (US$2.0 million) provided
by the Japanese Government under a Grant Agreement dated May 3, 1994. Although some
revisions on these drafts were needed, upon the Government's request the funds allocated for this
component of the loan were cancelled during the first loan restructuring in 1997.
15. The preparatory work for the private participation in infrastructure (PPI) studies were almost
completed and the consulting agreement was negotiated, but not signed. The Treasury in 1999
informed the Bank that since no provision for this component had been made in the interim
budget, the Ministry of Finance (MoF) was not in a position to clear the study. Since waiting for
an allocation in the next budget would postpone this activity until after the closing date, the
Treasury, as part of the restructuring in 1999, requested cancellation of this component.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
16. Although the project was signed on May 5, 1994, and its implementation scheduled over a 4-
year period, the loan became effective more than nine moths after its approval. The difficulties



- 5 -
encountered on the privatization law in mid-1994 were a major reason for this delay. Since
Parliamentary approval had to be sought for a new privatization law, there were extensive delays
in implementing privatization. Also, the Bank loan could not be declared effective since some of
the conditions for achieving project objectives had not been met. Following parliamentary
approval of the new privatization law No. 4046 in November 24, 1994, pursuant to which the
Privatization Administration was established as the legal successor of the Public Participation
Administration, the Treasury and the PA were in a position to complete the legal actions required
to make the loan effective and the loan became effective on February 28, 1995.
17. Following loan effectiveness, progress still remained slow due to political instability and
institutional weaknesses, which manifested themselves in difficulties in decision-making and
frequent replacements of the PA management. Excessive centralization of decision-making in
the Privatization High Council (PHC), the requirement for unanimous PHC approval, and lack of
autonomy for the PA were equally important obstacles to rapid privatization. Other problems
included high staff turnover and institutional weaknesses in PA, delays in the implementation of
the technical assistance components as well as ineffective use of TA.
18. The main problems confronting the implementation of the project have been its over-
ambitious design, institutional weaknesses of the Privatization administration and the lack of
political continuity and strong will to advance the privatization process. These factors together
resulted in the failure of the various Governments' privatization programs. The labor adjustment
program was fully developed under the project, but the slow progress in privatization resulted in
very low demand for these services.
D.    Project Sustainability
19. The project, because of its specific nature and implementation performance, cannot in itself
be evaluated according to its sustainability. However, some of the project components which
were designed to create new or strengthen existing institutional capacities can be evaluated
according to their continuity and sustainability. To ensure the sustainability of the LAP, which
was to serve as an additional safety net for the workers laid off by privatization, a protocol was
signed by the Treasury and the PA, according to which the responsibility for the LAP was
transferred to the PA.
20. To this end, the expertise generated in the Treasury with the help of intensive consultant
services, and some local consultants trained under the LAP, were to be transferred to the PA.
However, due to the slow progress in privatization, there was no pressing need for LAP services,
no staff were transferred and no activities were initiated following this protocol. Therefore, it is
doubtful that this will ensure sustainability, since the PA will have to focus all of its institutional
capacity on privatization, once the program is re-vitalized, and it does not have the necessary
staff and know-how to operate the LAP.
21. As part of the post-layoff services in the LAP, PIAL included originally a program for
establishing five business incubators.  After the first attempt to establish an incubator in
Eskisehir failed, a second attempt was energetically undertaken by KOSGEB, and the first
incubator was opened in September 1998 in Zonguldak, a coal mining region on the Black Sea
coast, where the closure of the TTK mines resulted in substantial unemployment. The incubator



- 6 -
is considered a success by KOSGEB and is much appreciated by the local authorities in
Zonguldak. Therefore KOSGEB intends to complete their original plan of establishing from two
to three incubators in other parts of the country. Although the incubator seems to operate in an
ideal setting considering the need for its services, availability of well-trained staff laid off by the
mines, initial assistance by PIAL, availability of training facilities and potential support by
German donor agencies, it is not yet financially self-sufficient, since it is not yet fully occupied
and its administrative costs are relatively high, considering the small size of the operation.
KOSGEB has, therefore, devised a plan to provide limited support to the incubators, which aims
at establishing financial sustainability within 2-3 years.
22. Of the remaining project components, Unique Identifier System (MERNIS) and Actuarial
Training Components can be regarded as being sustainable since these components are actually
parts of existing and ongoing programs that are supported by their parent agencies. Through
MERNIS, GDC has been provided with an efficient and integrated electronic database, that will
ensure accurate and up-to-date citizenship records for the whole country. As of September 1999,
transcription of records in 919 out of 921 subprovinces were completed. MERNIS project when
completed fully is expected to bring many direct and indirect benefits such as; accurate
citizenship records, database for improved population statistics, operational support for elections
and a solid database for tax and social security purposes. However, these benefits will be realized
only when the second phase of the project is completed. Sustainability of the social security
studies and energy studies will have to be evaluated as to their acceptance by the policy-makers
and their influence on the adopted policies following this.
E.    Bank Performance
23. Bank performance has been satisfactory in some respects and less satisfactory in others.
Bank missions were fielded at regular intervals and the progress of the project components was
followed closely. The Bank was responsive to the changes in project implementation and
following a good mid-term review, the supervision missions of 1997 and 1998 emphasized the
need for a review of how the project should evolve in response to the changes in the project
objectives and borrower requirements.
24. While Bank supervision performance has been satisfactory, deficiencies at the time of
preparation and appraisal should also be noted. The main weakness of the project appraisal were
that the appraisers were not able to visualize in the beginning that the functional relationship
between the PA and the PHC could be a source of problems in the implementation of the
privatization program. Bank supervision missions provided useful guidance on technical issues,
project management and institutional strengthening. Despite staff changes at the Bank, the
project did not suffer from discontinuity. The working relationships with Treasury, PA and other
implementing agencies were good. The Bank positively responded to the Borrower's request for
changes in the allocations for the project components, and extension of closing date and
withdrawal periods.
F.    Borrower Performance
25. On the borrower's side the main weaknesses were the deficiencies of the Privatization Law,
the fact that the PHC did not take decisions and direct the PA to take actions, and that the PA



- 7 -
managers were not able to make use of the PIAL resources which offered them a unique
opportunity to strengthen their institution. The PA's performance also was poor in several
aspects. While PA had a small core of strong staff, it lacked technical, financial and legal skills
as well as the privatization-related experience needed to ensure timely and well-structured
transactions. Due to this lack of privatization-related experience, the PA did not have an overall
strategic policy formulation capability. Lack of privatization-related experience also resulted in
inefficient process management and supervision. Low decision-making threshold of the PA
resulted in excluding the PA from the decision-making mechanism for more important SEEs, and
resulted in a rather politicized decision making process.
26. Due to the lack of autonomy of the PA and the political orientation of the PHC, the PA was
unable to present a credible plan for project implementation. When the reduction of the loan was
negotiated, the PA presented a list of activities for which the remaining funds would be needed.
However, this list suffered from the same defect: progress in privatization and, therefore, in
utilizing the loan is not determined by the PA. Since the Treasury's involvement in the project--
mainly through debt management of large privatization candidates and coordination of the labor
adjustment program-was fully dependent on progress in privatization, the lack of a credible
plan for future utilization of the loan by the PA made it impossible for the Treasury to present a
plan for its own activities. It was only when part of the loan was cancelled that the Treasury was
able to present a list of activities for which it would be able to use some part of the remaining
loan amount.
27. The PA's Advisory Services department lacked a system for monitoring the use of the legal
services and for controlling the advisors. PA management generally had doubts about the
usefulness of international technical assistance, resulting from the poor performance of some of
the consultants. This, in turn, was the consequence of the consultants not having been properly
selected and not always used effectively, given the constant changes in the PA's management
and also often unfavorable work environment, as well as the politically motivated slow progress
in privatization.
28. Treasury's performance during project implementation was satisfactory. Apart from
individual problems due to coordination between agencies, Treasury was successful in the
coordination of various activities and also in implementing the project components under its
responsibility. However there were a lot of delays in the compliance with loan covenants which
required periodic submission of quarterly reports on the execution of the project and annual work
programs. In most cases these reports were submitted after long delays and only after repeated
reminders. There was also the problem of lack of coordination between Treasury, the PA and
other agencies which has been an important problem throughout the project implementation.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
29. Since most of the privatization benchmarks, revised at the November 1996 Mid-Term
Review, were not achieved, and loan utilization was very slow, the loan was restructured in
August 1997. At that time, US$27.2 million from various loan categories was cancelled and the
closing date for category 2(b), related to consultants' services, was extended for one year to June



- 8 -
30, 1999. Following this, the loan was restructured again in September 1998 when an additional
US$33.5 million was cancelled reducing the loan amount by a total of US$60.8 million.
30. The main changes resulting from the second loan restructuring in 1998 were the termination
of PIAL support for the PA's activities and for the LAP (with the exception of the Zonguldak
incubator). The termination of support to the PA did not affect the Government's privatization
effort, since the progress in privatization remained slow, and PA seemed to have easy access to
adequate resources from the Privatization Fund. However, the objective of the PIAL was not just
to provide resources in support of privatization, but to provide assistance to the PA in the areas
of policy formulation and practical implementation through an active dialogue between the Bank
and the PA.
31. Due to lack of timely and acceptable proposals on the full utilization of the remaining
amount of the loan, the project was restructured for the third time, mainly by excluding the study
on Private Participation in Infrastructure, reducing the allocation made for the Energy Sector
Reform and Privatization Studies, canceling a part of the allocation made for the Actuarial
Training Program, and increasing the allocation for the Zonguldak incubator. These changes
resulted in reduction of the loan by an additional US$6.6 million, bringing the total loan
cancellations to US$67.4 million and the outstanding loan amount to US$32.6 million. As a
result of this final restructuring, the Loan Agreement was amended to provide for covering the
costs of the newly structured loan category 2(d), for which the loan account was kept open until
December 31, 1999.
32. Analysis of the social security systems which consisted basically of a financial and
management review of the three social security institutions, as well as of related financial
management and policy recommendations, was completed by the end of 1999 instead of the
targeted dated of June 30, 1999. This delay was partly due to Ministry of Labor's (MOL) initial
concerns about the scope of the study. The work on these studies is finished and the reports were
submitted to the Treasury to be reviewed and approved by the steering committee. Given the
very high contribution the social security system is making to the budget deficit, further efforts
towards reforming the social security system will continue to have a high priority in the
Governments' agenda and the Bank could assist the Government in these efforts if requested,
although this would go beyond the time frame of the PIAL. In order to achieve sustainable
results from this work that was done to improve the social insurance system, Treasury needs to
take decisions on, whether and how the study will be coordinated with the efforts of the MOL,
and how the results will be made available to high-level decision makers in order to ensure
implementation.
33. The first phase of implementation of the MIERNIS project is almost completed. All 921
regional census centers have been provided with the necessary computer capacity (in total 3,850
PCs have been installed), the software has been prepared, 96 percent of the 120 million personal
records have been keyed in, and computer staff have received the necessary training. On an
exceptional basis the Bank agreed to honor withdrawal applications received by October 31,
1999, in respect of eligible expenditures incurred after the closing date of June 30, 1999 but not
later than October 31, constituting a final payment of about US$0.8 million for engineering
services, which the General Directorate of Census wants to retain until a final testing of the
system has been carried out. The GDC, in February 1999, informed the Bank that, additional



- 9 -
financing from the Bank would not be required. Given the importance of the MERNIS facility
for various Government agencies, GDC can be expected to receive adequate budget support in
the future, which, in addition to the revenues from fees, will ensure the sustainability of this
project component.
34. Financing of preparatory studies related to reform and privatization in the energy sector was
one of the targets agreed under the second restructuring of the project. Discussions on this
comprehensive study continued for a long time between the Bank and the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources (MENR). After long delays due to budgetary limitations and bureaucratic
difficulties, an agreement was signed between the MENR and the consultant firm. (the contract
price was US$1.7 million). At the request of Treasury, US$3.0 million of the US$5.0 million
originally earmarked for this project component were cancelled during the final restructuring
which took place on May 1999. Since it was clear from the beginning that the studies as
originally conceived could not be completed by the closing date, the Bank agreed to keep the
loan account open until December 31,1999, for withdrawal applications under this component.
The work on the five studies requested by the MENR was completed and all of the reports were
submitted in December 1999.
35. The study on private participation in infrastructure was also delayed for a long time. Since no
provision for this component could be made in the 1999 interim budget, and the budget of the
new Government was not expected to be issued in time before the closing date of June 30, 1999,
this component was cancelled at the request of the Treasury during the final loan restructuring in
May 1999.
36. The Actuarial Training Program, designed for the financing of a training program for
actuaries in the Treasury and the social security organizations was included in the social safety
net component as an additional subcomponent in October 1996. The program aimed at creating
in Turkey a capacity for the training of internationally certified actuaries. In general terms, this
component progressed well and was essentially completed by the project closing date.
Disbursements accounting for a relatively small part of this component (10%), as agreed earlier,
continued for a small number of students taking training abroad until August /September 1999.
The Directorate of Insurance as a result of this capacity is now redirecting its efforts to the
establishment of a "Hacettepe University Center for Research, Implementation and education in
the Actuarial Sciences (HUAK)". In line with the original idea of the PIAL, some of the
participants in the training program will be instructors at the Center. A small part (US$60,000) of
the loan component was used for the acquisition of basic equipment for the new Center. The
Center has already held some lectures but is in the process of developing a training program.
The initiative of the Insurance Directorate has provided much-needed initial support to the
Center and seems to have ensured sustainability of the actuarial training effort.
37. Although the project is rated unsatisfactory in terms of achieving its development objectives,
in assessing the outcome of the project however, it should be noted that the overall project
implementation period of approximately four years, is relatively short compared to most other
Technical Assistance Loans that have a longer implementation period to start with and, in
addition, have often had their closing dates extended repeatedly (the Bankwide profile for
disbursements of TALs indicates that TALs have an average disbursement period of about six
years). Compared to such projects, PIAL evaluations have been much more critical, mainly due



- 10-
to the Government's inability to act in the area of privatization. However, it is quite clear that
not much would have been achieved even if the implementation period for the privatization
component had been further extended.
H.   Future Operation
38. During the project implementation there were various requests from the Government to
extend some of the loan components and suggestions for alternative utilization of the loan
proceeds. Although some of these requests for changes and extensions were approved, the Bank
did not respond positively to others in the cases when the proposals were not found to be relevant
to the privatization program. In the future, privatization efforts should be supported by the Bank,
provided that the legal infrastructure is present, the government is determined and the funds are
made available through a more suitable project. As of today, there are no indications for a similar
operation in the future.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
39. The reasons for the delays and slow progress in privatization were mostly of a political and
institutional nature and their resolution would have required drastic organizational and legal
measures. The experience with the project has shown that accelerated privatization could not be
achieved by agreeing with the PA on targets, unless either the Privatization High Council (PHC)
committed itself to reach specific targets and enforces compliance, or if the privatization process
was depoliticized by changing the composition and decision-making procedures of the PHC and
strengthening the role of the PA by giving it more autonomy. In addition to this, the composition
of the PHC should be changed, converting it into a more neutral organ that decides pragmatically
and based on expert advice instead of political convenience. Decisions of the PHC should not
require unanimity but should be taken with qualified or simple majority.
40. A strong Government commitment to an agreed privatization strategy should have been a
condition of Board presentation of this project. In addition to the number of SEEs privatized,
other more quantitative performance indicators, such as savings to the Treasury through
reductions in subsidies to SEEs, should have been considered. Privatization of the SEEs in
Turkey is based on the Privatization Law (no: 4046) of November 24, 1994. Although some
authorities assure that there is nothing wrong with the Law, the fact remains that major
privatization decisions have been contested in the courts resulting in the cancellation of various
decisions and in substantial delays in the privatization process. Therefore, the Privatization Law
should be reviewed by legal and privatization experts and revised as necessary. In addition, the
PA should make better use of its external legal consultants to ascertain that privatization
decisions are in line with the Privatization Law and the rest of the legal framework, including the
constitution.
41. According to the Privatization Law, PHC decides among other things on: (i) the transfer of
SEEs to the PA's portfolio; (ii) the method of privatization; (iii) the restructuring of SEEs in the
PA's portfolio and the purchase and sale of shares of such SEEs; and (iv) the final transfer of
property rights. However, it seems that the PA is often and always contacting the PHC during
several interim steps in the privatization process. Given the existing legal framework and the
ability of the PHC to guide the PA through regulations and directives, the PHC should be



- 11 -
involved in decision making on specific privatization transactions only twice: to transfer the SEE
to the privatization portfolio of the PA and to approve its privatization. Also the PA should have
much more autonomy. Free limits below which the PA can make the final decision on
privatization transactions should be increased. In addition, the privatization portfolio of the PA
should be reduced to those SEEs that are realistically expected to be privatized, thus allowing the
PA to focus more fully on its privatization function and avoiding a potential conflict of interest
between governing and maintaining SEEs on the one hand, and the need for privatizing them as
quickly as possible, on the other hand.
42. In order to be more efficient, the PA should be reorganized to focus on policy formulation,
process management, monitoring and supervision. It should be run with a smaller, but highly
experienced core staff that is strongly supported by in-house consultants. It should contract out
all direct privatization transactions to carefully selected privatization consultants, where such
consultants are given a deadline for individual transactions, freedom to act within legal and
contractual guidelines, and a strong incentive (success fee) to carry out the transactions rapidly
and at a favorable price. In essence, this means privatizing the privatization process.
43. The main problem confronting the implementation of the project was its over-ambitious
design. Designed with the purpose of supporting the Government's privatization efforts, it tried
to achieve many objectives in synchronization with the privatization process. The project did not
take into consideration the fact that privatization in Turkey is a highly political process and that it
would always be influenced by the changes in the domestic political scene. Since the main
project component was predominantly designed to support privatization of the SEEs, delays and
slow progress in this component due to political instability, caused disruption in the
synchronization of the other components which were basically designed to support the main
component. As a result of this and eventual restructuring of the project when the privatization
component was cancelled, these supportive components lost their significance for the
privatization program as was originally intended, and each became an end in itself without much
contribution to the privatization process.
44. All of the findings and recommendations mentioned above were repeatedly brought to the
attention of the Government through aide-memoires and to the attention of the Bank
management through supervision and interim reports, but due to frequent changes in the PA
administration these recommendations could not be implemented. The Bank considered closing
the project in 1996, but later decided to only reduce it, since each succeeding government was
wary of the political consequences of such a decision and each had promised to accelerate the
privatization program. There were as many as six different governments and as many or more
PA managements during the project implementation, where new hopes were created by each of
them, inducing the Bank, which was eager to support privatization, to continue its efforts,
although repeated loan reductions and project restructuring was unavoidable.
45. Project implementation period coincided with a period of political instability and a series of
coalition governments, which did not always agree on the importance and targets of the
privatization program. There was generally a lack of commitment on the governments' part
which can be considered as the most important obstacle for the privatization effort. This can best
be understood when compared with the commitment of the current government which, since the



- 12 -
beginning of 2000, realized 66% of the privatization program by achieving $5 billion worth of
privatization in four months where the target for the whole year was set at $7.6 billion.
46. An important lesson that was learned through this project experience is the importance of
not going ahead with projects prematurely, where compliance with the loan covenants are subject
to changes in the relevant laws and are beyond the control of the implementing agencies, due to
politically motivated interference. In designing a project of this magnitude where there are many
agencies involved, care should be taken in defining the relations between the implementing
agencies and attention should be given to possible sensitivities that might arise between these
agencies.



- 13 -
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



-14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partialbl                        Not awlicable
Macro Policies                       E                L                                   E0
Sector Policies                       a               E                                   Ea
Financial Objectives                 E                                  El 0l
Institutional Development            E                                 IZ                  l
Physical Objectives                  E                E                                   El
Poverty Reduction                    E                E                I]
Gender Issues                          ]              E                LI]
Other Social Objectives              E                E                                   El
Environmental Objectives              a               E                 El
Public Sector Management             E                E                                   El
Private Sector Development            a               E                                   El
Other (specify)                       a               E                 E                 E
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                    Unlikely                   Uncertain
(V)                        (/)                        (/)



- 15 -
Hi hly
C. Bank Performance                  satisfactorv              Satisfactory                Deficient
(V)                      (1)                        (1)
Identification                                                E La
Preparation Assistance               [                                                   I]
Appraisal
Supervision                           :                                                  i:i
D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory              Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)                      (1)     (/                 (1)
Preparation
Implementation                        ]E
Covenant Compliance                                           E
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome             satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactr       unsatisfactory



- 16-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title      Purpose                Year of approval      Status
Preceding operations
Ln.2400-TU          Technical assistance for   1984              Closed in 1991.PCR
state economic enterprises                  dated Feb.11, 1992
Ln. 3477-TU         Technical Assistance for   1992              Active, Closing
Treasury Data                               06/30/00
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned          Date Actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                  September 1993
Preparation                                                 October 1993
Appraisal                              November 24, 1993    December 13, 1993
Negotiations                           February 14-18, 1994  February 14-18, 1994
Board Presentation                     May 3, 1994          May 3, 1994
Signing                                                     May 5, 1994
Effectiveness                          November 1, 1994     February 28, 1995
Midterm review (if applicable)         November 20, 1996    September 15, 1998
Project Completion                     June 30, 1998        June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                           October 31, 1998     December 31, 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 94  FY 95  FY 96   FY97  FY98    FY99    FY00
Appraisal estimate      5,000   33,000  64,000  85,000  100,000  100,000  100,000
Actual                    0      4,597  13,873  17,187   23,545    27,468   29,960
Actual as % of estimate   0      13.93   21.68   20.22    23.54    27.46    29.96
Date of final           February 1, 2000
disbursement



- 17 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Indicators for project implementation not included in the PAD
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Indicators for project operation not included in the PAD
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                            Purpose as defined at   Status      Impact of
appraisal/redefined                study
1. Energy sector reform and  Preparation of studies related  Completed  To provide
privatization studies      to reform and privatization             the
to be undertaken by the                government
government as agreed under             with a
the restructuring of the               reference in
project                                the energy
reform and
related
legislation
2. Study on private                                      Cancelled
participation in infrastructure
3. Social security studies   Financial and management   Completed  To provide
review of three social                 the
security institutions that             government
would lead to financial and            with a
policy recommendations to              reference to
the government.                        policy options
in the social
security
legislation.



- 18 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs               costs   costs
1. Privatization              13.5    57.2     70.7        1.2      7.9    9.1
2. Social safety net          19.9    12.0    31.9         2.4    16.2   18.6
3. Zonguldak regional          1.0     1.0      2.0
development
4. Studies                    -        4.5       4.5       0.6      3.5    4.1
5. Refinancing of PPF advance   -      2.0      2.0        0.3      1.9    2.2
6. Contingencies              13.6     4.3      17.9                0.4    0.4
Total                         48.0    81.0    129.0        4.5    29.9   34.4
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate        Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)               (US$ million)
Item                           Local  Foreign  Total       Local  Foreign  Total
costs   costs               costs   costs
IBRD                           19.0    81.0    100.0         2.7    27.2    29.9
Cofinancing Institutions
Other External Sources
Domestic Contributions         29.0      0      29.0        4.5      0       4.5
etc.
Total                          48.0    81.0    129.0         7.2    27.2    34.4
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
No normal financial or economic cost benefit analysis was undertaken for this project



- 19 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
TURKEY
3728-TU
Covenant Present   Original    Revised        Description of Covenant           Comments
Agreeme   Section    Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
nt                                   Date        Date
LA        2.02 (b)  03       C                               PA to open and maintain a special  Complied with
account for part A of Project
LA        2.02 (c)  03       C                               Borrower to open and maintain a   Complied with
special account for parts B,C,D
and E of the project
LA        3.03 (a)  03,10    C       08/03/1994  02/28/1995  Borrower to conclude the       Complied with
and                                                Subsidiary Project Agreement,
6.01(a)                                            satisfactory to the Bank, with PA
LA        4.01(a,b, 01,09    C       06/30/1996  06/30/1998  Maintenance of project records and Complied with after long
c)                                                accounts in accordance with sound  delays and repeated
accounting practices and auditing   clarifications
of accounts
LA        4.02 (a)  09       NC      11/30/1996   11/30/1998  Submission of proposed work   Partially complied with and
programs for the following year    not required after project
restructuring
LA        4.02 (b)  09       NC      12/15/1995   11/30/1998  Borrower to submit evidence of a   See covenant 4.02 (a)
satisfactory work program
approved by the Bank
LA        4.03     09        C       10/31/1995              Borrower to carry out a        The mid-term review was
comprehensive mid-term review of postponed, due to
the project implementation with    political/institutional
the Bank                      uncertainties, and was finally
carried out in 11/96
LA        4.04     09        CP                   12/31/1998  Borrower to furnish to the Bank    Reports are received mostly
quarterly progress reports on parts  with long delays and repeated
B,C,D and E of the project    reminders
LA        6.01 (b)  10       C       08/03/1994              PA to appoint consultants for debt  Complied with and the work
management and labor adjustment  is completed
services
LA        6.01 ( c)  10      CD      08/03/1994              PA to appoint consultants for in-   Consultants have been
house strategic planning, legal  appointed after delay.
advisory and public information    Contracts have been
program                        terminated.
LA        6.01 (d)  10       CD      08/03/1994              PA to conclude contracts for   Contacts have been concluded
financial advisory services for  after delay. Contracts
privatization of two SEEs      terminated.
LA        Sched.5, 10        CD      08/31/1994              Borrower to enter into protocols   none
Para I                                             with IIBK and KOSGEB to carry
out the labor adjustment services
under part C.2 of the Project
LA        Sched.5  10        CD      08/31/1994              Borrower to employ consultants to  Study A (pension schemes)
Para                                              carry out social security pension    completed in March 1996.
2(a)(i)                                            studies under part C,4 of the  Study B (financial
Project; initial phase of such study  management of three state
to be carried out by 11/30/1995    insurance companies)was
and the second phase by        delayed, but is now
11/30/1996                    completed.
LA        Sched.5  10        CD      09/15/1994              Borrower to employ consultants to  The study was completed
Para 2                                             carry out the unique identification  (financed from other sources)
(a) (ii)                                          system study under Part C.4 of the  and phase I of project
Project                        implementation is nearing
completion.



- 20 -
LA        Sched. 5  10        NC       12/31/1995              Borrower to employ consultants to  This loan component was
Para 2                                               carry out the study on the      cancelled at the Mid-term
(a) (iii)                                            preparation of the Zonguldak    review
Regional Development Plan
LA        Sched. 5  10        CD       08/31/1994              Borrower to employ consultants to  Study was completed after
Para 2                                               carry out the study on the      delay
(a) (iv)                                            regulatory framework for
telecommunications and to
prvatize telecom
LA        Sched. 5  10        NC       09/30/1994              Borrower to employ consultants to  This loan component was
Para 2                                               carry out the study to increase  cancelled in the course of the
(a) (v)                                              private sector participation in the   last restructuring
infrastructure sectors under part
E.2 of the project
LA        Sched. 5  10,09     NC                               Borrower to furnish the results and  The study on Private
-Para 2                                              recommendation to the Bank no    Participation in Infrastructure
(b)                                                  later than 2 months following the   has been cancelled. Reports
completion of each of the studies   of consultants on social
referred to under schedule 5, paras  insurance has been received,
(a) (i)-(v)                     but the final report is not yet
approved
PA        4.01     01,09      CD       06/30/1996              PA to maintain project records and  1997 audit was submitted late
(a,b,c)                                              accounts in accordance with sound  and it was based on
accounting practices and submit to  provisional financial
Bank audited financial statements  statements. Auditors
no later than six months after the    confirmation requested that
end of each year               their opinion has not changed
after reviewing final
statements.
PA        4.02     09         NC       11/30/1996              By Oct. 31 of each year, PA to   Since the privatization
(a,b)                                                submit to the Bank a work program  component was excluded as
for the following calendar year, for part of project restructuring,
part A of the project and to submit  work program is not required
evidence to the Bank that such
work program satisfactory to the
Bank has been approved
PA        4.03     09         CD       10/31/1995              PA to carry out a comprehensive    The mid-term review was
mid-term review of Part A of the    postponed due to
Project with the Borrower       political/institutional
uncertainties, and it was
finally carried out in 11/96
PA        4.04      09        NC                               PA to furnish to the Bank quarterly  Since the privatization
progress reports on part A of the    component was excluded as
project                         part of project restructuring.
progress reports are not
required
Covenant types:                                                                          Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered  CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds          by categories 1-9                     NC = not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                       regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other



- 21 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Project was compliant with applicable Bank Operations Manual statements (OD or OP/BP)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs (Actuals)
Stage of project cycle     US$ (000)
Preparation to Negotiations       648.4
Negotiations to Completion        834.6
Total                              1,483.0
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Not available






REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations
Ref: B.02.11.HM.0.DEi.01.04.187/404A4      Ankara, April 14, 2000
Mr. Gurhan OZDORA
Operations Officer                        5yij3t* 29931
The World Bank
Resident Mission
Dear Mr. Ozdora,
With reference to your letter of April 13, 2000, please see attached
the views of the Government of Turkey on the draft version of the
Implementation Completion Report (dated April 11, 2000) of the PIAL
Project.
In addition to this, please see attached our views about the
implementation and the outcomes of the project. As you would recall,
these views has already been sent to the Bank with our previous
correspondence of October 21, 1999 and we would like to send them to
the Bank once again for your convenience.
In this regard, we would appreciate the Bank's attention for
incorporating our views to the ICR before publishing it.
Best regards,
Jale AKTAa
Department Head
Enclosed
- (Views on the ICR report dated April 11, 2000)
- (Views which was sent to the Bank on October 21, 1999)
cc.  Mr. Vinod Goel



VIEWS OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY ON THE DRAFT VERSION (DATED
APRIL 11, 2000) OF THE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF
PIAL LOAN
. In the evaluation summary part, paragraph 10, it is stated that the project
was restructured for three times during the implementation period because
of the reason that "the Government of Turkey did not come forward with
timely and acceptable proposals on the full use of the loan proceeds within
the given time limits and the objectives of the project, and did not respond to
the bank's recommendations concerning an acceleration of the privatization
process". However, we believe that, a credit should also be given to the
Bank for the said restructuring efforts due to the weak design efforts of the
project. On paragraph 12, it is clearly mentioned that the disbursement
period of the loan was well below (3.5 years) the other Technical Assistance
Loans (6 years) financed by the Bank. This in fact is an other indicator of the
insufficient project design. Our views are also supported by paragraph 16,
which indicates that the project design was over ambitious.
On page 3, paragraph 10, we believe that the amount of the funds allocated
to the public information campaign should be corrected. As you would recall,
category 3 of the loan agreement (Media time and space under part A of the
Project) was 8.75 million USD in the original loan agreement and it was just
3.27 Million USD in the latest amendment dated April 27, 1999.
* On page 6, paragraph 22; please be informed that the numbers given as 919
and 921 denote the sub-provinces rather than provinces.
* On page 7, paragraph 28, although it is true that the delays happened in the
progress reports, we are not in the opinion that there was a lack of
coordination between PA and Treasury.
* On page 8, paragraph 31, the fist sentence should be changed. Treasury
took all the prompt action for the unutilized amounts of the loan proceeds.
For this reason it would not be suitable to mention these actions leading to
the restructuring. It is obvious that the unutilized amount should be cancelled
in order to prevent the payment of commitment fees.
. On page 11, paragraph 45; please delete the words "....but no concrete
actions materialized".
* In Table 1 of page 14 and 15, Preparation Assistance of the Bank should be
marked as "Deficient" rather than "Satisfactory" due to the reasons explained
above. As it was mentioned in our letter of October 21, 1999, the Bank did
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations -
Department of World Bank Projects



not take the prompt action to the factors affecting the project. For this
reason, the supervision of the Bank should also be rated as Deficient instead
of satisfactory and paragraph 24 in page 6 should be changed accordingly.
*  Please insert the Government's views to the ICR as the appendix of the
report. As you would recall, Government's views were sent to the Bank with
our letter dated October 21, 1999.
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations -
Department of World Bank Projects






Enclosed 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (ICR) FOR THE
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL
SAFETY NETWORK PROJECT (PIAL)
This report represents the overall view of the Government of
Turkey (GOT) represented through its Undersecretariat of Treasury on
the outcomes of the above mentioned project.
GOT's privatization efforts, which basically aimed at i) increasing
the efficiency and output in the state economic enterprises ii) increasing
the overall production in the economy and iii) reducing the fiscal burden
of those enterprises to the budget, were started in early 1980's.
The current privatization law (No. 4046) was enacted in
November 1994 after a couple of changes were realised in the
regulation binding the privatization efforts. With the current law, the
Public Participation High Council was replaced by the Privatization High
Council (PHC), whereas the Public Participation Administration was
turned into Privatization Administration.
Privatization Administration (PA) is the executing agency of the
privatization activities in Turkey. However, PHC, which is composed of 5
ministers chaired by the prime minister is the main decision making
body. PHC also has the responsibility of determining the method
privatization for the nominated enterprises.
For the last 14 years, 211 companies were taken into the
privatization portfolio, of which 22 of them were excluded for several
reasons. For the time being there are 74 companies under in the
privatization portfolio. Since 1985, the total amount of sales revenues
was reached to 4.1 billion USD. In this period, the major privatization
efforts were the sale of Kardemir to employees and the public
industrialists and the sale of the %12.3 of the Turkish isbank, which was
offered both domestically and internationally. With the sale of i,bank
shares, 633 million USD was received. Currently, various companies are
in the tender process. Among these, the most important ones are,
Turkish Telecom, Turkish Airlines, PETKiM, TUPRA,5 and POAi.
However, despite the above stated efforts, it should be stated that
the privatization efforts are behind the schedule. The major reasons
behind this lag are the frequent changes in the top management of PA
in connection with the changes in the governments.
Proiect Background:
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  1
Department of World Bank Projects



PIAL project, which aimed to assist the GOT's above stated
efforts was signed with the World Bank on May 5, 1994. The original
loan amount was 100 million USD. During the life span of the project, 3
amendments were made between the Bank and GOT. With the first
amendment, which was realised on September 11, 1997, a total of
27.25 million USD was cancelled. Besides this, the activities focused on
the Zonguldak Regional Development were taken out of the project
while the "Study B" component was included into the project. The
second amendment, which was signed on September 30, 1999, caused
the cancellation of an additional 33,575,804.67.- USD. After this
amendment, the total amount cancelled increased to 60,825,804.67-,
more than %60 of the original loan amount. In addition to this, with the
second amendment two brand new activities were inserted into the loan
agreement, namely the Energy Sector Studies and the Private
Participation in Infrastructure Study. The latest amendment was
executed on May 28, 1999 with which a further 6.6 million USD was
cancelled.
The original closing date of the loan was June 30, 1998. But,
except for the part implemented by the Privatization Administration and
the Labour Adjustment Project (excluding the activities performed by
KOSGEB), the other parts were extended for one year until June 30,
1999 with the second amendment. In addition to this, with the third
amendment, the Energy Sector Studies which is performed by the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR) was extended until
December 31, 1999 and the Bank also accepted to honour the
withdrawal applications submitted for Actuarial Training and Unique
Identifier System components after the closing date but before October
31, 1999.
Project Implementation Issues:
Privatization Program:
The aim of the component, as discussed in the loan agreement,
was to support GOT's privatization efforts through technical assistance,
training and implementing a public media campaign.
Most of the activities which had to be performed by the
Privatization Administration under the project were already started at the
time when the project was commenced. This was the main reason
behind the low disbursements under the PA part, the major component
of the project with a total of 59 million USD. As a result of this factor, a
large amount of resources which were not utilised were cancelled. The
frequent government changes during the project implementation period
exposed different approaches towards the implementation efforts
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  2
Department of World Bank Projects



whereas the recurrent changes in the management of PA caused delays
in the project implementation. This was another factor behind the low
disbursement ratios.
The media campaign was launched in the second half of 1995 in
order to create awareness of the privatization efforts. This activity was
financed by the loan proceeds and for this category around 3.2 million
USD was disbursed.
Labour Adiustment Project:
The weak performance in the privatization efforts during the life of
the project limited the success Labour Adjustment Project (LAP) which
was implemented by Turkish Employment Organisation (iiBK), Union of
Chambers and Exchanges (TOBB) and Small and Medium Industries
Agency (KOSGEB) under the general coordination of the GD of State
Economic Enterprises of Treasury. As a part of the social safety net
component of PIAL, LAP's purpose was to enable the workers to find
out or develop businesses who lost their jobs after the privatization
efforts. But, due to the fact that privatization efforts was limited, LAP
could not be as beneficial as originally planned.
An important part of the LAP was to carry out the incubator
program through the guidance of KOSGEB. Only one incubator center
could be established in Zonguldak. However, as a result of the internal
financing problems, the project lacked to provide seed capital for the
new businesses.
After the second loan amendment, LAP activities were turned
over to PA by a protocol signed between Treasury and PA. With this
protocol, it was decided to further implement the LAP activities by the
PA after the project closing date of June 30, 1998. But the LAP activities
after the said date would not be financed by loan proceeds. However,
due to the reason that none of the SOE's were privatized after the
transfer of LAP component to PA, no progress was made in the LAP
component.
Actuarial Training:
The actuarial Training, one of the successful parts of PIAL, was
started in 1996. It aimed at improving the institutional structure of the
related government agencies and universities in the social security
system through providing actuarial training to the employees of these
institutions. With the project, 27 people were sent to masters and
diploma programs in USA and UK. From this point of view, the project
helped to form a solid actuarial background which Turkey lacked for a
long time. In addition to these, with the proceed of the loan a seminar
was successfully organised in Istanbul in 1997 and experts from the
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  3
Department of World Bank Projects



relevant General Directorates of Treasury were sent to short term
training programs in abroad. Also, some computers and office
equipment were acquired for the Insurance Department of Treasury
financed from the loan.
The project will also finance the establishment of an actuarial
science center in the Hacettepe University. Approximately 80.000 USD
will be used for this purpose and the this is planned to be realised in
September 1999.
Study A:
"Study A" was conducted by International Labour Organization
(ILO) as the international consultant. However, a steering committee,
which was comprised of the representatives of the related public
institutions, actively participated the implementation process. The aim of
the study was to analyse the social security policy options.
Under the study two quantitative models were developed, namely
the actuarial and the social. These two models are actively being used
by the Turkish authorities. The models showed that the current pension
social security is unsustainable.
It can easily be argued that the study was successful. The reason
is that the study provided the Turkish authorities a solid quantitative
base for the assessment of the reform options.
Study B:
"Study B - The audit of accounts and financial management study"
was started relatively late. the reason behind this delay was majorly the
approval of the Ministry of Finance for the consultancy contract. The
final contract was signed on April 15, 1998. However, the beginning of
the project was further retarded due to the as the Ministry of Labour
requested the consulting firm for not continuing the study of SSK and
Bag-Kur. This inconsistency was surpassed by inserting the word
"financial review" instead of "audit" in the name of the study.
The consulting firm prepared several reports and these reports
were reviewed by the steering committee. Among these reports, 6 of
these reports have not been approved by the steering committee due to
the critiques raised by the member of the committee. The revisions on
these reports are still continuing.
Unique Identifier System Component (Memis):
Mernis component was implemented by the Ministry of Interior
with the management services provided by UNDP. The component was
one of the most successful among the other components. However, the
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  4
Department of World Bank Projects



procurement for the printers have not been finalised as of today and it is
not possible to complete process by using the loan proceeds. In addition
to this, although the Bank has given its no-objection for honouring the
withdrawal applications for the engineering services submitted after the
loan closing date but before October 31, 1999, the activities have not
been finished yet. But the overall impact of the project to Turkey will be
highly beneficial if completed successfully.
Enerqv Sector Studies:
The component which is currently implemented by the Ministry OF
Energy and Natural Resources(MENR) was inserted into the project
after June 30, 1998. The original amount allocated to the project, 5
million USD, was reduced to 2 million (including some contingencies) as
the contract signed with the consultant was 1.7 million USD. Although it
was planned to be closed by June 30, 1999, Bank gave its approval for
an extension of 6 months. The effective starting of the project delayed
because of some governmental factors. As the budget law was enacted
by the parliament in June, the counterpart financing was a problem until
that time. Besides, the delay in granting the Ministry of Finance visa to
the contract signed with the consultant firm created some delay. On the
other hand, the 5 studies, which has to be conducted by the consultant
firm for the Ministry, are progressing. For the time being, one study was
completed by 85%, two studies were completed by 65%, and the other
two studies were completed by 60% and 45% respectively.
Private Participation in Infrastructure:
No progress was made in this component, which was included to
the PIAL project after June 30, 1999. The reason was that the budget
law was not approved on time and the provisional budget did not allow
the insertion of the new budget allocations. For this reason, the tender
evaluation committee decided to cancel the tender, considering the fact
that the project would not be completed in the short period of time until
the closing date. In this respect, 3 million USD which was allocated for
this purposed was cancelled in order to prevent the payment of
unnecessary commitment fees.
Assessment of the outcomes:
The project were always regarded as unsatisfactory due to the
reasons mentioned above. Among the successful part are, the Mernis
component, except the recent problems in the procurement of printers,
actuarial training. Although the starting of the Energy Sector Studies
were quite delayed, the achievements realised in the 5 studies in the
short period of time are worth noting. The Study B part, could be more
successful if the consultant firm was better in analysing and evaluating
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  5
Department of World Bank Projects



the current system as well as presenting more concrete solutions to the
problems.
Borrower Performance:
The project had many implementing agencies. The deficiencies of
these agencies in the project management as well as the lack of
qualified personnel hampered the successful implementation of the
project. Frequent changes in the project implementation units, especially
in the PA which was the biggest implementing institution was another
drawback. Besides this, out of the control of the implementing agencies,
the changes in the governments and the coalition structure of the new
governments caused significant delays both in terms of decision making
and implementation.
Bank Performance:
It is considered that Bank's efforts during the design stage of the
project was insufficient. PIAL project was unique among the other Bank
financed projects such that the whole 100 million USD was allocated to
Technical Assistance (TA) activities with very minor equipment
purchases included in it. The design mistakes were resulted low
disbursements, significant amount of cancellations, and the project's
permanent "unsatisfactory" rating through out its implementation period.
During the implementation stage,  Bank did not take prompt
action to respond the factors affecting the project.
Undersecretariat of Treasury - General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations  6
Department of World Bank Proiects



