Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMcIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12682-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE
AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12682 TU
Type: SAR
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banz authorization.



CI.'RPENCY FOUiVALENT
per USSI
Currenav bn,t - Turkish Lira (TL)
(_'"          CY!'-Q       CY'Qv93    januan IQQ4        Februarv 1994
4. :,-       ;,'a\]       M,!   )          24,'j          II,700
Lj'Z er "F    1RFS                    FISCAL YEAR
Ian.a-y I - December31
AFMPPFVATITONS .ND ACRONYMS
BOT                  -                                          ;,: '-; c-n-arJ-T'arsf:r P l :t,
CAYKI;R              -          C?   1..1...  .              -:z   R   .a  ro  sains and rnarkeling)
CEAS                            C    -iw..   '     AS  tCur' A    PoucrCo-pan))
DHN{-fl                                Ho-.e NlSydarsrn  Lm;;-rr (amrpor', marnagernen)
DIlAS                           Denir I,lem.,igz   'e T^ rnlerzilig, A.S Qetrolcum transport)
EBK                  -        1 . ' e3a;  K,rs-m  ,nm:a: and fsh r, rceaimg
E.DafIR              -          E%eg!i S    pEr.t
GCiDFER              -          Go-.- isL De4vcua  tr Frteign E-zono,mic RP!aaons
GDPF                            Gctnera! D .t.toraLc oi PNMik   Finance
GEM SAN                        T1--VŽ  Gzr i Sar.3,l A S. (Shipbuilding)
HDPPA                -          1i3u g DcNtloprmint and Fubliz P r;ipatoa Administration
HPC                  -          H-h FPa--:-g C.un.i;
ICB                  -          Ltzrnaut, rnal Cor t?:Ltsve Biddrag
LtK                  -          1 'e ta1i Bu:mu KjCsrr,u (T.arkisia Er-.!oymrent Organazatlon)
LNwSll              l- IsanklM cn2   rn-              r   Borsasi (Isianbul Stock Exchange)
IPRAGAZ                         L .z:. P:rn  Gas Distnbttor
ISDE&NIR             -          ls-nZer_n Stcl p.int
ISO                  -          I              Od-a.     S sn i Od     j5tar.bdl Chanmber of lnJd.sEry)
KARDEII.R            -          IKarb-k St,el plant
KEPEZ                -           .p7E:tinrt  k.S.
KFW                  -          1rt.!r        fur Wjrt'ur-
KOSGEB               -          Sa.ll an' Me.im Inust,- De*ulopmnentOrganizationa
tEN^R                -          !sE.rstr of Enarg) ain Natural Resnurzta
NETAS                           Nor rn E:e;;ni  Tclkomunikas)on A.S. (teleorrmunications equipment)
ORUS                 -          OrAr. 'Unruleri Sa.aai KunrmmJ (forest prodazts)
PETK1IM              -          Pe;:okmya ila!zing A.S (pttrochemizals)
PHRD                 -          PohWy and Hurran Resources Development Fund
POAS                 -          Petrui Ot;si A.S. (ni! produ;ts, retnil)
I-PA                 -          pwlD:c Pa-t:lpa[11 AJnUruStration
F'PF                 -          Prc;c:t Preparston F-. lat}
PPHC                 -          Pblic Partiipaution High Council
PS8R                 -          Public Sc tor Borr-roing Requirement
PIT                  -         Tu:kU)se Cumhuriyet Pztta Teligraf ts Telefon isl. Genel M. (posts and teleconmmunications)
PEI                  -          Public E;onomr: Insttt-ron
SEE                  -          State    .-ono:  Enterrrise
SEK                  -          Tuwkye Sut Endustnst Kurumu (milk and dairy products)
SElKER               -          Turkiae Seker FabnLa:afi A.S. (su;gar)
S'S                  -          StAle I      osrte   Staes:i;a
SoE                             Suatement of Exptn!t:;.re
SOE                             S ate-O%nr.ed EnLerpnsc
SPO                             State Planning Organization
SSK                  -          Sosal Sig raalar Kr.rnu (SocHial Security Institution)
TARPiM                          Ta-rn Isi mcim,1r- Gen-t Mu!urlug.i (farm manragement)
TCDD                 -          T C  Del'et Der_nrv;bri nrawlways)
TDN                  -          TJrl;  Vo:Dnij SaLkat A.S. (Turkish Cargo Lines)
TDCI                 -          Turki)e Dernir *e C;.k- 1,ictancleri (iron and steei)
TDI                  -          Turki)e Dearz::ik Isletmeieri 'Turkish NMaritinte Lines)
TEI                  -          Turk.He Eickarik Kumrnu (power)
TEKEL                -          Tutur, Tatun Nlamullen, Tuz *e Alkol lsletmesi Gene! Mtudurlugu (alcohol and tobacco)
TiY                  '          Turk Ha%a Yollari A.O. (airline)
TKIl   -                       Turkiye Kornar Isletn-r.cii Kurumu (lignite mines)
T'iO                 -          Toprak            Ofalen O.si (soil products)
TOFAS                -          Turk Otomaobi Fa&kikiari A.S.
ITK                  -          Turkiise Taskomuru Kurumu (hard coal riines)
TIPRAS                         TurkiEc Pcltol Rahancnari A.S. (refineries)
TLR AN              -          Turz.m Bankati 'tournsm)
U1L                  -          Unemr-1,,ment In irsnuce Law
USAS                 -          Ucak Ser-:si A.S. (a,rpxn catering)
YASED                -          Foreign LIvestors Association
YEMSAN               -          Yem Sana'i T.A S. (anumal fee-i)



p.                                                              -    -.
FOR OFICIL4 USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
page No.
Loan and Project Summary ...          ..........................................  1
I. INTRODUCTION ............................................ 1
A. Background  ...........................................                                      1 
B. Reforming the SOE Sector .         ....................................   2
II. THE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE SECTOR                          ...................                      3
A. Overview of the Sector . ......................................   3
B. Past SOE Reforms ..........................................    S
HI. TURKEY'S PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM                           ...................                        8
A. Intrcduction ...........................................                                     8
B. Legal and Institutional Franework for Privatization  .....................   8
C. Experience to Date ...........................................   9
D. Proposed Privatization Program  .............              .....................  10
E. Overall Assessment  .........................................  15
IV. SOCIAL SAFETY NET ...........................................  20
A. Introduction   ...........................................    20
B. Income Support Programs  .         ....................................  21
C. Labor Adjustment Program ..................................... 22
D. The Pension System  .........................................   23
V. REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN ZONGULDAK ........                               ................... 25
VI. THE PROPOSED PROJECT ........................................  27
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement .............               .....................  27
B. Project Objectives  ..........................................   28
C. Project Description ..........................................   28
D. Project Costs, Financing, and Procurement ........               ...................  34
E. Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review ................. 35
VII. BENEFIIS AND RISKS ..........................................  41
A. Benefits ................................................   41
B. Risks  ...................... .......................  41
VIR. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ................... 42
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rccipients only in the perfonmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



List of Tables
Table 1: ECONOMIC IMPORTANCE OF SOEs .................................... 3
Table 2: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS.                                                     4
Table 3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES .35
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN.                                                                35
Table 5: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ..... 38
List of Annexes
ANNEX A: Project Cost Estimates
ANNEX B: Financing Plan
ANNEX C: Disbursements by Semester
ANNEX D: PPA Portfolio
ANNEX E: Project Implementation Schedule
ANNEX F: Criteria for Mid-Term Review
ANNEX G: Criteria for Financing Labor Adjustment Services
Man
IBRD No. 24903R



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPL-MENTAT1ON ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:      Undersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade (Treasury)
Public Participation Administration (PPA)
State Planning Organization (SPO)
Loan Amount:        US$100 million
Terms:              Seventeen years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Objectives:         The key objective of the proposed project is to promote efficiency and
productivity iP the economy, and facilitate the further development of
Turkey's dynamic private sector. The project would accelerate privatization,
help ensure a transparent and professional process, and lay the basis for a
sustained divestiture and fiscal contraction process. It would build up
institutional capacity to manage the more complex workload entailed by a
larger restructuring and divestiture program. Another important oi,ective is
to alleviate the adverse impact of state-owned enterprise (SOE) downsizing
and divestiture on displaced workers and their families by fully integrating
social safety net measures, including labor adjustment programs, into the
divestiture process.
Project
Description:        The proposed project would consist of:
(a) support for privatization, including the preparation and implementation of
privatization transactions; a public information campaign to promote the
Government's privatization agenda and broaden public support for it; the
strengthening of PPA; and the strengthening of the capacity of Treasury to
manage the debt liabilities of SOEs to be privatized;
(b) social safety net measures, including labor adjustment programs to
determine the extent of labor displacement in individual SOEs, assess the
demand for labor services, and provide counseling, retraining and small
business assistance through local institutions; the strengthening of institutions
responsible for labor programs; and studies to analyze options for the reform
of social insurance/pension systems in Turkey and develop a unique identifier
system for Turkish citizens;
(c) the preparation of a Regional Development Plan to diversify the economic
base of the Zonguldak Region, where a high concentration of layoffs in steel
and coal mining operations is likely; and



- ii - 
(d) studies to develop a regulatory framework for the privatization of the
telecommunications sector and establish a coordinated strategy for the private
provision of infrastructure services.
Benefits:            The proposed project would set the stage for more significant Government
action to downsize the SOE sector over the longer-term. Reductions in the
labor force and in subsidies to SOEs to be privatized under the project will
result initially in a modest improvement in the fiscal deficit. The
restructuring, divestiture and liquidation of SOEs will increase productivity
and efficiency, facilitate private sector development, help improve Turkey's
competitive edge in world markets, and lay the basis for a longer-term
structural reduction of the deficit. Finally, the provision of a social safety net
will promote stability, increase labor force mobility and public support for the
Government's privatization strategy.
Risks;               The project faces several risks. The Government's preoccupation with
political and security matters may preempt follow-through on the privatization
agenda. There is a coalition government, nationwide municipal elections are
upcoming, and the security situation in the east places major demands on the
Government. Lacking a strong institutional base, the Government may find it
difficult to sustain the level of management and coordination effort required
for a successful divestiture process.
The Governme.t's commitment is reflected in up-front action being taken. A
contract for financial advisers for the privatization of one SOE has been
awarded; all actions necessary for the sale of two SOEs have been completed;
and negotiations for financial advisory contracts for the privatization of three
SOEs are ongoing. Also, the design and timing of the technical assistance has
been carefully tailored to equip the agencies with requisite capacity. Tne
process of recruiting in-house advisers for Treasury and PPA is un'derway,
with bids already invited, and in some cases, being evaluated. All
appointments are to be made prior to loan effectiveness. Provision has been
made for a mid-term review by October 31, 1995. Agreed criteria include the
privatization of at least one-half of the number of SOEs and affiliated
partnerships in PPA's portfolio and the sale of at least one-half of PPA's
portfolio of share participations.
The Bank has responded quickly to the Government's request for the Bank's
support to pull together a transparent and objective divestiture process, while
alleviating the hardships for workers and their families as an integral element
of the strategy. Achieving some early privatization successes and providing
effective social safety net measures for workers will lend credibility to the
Government's program, provide an impetus to proceed with efficacy and
speed, and, over the medium-term, help promote economic and political
stability.



- iii 
Estimated Project Costs:
Foreign    Local      Total
-US$ million
Privatization                                        57.2      13.5      70.7
Social Safety Net                                    12.0      19.9      31.9
Zonguldak Regional Development Plan                   1.0       1.0       2.0
Studies                                               4.5       0.0       4.5
Refinancing of PPF Advance                            200 200
Total Base Cost                                      76.7      34.4     111.1
Pbysical Contingencies on Equipment                   0.1       0.0       0.1
Price Contingencies                                   4.3      13.6      17.8
Total Project Cost                                    1.0      48.0     129.0
Financing Plan:
Foreign    Local      Total
-us$ million
Goverment                                             0.0      29.0      29.0
IBRD                                                 81.0      19.0     100.0
TOT'AL                                                         !L8 ,1O   29.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year               PY94      FY95       FY96      FY97      FY98
US$ million
Annual                           5.0      28.0       31.0      21.0      15.0
Cumulative                       5.0      33.0       64.0      85.0     100.0
Net of duties and taxes.
Differences due to rounding.
Economic Rate of Return:           Not applicable
M-ag:                             IBRD No. 24903R



I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.1   Following a serious external crisis in the late 1970s, Turkey embarked on a far-reaching
program of stabilization and reform marking a major break with past policies which had favored an
inward-looking and state-dominated pattern of development. Considerable progress was made in
reducing macroeconomic imbalances and in liberalizing the external sector during the first half of the
1980s. GNP growth averaged about 5 percent per year, inflation was reduced from three-digit levels
to 25 percent, and exports as a share of GNP increased threefold, substantially improving Turkey's
creditworthiness. After 1986, there was further progress in integrating Turkey into the world
economy. Import restrictions were eased, export subsidies rationalized and controls on capital
transactions reduced substantially. The process culminated in a 'eform of the exchange rate system
which left it largely free of restrictions on external transactions. Turkey reaped significant benefits
from these improvements in the external policy regime. Export growth remained strong and, aided
by receipts from tourism and workers' remittances, kept the external current account deficit at
comfortable levels despite the rapid growth of domestic demand. Foreign investment flows also
surged, and Turkey was able to diversify its sources of foreign financing while repaying the last of its
IMF and rescheduled commercial debt.
1.2   These a^hievements have been undermined in recent years by a resurgence of public sector
imbalances. The public sector borrowing requirement increased from 6.5 percent of GNP in 1988 to
almost 17 percent in 1991. GNP growth slowed sharply and inflaticn accelerated to an annual rate of
66 percent. Despite growing recognition of the fiscal problem, the public sector borrowing
requirement (PSBR) has stayed high, averaging an estimated 16 percent of GNP in 1992-93.
Although there has been a recovery of growth during the last two years, inflation has remained above
60 percent and, more recently, the external position has begun to suffer as well. The external current
account deficit increased from US$900 million in 1992 to an estimated US$5.5-6 billion in 1993.
The increased vulnerability of the Turkish economy has caused its creditworthiness to come under
renewed scrutiny. Without prompt and effective action to curb its financial imbalances, there is a
danger that Turkey's access to external finance may be curtailed and private investment demand
weakened severely. The persistent macroeconomic difficulties will also complicate Turkey's planned
v!cession to the European Customs Union in 1995.
1.3    At the root of Turkey's financial difficulties is the persistently large public sector deficit. In
recent years, this deficit has been driven primarily by four factors: (a) the poor performance of the
state-owned enterprise (SOE) sector - the consolidated operating balance of the sector fell from a
surplus equivalent to 3.6 percent of GNP in 1985 to a deficit averaging over 5 percent of GNP in
1991-92; (b) rapidly growing interest payments, fueled both by the rapid growth of debt and growing
macroeconomic uncertainties; (c) large wage increases for public sector workers; and (d) costly
agricultural support policies. The magnitude of Turkey's fiscal imbalances and the structural nature
of the underlying factors indicate that a comprehensive medium term program of stabilization and
reform measures is required to restore macroeconomic balance and provide the basis for susta;nable
growth. In particular, any effort to bring about a sustainable reduction in the PSBR has to include
fundamental reform and privatization of the SOEs.
1.4   The current coalition Government, which assumed office in July 1993, recognizes the urgent
need to address Turkey's fiscal problems and to enhance the competitive efficiency of the economy.
Its 1994 Economic Program, which aims to reduce the public sector borrowing requirement by over



-2
two percent of GNP, includes: a major reform of the tax system; a far-reaching SOE divestiture
program, ircluding Fhe privatization of major enterprises in the tradeable goods sectors, and in the
energy, transport and financial sectors; and measures to restrain the public sector wage bill and to
curtail budgetary subsidies. If implemented in their entirety, the proposed set of measures will be an
important first step towards macroeconomic stabilization and more broad-based and equitable growth.
B. Reforming the SOE Sector
1.5   The process of economic liberalization during the 1980s exposed many of the weaknesses of
Turkey's SOE sector. Originally established within an economic planning framework for the purpose
of industrial development and the provision of infrastructure, few of these enterprises, whicb account
for about 10 percent of GDP, are equipped to face the challenges of a dynamic market economy. The
reform agenda for Turkey's SOE sector needs to focus on improving productive and allocative
efficiency. Divestiture (sales and liquidation) mussi , brought to the forefront as the primary
instrument for achieving this objective. Other, complementary, elements of the reform agenda
include labor restructuring, commercialization of SOEs to be retained in Government hand and the
strengthening and rationalization of the Government's regulatory role.
1.6   Past efforts to reform the SOE sector through legal and institutional reforms as well as
privatization were extremely limited in scope, with correspondingly meager results. Between 1986
and 1991, a few small SOEs and minority shareholdings were sold, representing less than 1 percent of
SOE fixed assets. The overall pace of privatization was constrained by a lack of political
commitment, unclear privatization objectives, inadequate guidelines on buyers, sale instruments and
valuation, and the shallowness of the Turkish capital market. The pace of SOE privatization picked
up in 1991, with the sale of a few cement plants and other smaller SCEs, but for the most part
privatization remained confined to the sale of minority shareholdings as means of raising revenues.
1.7   Since 1992, there has been a significant acceleration in the pace and scope of SOE
privatization. A number of sizeable transactions are on their way to completion and a substantial
pipeline of SOEs has been identified for privatization over the next five years. Building the necessary
momentum into the process will require that the Government promote the growing public awareness
of the need to downsize the SOE sector, forge a political consensus, and broaden popular support for
privatization; strengthen the legal framework as well as the capacity of implementing agencies;
provide an effective social safety net for displaced employees; and assist with the recovery of the
regions likely to be affected by concentrated layoffs.
1.8    The proposed project would support the implementation of the divestiture program in a
transparent and professional manner, and help accelerate and assure early privatization successes.
The project would help develop an effective institutional framework for privatization, strengthen the
capacity of the implementing agencies, and provide a social safety net for affected employees. In so
doing, the project would lay the foundation for a more comprehensive and far-reaching privatization
program which would contribute to increased efficiency and productivity in the economy, sustained
fiscal adjustnent, and the further development of Turkey's dynamic private sector.



-3-
II. THE STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Overview of the Sector
(i)     Composition and Importance
2.1     Turkey's SOE sector consists of 34 state-owned enterprises (SOEs), which own 120
companies, and 71 affiliated partnerships in which the state holds a majority share.' In addition,
SOEs have extended their presence in the industrial sector through minority participations in more
than 100 joint-stock companies.
2.2     SOEs are active in almost all sectors of the economy. In addition to their dominant role in
the service seutor (e.g., railways, telecommunications, electricity), SOEs also dominate in commodity
trading, the financial and mining sectors, and the production of basic metals and chemicals as a
consequence of the Government's pre-1980 import substitution policies. The economic importance of
the SOE sector and its evolution is summarized in Table 1. The share of the sector in aggregate
value-added declined over the period 1985-93 from 1 1.5 percent to 8.7 percent of GDP; the SOE
share is much higher in n1ning; energy, gas, and water; and transnort and communications. The
SOE share of gross fixed investment has fallen from just (,. x: Q0       ent in 1985 to less than 8
percent in 1993. The number of employees has declined slis'.y - ., combined with rapid private
sector-led growth in the economy, has resulted in a fall in the share of VOEs in non-agricultural
employment from 7.8 percent in 1985 to 5.1 percent in 1993.
Tabe I: ECONOMIC IMWORTANCE OF SOEs
(IL trillion)
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991    1992   1993Y
Gross Value Added (curren price)       2.9    3.8    5.7    9.2   16.0   27.0   46.6    70.0   105.0
Share of GDP (%)                      I 1.5   10.8   10.8   10.0   10.5   10.6   10.2       9.3      8.7
Fxed Investmern (currnt price)         1.7    2.4    3.3    5.1    6.9   10.0   13.1    20.3    31.1
Share in Tot (1988prices)(%)          30.4   27.4   22.7   21.2   18.0   16.1   11.5         9.6     7.8
Boffowing Requirement (% o. GNP):
Before Transfers                       3.7    3.8    5.2    3.7    3.4    5.9    7.2         6.4     6.1
After Transfers                       3.1    3.4    4.4    2.7    2.6    5.5    4.7          5.3     4.0
Total PSBR                             4.6    4.7    8.0    6.2    7.2   10.2   14.5    14.9    16.3
Share of SOEbs in total PSBR (%).'    80.4   81.0   65.0   60.7   47.2   57.8   49.7    43.0    37.4
Enployznent Cn thousands1'           583.7  600.1  597.0  602.5  602.3  596.2  561.1   546.1   514.9
Pecent of nonagriculhrul employment    7.8    7.6    7.3    7.2    7.0    6.7    5.8         S.2     5.1
Source: Treasury, Central Bank and SIS.
Notes: I/ Before transfers/PSHR.
' Excludes employment in those SOEs transferred to PPA.
AI Preliminary.
A  stae-owned enterprise" is fully owned by the Government and acts as a parent-holding of a group of
-companies," which it fully owns, and -affiliated partnerships" in which it owns a majority share.



-4-
(ii)    SOE Performance
2.3     Despite past attempts to reformr. the sector (paras. 2.6 to 2.16), SOE performance has
continued to deteriorate. While declining in size relptive to the economy as a whole, SOEs remain a
major contributor to the overall PSBR. The borrowing requirement of the SOEs (before transfers)
reached 5.9 percent of GNP in 1990 (more than 50 percent of the total PSBR) and jumped to 7.2
percent in 1991, decreasing to 6.1 perc,nt in 1993 (Table 1). Increases in the borrowing
requirements of SOEs were the result of large real wage increases, increasrs in agricultural support
prices, and Government pressure on SOEs to hold pi ice increases down. The reduction in the SOE
borrowing requirement in 1993 was due to the drawdown of agricultural stocks in contrast to previous
years.
2.4     The distribution of deficits among individual SOEs has been highly concentrated. Seven
SOEs - TEK (electricity), TMO (soil products), SEKER (sugar), TEKEL (alcohol and tobacco),
TCDD (railways), TDCI (iron and steel), and T7K (hard coal mines) - accounted for close to 95
percent of total SOE borrowings in 1990, declining to 70 percent in 1993. These SOEs fall into three
main categories: (a) large and heavily investing SOEs, such as TEK, which itself had a borrowing
requirement of about 1.5 percent of GNP between 1987 and 1991, declining to 0.35 percent in 1992;
(b) SOEs used for agricultural support such as TMO, SEKER, and TEKEL, where subsidized prices
have been the main cause of poor performance; and (c) inefficient performers, such as TTK and
TDCI, characterized by a poot resource base, outdated technology, excessive employment, and lack
of investmnent.
2.5     The financial performance of SOEs has worsened cver time (Table 2). The return on capital
employed fell from 17.2 percent in 1985 to -9.8 percent in 1992, less than half that of the private
sector and significantly below the weighted cost of capital of firms listed on the Istanbul Stock
Exchange. Particularly poor performers include TTK (hard coal mines), TEK (electricity),
Table 2: KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORSY
(Pement of GNP)
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992'
Operating surplus                       3.6     1.5      1.1     0.4      0.8    -0.6    -5.2       -5.4
Return on
Capital Employed (%)                  17.2    14.3    12.7    10.6    10.3        6.7     5.3      -9.8
Free Cash Flow                         -6.4    -7.4   -12.5    -8.5    -8.8    .4.0    -5.4         -3.9
Fwancial
Leverage Ratio                         2.3      2.5     1.9      2.8     2.3      2.4     2.4       2.2
Earnings Decline Cover (%)             85.4    78.8    70.1    68.8    61.1    50.4    31.9         30.1
Industral SOEs in Top 500 Firms
Employment (% total)                   58.0    57.0    55.0    55.5    54.5    53.4    54.5         55.0
Fxed Asuets (% total)                  69.6    69.0    68.7    69.8    68.9    65.9    60.0        53.5
Value Added (% total)                  47.0    46.0    44.8    47.0    45.8    41.6    35.4         36.7
LAbor productivity
(% of private)                        86.0    85.0    75.0    86.0    90.0    62.3    45.8         46.1
Source: Treasury, SIS, ISO, and IBRD calculations.
Notes: _1/ All indicators exclude TMO.
ZJ Preliminary.



TDCI (steel), and Sumerbank, all of which are consistently large loss-makers. Together, all loss-
making SOEs accumulated losses of TLS trillion (1.9 percent of GNP) in 1990 which rose to
TL19.2 trillion or 4.2 percent of GNP. The economic efficiency of SOEs is also lagging behind the
private sector. In 1992, labor productivity was 46 percent of that in the private sector, and the
marginal efficiency of capital only about one-third of the total.
B. Past SOE Reforms
2.6    During the 1980s, the Goverment initiated measures to improve the performance of the SOE
sector. It issued several laws and regulations which resulted in changes in the legal and institutional
framework, pricing policies, and the personnel regime. Yet, SOE performance continued to
deteriorate, partly because of decisions to raise wages and agricultural support prices but also because
of the cumulative effects of past policies in the sector. Subject to continuing political interference,
SOEs have pursued multiple and often noncommercial objectives, enjoyed a soft-budget constraint,
and operated under a legal and institutional framework that discourages commercial behavior and fai!s
to impose financial discipline.
2.7    Noncommercial Objectives. The Government has used SOEs to achieve a range of
noncommercial objectives - including income redistribution, regional development, employment
creation, and industrial and infrastructure development. Distributional objectives have been met, for
example, by selling agricultural purchases of TMO below cost and often below international prices,
and by granting real wage increases far in excess of productivity to workers. To induce regional
developmen!, plants have been located in lesser developed areas but capacity utilization remains low
and employment generation has come at a significant cost to the Government. Employment creation
objectives have also led to high levels of redundancy across the sector, which might well amount to
over one-third of total SOE employment of approximately 600,000.
2.8    The use of SOEs for these purposes not only obscures the true budgetary burden of the policy
but also creates conflicting objectives for SOE management and makes performance evaluation
difficult. According to Decree Law 233 (para. 2.10), SOEs are to be compensated for these duty
losses caused by Government-imposed non-ommercial objectives. But since the Government does
not provide for ex ante budgetary support and its policies take the form of open-ended commitments,
claims for duty losses need to be audited. This delay often means that compensation is paid with a
year's lag, and without interest. Hence, on a net basis, the sector's financial performance is
adversely affected while noncommercial objectives are rarely attained.
2.9   Soft Budget Constraint. Unable to adjust to changing market demands, SOEs have survived
only because of a soft-budget constraint. This has led to a pervasive lack of financial discipline.
Subsidies to SOEs have been disguised as equity injections, payment for duty losses, and "aid' (0.5
percent of GNP in 1990, rising to 2 percent of GNP in 1993). The availability of guarantees from
the Treasury on foreign borrowings, loans and rediscounts from the Central Bank, and commercial
bank loans have given SOEs preferential access to credit. SOEs have been allowed to run arrears to
the Treasury, the Social Security Administration, commercial banks, and suppliers without facing the
threat of bankruptcy, while rolling over debt to commercial banks at increasing interest rates. In



-6 -
addition to explicit and implicit transfers from the budget, SOEs are not required to earn an
acceptable rate of return on equity invested. They make almost no dividend payments to Treasury
and hence are not subject to the usual discipline stockholders impose on firms through capital
markets.
2.10   Legal and Institutional Framework. In 1984, Decree Law 233 was issued to govern the
establishment and operation of virtually all SOEs in Turkey. It established two categories of SOEs,
with Treasury designated as owner: (i) State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), considered more
commercial and competitive in nature; and (ii) Public Economic Institutions (PEIs), defined as public
service-oriented enterprises producing goods and services deemed to be of a monopoly nature.2
2.11   Decree Law 233 aimed at giving SOEs greater operational autonomy through the introduction
of corporate forms, boards, and a management structure more closely resembling a commercial
enterprise. In practice, however, deficiencies in Decree Law 233 effectively perpetuate outside ex
ante co.ntrol over SOEs through annual budgets and financing programs that require ratification by
other public agencies. All Decree Law 233 SOEs are governed and financed more like governmental
agencies than commercial enterprises, controlled for all practical purposes by their civil service
management and relevant line ministries. SOEs are removed from the discipline and disclosure
requirements of the Commercial Code, especially provisions on reporting and auditing and on
bankruptcy. The composition and functions of SOE Boards are often based on non-commercial
considerations. And SOE managers are deprived of autonomy in key areas of pricing, employment
and procurement. Together, the existing methods of managerial appointment, reporting, and financial
controls leave SOEs vulnerable to political interference even in daily operations.
2.12  In 1990, after realizing that these changes had minimal effects on SOE efficiency, the
Government introduced legislation that would have converted all SOEs into joint-stock companies
(hence, subjecting them to the Commercial Code) and would have imposed financial discipline. For
political and, to a lesser extent, technical reasons the law was never passed, although efforts continue
to introduce a more comprehensive legal reform package covering both SOE reform and privatization
(para. 3.29).
2.13   Pricing Policies. SOE prices continued to be regulated until 1984, when Decree Law 233
liberalized them by shifting price setting authority to SEE management as defined by the law.
However, the law reserves the right of the Council of Ministers to intervene in pricing decisions
provided that foregone profi;s are compensated by duty loss payments from the central government's
budget. For PEIs, the Council of Ministers can still set prices and rate schedules. At present, prices
of only seven goods and services of minor imnortance continue to be formally regulated. In practice,
however, the legislation did not lead to full pricing autonomy. SOE managers are subject to informal
pressures to hold back price increases. The present system of price guidance also leads to cross-
subsidization among SOEs, and the compensations for noncommercial duties imposed on the
enterprises are generally paid with a lag of at least one year and without interest.
2.14   Personnel Regime. To circumvent the constitutional requirement to have SOEs managed by
civil servants, Decree Law 233 introduced the possibility of hiring staff under one-year renewable
2 These are TEK (electricity), TCDD (railways), PIT (post and telecommunications), DHMI (airport
administration), TEKEL (alcohol and tobacco), CAYKUR (tea), and TARIM (agro-products).



-7 -
contracts. This measure was designed in part to attract better qualified people by offering higher
salaries. The High Court of Justice ruled this practice unconstitutional, however. Subsequently, in
January 1990, a new law on personnel in SOEs was enacted. This time, a new category was
introduced: civil servants with contracts. Again, the High Court annulled this practice in August
1991, citing abuses as the main reason. Decree Law 233 and subsequent legislation eliminate the
provisions of previous laws requiring experience in the public sector as a prerequisite for appointment
to the management of an SOE. Even under the new regime, however, salaries are not linked to
performance. By enacting a hiring freeze and issuing a regulation that only 20 percent of job-leavers
could be replaced, the Government attempted to address the issue of redundant labor. Since 1989,
wage negotiations in SOEs have become highly politicized, leading to a more than doubling of the
real wage of workers in the two years prior to June 1991. The increases were moderated
subsequently, with real wages increasing by 9 percent in 1992.
2.15   Market Regulation. The Government abolished state monopolies in the production of sugar,
tea, and distribution of fertilizers in 1984, followed by tobacco distribution and importation in 1991.
The only remaining legal production monopolies are weaponry and cigarette paper. In practice,
however, many large SOEs still enjoy monopolistic positions, and the Government has abstained from
measures to break up SOEs in order to foster competition between plants in the same line of business.
It has also failed to use subcontracting of services, franchising, or leasing to develop significant
private sector participation in SOE activities. Railway transportation, the bulk of telecommunications,
electricity, port and airport administration are still predominantly in the public domain. The
Government has yet to establish regulatory mechanisms to enhance efficiency and foster substantive
private sector participation in these activities.
2.16   Past re.orm efforts have yielded limited results. Clearly, fundamental structural changes in
the sector, including privatization, are needed to achieve an enduring improvement in performance.
First and foremost, privatization would improve efficiency and decrease the financial burden of the
SOEs. Privatization would help increase efficiency by severing the link between the Government and
SOEs, depoliticizing the operating environment of SOEs (including pricing and hiring decisions) and
making available private resources to fund expansion in all sectors. Privatization would also help
decrease the financial burden of SOEs by introducing financial discipline and allowing inefficient
firms, previously subsidized by the Government, to go bankrupt. Additional benefits of privatization
would be to generate revenues to fund the restructuring and severance costs of subsequent
privatizations, and to expand and deepen capital markets. An aggressive but carefully structured
privatization program is viewed by the Govermnent as the principal means of resolving the problems
of the SOE sector.



-8 -
III. TURKEY'S PRIVATIZATION PROGRAM
A. Introduction
3.1   In the wake of the economic liberalization of the early 1980s, the Government decided to
privatize state-owned enterprises (SOEs) which no longer had a national mission. The primary
objective in the mid-1980s was to increase efficiency and lessen the budgetary burden of SOEs.
Several major studies were initiated, culminating, in 1986, in a master plan for privatization that
classified enterprises into those to be liquidated, sold, or retained in the state sector. In the
Government's view, this master plan was inappropriate for Turkey; therefore, it was not
implemented. Instead, a few small SOEs were sold and, for the most part, implementation focussed
on the sale of minority shareholdings through public offerings in order to raise revenues and develop
capital markets. In early 1992, following changes in the institutional set-up for privatization, the
program picked up with the sale of relatively large cement companies, the privatization of several
agro-industry tirms, and continued sale of minority shareholdings. In July 1993, the new
Government announced a renewed and far-reaching program of privatization to reduce the growing
and increasingly unsustainable fiscal deficit and to increase efficiency and productivity in the economy
as a whole. The overall program covers major SOEs in a wide range of sectors, with a first phase
focussing on the immediate privatization of SOEs in tradeable goods sectors, and the preparation for a
more comprehensive program in the future through the development of a sound institutional and legal
framework and the establishment of an effective social safety net.
B. Legal and Institutional Framework for Privatization
3.2    The Housing Development and Public Participation Administration (HDPPA) was created in
1984 (Law No. 2983) to finance mass housing projects, implement privatization, and finance major
infrastructure projects such as highways and dams. In 1990, the HDPPA was split into two separate
bodies, the Mass Housing Administration and the Public Participation Administration (PPA). PPA
was vested with the authority to both implement privatization and to finance major infrastructure
projects.
3.3    Law 3291, outlining the decision-making process and procedures for corporatization and
privatization, was issued in 1986. The Law, together with Decree Law 473, authorizes the Council
of Ministers to decide on the privatization of SEEs (and affiliates), and the High Planning Council to
decide on the privatization of partially state-owned companies and subsidiaries and the sale of
minority shareholdings.3 Once a decision to privatize is made, the SOE's legal relationship to the
line ministry is severed and the SOE is transferred to the ownership of the PPA. Upon such transfer,
PPA has the authority to convert the enterprise into a joint stock company subject to the Commercial
Code, and subsequently privatize it.' Under Decree Law 233, authority to decide on the
I The High Planning Council (HPC) consists of nine members including the Prime Minister, seven Ministers and
the Undersecretary of SPO, and is responsible for general economic policy, development plans and the affairs of the
SOEs.
I When an SOE is transferred to PPA, all legal responsibility and liability of the Treasury and the relevant line
ministries for that SOE are terminated. Treasury generally retains liability for all debts incurred until the date of
transfer, and PPA assumes the liability thereafter.



-9 -
privatization of PEIs (public economic institutions) remains unclear. Such enterprises, in particular the
utilities, are thus being privatized under a separate legal and institutional framework (paras. 3.28 to
3.30).
3.4    Once a decision to privatize is taken by the Council of Ministers or the High Planning
Council, the Public Participation High Council (PPHC) serves as the decision-making body for
privatization. The PPHC was established pursuant to Decree Law 473 in 1991. Chaired by the Prime
Minister and consisting of six other members (the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Public
Works, a Minister of State, the Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade, the Undersecretary of
the State Planning Organization, and the Chairman of PPA), its primary role is to review and approve
the sales strategy proposed by PPA during the planning phase, and to approve the final transaction
prior to closure. Under Law 3291, PPA remains the executing body for privatization. As a separate
legal entity with a total staff of 70 in privatization, it reports directly to the Prime Minister. PPA's
primary responsibilities are to determine the strategy and method of sale, conduct valuations, handle
the legal and administrative process, retain and supervise the work of advisers, initiate the tender
process, deal with promotional activities, submit results for evaluation and final approval to PPHC,
and conduct the final sale operations.
C. Experience to Date
3.5    Between 1986 and December 1993, total privatization revenues amounted to US$1.8 billion.
In the first five years (1986 to 1991), privatization moved at a relatively slow pace and produced
moderate results. Total revenues of about US$880 million were generated from the sale of smaller
SOEs and minority shareholdings, which together represented less than one percent of the fixed assets
of SOEs. Since widespread distribution of ownership became a major objective of privatization over
the years, public offerings of minority shareholdings were the predominant method of sale. Almost
one-third of total revenues during this period came from the sale of eight percent of PETKIM
(petrochemicals), and another one-tenth from the sale of three percent of ERDEMIR (iron and steel).
Block sales were used for smaller plants and enterprises in agro-industry, as well as for five relatively
large subsidiaries in cement and one in catering. The latter (cement and catering) were sold to
foreign investors, although all of these sales were subsequendy overturned by court rulings invoking
government failure to distribute ownership widely to small investors and employees. However, the
foreign owners continue to operate the firms and the decision to ignore the courts was legally
grounded in an ex-post decree.
3.6    During this period, privatization was hampered by political uncertainties, as well as
institutional and technical difficulties. These included: (i) conflicting priorities ranging from
efficiency, to ownership distribution, to revenue generation; (ii) non-standard guidelines on sale
methods, buyers, and valuation, resulting in ad hoc practices which generated substantial public
criticism; (iii) limited institutional capacity; (iv) lack of an adequate social safety net; (v) failure to
provide for management and employee participation through stock option plans; and (vi) thin capital
markets.
3.7   In early 1992, changes in the management and structure of PPA helped accelerate the pace of
privatization. Revenues totalling about US$950 million were raised in 1992-1993. Although the pace
picked up relative to previous years, the outcome still fell below programmed levels. In 1992, PPA
completed block sales of state shares in 18 companies, which yielded about US$420 million, which
was well below the target of about US$1 billion. The most important sales were those of IPRAGAZ



- 10-
(LPG distributor) and six cement companies. In 1993, privatization revenues amounted to about
US$530 million, primarily from the outright sale of agro-industrial firms and cement companies, as
well as from the sale of minority shareholdings in, among others, CEAS and KEPEZ (electricity
companies) and NETAS (telecommunications equipment).
D. Proposed Privatization Program
3.8   Following the Parliamentary vote of confidence for the new Government in July 1993,
privatization gathered momentum and became a central component of the broader economic strategy
aimed at improving efficiency and reducing the fiscal deficit. The scope of the program expanded
from the sale of small and medium enterprises and minority shares to encompass the privatization of
major enterprises in a wide range of sectors, including: (i) medium and large enterprises,
predominantly in tradeable goods sectors, under the management of PPA; (ii) the restructuring and
sale of large problem SOEs - Sumer Holding, Sumerbank (textiles and banking), and TDCI (steel);
and (iii) the reform and eventual privatization of utilities, including TEK (electricity) and PTT
(telecommunications).
(i)    SOEs in PPA's Portfolio
3.9    As of January 1994, 10 SOEs and 12 affiliated partnerships covering a range of sectors,
which together account for roughly 10-15 percent of the total number of SOEs, had been transferred
to PPA (Annex D). In addition, PPA holds minority share participations in 34 enterprises. Within
this portfolio, PPA has developed a substantial pipeline of core candidates for privatization over the
next 12 to 18 months. If successfully divested, they could generate revenues amounting to about
US$2 - US$3 billion. PPA's work program for this core gToup is well advanced on a number of
fronts:
•   in oil refining and distribution, contracts for financial advisers for the privatization of
TUPRAS and POAS (oil refining and distribution) are being negotiated;
•   in steel, investment bankers have been retained for the sale of the Government's share
in ERDEMIR, an integrated steel mill and Turkey's only producer of flat products;
the valuation process has been completed, and sale is expected in the first half of
1994. The prospects for the flat product market in Turkey are good, and the sale of
the company, which is successfully operated by the private sector, could yield
US$350 - US$450 million. Selling ERDEMIR is expected to be relatively straightforward
and will provide PPA with valuable experience in privatizing steel firms;
o   building upon the comprehensive study of the two petrochemical complexes of
PETKIM that was completed in 1990, PPA is in the process of hiring investment
bankers and defining a restructuring and sale strategy for the company that would
involve a core investor;
o   all actions necessary for the sale of agro-industrial firms, including YEMSAN (animal
feed) and EBK (meat processing), have been completed, and final approval of the
Public Participation High Council is awaited; recent attempts to sell SEK (milk and
dairies) have, however, been delayed by pricing difficulties;



- 11 -
a   substantial progress is being made in the sale and restructuring of Sumer Holding and
Sumerbank (paras. 3.14 and 3.15); and
e   following the recent sale of its remaining participation in NETAS (telecommnunications
equipment) in international capital markets for US$50 million, PPA has advertised its
minority shares in an additional 12 companies, and is preparing for the sale of its
shares in TOFAS (auto assembly) in 1994.
3.10   PPA is also in the initial stages of planning for the privatization of other major SOEs in its
portfolio. An analysis of the asset base and restructuring needs of the three shipping and shipbuilding
SOEs is currently undemiay in preparation for privatization. Of the three shipping SOEs, TDN
(Turkish Cargo Lines) and DITAS (petroleum transport) are expected to be privatized in 1994/95,
followed by the restructuring and sale of TDI (Turkish Maritime Lines). GEMSAN, the Turkish
Shipbuilding Group, requires major financial restructuring, downsizing of yards, and the sale of land
as part of the overall privatization process. Preparations are also ongoing for the sale of the land,
hotel and marina operations - -d by TURBAN (tourism), pending modifications in the legal
framework for land ownership  J use (para. 3.28).
3.11   Substantial progress in privatizing the core group (paras. 3.9 and 3. 10) of PPA's portfolio
during the course of 1994/95 is both feasible and desirable. Unlike the privatization of utilities,
privatizing enterprises in tradeable goods sectors is relatively easy since fundamental policy or
regulatory changes are not involved. Furthermore, for the most part, the core PPA companies
require relatively limited financial, labor and organizational restructuring prior to sale, and face
relatively few legal obstacles although legal changes related to the transfer of land would help
accelerate implementation (para. 3.28). Moreover, the timely privatization of PPA's core group is
key to the success of the overall privatization program. Initial successes would have major
demonstration effects for the program as a whole, move PPA further along the learning curve in
preparation for more complex transactions, and help mobilize revenues which could be utilized to
settle the large liabilities of problem SOEs prior to their privatization (paras. 3.13 to 3.17).
3.12   Successful implementation of this first and critical phase requires substantial institutional
strengthening of PPA to make its capacity commensurate with its existing and fiuture workload (para.
3.33). But it would also require PPA and the Government to abide by certain principles that would
make the privatization process more orderly, transparent, and professional. These include: (i) the
establishment of clear objectives and priorities; (ii) limiting restructuring prior to privatization to
defensive restructuring (financial, labor, organizational), but not undertaking new investments in the
expectation of higher sale prices; (iii) ensuring flexibility in selecting privatization methods by using a
wide range of techniques tailored to meet the needs of individual enterprises rather than any one
method alone, for example bringing in core investors where needed, selling enterprises in packages
rather than individually, floating tranches of shares to the public, developing employee share
ownership schemes, and combining all of these methods where appropriate; (iv) developing clear
valuation methods and guidelines; and (v) adopting competitive bidding procedures to ensure
transparency in the privatization process.
(ii)    Large Problem SOEs
3.13   The privatization of the above SOEs alone will not resolve the problem of a large and
unsustainable fiscal deficit caused by, among other things, an SOE sector characterized by



- 12 -
inefficiencies, huge recurring losses, and excess wage demands. Thus, as part of the privatization
program, the Government is aggressively tackling problem SOEs such as Sumer Holding and
Sumerbank (textiles and banking), and TDCI (steel). In parallel, the Government has successfully
initiated the downsizing of the work force in TTK (hard coal mines), mainly by offering voluntary
early retirement.
3.14   Sumer Holding and Sumerbank (textiles and banking). Sumerbank's manufacturing holdings
were separated from the banking services in mid-1993 and are now controlled by Sumer Holding.
Sumerbank is the name for the enterprise's separated banking activities. Sumer Holding, now active
only in textile, related chemical industries and a small pipe manufacturing operation, comprises some
35 plants, 433 retail outlets and a number of distribution and marketing agencies. It employs about
27,000 workers. Its overall importance in textile sector output in Turkey is modest. In 1992,
Sumerbank accounted for less than an 8 percent share in the production of major textile products and
less than 1 percent of Turkey's textile exports of US$5.4 billion. But it posted net losses of
TL6.6 trillion (US$960 million) in 1992.
3.15   The Government has recently made substantial progress in privatizing parts of Sumerbank.
Sumerbank's balance sheet has been cleaned up and the bank is up for sale. Bids are currently being
received by the Government. Sumer Holding is currently privatizing most of its retail operations and
several of its textile plants and affiliated investments. As of November 1993, 291 of the 424 retail
outlets had been sold. Of the five textile and dye enterprises, in which private investors hold 5 to 15
percent of shares, Sumer Holding has advertised two for sale and is expected to initiate the sale of the
other three companies in the coming months. A restructuring plan precedent to the privatization of its
remaining textile properties has also been developed. It includes downsizing plant capacity, the
closure of uneconomic enterprises, the relocation and merger of core businesses, and the sale of land
to meet the costs of labor rationalization. Despite this progress, the privatization strategy currently
envisages consolidating Sumer Holding's textile operations into an SOE with up to 15,000 workers in
about six or seven large operations. This strategy appears unviable, especially since a firm
privatization timetable has not been drawn up. Furthermore, it is questionable whether the resulting
large manufacturing units could be sold in a market already characterized by over-capacity. The
Bank has assisted Sumer Holding's management with a preliminary reassessment of its
restructuring/privatization strategy. A more detailed technical and financial reassessment of the
current privatization program is urgently needed, with more intensive efforts to sell plants and assets
to the private sector and to management and employees. Some additional units may also have to be
closed down.
3.16   TDCI (steel). TDCI currently comprises four iron and steel plants and has four affiliates
engaged in the manufacture of machine tools, construction materials, specialty steels, and diesel
engines. Total employment is estimated at over 25,000, of which nearly 20,000 are employed at the
ISDEMIR and KARDEMIR steel mills. Overcapacity in TDCI's long product market is resulting in
severe competition and depressed prices for the firm. TDCI is unable to compete and losses are
accumulating because its technology is obsolete, with high labor, energy and material usage cost.
Following wage increases in 1991, wages are 3-5 times the levels in the private sector. Product lines
are focused on low margin segments while the organizational structure is top heavy resulting in
excessive corporate overhead and slow decision-making. TDCI's accumulated losses currently stand
at almost US$2 billion. Continued losses and the large debt are resulting in escalating debt service
requirements. Also, TDCI's facilities do not incur the costs of environmentally sound operations or
the true cost of capital. All plants are unionized and privatization will need to be agreed upon by the



- 13-
unions. The Government has taken the first steps towards privatizing TDCI by splitting it into three
companies to be corporatized separately - ISDEMIR, KARDEMIR, and the iron ore mines.
3.17 The ISDEMIR and KARDEMIR steel mills lose approximately US$700 million per year.
Both plants are major employers in their respective regions. ISDEMIR needs to be amalgamated with
the mines and privatized as a going concern. This would entail decentralizing its business functions
such as sales, marketing, personnel, finance, procurement and all other operating and support roles
from TDCI to ISDEMIR. KARDEMIR, in Zonguldak province, is loc-ated far from its input sources
and end user markets. The Government has not yet made a decision regarding this operation.
Privatization and/or closure of these SOEs would involve substantial job reductions of up to 15,000
workers, large-scale debt absorption by the Government and a substantial write-down of book value.
(Iii)   Utilities
3.18   The Government is proposing to privatize two of its largest utilities, telecommunications as
separated from PTT, and TEK (electricity). Due to the complexity of the issues involved, the large
financial liabilities, and the limited capacity of PPA to manage these liabilities, these SOEs are to be
privatized outside the framework of Law 3291. In August 1993, the Government issued a Decree
with the force-of-law for the restructuring and privatization of telecommunications as separated from
PTT, followed by a Decree for the restructuring and eventual privatization of TEK. The Decree for
telecommunications has since been declared unconstitutional, but the Government is firm in its resolve
to press ahead.
3.19   Telecommunications. Substantial investments were made in the telecommunications sector
during the 1980s. The network now consists of nine million lines (16 per 100 population), with more
than 50 percent digitalized and all villages connected to the national grid. Most investment has been
self-financed, using growing profits plus tax/dividend holidays provided by the Government. In
1990, over two percent of GNP was derived from the sector, compared with less than one percent in
1980. PIT combines a profitable telephone business with loss-making posts, telex/telegraphy and
broadcasting transmissions. It offers a wide range of services, but 98 percent of the revenues are
derived from basic telephony. Service quality has improved over the years, although staffing remains
high (11/1,000 lines). The company enjoys a high degree of operational and financial autonomy.
PTT has a monopoly of basic telephony services and has discouraged competition in areas where it
provides service. The terminal equipment market was recently liberalized.
3.20   The Decree with the force-of-law issued in August 1993, authorized the separation of post and
telecommunications, the creation of an initially 100 percent Government-owned telecommunications
company, the full privatization of value added services (cellular mobile phones, paging, data
transmission, etc.), and the future sale of 49 percent of the shares of the telecommunications
company. Despite the this Decree having been declared unconstitutional, the Government is moving
ahead. A Steering Committee for the privatization of telecommunications (para. 3.35) has been
appointed. The Government is preparing a new draft law separating telecommunications from postal
services, and is forging ahead with the development of a licensing regime for the liberalization of
value-added services. Preliminary work for a study on the legal and regulatory framework for the
telecommunications sector has been initiated. The Government will commission the study under the
proposed operation (para. 6.26). The establishment of a framr.ework that specifies levels of
competition, tariff and licensing regime, network development targets, quality of service, and
technical regulations is urgently needed irrespective of the timing of the separation from postal



- 14 -
services and the eventual privatization of the wireline telephone system; this is a prerequisite to
facilitating private investment in value-added services, which is possible even while basic telephony
remains in the public sector. These actions would be critical in preparing and implementing a well-
conceived privatization process which would meet both the objectives and timetable set by the
Government.
3.21   TEK. TEK provides 95 percent of the power in Turkey. CEAS and KEPEZ (two privately
owned companies) together supply the remaining five percent. TEK has an installed capacity of
18,000 MW. The peak demand is 11,000 MW. TEK has been incurring losses for some years
despite monthly tariff adjustmnents, linked to US dollars, to counter inflation. Losses are due to
operational and financial inefficiencies, a high debt burden, and earlier overinvestment in large-scale
generation projects.
3.22   Prior attempts to restructure TEK and introduce operational and financial efficiencies have not
succeeded. Since 1985, Law 3096 and its regulations have allowed private sector involvement in
TEK operations. But this legislation is geared to promote build-operate-and transfer (BOT) projects
which depend on the continued existence of a central power authority as buyer and on Government
guarantees on tariffs and minimum offtake. More recently, Law 3096 has been used to lease
distribution assets for private operations (legal restrictions inhibit asset ownership). According to the
Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources (MENR), neither of these legislative initiatives has been
successful.
3.23   The Government attaches priority to the privatization of TEK. A Decree has been issued
providing for: (i) the creation of two 100 percent state-owned commercial joint-stock companies, one
for generation and transmission, and the other for distribution; (ii) new private investments in the
power sector; ana kiii) the eventual privatization of power generation and transmission. Accordingly,
TEK has been divided into two separate companies: the "Turkish Electricity Production and
Transmission Company" and "Turkish Electricity Distribution Company.' Under the Decree,
separate distribution companies are to be established to serve distribution areas into which the country
will be divided. Later, a selected number of these distribution companies will be gradually
privatized.
3.24   The Decree is a step in the right direction. But it appears to give priority to the privatization
of power distribution, rather than power generation. The establishment of several, commercially-
oriented power generation companies, and their separation from the high-voltage transmission grid
(which should operate as a commercial carrier), is indispensable to introduce competition at the
supply stage. The removal of central control over power generation and the independence of the
transmission grid from any generation company would allow all generators to sell power directly to
distribution companies and to large industrial users. This would attract private capital both for new
power generation investments for which massive capital infusions are needed in the short to medium
term to expand generation capacity, as well as for existing power plants. A prerequisite for the
introduction of local and foreign private investors to power generation is the establishment of a
suitable regulatory/legal framework allowing: (i) initially, the cohabitation of privately and publicly
owned generation plants; and (ii) effective competition among different generation companies. The
privatization of TEK and the private sector operation of the electricity sector will take several years to
complete. Meanwhile, the Government and TEK management, under an ongoing Bank-financed
operation, are improving the operational and financial efficiency of TEK through the reform of



- 15 -
pricing policy, the adoption of annual corporate performance plans for TEK, the restructuring of
TEK's debt, and the implementation of environmental impact assessments.
E. Overall Assessment
3.25   The Government has prepared a large and important privatization program, the first phase of
which would, if quickly and successfully implemented, set the stage for sustained privatization in the
future. A number of significant institutional measures have been taken to move the process forward
(para. 3.30), and the privatization of the PPA portfolio is moving ahead (paras. 3.9 to 3.10). In
addition, the Government is taking steps to lay the foundation for a broader program encompassing
larger SOEs, including loss-makt.rs. These include steps to: forge a political consensus and build
popular support for privatization; clarify the legal and institutional framework; and strengthen the
capacity of the implementing agencies to carry out privatization and, in the case of large problem
SOEs, manage the process of debt and labor restructuring in preparation for sale. Equally important
are the development of an effective social safety net for affected employees (Section IV), and
preparation of economic revitalization programs for heavily affected regions such as the Zonguldak
Region (Section V).
(i)    Popular Support for Privatization
3.26   Experience the world over shows that privatization is first and foremost a political process
requiring political commitment at the highest level. Failure can rarely be attributed to technical or
institutional reasons alone. In Turkey, high-level political commitment to privatization clearly exists,
but differing views within the coalition Government and resistance from opposition parties is
exacerbating the diffliculties of privatization. The recent decision to declare unconstitutional the
Government decree on the reform and privatization of telecommunications, for example, was based on
an appeal led by deputies from the SHP, the junior coalition partner in the Govermment. In the
absence of an adequate social safety net, the opposition from the unions is also strong, particularly in
sectors with substantial overstaffing such as steel, textiles, and electricity. SOE managers and
employees have also opposed privatization plans, having been given few opportunities to participate in
the process so far. If unaddressed, opposition from all of these groups could stymie privatization and
reform.
3.27   A priority for the Government is, therefore, to forge a political consensus and broaden
popular support for privatization from all groups alike. A sustained and effective public information
campaign would be vital in engaging in a dialogue with the public about: (i) the benefits of
privatization, and the continued economic and social costs of keeping and subsidizing loss-making
enterprises in the state sector; (ii) the objectives and strategy of the privatization program, including
the mechanisms for ensuring transparency; and (iii) implementation details, in particular about
methods targeted to small investors and employees (such as public share offerings, employee share
ownership schemes), as well as specifics about the social safety net. In contrast to the situation in the
past, the growing public awareness of the urgent need to tackle the structural problems of the SOE
sector would facilitate the process of building a public consensus. Under the proposed project, the
Government wouid launch an intensive public information campaign to further garner public support
for privatization, and to translate such support into a concrete and implementable privatization
program (para. 6.11).



- 16 -
(ii)   Legal Framework for Privatization
3.28   Turkey has not yet enacted a law providing a comprehensive legal regime for the privatization
of the entire SOE sector. Rather, the legal framework for privatization has been constructed over
time in an ad hoc manner. Law 3291 provides a sufficient legal basis for the privatization of SOEs
assigned to PPA by the Council of Ministers. Although there are shortcomings under Law 3291
regarding the extent of PPA's authority in restructuring SOE liabilities, liquidating enterprises,
dealing with land issues, and settling environmental liabilities, they can and have been dealt with on a
case-by-case basis through administrative actions and implementing regulations, without requiring new
legislation. To date, such measures have been legally sufficient but the ad hoc nature of the exercise
has led to a lack of predictability and integrity for the process as a whole. What is required now are
clear and transparent institutional procedures to facilitate the privatization process. To this end, PPA
is engaged in internal reorganization and streamlining of procedures, as well as cooperative efforts
with Treasury to resolve issues of SOE land and financial liabilities, both before and upon
privatization. (Article 15 of Law 3291 provides a basis for financial resolutions.)
3.29   The current legal framework is satisfactory for the privatization of PPA's existing portfolio
which is the focus of the proposed project. In and of itself, action to privatize PPA's portfolio would
constitute an important first phase of the Government's broader privatization program. However, the
legal framework for the privatization of SOEs, in particular the utilities, which operate under Decree
Law 233 and are not in PPA's portfolio, continues to be problematic. For example, the
Government's efforts thus far to privatize telecommunications have not succeeded. Accordingly, the
Government is drafting a new privatization law which, along with supplemental decrees and
regulations, would streamline the legal basis for the privatization of Decree Law 233 enterprises and,
in the process, would improve PPA's authority to deal with its portfolio. Such a law, outlining the
objectives and principles of privatization and more clearly defining the responsibilities of the different
agencies, would be of critical importance for a more comprehensive privatization program in Turkey.
Pending Parliamentary approval of a new law, for those SOEs which would need new legislation for
privatization to proceed (telecommunications, for example), the Government is focussing its efforts in
the interim on developing a legal and regulatory framework for the sector and preparing the
companies for sale.
(iii)  Institutional Arrangements for Privatization
3.30   At present, most privatization is carried out by PPA under Law 3291. However, the
institutional arrangements for the broader privatization program are still ad hoc and uncertain since
many of the large SOEs are undergoing a separate privatization process. In some cases (for example,
Sumer Holding) company management is in charge of privatization; in other cases the process is
controlled by the line ministry (for example, TEK); and Treasury can be expected to play an active
role in all SOE privatizations where large debt and severance issues are involved. The Government is
taking steps to make the institutional arrangements for privatization more orderly, transparent, and
professional. These include the recent appointment of a Chairman at PPA with the experience and
credentials needed to drive the privatization program; the creation of a high-level steering committee
for telecommunications privatization; and the establishment of a new Technical Board headed by the
Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade. The Technical Board, also including the Chairman of
PPA, the Capital Markets Board, and the state banks, has been created to coordinate timing and other
financial issues involved in major transactions. At the same time, further clarification of the powers



17 -
and responsibilities of the various institutions, and substantial strengthening of their capacities, are
still required to ensure efficient and speedy privatization.
3.31   EPA. PPA has made significant progress over the past few years, having successfully
implemented a number of small and medium sized transactions. While in principle it has primary
responsibility and authority to privatize SOEs under Law 3291, in practice PPA lacks clear authority
and decision-making powers. This, combined with continuing political interference, has resulted in
substantial delays in preparing and concluding transactions. Moreover, PPA's present capacity to
privatize its existing worklcad and to serve as 'seller" or implementing agency for the privatization of
large problem SOEs and utilities in the near future (para. 3.36) is relatively weak. While headed by a
dynamic and experienced Chairman, PPA's staff at both the middle-management and junior levels
have not yet built up adequate experience in the area of privatization, and major transactions
proceeding in parallel will place a severe strain on PPA's resources.
3.32   To allow privatization to proceed smoothly, the transaction process needs to be made
transparent and professional (from the initial decision to privatize until the final approval of the sale).
Substantial strengthening of PPA is also critical to enable it to manage its existing portfolio within the
ambitious timetable set by the Government, and to enable it to take on added responsibilitie. as the
pipeline of candidates grows. PPA needs to recruit a core team of in-house legal, strategic and public
information advisers with the requisite privatization and international commercial experience. In
addition, advisory support for individual transactions oawyers, management consultants, investment
bankers, financial advisors, industry experts) would be essential in ensuring well-structured and timely
sales. Well-designed training, combined with computer and communications equipment (and
supporting software), would further enhance PPA's efficiency.
3.33 Problem SOEs and Utilities. For large complex privatizations outside of PPA's portfolio
(such as TDCI and the utilities), an ad hoc process is emerging which can become captive to company
management or the line ministry and thereby delay the entire process. For TDCI, where prior
financial and labor restructuring is a major issue involving the active participation of Treasury and the
company itself, the PPA route for privatization is not fully appropriate. Accordingly, consideration
should be given to establishing a separate working group comprising all affected parties (including
PPA, Treasury, and the company), with PPA remaining the nominal seller.
3.34   In the case of utilities, privatization is part of a complex strategy and long-term process of
overall sector reform. In the meantime, the companies must continue to provide basic infrastructure
services. Successful privatization in these sectors requires: (i) detailed operational and technical
knowledge of the sector; (ii) decisions on fundamental policy issues related to competition, pricing,
and ownership; (iii) the development, preferably prior to sale, of a sound legal and regulatory
framework to protect public interests and to remove uncertainties which might otherwise deter private
investors; and (iv) major financial and organizational restructuring which involves, inter alia, debt
settlement, employment adjustments, separation of competitive activities from non-competitive ones,
and break-up of large enterprises into smaller ones.
3.35   For these reasons, consideration should be given to establishing separate high-level inter-
ministerial commnissions endowed with adequate authority for the privatization of SOEs such as
telecommunications and TEK. A first step was taken in October 1993, with the establishment of a
Steering Committee for telecommunications privatization. In the power sector, all initiatives,
including the drafting and presentation to the Cabinet of the decree to reorganize TEK, have to date



- 18 -
been driven by MENR. However, no substantive advance toward privatization can be expected unless
all interested parties are directly involved in the decision-making process, including in particular,
Treasury which would have to agree on the strategy that will be adopted to restructure TEK's sizeable
government guaranteed debt.
3.36   For the commissions to function effectively, the Chairperson should be a leading, well-
respected expert in the field, selected from the public or private sector. The person should be given
full power and authority to take all actions necessary to prepare and implement a privatization strategy
that meets the objectives and timetable of the Government. The commissions should comprise high-
level officials from: (i) the company, to provide technical and corporate input at all stages; (ii) the
ministry, to develop policies and regulation for the sector as a whole; (iii) Treasury, to represent, as
owner, the financial interests of the state; (iv) PPA, to be the implementing agency; and (v) the State
Planning Organization (SPO). In addition, the commission could also include two to three
independent senior industry experts to provide policy, regulatory, and operational guidance
throughout the process on the basis of their experience elsewhere. The detailed privatization work
could be undertaken by smaller working groups reporting to the commission. Gi -en the complexity
and high degree of specialization involved in such transactions, external advisors (management
consultants, investment bankers, lawyers, accountants, industry and technical experts) with the
requisite experience would need to be involved at all stages of the process. PPA should serve as
implementing agency to hire, manage, and supervise all such consultants.
(iv)   Debt Restructuring/Downsizing of SOEs
3.37   A major constraint to the implementation of the privatization program is the lack of capacity
to manage the increasingly complex debt burden of many SOEs. Currently, SOE financing is
determined as part of the budgetary cycle. SPO and Treasury annually publish a schedule setting
forth the intended financing program which is not mandatory but rather a target for the SOEs. In
practice, these targets are increasingly exceeded by many SOEs. In addition, many SOEs are running
arrears to various creditors, including municipalities, the Social Security Administration, Treasury
(taxes) and suppliers. Treasury's General Directorate of Public Finance (GDPF) currently collects
SOE financial data, monitors debt and disbursements (budgetary transfers) and, as part of the annual
budget cycle, coordinates with SPO and PPA (for certain problematical SOEs in PPA's portfolio) in
determining the SOEs' financing and investment requirements. Treasury's General Directorate for
.oreign Economic Relations (GDFER) meets the SOEs' external financing requirements by providing
guarantees and on-lending foreign borrowings. The monitoring, approval and planning processes are
of an ex ante nature, with little cash-based analysis, profit-loss evaluation or projections of financial
performance.
3.38   Currently, Treasury lacks adequate tools to analyze, model and project the necessary actions
to be taken with respect to managing SOEs' debt to proceed with the privatization program.
Specifically, it is necessary to determine to what extent the debt levels of privatization candidates need
to be reduced to achieve acceptable levels of key inancial ratios and what the combined effect of such
debt restructuring will be on the public finances. At the same time, to prepare SOEs for
privatization, a capacity for developing alternative financial strategies for negotiating current and
future borrowings, and analyzing SOE business plans needs to be developed. The introduction of the
new harmonized accounting system in January 1994, and progress under the ongoing Treasury Data
Systems Project (which will set up a new data base structure for organizing and presenting SOE
accounts) afford an opportunity to develop the needed debt management capacity. To this end, the



- 19 -
capabilities of GDPF and GDFER to manage and restructure SOE debt will be e- anced under the
proposed project. Problem SOEs would be referred by the PPA. Technical assisLw1ce is required to
develop the capacity and tools to analyze the existing debt structures and to model different scenarios
in preparation for privatization.
(v)    Privatization and Capital Markets
3.39  In the past year, the Istanbul Stock Exchange (IMKB) has become one of the leading
international emerging markets. The monthly volume of trading, around US$500 million at the end
of 1992, rose to nearly US$3 billion in September 1993, while the total capitalization value of the
companies rose from less than US$10 billion to US$31.5 billion during the same period. Citing the
growth in volume and international recognition, IMKB officials note a growing appetite for high
quality domestic equities and argue ;hat an accelerated program of divestiture of much of PPA's
portfolio could lead to broader, deeper participation by both domestic and foreign investors.
3.40   Significant reforms and innovations introduced last year by the Capital Market Board, are
now having a direct bearing on the market. Recently, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
designated the IMKB an "overseas stock exchange" thus clearing the way for investment by U.S.
institutional investors. Additional reforms to provide new investment instruments for domestic and
foreign institutional investors and more favorable tax treatment should deepen the still thin market.
3.41   The IMKB is dominated by a few actors with consequent impact on depth, resiliency and
liquidity. In addition, mechanisms for the clearance and monitoring of trade require considerable
improvement in automation and diversification, though a state-of-the-art computer system is planned.
Institutional investors are still few, with a total outstanding value of mutual funds at the end of
October 1993 of only TL14.3 trillion, of which less than 16 percent is invested in stocks. The market
for private, direct placements also appears to be small. While the current daily trading volume of
approximately US$80 - US$85 million indicates an inability to handle very large privatizations, the
recent and planned improvements suggest the capacity to handle portions of several SOEs in PPA's
current portfolio.
3.42   Until now, the Capital Markets Board and the IMKB have not been involved in privatization
planning, though both PPA and Treasury have indicated their intention to include them in the working
groups for significant, large enterprise privatizations. Coordinated carefully, the privatization of
PPA's portfolio would deepen the Istanbul Stock Exchange.



- 20 -
IV. SOCIAL SAFETY NET
A. Introduction
4.1    Strengthening Turkey's social safety net and developing an effective labor adjustment program
for redundant SOE workers is an integral element of the Government's privatization agenda. A
viable strategy to mitigate the impact of labor force downsizing in the SOEs requires both temporary
income support and labor adjustment assistance, supported by a well-designed public information
program. The temporary income support program would help ensure that the basic needs of workers
and their families are met during a transitional period. Labor adjustment programs, including
training, job counseling and placement, support for small businesses, and labor-intensive employmenit
programs, such as environmental clean-up and community development projects, are also key to
shortening the period of unemployment, thereby reducing the burden on labor and society. The shift
of labor from jobs and regions where it is redundant to productive uses elsewhere is an inevitable and
desirable step as the Government reduces the size of the SOE sector and encourages private
investment.
4.2   It is clear that the sizeable labor force downsizing will not be easy. It would involve loss of
income, uncertainty and psychological stress, and job relocation needs. The impact will be especially
severe where SOE employment bulks large in a community and where there are few alternative
employment opportunities. There is a growing consensus in Turkey that privatization and the
accompanying labor force restructuring are essential; the burden that SOEs are imposing on society is
unsustainable. The experience of other countries (e.g. Argentina, Chile, Hungary and Mexico) has
shown that with labor, business, and the government working together to find solutions, it is possible
to restructure the labor force without undue social costs and political stress. Relative to other
countries undergoing privatization, SOE employment in Turkey is quite small as a share of total
employment Oess than 6 percent of the non-agricultural labor force, or approximately 600,000 of a
total of over 9,000,000). The increases in the labor force growth due to SOE downsizing phased
over several years will not be too large for a growing economy to absorb. Illustrative estimates of
worker compensation costs relative to wage savings (based on available data on workers and wages
for 1993) indicate that, although initially the attendant severance payments would be substantial, the
cumulative wage savings for the Government over, say, a three-year period, are significantly higher
than worker compensation costs, resulting in a net saving for Government. Thus worker
compensation costs associated with layoffs appear to be manageable.



-21 -
B. Income Support Programs5
4.3    The current support program for labor force downsizing consists of legally-mandated
severance pay for voluntary early retirement. An Unemployment Insurance Law (UIL) is under
preparation, but it is unlikely that it could be implemented in time to support SOE downsizing within
the next two to three years.
Early Retirement
4.4    As in other countries, early retirement in Turkey is continuing to make an important
contribution to labor force downsizing in SOEs. As of January 1993, about 35,000 SOE employees
were eligible for retirement. Although reliable data are not available, the order of magnitude of
attrition through voluntary retirement is not likely to be sufficient to resolve labor redundancy
problems in the SOE sector.6 Retirement benefits and eligibility differ marginally between the three
major pension funds. Generally, the qualification for retirement is 20 years of insured employment
for women and 25 years for men. Thus far, most workers opting for voluntary early retirement have
done so without added inducements, except for the prompt payment of their legally-due severance
payments. Many, however, have also been induced to take early retirement through the payment of a
"Notification Indemnity," equivalent to two months of wages.
Unenmloyment Insurance
4.5    Pending the passage of an Unemployment Insurance Law (UIL), severance pay will likely be
the main source of temporary income support to SOE employees displaced in the
privatization/restructuring process. Once approved, the UIL would provide partial protection against
wage losses for all workers covered by Law 1475. However, it will take time to pass the necessary
legislation and to set up requisite institutional capacity to administer the system efficiently. Also, it
will take workers almost two years to qualify for insurance benefits. Therefore, unemployment
insurance is not likely to play a role in the process of downsizing the SOE labor force over the next
few years.
Severance Pay
4.6    Global experience with privatization programs shows that income support/severance payments,
over and above those legally-mandated, have become the norm. Experience also suggests that the
early involvement of all parties in the downsizing process; an appropriate and legally defensible
5 There are four basic categories of employees: Civil Servants (covered by Law 657) who enjoy job security but do
not have the right to unionize or strike; Contract Workers (covered by Decree Law 399) who have essentially the same
rights as civil servants but enjoy higher salaries; Workers (covered by Law 1475) who may be unionized and have legal
rights regarding termination of employment; Temporara Workers who have few legal rights. Technically, these
temporary workers are employed for 30 days or less but, in practice, may have been employed for many years. As of
October 1993, there were about 590,000 SOE employees (including about 76,000 employees of those SOEs which have
been transferred to PPA). Of the total, there were approximately 16,000 civil servants, 183,000 contract workers;
311,000 workers and 81,000 temporary workers.
6 By law, workers have the right to work until the age of 65, although after 30 years employment, employers may
challenge continued employment.



- 22 -
severance package; and some flexibility in the severance package with due regard to equity
considerations, are crucial to successful labor force downsizing. In Turkey, severance payments are
provided under Law 1475 to all workers in the formal sector on retirement or in the event of
termination without just cause. Civil servants are entitled to essentially similar severance benefits
(i.e., retirement premia) on retirement. Severance pay is defined as one month's salary for each year
of service. The severance pay is subject to a cap, which is adjusted twice yearly for inflation.
C. Labor Adjustment Program
4.7    The labor adjustment program would facilitate SOE restructuring by providing assistance to
affected workers, enterprises, and communities to shorten the duration of frictional and structural
unemployment. Labor programs and services would include job counseling, retraining and
employment services, and support for small enterprise development. The process would be demand
driven, with workers self-selecting for the services. The potential for developing the economic base
of regions affected by privatization would be analyzed through the formulation of local development
plans which will focus on creating new private sector employment opportunities. There is increasing
evidence that active labor market policies, if well-targeted, have the potential for reducing
unemployment. More importantly, without such assistance, it would be difficult to garner worker
support for privatization - an essential ingredient for its success.
4.8    To ensure the success of labor adjustment programs, provision should be made for an early
and comprehensive definition of the social impact of restructuring an enterplise; the demand for labor
services from affected workers; and the delivery of such services to these workers. At the outset,
there is a need to analyze revised enterprise staffing requirements, labor regulations, and social
infrastructure (e.g., schools, housing) that may be divested, in executing the privatization program.
This analysis should include information on the number, demographics, and skill levels of workers
who may be affected by restructuring. It should also identify union agreements (e.g., seniority rules)
and regulations (e.g., severance and early re.irement regulations) which will affect the layoff process.
Analyses carried out thus far in Turkey often have not provided enough data to allow informed
privatization decisions or systematic planning for labor adjustment programs. Technical assistance is
needed to help develop a more comprehensive and systematic approach.
4.9    There is a need to identify the particular workers who will be affected, inform them of their
options to reduce labor/management conflicts, and provide initial assistance to help them find
employment. Turkey's experience to-date with labor adjustment in SOEs has been primarily through
"soft reductions" such as voluntary early retirement largely coupled with the prompt payment of
severance payments which are legally due to the retirees. The severance pay and retirement options
currently in place need to be accompanied by active labor adjustment measures. In order to attract
private investment, the "market-orientation' of local initiatives for economic and social development
needs to be strengthened. Strengthening the market orientation of local initiatives in those areas
where SOEs are being restructured or privatized would: (a) alleviate the social impact of SOE
restructuring; and (b) reduce the political pressure for, and the risk of re-emergence and re-growth
of, SOE employment after SOE restructuring.
4.10   Successful labor adjustment programs are based on a participatory process involving
employers, labor, and government representatives, and include the development of procedures for
adequate advance notice to workers. To ensure an effective labor restructuring process, the
Government needs to develop these procedures in close consultation with the relevant SOEs. This



- 23 -
process should be carried out jointly by management including those responsible for privatization, and
labor with the support of comnmunity organizations. It should be initiated after a labor-restructuring
decision has been made and should take place in-plant prior to any labor-shedding. The process
should, inter alia, ascertain the interest of workers in available labor programs and determine their
eligibility for temporary income support programs.
4.11   During the labor adjustment planning process in individual SOEs, a significant proportion of
workers are likely to need in-depth counseling and assistance to help them re-enter the labor market,
using existing skills, through retraining, or by relocating. Turkey has a network, including
employment, training and small-business assistance agencies, to provide the needed services. Many
of these institutions (e.g., the Ministry of National Education, the Higher Council of Education, and
KOSGEB) have been strengthened in recent years, while others, such as IIBK, the Turkish
Employment Agency, are currently being strengthened with ongoing Bank assistance. However,
additional support is required to meet the combined needs of affected enterprises, communities, and
large numbers of direcdy and indirectly affected workers.
D. The Pension System
4.12  In 1992, social security coverage was provided to nearly three-quarters of the population, or
approximately 40 million people. Government organizations account for the overwhelming majority
of coverage, although private sector insurance has become important in providing supplementary
pension coverage in recent years. The level of social security coverage provided to Turkish citizens
compares favorably with comparable countries. However, it falls short of OECD standards.
4.13   The three main pension schemes in Turkey are Sosyal Sigortalar Kurumu (SSK), Emekli
Sandigi (ES), and Bag-Kur covering respectively, public and private sector employees of formal
sector enterprises, civil servants, and the self-employed. They are contributory schemes, also
providing health, disability and death benefits. SSK is the largest organization providing social
security. Established in 1964, within the Ministry of Labor and Social Security through Law No.
506, SSK covers all employees subject to Law No. 1475 in private and public enterprises. Since
1982, SSK has also extended coverage (voluntary) to seasonal workers in the agricultural sector.
Currently, SSK provides coverage to almost one-third of the Turkish population. ES provides
coverage to civil servants and is the oldest of the pension funds, established in 1950 under Law No.
5450, which merged nine separate funds that had provided coverage to various branches of the civil
service. ES is attached to the Ministry of Finance and provides coverage to almost 15 percent of the
population. Bag-Kur was established in 1971 within the Ministry of Labor and Social Security
through Law No. 1479 to provide coverage to the self-employed. The organization subsequently
extended its coverage to housewives, elected village and municipal officials, and agricultural
workers7 and, in 1986, its coverage was extended to include health benefits. Bag-Kur currently
provides coverage to approximately 23 percent of the population.
4.14  The retirement benefits provided by the three major organizations are proportional to
earnings. In all three organizations, retirement benefits accrue to the spouse and dependent children
(through tertiary education) upon the member's death. When the surviving spouse is also a recipient
7 With the passage of the 1984 Agricultural Workers Social Insurance Law, No.2926.



- 24 -
independently of retirement benefits, accrued payments continue, but some deductions may be made,
for instance, for 'social assistance" payments.
4.15   Overall, the premium rates for the major pension funds in 1993 ranged from 32-41 percent,
including health, or approximately 20-23 percent for old age and disability pensions. Contributions
are subject to a cap on wages in both SSK and ES. Bag-Kur has also a cap, but this is made largely
irrelevant as a result of Bag-Kur's premium collection record. Over the past ten years only one
percent of Bag-Kur members regularly paid their premiums; 34 percent paid premiums irregularly; 30
percent made a few payments; and 35 percent never paid premiums.
4.16   Current Position of the Pension System. Currently, Turkey's pension system is not
financially sustainable. In 1994, the deficits of SSK and Bag-Kur represent about 1.3 percent of
projected GNP. Using a more comprehensive definition of the social insurance funds' current
deficits, the overall deficit in 1994 will probably be at least two to three percent of GDP and is likely
to increase substantially in future years. Pension deficits on this scale potentially threaten
macroeconomic stabilization objectives, hamper Government efforts to privatize SOEs, and constrain
budgetary choices in other ways.
4.17   The three funds are currently running cash deficits and, especially in the cases of SSK and
Bag-Kur, these are projected to increase significantly in the years ahead. The reasons for this
insolvency include ineffective systems within SSK and Bag-Kur for collecting premiums, retirement
ages that are low, early retirement provisions that are particularly generous, the absence of a
retirement test for receipt of pensions, benefit levels that are comparatively high, dependents' benefits
of long duration, projections that imply a continuing decline in the support ratio from an already low
level, and mandated benefits (social assistance) that are unfunded. In addition, the response to the
recent liberalization of early retirement provisions has not yet had its full financial impact, and the
restructuring and privatization of the SOE sector is likely to add to the financial difficulties of the
pension system by increasing the number of retirees and reducing the number of active members.
4.18   Turkey's pension system has significant problems not only in relation to its solvency but also
in the areas of accountability and transparency, managerial and administrative efficiency, equity, and
(possibly) coverage. Therefore, Turkey needs to prepare a thorough evaluation of its pension system
including its linkage to privatization and the potential for introducing privately administered pension
schemes linked to capital market development. Accordingly, under the proposed project, the
Government will commission a detailed analysis of options for the social security/pension systems (see
para. 6.20).



- 25 -
V. REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN ZONGULDAK
5. I   Zonguldak Region, consisting of the provinces of Zonguldak and Bartin, is located on the
Black Sea Coast approximately 300 kms northwest of Ankara and is the site of two major SOEs (TK
and KARDEMIR) for which the Government is planning a divestiture/downsizing operation. TTK is
an enterprise engaged in hard coal mining activities with a workforce of 33,000. In 1992, it posted
losses of about TL5.6 trillion. KARDEMIR, a steel mill belonging to TDCI, has a workforce of
approximately 6,500 and its 1992 losses amounted to approximately TL2.9 trillion. Higher losses are
expected for 1993 in both enterprises. Directly and indirectly, these two SOEs constitute almost the
sole source of employment for a population of about 375,000 concentrated in the cities of Zonguldak
(250,000) and Karabuk (125,000).
5.2    Although the losses being incurred by TTK and KARDEMIR have caused concern for many
years, successive governments have not taken action to restructure the two enterprises because of the
political sensitivity of large lay-offs in a region with few or no employment alternatives. Attempts to
diversify the economic base of the region have been made, but projects appear to have largely been
driven by political considerations rather than based on rigorous technical and financial criteria.
5.3     A Regional Development Report finalized by SPO in 1993 focusses on the creation of
alternative employment opportunities through large investments in road, rail and port infrastructure,
non-traditional agriculture, tourism, higher education and health, as well as industrial estates for
small- and medium-size industries. As part of this effort, Zonguldak was declared a Priority
Development Region in 1991, thus offering fiscal incentives for private investors. These incentives
for private investment have been modest thus far. The investment proposals included in the SPO
report lack adequate analytical underpinning by reliable feasibility studies. This is also the case for
investment projects which have been, or are being, explored by other Government agencies.
5.4    The combined TTK and KARDEMIR workforce has been reduced by about 5,000 workers by
end-1993 through voluntary early retirement. However, accelerated labor attrition in itself is likely to
be insufficient to rapidly complete the downscaling and/or closure of the two SOEs, thus rendering a
phased program of lay-offs unavoidable. To make such a decision politically acceptable, and to
mitigate the resulting adverse social and economic effects, the Government has asked for Bank
support in designing a realistic regional development strategy. The objective of such a strategy would
be:
(a)   in the short-term, to mitigate the social impact of the expected lay-offs through the creation of
alternative employment opportunities adapted to the existing skill profile of the 1TK and
KARDEMIR workforce, the provision of vocational retraining programs, and the provision of
an effective social safety net; and
(b)    over the medium-term, to revitalize the regional economy through: (i) the formulation of a
comprehensive regional development program taking into account the overall development
potential resulting from proximity to the domestic markets of the Istanbul, Ankara and Aegean



- 26 -
coast areas8; (ii) the preparation and implementation of an economically and financially viable
program of future investments in infrastructure and other sectors to effectively promote and/or
expand private investment; and (iii) the strengthening of the institutional mechanisms
necessary for effective implementation, and a promotional campaign aimed at private investors
in Turkey and abroad.
$As a first step, an assessment of the development potential of the Zonguldak Region is expected to be
caund out with funding from the PHRD Fund.



-7 -
VI. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
6.1    Following the success of the adjustment program of the 1980s, the major challenge facing
Turkey today is to set the economy firmly on the road to sustainable private sector-led growth. This
requires the implementation of an effective stabilization strategy. The highest priority is the
permanent reduction of the fiscal deficit. The 1993 PSBR is estimated at abort 16 percent of GNP,
with SOEs accounting for nearly one-half of the total. Sustained fiscal contraction and SOE reforms,
including privatization, are key to stabilizing the economy, improving efficiency, and accelerating
growth. Support for the Government's efforts to disengage from production activities and foster the
continuing development of the private sector is a central theme of the Bank's assistance strategy for
Turkey.
6.2    The new Government has announced bold and politically difficult measures to reduce public
expenditures and raise revenues, and to improve overall efficiency. These include wage restraint, tax
and tax administration reforms, an aggressive privatization drive coupled with reforms of the social
security system and the introduction of a social safety net for redundant SOE workers. To help
achieve the underlying objectives of improved efficiency and sustained fiscal contraction, the
Government is committed to accelerating the pace of privatization. To this end, the Government has
requested Bank assistance to help prepare and implement privatization transactions; forge popular
support for privatization; ensure an efficient and transparent privatization process, and strengthen the
capacity of the various agencies to implement privatization; establish, in the case of the utilities, a
regulatory regime that promotes competition and efficiency; and provide an effective social safety net
for displaced labor.
6.3    At the previous Government's request, the Bank completed a State-Owned Enterprise (SOE)
Sector Review in March 1993. The Government had agreed with the conclusions and
recommendations of the report, but lacking political support, did not launch an SOE divestiture and
reform program. The Bank has also prepared draft studies on the Labor Force Implications of SOE
Reforms and on Turkey's Pension System. Again, because of political sensitivities, the previous
Government did not act on the recommendations. Building on this sector work, the Bank will help
lay the basis for a more enduring public sector reform and fiscal contraction process. Under the
proposed operation, the Bank will help ensure efficiency and transparency in the divestiture process
and seek to ensure early successes through the provision of quality advisory support, the
establishment of a well-designed social safety net, and the provision of a sound analytical base for
Government decisions on the design of a social insurance/pension system for Turkish citizens.
6.4    A Technical Assistance Project for State Economic Enterprises, financed by a US$7.6 million
Bank loan in 1984, was intended mainly to assist three SOEs to improve their operational and
financial efficiency. This component did not, however, become operational. Three months after loan
approval, a new Government issued a mvle sweeping decree on the privatization and restructuring of
SOEs than the one existing at the time of Board approval. Because of the considerable uncertainty
among the enterprises regarding their future, they did not implement the component. Instead, the
Government and the Bank agreed on the utilization of loan funds to commissior.
privatizationlrestructuring studies precedent to privatization. Although the studies were well-received,
the Government did not take action to privatize. Lessons learned include: the need for Government
ownership of the planned initiatives, the need to develop effective means of gaining public support;



- 28 -
the need to address socio-political concerns, specifically to develop effective labor adjustment
programs; the need to ensure that the project scope is commensurate with administrative capacity; and
the need for decisive corrective action if implementation is unsatisfactory. These lessons have been
taken into account in the design and the implementation arrangements for the proposed project with
the Government already taking crucial actions to strengthen institutions and build momentum in
implementation.
B. Project Objectives
6.5    The main objective of the project is to promote efficiency and productivity and further the
development of Turkey's dynamic private sector by providing assistance for an accelerated
privatization process. Tne project would also help lay the basis for more comprehensive privatization
and sustained fiscal contraction in the future. It would build up institutional capacity through
technical assistance and the experience gained through the implementation of the current privatization
program, thereby enabling the Government's administrative machinery to manage the more complex
workload of a larger divestiture program. Another important objective is to alleviate the adverse
impact of SOE downsizing and divestiture on displaced workers and their families. Social safety net
measures, including labor adjustment programs, would be fully integrated into the divestiture process.
C. Project Description
6.6    To help meet the above objectives, the proposed project would assist with: (i) the preparation
and implementation of privatization, including the management of SOE liabilities pursuant to
privatization; (ii) the development and implementation of a social safety net, including labor
adjustment programs and studies to provide a robust analytical base for Government decision-making
on the reforms of the social insurance/pensions systems, and the design of a unique identifier system
for Turkish citizens; (iii) the preparation of a regional development program for Zonguldak Region,
where a high concentration of layoffs is likely; and (iv) studies to facilitate future privatization,
including a study of the regulatory framework for privatization of telecommunications and an analysis
of the private provision of infrastructure services.
(1)    Privatization Support
6.7    Technical and financial support would be provided under the proposed project for
privatization, including for: (i) the preparation and implementation of privatization transactions for
PPA's current core portfolio and for future transactions as they arise; (ii) the strengthening of PPA's
capacity to implement privatization; (iii) the strengthening of Treasury's capability for debt
management and restructuring prior to privatization; (iv) the development and implementation of a
public information campaign to promote the Government's privatization agenda and broaden public
support; and (v) assessments of the environmental liabilities of relevant SOEs, and plant
reconfiguration for Sumer Holding prior to privatization.
1.    Privatization of selected SOEs (US$34 million)
6.8    The proposed project would provide resources for hiring financial advisers and other
consultants (egal, accounting, industrial and environmental specialists) to privatize the SOEs in PP.
portfolio. The project would also provide resources to hire consultants to restructure and prepare for



- 29 -
the privatization of SOEs within PPA's portfolio as well as those under Treasury control, such as
Sumer Holding (textiles), GEMSAN (shipbuilding), and TDCI (steel). The project would finance the
fixed fees of the consultants and investment banks, but not the variable fees or success fees which
would be paid from transaction proceeds. The Govermnent's commitment - especially important in
light of unsuccessful efforts in the past -- is reflected in up-front action being taken. A contract for
financial advisers for the privatization of one SOE has been awarded: except for the final approval of
the Public Participation Hizh Council, the actions required for the sale of two SOEs have been
completed: and negotiations for financial advisory contracts for the privatization of three SOEs are
ongoing. Agreement was reached during negotiations that contracts for advisers for the privatization
of two SOEs will be awarded as conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 8.3(a).
2.    Institutional strengthening of PPA (US$5 million)
6.9    To further strengthen the capacity of PPA to privatize the large number of enterprises in its
portfolio within the timetable set by Government, the proposed project would finance two sets of in-
house advisers. Strategic advisers would be contracted for a period of about 24 months, to advise and
assist PPA, inter alia, in: developing the criteria for selecting and sequencing SOEs for privatization;
identifying the policy, regulatory, and other issues requiring governmental action; defining the
methods and timing of sales; establishing guidelines for the review of SOEs' capital structure and
financial performance; developing valuation methods and criteria; creating guidelines for the selection
of advisers for specific transactions; drafting documents for tenders and transactions; and monitoring
the progress of large privatizations. Legal advisers would be contracted for a period of about 36
months, who, in cooperation with PPA's present legal advisers, would advise and assist PPA, inter
alia, on: legal changes needed; PPA's duties and powers; the engagement of advisers; standard
documents for offerings and sales; and the procedures for monitoring and enforcing privatization
agreements. PPA is in the process of evaluating bids for both sets of advisers. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that advisers with qualifications, experience and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank would be apointed as a condition of loan effectiveness
(nara. 8.3(b).
3.    Institutional strengthening of Treasury (US$3.5 million)
6.10   To enhance Treasury's capacity for pre-privatization debt management and restructuring, the
project would finance in-house advisers primarily in the fields of public and corporate finance and
financial management information systems, for a period of approximately 24 months, to assist
Treasury with, inter alia: review and analysis of SOE debt, with priority for SOEs slated for
privatization; monitoring and forecasting SOE financial performance and financing needs; the
development of strategies and methods for debt management and restructuring of SOEs to be
privatized; the review of debt restructuring proposals by PPA and other parties to Treasury; and, in
coordination with the ongoing Bank-financed Treasury Data Systems Project, the design of a
computerized financial information system for debt restructuring and management. Treasury has
appointed the staff responsible for debt management and restructuring and is in the process of
evaluating bids for advisers for debt management. Agreement was reached during negotiations that,
as a condition of loan effectiveness. Treasury would appoint advisers with qualifications. experience.
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and the Bank (para. 8.3(c)).



- 30 -
4.    Public information and marketing camnaign (US$17 million)
6.11   A high priority for the Government is to develop an effective and coordinated strategy to
inform the public about the privatization program. To this end, the project will provide support for
public information advisers and a public information campaign. The advisers would help develop a
strategy to promote privatization to the general public and other target audiences. The campaign
would include the placement of mass media promotions (television, radio, and print), the production
of promotion materials for mass media, the preparation and production of collateral materials
(brochures, posters, and other information pieces on privatization), special public relations events
(seminars, press conferences, road shows), and research into public opinion about privatization. 3.b
Government has invited proposals for advisory services for the public information campaign.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that advisers with qualifications. experience, and terms 0f
reference satisfactory to the Government and the Bank would be appointed as a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 8.3(bl).
5.    Environmental Liability Assessments/Plant Reconfiguration (UJS$9.5 million)
6.12   The privatization of SOEs in sectors such as oil, petrochemicals, steel, and mining is likely to
involve settlement of environmental liabilities prior to sale. Hence, environmental analyses will need
to be carried out as part of the privatization process. The proposed project would provide support to
PPA to hire advisers to undertake environnental liability assessments as needed. In addition,
assistance would be provided to Sumer Holding management for its plant reconfiguration/downsizing
operations prior to rapid and full privatization.
6.    Training and Eguipment (US$1.7 million)
6.13   Support would be provided to PPA and Treasury for seminars for staff, courses on
privatization, and study tours to learn from the experience of other countries. The proposed project
would also provide equipment, including computers and software, for PPA and Treasury.
(ii)   Social Safety Net
6.14   The proposed project would include: (i) labor adjustment programs to deal with the increased
demands for such services resulting from the privatization and downsizing of SOEs, including
assessments of work force redundancy, job (out placement) counselling, retraining schemes, and small
enterprise development, including incubator programs, in regions experiencing concentrated layoffs;
and (ii) studies to analyze the social security/pension and identifier systems. These studies would: (a)
assess the financial status and management capacity of the national pension schemes and evaluate
alternative options for financially and operationally viable social security/pension systems for Turkey;
(b) develop a unique identifier system for Turkish citizens (for tax and social purposes); and (c)
develop an implementation program for pension and social security reform based on the
recommendations of the social security/pension study. The Government has confirmed its
commitment to make adeguate allocations to fund worker compensation costs of privatization. As
mentioned in para. 6.30. agreement was reached during negotiations that the Government would
provide adequate annual budgetary allocations to meet the counterpart funding requirements of the
project. These would include fundine for labor services (para. 8.2(g)).



- 31 -
1.    Labor Adjustment Programs (US$24.4 million!
6.15   The project would provide technical assistance, limited materials and equipment, and funds to
design, finance, and install a dedicated package of transitional labor adjustment and regional support
services linked to privatization and tailored to diverse sectors and geographic circumstances.
Geographic areas severely impacted by privatization would be entitled to receive support (i.e.
technical assistance and funds) to develop labor adjustment programs. Enterprises would receive
technical assistance to define the impact of restructuring on workers and develop labor adjustment
plans. Selected organizations (e.g. IIBK and KOSGEB) would receive funds to organize and deliver
labor adjustment services. These organizations would plan services in consultation with
representatives from the community, labor, employers, and the Government; and would have the
responsibility for coordinating the delivery of services to affected workers, primarily by sub-
contracting with local private and public institutions. A more detailed description of the three major
sub-components is given below:
6.16 Enterprise Analysis. Assistance would be provided to enable SOEs to analyze the staff
structure, both existing and future; determine the social infrastructure (e.g. housing, schools, and
other services) owned/supported by the enterprise which may be divested; and identify any social
services to be made available to employees. Enterprises would identify existing staff to be affected by
privatization, and arrangements for enterprise owned/supported social services and/or infrastructure.
6.17   Labor Adjustment Planning in SOEs. Assistance would be provided to help develop labor
adjustment plans for workers who would be affected by restructuring and/or privatization. Assistance
to SOEs to be privatized would include: general orientation sessions for SOE management and worker
representatives to publicize the nature of the labor adjustment advisory services; the development of
agreements between Treasury and the SOE for the provision of technical services; and the provision
of labor adjustment planning services at the enterprise level.
6.18 Labor Adjustment services. Workers would be provided access to active labor services. The
economic base of regions affected by privatization would be analyzed, and viable local and/or
regional economic development plans drawn up to create new job opportunities in the private sector.
The services will be organized by three lead agencies. Technical assistance would be provided to
Treasury to develop procedures for the provision of funds to the local agencies, protocols for the
provision and monitoring of funds to be provided to the agencies, evaluation and monitoring
procedures, and publicity materials on the labor adjustment services. Services provided by the local
agencies will include:
(a)   IIBK: the development and implementation of local programs to provide employment
services, local retraining services, and local public works programs to provide
transitional employment to workers displaced by SOE restructuring and privatization.
(b)    KOSGEB: the identification and organization of local small business assistance
programs, and the establishment of up to five small business incubators in different
locations tc help workers displaced by SOE privatization start and operate small
businesses.
(c)   the design and delivery of information programs, by a selected lead agency, to
promote local initiatives for economic and social development; studies on local



- 32 -
development potential and the design of project proposals in selected provincial and
district centers.
6.19   A total of up to 86 months of international consultants, 840 months of local consultants, 45
months of fellowships, and funds would be provided under the labor adjustment component. To
ensure satisfactory oversight and coordination of the labor adjustment programs, the Government has
appointed a iull-time Coordinator in Treasury. Agreement was reached during negotiations that as a
condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would appoint advisers for the labor adiustment
program (proposals have been invited) with qualifications. experience, and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank (para. 8.3(c)). Also. the disbursement of loan funds for
labor adjustment services would be in accordance with criteria which were agreed with the Bank
during negotiations (para. 8.2(a). Annex G).
2.    Analysis of Social Security/Pensions Systems (US$5 million)
6.20   Progosed Studies. The proposed project would fund a phased study to provide the
Government with a robust analytical base for the reform of the pensions systems. The first phase
would review the financial status and organizational efficiency of the three major social insurance
funds - SSK, ES, and Bag-Kur. It would also model their financial prospects under current policies
and under alternative options for the reform of Turkey's social insurance system, particularly its
pensions component. This study would provide the Government with information and analysis about
the implications of alternative policy options, including their relative costs. The contract would also
provide for technical assistance in the form of both formal and informal training for Turkish officials
with responsibilities in the social insurance area. Given the macroeconomic and social implications of
the pensions/social security systems, the analysis is urgent. Therefore, agreement was reached during
negotiations that consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank would be appointed by July 31. 1994. and the first phase of the study. i.e.
the analytical phase. would be completed by March 31. 1995 (para. 8.2(b)).
6.21   A second phase of the study would follow the completion of the first and would assist the
Government in designing a strategy to implement the reform option it would choose. It would
provide estimates of the organizational and management requirements, training needs, and computer
hardware and software systems needed to support the system. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that the second phase would be completed by March 31. 1996. Agreed recommendations
would be imnlemented by the Government in consultation with the Bank (para. 8.2(b)).
3.    Unique Identifier System (US$2.5 million)
6.22   This study would formulate technical options for the development of a system of unique
identifier numbers for Turkish citizens which could be used for several purposes, including taxation,
social insurance (including possibly pensions, unemployment insurance, health care financing, and
social assistance), employment programs, and the registration of real estate transactions. It would
also assess the requirements of incorporating such a system into the administrative machinery and
identify   )r issues which would need to be considered by policy makers. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that consultants with qualifications. experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Government and the Bank. would be appointed by July 31. 1994. the study completed by
December 31. 1994. and agreed recommendations implemented in consultation with the Bank (para.
8.2(c).



- 33 -
(iii) Regional Development Program for Zonguldak
6.23   The proposed project would support the preparation of a Regional Development Program for
Zonguldak Region aimed a diversifying the economic base of the region in conjunction with the
proposed divestiture/downsizing of TTK and KARDEMIR.
Regional Development Program (IJS$2 million)
6.24   Under the project, the regional development studies to being initiated with a grant from the
PHRD Fund would be completed, and appropriate feasibility studies would be prepared for possible
future investments in economic and social infrastructure. These could be financed under a possible
future regional development project for the Zonguldak Region, or, if deemed feasible, under ongoing
Bank projects. Agreement was reached during negotiations that consultants satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank would be appointed by December 31. 1995, the study completed by
December 31. 1996. and agreed recommendations implemented in consultation with the Bank (para.
8.2(d)).
6.25   The project would also assist the Governnent in designing a public information campaign to
attract private investors to the Zonguldak Region. The principal focus will be on small and medium
sized local enterprises and foreign investors, both of which are likely to be less informed than larger
Turkish firms of the investment incentives currently available and the natural assets of the region.
YASED, the Foreign Investors Association, and the Turkish Chambers of Industry and Trade would
participate in the process. The campaign would also serve to inform the public about the
Government's commitment to resolve the region's problems.
( v)   Studies
i.    Telecommunications Regulatory Study (US$4 million)
6.26   A telecommunications sector study to be carried out under the project would have three
objectives: a revised legal and regulatory framework, a plan for the corporatization of
telecommunications services and options for privatization. The study would, inter alia: consider the
options for competition and regulation in basic and value-added services; compare sector structures
and regulatory regimes in other countries, especially the EC; present options for a regulatory
framework, including the necessary institutions, their powers, functions and procedures, taking into
account tariff policy, new market structures, including demonopolization, interconnection, and market
entry; develop a corporatization plan, including audit of physical, financial and human resources and
their allocation with consideration given to postal services; present options for corporate governance
including criteria for performance evaluation and management incentives; and acccunting and capital
funding policies and practices. Agreement was reached during negotiations that consultants with
qualifications. experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and the Bank. would
be appointed by July 31. 1994, the study would be completed by May 31, 1995. and the Government
would take action on agreed recommendations in consultation with the Bank (para. 8.2(e)).



- 34 -
2.    Private Provision of Infrastructure (US$0.5 million)
6.27   The Government plans to increase private sector participation in sectors such as
telecormnunications, electric power, water, ports, airports, and transportation (tollroads, rail
transport). Relevant work in this area is be ng pursued in the water supply and electricity sectors
under ongoing Bank-financed projects. As stated in para. 6.26, the proposed project will provide
support for a similar regulatory study in the teleconmmunications sector. These efforts would benefit
from more effective coordination and the development of an overall strategy that takes into account
the institutional, legal and regulatory framework for attracting local and foreign investors. To this
end, the proposed project would finance a study to develop a more coordinated strategy for the
private provision of infrastructure in Turkey. Agreement was reached during negotiations that
consultants with qualifications. experience. and terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and
the Bank would be appointed by Segtember 30, 1994, the study would be completed by March 31.
1995. and agreed recommendations would be implemented in consultation with the Bank (para.
D. Project Costs, Financing, and Procurenent
Frroject Costs
6.28   Total project costs are estimated at US$129 million, of which, about US$81 million is in
foreign exchange (63 percent). Physical contingencies amounting to 10 percent on equipment, and
price contingencies totalling 16 percent, are included. Project costs are summarized in Table 3;
details are provided in Annex A.
Basis of Cost Estimates
6.29   Cost estimates are based on actual costs incurred under other Bank-financed projects. The
costs of consultant services and training are based on fees paid recently and include salaries, living
expenses, office services and overheads. The costs of equipment are based on initial comparative
shopping. Media costs are based on prevailing rates as quoted for television and radio time and
newspaper space. Base costs reflect prices prevailing at the time of negotiations (February 1994).
Einancing
6.30 The proposed IBRD loan of US$100 million equivalent would finance about 78 percent of
total project costs. The Government would finance US$29 million equivalent. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that the Government would make adequate budgetary provisions annually
to meet the counterpart funding requirements of the project (paia. 8.2(g)). A PPF advance totalling
US$2 million has been approved to help finance preparation activities and institutional strengthening.
The financing plan is summarized in Table 4. A detailed financing plan is provided in Annex B.



- 35 -
Table 3: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
% of       %
Bass  Foreign
Description                               Foreign   Local   Total     Foreign   Local Total        Costa Exchange
-TL Billions-   -USS millions-
Privatizaton                              1012.4  239.0  1251.4          57.2   13.5  70.7         64%      81%
Social Safety Net                          212.4  352.2  564.6           12.0   19.9  31.9         29%      38%
Zonguldak Regional Development               17.7   17.7   35.4           1.0    1.0   2.0          2%      50%
Studies                                     76.5      -     76.5          4.5      -     4.5        4%      100%
Refinancing of PPF                          35.4      -     35.4          2.0      -    2.0         2%      100%
BASE COST                                  1355.8  608.9  1966.5         76.7   34.4  111.1       100%      69%
Phystcal Contingencies on Equipment           1.8     -      1.8          0.1      -     0.1        0%      100%
Price Contingencies                         76.1  240.7  315.1            4.3    13.6  17.8        16%      24%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         1433.7  849.6  2283.3         81.0   48.0  129.0        116%      63%
Net of taxes and dutics.
Differences due to rounding.
Table 4: FINANCING PLAN
Descfiptio                                  IBRD      Govt.   Total      IBRD    Go".    Total
_TI Billions-    - USS Millions-
Privatization                               1026.6   224.79  1251.4       58.0     12.7     70.7
Social Safety Net                            424.8    139.8   S64.6       24.0      7.9     31.9
Zonguldak Regional Development                35.4       -     35.4        2.0       -       2.0
Studies                                       79.7       -     79.7        4.5       -       4.5
Refinancing of PPF                            35.4       -     35.4        2.0       -       2.0
BASE COSTS                                  1601.9    364.6  1966.5       90.5     20.6    111.1
Physical Contingencies on Equipment            1.8       -      1.8        0.1       -       0.1
Price Condngencies                           168.2    148.7   315.1        9.5      8.4      17.8
TOTAL PROJECr COST                          1770.0    513.3  2283.3      100.0     29.0    129.0
Differences due to rounding.
E. Project Implementation, Monitoring and Mid-Term Review
6.31    The following understandings were reached with respect to arrangements for project
implementation, monitoring, and the mid-term review. PPA would be responsible for the
implementation of the privatization component. The execution of a Subsidiary Project Agreement
between the Government and PPA. would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 8.3(d)).



- 36 -
Treasury would be responsible for managing the SOEs' debt liabilities. It would also be responsible
for managing the funding for the labor adjustment programs and for the studies.
6.32   The implementing agencies will need technical assistance, training, and equipment tailored to
rapidly equip them with the capabilities to discharge their expanded or, in the case of Treasury, new
responsibilities. In eac'l of the cases, contract staff will need to be recruited to make absorptive
capacity commensurate with the considerable workload implied by the privatization effort. As
indicated in paras. 6.9 and 6.10 above. PPA and Treasury are in the process of evaluating bids for in-
house advisers with experience. gualifications and terms of reference satisfactory to the Government
and the Bank. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the consultants would be appointed as
conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 8.3 (b)(c)).
6.33   Treasury would administer the overall labor adjustment program. Technical assistance would
be provided under one master contract, signed by Treasury, and would consist of two parts. The first
part would provide tech-nical assistance to Treasury to develop and monitor the implementation of the
three elements of the labor adjustment program. This would include developing protocols and
monitoring/evaluation procedures for resources to be made available to SOEs, and for funds to be
transferred to lead agencies responsible for organizing labor services at the local level. The second
part would provide specialized technical assistance to SOEs which request assistance for enterprise
analysis and labor adjustment planning.
6.34   Treasury would also act as the channel for directing loan funds to lead agencies which will be
responsible for delivering labor adjustment services at the local level. The transfer and use of funds
would be in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank (Annex G); would be based on protocols
signed between Treasury and the lead agencies, and would be in response to local demand. The lead
agencies include: IIMK (for job counseling, retraining and public works services), and KOSGEB
(small business assistance and incubators). These agencies would be responsible for developing local
programs, developing agreements with local sub-contractors, monitoring implementation, and making
payments to sub-contractors. Treasury would also be responsible for the studies to be carried out
under the project. The State Planning Organization would be responsible for the preparation of the
Zonguldak Regional Development Plan.
6.35 Agreement was reached during negotiations that: (i! PPA would furnish to the Bank for its
review, by October 31 of each year. a draft work proeram for the following year with explicit
targets. including the timetable for the privatization of SOEs: and by November 30 of each year.
confirm that a work program satisfactory to the Government and the Bank had been approved: and
(ii) Treasury would furnish to the Bank for its review, by October 31 of each year. a draft work
program for the following year with explicit targets, including the timetable for the management of
debt liabilities of SOEs and for the labor adiustment program: and by November 30 of each year.
confirm that a work program satisfactory to the Government and the Bank had been approved (para.
8.2(h)). It was also agreed that arrangements would be put into place for regular monitoring and
reporting on the project. PPA would monitor progress in the implementation of the privatization
component; and Treasury would monitor progress in the implementation of the SOE liabilities
management and labor adjustment components and the studies included in the project. PPA and
Treasury would provide quarterly progress reports to the Bank for review and comment (para.
8.2fh)).



- 37 -
6.36   Agreement was reached during negotiations that a mid-term review would be held by
Qctober 31. 1995 on the basis of agreed criteria. including. inter alia. the privatization of at least one-
half of the number of SOEs and affiliated partnerships in PPA's portfolio as of January 1994. with
privatization defined as the sale of not less than 51 percent of PPA ownership or the transfer of
management control. and the sale of at least one-half of PPA's portfolio of share participations as of
January 1994 (para.8.2ti). Annex F).
(i)    Procurement and Disbursements
6.37   Procurement. The procurement arrangements for the project are summarized in Table 5.
Non-Bank financed items are shown under NBF.
6.38   All equipment and materials to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (May 1992). Equipment packages are not
likely to exceed US$300,000 per contract and, therefore, are not likely to be procured through ICB.
In the event that there are unforeseen equipment needs based on the findings of the consultants, ICB
may have to be used depending on the size of the contract. In that event, goods manufactured in
Turkey and procured through ICB may be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent or the
relevant customs duties, whichever is lower in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Bank's Guidelines.
Standard bidding documents would be used for procurement under ICB. A requirement for the
equipment contracts (comprising mainly computers, printers and photocopiers) would be that before
signing the contract the successful bidder shall arrange to be represented by an agent in Turkey
equipped and able to carry out the contractor's maintenance, repair and spare parts stocking
obligations. The procedure for the evaluation of this aspect will be specified in the Technical
Specifications.
6.39   The exceptions to ICB procurement would be as follows: (i) items or groups of items for
goods estimated to cost more tharn US$100,000 equivalent per contract and less than US$300,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to US$500,000 may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers
from at least three different countries eligible under the Bank's Guidelines; and (ii) goods estimated to
cost US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
US$400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines.
6.40   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more
would be subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation and approval of contract
award. Other contracts would be subject to ex-post review after contract award. The remaining
equipment contracts would be subject to selective post award reviews.
6.41   The selection of consultants for technical assistance and training would be in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency", August 1981. There would be two types of consultant contracts: (i) contracts
where consulting firms will be selected on technical merit alone (US$5 million); this would apply to
enviromnental consultants; (ii) contracts where qualified consultants above a merit threshold in the
technical evaluation will be selected on price consideration (with a weight of 10-20 percent); this
would apply to investment banks, law firms, accounting firms, general consultants, advertising
agencies and public relations firms (about US$66 million). All documents relating to consulting
services to be financed from the Bank loan proceeds would be subject to the Bank's prior review.



- 38 -
Table 5: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Procurement Method
Item                         ICB        Other a/     NBF b/        Total
Equipment, materals and related services           _           2.4          4.3         6.7
(2.4)                    (2.4)
Consulting Services
(a) Privatezation
Financial/Other Advisors                 -          32.9          4.4        37.3
(32.9)                   (32.9)
Institutional Support to PPA              -          5.3           -          5.3
(5.3)                    (5.3)
Institutional Support to Treasury        -           3.6           -          3.6
(3.6)                    (3.6)
Public Information Campaign               -          11.8         8.3        20.1
(11.8)                   (11.8)
Environmental Liability Assessment        -          4.4          1.1         5.5
(4.4)                    (4.4)
(b) Social Safety Net
Pro-Active Support                        -          6.4          0.5         6.9
(6.4)                    (6.4)
Pension Reform Studies                    -          5.8            .         5.8
(5.8)                    (5.8)
Unique Identifier System                 _           2.1          0.8         2.9
(2.1)                    (2.1)
(c) Zonguldak
Regional Development Plan                 -          2.4            -         2.4
(2.4)                    (2.4)
(d) Studies                                    -           4.7           -          4.7
(4.7)                    (4.7)
Labor Adjustment Services                          -          15.0          9.6        24.6
(15.0)                   (15.0)
Training                                           -           1.2           -          1.2
(1.2)                    (1.2)
Refinancing of PPF Advance                         -           2.0           -          2.0
(2-0)                   (2.0)
TOTAL                                              _         100.0         29.0       129.0
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ (100.0)  (100.0)
a/ Includes International and Local Shopping (US$0.7 million), plant reconfiguration (US$1.7 million), consultants and
related services (US$73.8 million), labor services (US$15 million) and media time and space (USS8.8 million).
b/ Not Bank Fmanced.
Note: Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts finaned by the Bank loan.
Differences due to rounding.



39 -
6.42   Procurement for the Public Information component will be as follows:
(a)    a public relations firm and advertising agency will be hired following the Bank's
Guidelines for consultants;
(b)    production of advertising - television and radio spots and newspaper advertisements -
will be procured by the advertising agency on a competitive basis. The advertising
agency will be compensated according to standard agency fees for its creative time
and production services; and
(c)    media insertions (television, radio and newspapers) will be purchased based on an
agreed Media Budget (US$8.8 million) against which alternative Media Schedules will
be submitted by the advertising agency to PPA for approval. Media will then be
purchased according to the selected Media Schedule on a competitive basis reflecting
the reach of the target audience in the most cost efficient manner. A detailed Media
Estimate will be provided to PPA once the schedule is selected providing details of
costs for each insertion as well as quantity discounts earned.
Bank staff will review the bid documents and approve the selection at each stage of the process.
6.43   Procurement information will be provided through comprehensive quarterly reports to the
Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) changes in cost estimates for individual contracts and the total
project, including best estimates of allowances for physical and price contingencies; (ii) revised timing
for procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement.
6.44 Disbursements. The proposed project would be disbursed over a period of four and one half
years. Annex C shows the projected disbursements by semester. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by June 1998, about six months after the scheduled project completion. This would allow
for processing final withdrawal applications.
6.45   The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a)    equipment: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures
(ex-factory costs) and 90 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally;
(b)   technical assistance, training and promotion services: 100 percent of expenditures;
(c)    media time and space: 100 percent of foreign expenditures;
(d)   labor services fund: 60 percent; and
(d)    PPF advance: 100 percent of expenditures.
6.46   These disbursements would be fully documented, except for minor expenditures for training
and equipment contracts of less than US$100,000. In such cases, the disbursement will be made
against statements of expenditure (SoE), the documentation for which would not be submitted to the



- 40 -
Bank but retained at PPA and Treasury for review by visiting Bank missions. Provision has been
made for retroactive financing of up to US$7 million equivalent.
6.47   To facilitate the timely implementation of the project, PPA and Treasury each need separate
Special Accounts. Accordingly, they would each establish, maintain and operate a Special Account in
a commercial bank or the Central Bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para.
8.20)). The authorized allocation for the Special Accounts is set at US$5 million equivalent for PPA,
and US$3 million equivalent for Treasury. The initial deposits would be US$2 million and US$1
million respectively. Depending on the pace of expenditures and replenishment requests, the deposits
would be increased as needed up to a maximum of the authorized allocations . The Special Accounts
would be replenished monthly or when the account is drawn down to 50 percent of the initial deposit,
whichever occurs first. For payments outside the Special Accounts, the minimum application
threshold would be US$100,000 equivalent. Treasury and PPA would be responsible for
Implementing discrete components and would be responsible for the preparation and submission of the
withdrawal applications for their respective components to the Bank.
(iI)   Accounting and Audit Requirements
6.48   Treasury and PPA would maintain separate accounts for the Project. All accounts, including
the Special Accounts, would be maintained in accordance with generally accepted international
accounting principles and would be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank,
in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed
by the World Bank", March 1982. The Bank would be provided not later than six months after the
close of fiscal year with an annual audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably
request, including a separate opinion by the auditors on disbursements from the Special Accounts and
against certified statements of expenditure. The accounting and auditing requirements were agreed
during neeotiations (Dara. 8.2(k)).
(iii)   Supervision
6.49   The proposed project, which is multi-faceted, will be supervision intensive, especially in the
start-up phase and the first year of implementation. Field supervision in the first year is estimated at
about 60 staff weeks. This would include project launch, supervision of the institutional
strengthening, the large SOE privatization and labor adjustment components, and the studies. The
field supervision requirements in subsequent years are expected to be somewhat lower; about 45
staffweeks for FY95, about 36 staffweeks for FY96, and about 24 staffweeks for FY97.



- 41 -
VII. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.1    Benefits. The proposed project would set the stage for more significant Government action to
downsize the SOE sector over the longer term. Reductions in the labor force and in subsidies to
SOEs to be privatized under the project will result initially in a modest improvement in the fiscal
deficit. The restructuring and divestiture of SOEs will increase productivity and efficiency, facilitate
private sector development, attract direct foreign investment, help improve Turkey's competitive edge
in world markets, and lay the basis for a longer-term structural reduction of the deficit. Finally, the
provision of an effective social safety net will promote stability, raise labor force mobility and
improve public support for the Government's economic strategy.
B. Risks
7.2    Risks. The project faces several risks. The Government's preoccupation with political and
security matters may preempt follow through on the privatization agenda. There is a coalition
Government, nationwide municipal elections are upcoming, and the security situation in the east
places major demands on the Government. Possible labor opposition in the face of potentially large
labor dislocation, income losses and unemployment presents another risk. Lacking a strong
institutional base, the Government may find it difficult to sustain the level of management and
coordination effort required to succeed in the divestiture process.
7.3    The Government's commitment is reflected in up-front action being taken. A contract has
been awarded for fine icial advisers for the privatization of one SOE; all the actions for the sale of
two more SOEs hav been completed (the approval of the Public Participation High Council is
awaited); and nego itions for financial advisory contracts for the privatization of three SOEs are
ongoing. The pu ic information campaign would help improve the politic,al and social acceptability
of program by engaging in a dialogue regarding the costs and benefits of privatization, including the
provision of a social safety net as an integral part of the process. The design and timing of technical
assistance is being carefully tailored to equip the agencies with requisite capacity. Treasury and PPA
have already invited, and in some cases are in the process of evaluating bids for in-house advisers.
As conditions of loan effectiveness, Treasury will appoint the debt management and labor adjustment
program advisers, and PPA will appoint strategic, legal and public information advisers. Funding has
been made available through a grant from the PHRD Fund and an advance from the PPF. Provision
has also been made for a mid-term review by October 31, 1995, on the basis of agreed criteria,
including, inter alia, the privatization of at least one-half of the number of SOEs and the affiliated
partnerships in PPA's portfolio as of January 1994, and the sale of at least one-half of PPA's share
participations as of January 1994, by the time of the review.
7.4    The Bank has responded quickly to the Government's request for the Bank's support to pull
together a transparent and objective divestiture process, while alleviating the hardships for workers
and their families as an integral part of the process. Achieving some early privatization successes will
lend credibility to the Government's program, provide an impetus to proceed with speed and efficacy,
and over the medium-term, help promote economic and political stability.



- 42 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1   To help build momentum and ensure the timely achievement of agreed project objectives, the
following actions have already been taken:
(a)    A contract for financial advisers for the privatization of one SOE has been awarded,
and all actions required for the sale of two SOEs, except the formal approval of the
PPHC, have been completed. Negotiations for financial advisory contracts for the
privatizatioa of three SOEs are ongoing.
(b)    Treasury has invited bids for advisers for SOE debt management and for the labor
adjustment program. According to the agreed schedule, they are to be selected by
March 15, 1994, and April 15, 1994, respectively. It was agreed during negotiations
that, as a safeguard against unexpected difficulties, their appointment would be made a
condition of loan effectiveness. In the event that the required action is completed as
scheduled, the condition of loan effectiveness would be deleted.
(c)    PPA is in the process of evaluating bids for in-house strategic and legal advisers.
Consultant selection is scheduled for completion by March 15, 1994. As a safeguard
against unexpected delays, agreement was reached that the appointment of these
advisers would also be a condition of loan effectiveness. In the event that the
required action is completed as scheduled, the condition of loan effectiveness would
be deleted. Proposals for advisers for the public information campaign have been
invited; they are to be appointed prior to loan effectiveness.
8.2    Agreements were reached durin2 negotiations as follows:
(a)    The disbursement of funds for labor adjustment services would be in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Bank (para. 6.19).
(b)    Consultants for the social security/pension studies, with qualifications, experience and
terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and the Bank would be appointed
by July 31, 1994. The first phase of the study would be completed by March 31,
1995 (para. 6.20). The second phase would be completed by March 31, 1996.
Agreed recommendations would be implemented in consultation with the Bank (para.
6.21).
(c)    Consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank would be appointed by July 31, 1994; the study of the
unique identifier system would be completed by December 31, 1994; and agreed
recommendations would be implemented in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.22).
(d)    Consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank would be appointed by December 31, 1995; the Zonguldak
Regional Development Plan would be completed by December 31, 1996; and agreed
recommendations would be implemented in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.24).



-43 -
(e)    Consultants with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Govermment and the Bank would be appointed by July 31, 1994; the legal and
regulatory study for the telecommunications sector would be completed by May 31,
1995; and the Government would take action on appropriate recommendations in
consultation with the Bank (para. 6.26).
(f)    Consultants with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank, would be appointed by September 30, 1994; the study on
the provision of public services would be completed by March 31, 1995; and agreed
recommendations would be implemented in consultation with the Bank (para. 6.27).
(g)   The Government would provide adequate annual budgetary allocations to meet the
counterpart funding requirements of the project starting with the FY94 budget (para.
6.30).
(h)   (i) PPA would furnish to the Bank for its review, by October 31 of each year, a draft
work program for the following year with explicit targets, including the timetable for
the privatization of SOEs; and by November 30 of each. year, confirm that a work
program satisfactory to the Government and the Bank had been approved; and (ii)
Treasury would furnish to the Bank for its review, by October 31 of each year, a
draft work program for the following year with explicit targets, including the
timetable for the management of the debt liabilities of SOEs and the labor adjustment
services; and by November 30 of each year, confirm that a program satisfactory to the
Government and the Bank had been approved. PPA and Treasury would monitor
progress in the implementation of the components for which they would be
responsible and provide the Bank with detailed quarterly progress reports (para. 6.35).
(i)    A mid-term implementation review would be held by October 31, 1995 on the basis
of agreed criteria, including inter alia, the privatization of at least one-half of the
number of SOEs and affiliated partnerships in PPA's portfolio as of January 1994,
with privatization defined as the sale of not less than 51 percent of PPA ownership or
the transfer of managemeiAt control, and the sale of at least one-half of PPA's share
participations as of January 1994 (para. 6.36).
(0)    Treasury and PPA would establish and maintain Special Accounts (para. 6.47).
(k)   Financial reporting, accounting and auditing procedures would be followed as outlined
in para. 6.48.
8.3   The following conditions of loan effectiveness were agreed upon during negotiations:
(a)    PPA would award contracts for financial advisers for the privatization of two SOEs
(para. 6.8).
(b)   PPA would appoint in-house strategic, legal and public information advisers with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and
the Bank (paras. 6.9 and 6.11).



- 44 -
(c)    Treasury would appoint in-house advisers for debt management and the labor
adjustment program with qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory
to the Government and the Bank (paras. 6.10 and 6.19).
(d)   the Subsidiary Project Agreement between the Government and PPA would be
executed (para. 6.31).
8.4   Subject to the above, the proposed project provides a suitable basis for a loan of
USS100 million to the Govermnent of the Republic of Turkey.



REP[JB3LC-gE DRK
MRIAUZZATO IMPLENTAMIN ASISTANCE AIM SOCIAL SAM=
Project Cost LstimBe
(IJSSmillion)
DESCRIPT1ION                                   TOTAL
Privatiation
Financial Advisors                         31.0          3.0        34.0
lnstitutional Support to PPA
(legal and strategic)                    5.0                      5.0
Institutional Support to Treasury           3.5           -          3.5
Public Infonnation Campaign
Advisors                                2.5           -           2.5
Media Placement                         6.0          3.0          9.0
Production                               1.8         0.8          2.5
Research                                             1.5          1.5
Collateral/Special Events                1.0         0.5          1.5
Environmental Liability Assessment          4.0          1.0         5.0
Plant Relocation/Reconfigwation             1.1          3.4         4.5
TIainig/Semiars                             0.7          0.3         1.0
Equipinent                                  0.7           .          0.7
Sub-total                              57.2         13.5        70.7
Social Safety Net
Pro-Active Support TA                       6.0          0.4         6.4
Labor Adjustment Services                               18.0         18.0
Pension Reform Studies                      4.0          1.0         5.0
2.0         0.5          2.5
Sub-total                              12.0        19.9         31.9
Zonguldak Regional Development
Regional Development Plan                   1.0          1.0         2.0
Sub-total                               1.0         1.0          2.0
Studies
Telecom Regulatory Study                     4.0          -           4.0
Private Provision of Public IDastuctue       0.5          -           0.5
Sub-total                              4.5           -           4.5
Refinancing of PPF Advance                       2.0          -           2.0
BASE COST                                       76.7         34.4       111.1
Physical Contingencies on Equipment              0.1          -           0.1
Price Contingencies                              4.3         13.6        17.9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              81.0        48.0        129.0
Net of taces and duties.
Differences due to rounding.



REPUBLIC OF TRZ
PR1ATIATON IMPL E N' ENTATION A SSISTANC E AND SOC IALSISA =Y=T P. CT
Fiwcini PI
(IJSS million)
DESCRIPTON                    OOVERNMENTBN                                     TOTAL
Pnivatizatdon.
Finaacial Advisors                       _     3.0   3.0    31.0    - 31.0         31.0   3.0   34.0
luitutional Supporttlo PPA
(legal and strategic)                _        .           S.0    .      .0      5.0            5.0
Insttutional Support to Treasry          _,                   3.5          3.5      3.5    -       3.5
Public bafonmatien Catmpaigm
Advisors                                   .      .       2.5    -     2.5      2.5           2.5
Media Placement                      -    3.0   3.0       6.0          6.0      6.0   3.0    9.0
Production                           -    0.8   0.8       1.8    -     1.8      1.8   0.8    2.S
Researh                              -     I.S   1.5             .                    1.S    1.S
|   CollteallSpecia Events                -    0.5   0.S       1.0    -     I1.0     1.0   0.S    1.5
| Envmnental Liability Assssment                 1.0   1.0       4.0    -    4.0      4.0   1.0    5.0
I Plant RelocatiWeonfiguration              -    2.9   2.9       1.1   0.5   1.6       1.1   3A      4.5
i TrainingtSemunars                         _     .0.7   0.3   1.0                     0.7   0.3    1.0
Equipment and Software                                          0.7    -    0.7      0.7            0.7
i   Sub-tota                                  12.7  12.7    57.2   0.8  58.0    57.2  13.    7 0.7
Social Safety Net
Pro-Active Support TA                    -     0OA    OA      6.0    -     6.0      6.0   0.4   6CA
Labor AdjustmentServicies                      7.0   7.0       -   11.0  11.0        -   18.0   18.0
Pension Reform Satuies                                .       4.0   1.0   S.0       4.0   1.0    5.0
Unique Identifier System                 -     0.S   0.5      2.0    -     2.0      2.0   0.5    2.5
Sub-total                                 7.9   7.9    12.0  12.0  24.0    12.0  19.9   31.9
Zonguldakc Regional Development
Regional Development Plan..                                   1.0   1.0   2.0       1.0   1.0    2.0
Sub-total                                                 l.0   1.0   2.0       1.0   1.0    2.0
Studies
Telecom Regulatory Study                                       4.0    -     4.0      4.0    -      4.0
Private Provision ofPubli tieluure.             .              0.S          0.S      0.5           0.S
Sub-total                            _                    4.5          4.5      4.5           4.5
Refunaning of PPF Advanee                    _     _              2.0    -     2.0      2.0    -      2.0
BASE COST                                    -   20.6  20.6    76.7  13.8  90.5    76.7  34A   111.1
Physicall Contingencies on Equipment               _              0.1    -     0.1      0.1    -      0.1
Pnice Contingencies                          -    8A    8A        4.3  5S2    9.5       4.3  13.6   17X9
TOTAL PROJECT COST                           - 29.0  29.0    81.0  19.0  100.0    81.0  48.0  129.0
Differences due to rounding.



ANNEX C
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION lMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AMD SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
Disbursements by Semester
(US$ million)
Bank FY and                              Disbursed      Cumnative    Disbursemeats
Senmester Ending                       in Semester         Amount         % of Total
1994
June 30, 1994                                5.00             5.00            5.00
1995
December 31. 1994                           10.00            15.00           15.00
June 30, 1995                               18.00           33,00            33.00
1996
December31, 1995                            18.00           51.00            51.00
June 30, 1996                               13.00           64.00            64.00
1997
December 31, 1996                           11.00           75.00            75.00
June 30, 1997                               10.00           85.00            85.00
1998
December 31, 1997                           10.00           95.00            95.00
June 30, 1998                                5.00          100.00           100.00
Closing Date: June 30, 1998



REPUBLIC OF TU=Y
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENT&MIN ASSISTANCE, AND SOCIAL SAFET NET PROJECT
PPA Portfolio
(As of January 1994)
PPA Share
F I r m                                                                               X
I.      State Economic Enterprises
1.     Petkim Holding A,S. (petrochemical complex) (Yarimca complex)           95.84
2.     Suner Holding A.S. (textile)                                           100.00
3.     SUMERBANK (banking)                                                    100.00
4.     THY A.O. (airline)                                                      99.24
5.     T. Sut Endustrisi Kurumu (dairy products)                              100.00
6.     Et ve Batik Kurumu (meat and fish processing)                          100.00
7.     Yem Sanayii T.A.S. (animal feed production)                            100.00
8.     Orman Urunleri San. Kurumu (forestry products)                         100.00
9.     TDI-Turkiye Denizcilik Ist. (maritime transport)                       100.00
10.    T.GEMI SAN-Turkiye Gemi Sanayii (shipyards)                            100.00
II.     Affiliated Partnership
1.      Ad1yaman Cimento Sanayif T.A.S. (cement)                               100.00
2.      KUMAS Kutahya Manyezit Isletmeleri A.S. (magnesium)                     99.28
3.      PETLAS Lastik Sanayi A.S. (automotive tires)                            99.89
4.       Petrot Ofisi A.S. (POAS) (petrol distribution)                         95.80
5.      TESTAS Turkiye Elektronik San. ve Tic.A.S. (electronics)                99.45
6.      TURBAN Turizm A.S.                                                     100.00
7.      TUPRAS Turkiye Petrol Rafinerileri A.S.                                 97.43
8.       HAVAS Havealanlari Yer Hizmetleri A.S.                                100.00
9.      DITAS Deniz Isletmeciligi ve Tankerciligi A.S. (petrol transport)  100.00
10.     C!NKUR Cinko Kursun Metal Sanayii A.S. (lead and tin processing)   100.00
11.     Karadeniz Bakir Isletmeleri (copper)                                    99.94
12.     0B Deniz Nakliyat (Turkish Cargo Lines)                                100.00
III.    Participations
1.      Afyon Cimento Sanayi T.A.S.                                              4.12
2.      Aksaray Azmf Milli  T.A.S.                                              30.44
3.      Altek Elekt.Sant.Tes.IsLt.ve Tic. A.S.                                  30.00
4.      Aroma Bursa Meyva Sulari ve Gida Sanayi A.S.                             9.17
S.      Bolu Cimento Sanayi A.S.                                                16.10
6.      Canakkale Seramik Fabrikatari A.S.                                       8.37
7.      CESTAS-Cukurova Elektrik San. ve Tic. A.S.                               2.29
8.      ERDEMIR-Eregli Demir ve Celik Fabrikalari T.A.S.                        20.57
9.      Fruko-Tamek Meyva Sulari A.S.                                           15.66
10.     Gonen Gida Sanayi ve Ticaret Isletmeleri A.S.                           49.00
11.     Guney Sanayi ve Ticaret IsletmTleri A.S.                                 1.33
12.     Guneysu Meyva Suyu ve Ziral Maddeler A.S.                               67.31
13.     Hascan Gida Endustri ve Ticaret A.S.                                     8.50
14.     IMSA Istanbul Mesrubat Sanayi A.S.                                       1.01
15.     Konya Seker Fabrikasi A.S.                                              24.00
16.     KOYTAS Koy Tarim Makinalari San ve Tic A.S.                             67.94
17.     Layne Bowler Dik Turbin Pompalari San ve Tic A.S.                        4.17
18.     MAKSAN Malatya Makina Sanayi A.S.                                        2.50
19.     MEKTA Ticaret A.S.                                                      28.00
20.     Metal Kapak Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.                                      18.66
21.     MEYBUZ Meyve ve Buz Muhafaza Enternas.                                  99.46
22.     NIMSA Nigde Meyva Suyu ve Cida Sanayi A.S.                              92.67
23.     Pan Tohun Islah ve Uretme A.S.                                          43.93
24.     Pancar Motor ve San ve Tic A.S.                                         16.00
25.     Pinar Entegre Et ve Yem Sanayi A.S.                                      5.76
26.     Sivas Yem Fabrikasi A.S.                                                 3.57
27.     Soytek Elekt. San.Tes.tstt. ve Tic A.S.                                 30.00
28.     Suntek Agir Isi San. A.S.                                               39.00
29.     TAMEK Gida Sanayi A.S.                                                   5.54
30.     TOFAS TURK OtomobiL Fabrikalari A.S.                                    21.13
31.     TOFAS OTO Ticaret A.S.                                                  18.48
32.     Toros Gubre ve Kimya Endustrisi A.S.                                    14.48
33.     Toros Gubre ve Ziral ilac Pazarlama A.S.                                25.00
34.     TUMAS Turk.Muh.Mus.Mut.A.S.                                             49.00



ANNEXEL
Paer Iof 4
REPUBLIC OF TU
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFEITY NET PROJECIT
Prolel bnlementaon Siaud
COMPONENT                     RESPONSIBLE AGENCY          T|METABLE
1. PRIVATIZATION SUPPORT
(a) Privatization of SOEs in                  PPA                         - By mid-term review (10/31/95),
PPNs Portfolio                                                       at least one-half of the mumber
of SOEs and affiliated paneships
in PPA's portfolio ae to be
pnvatized and at least one-half of
PPA's share paricpations are to be
sold (see Annex D to SAR).-
- The PPA will submit quaterly
progress reports to the Bank
(b) Instutionl Strhengng                      PPA                        -Advises tobeappointed
- Legal advisers                                                      as condition of loan
- Strategic in-house advisers                                         focivness.
- Qatrterdy progress reports
will be submitted to the
Bank.
(c) lstitonal Strnthening                     UTFT                       -Advisers to bc appoited as
condit  of loan effectivness
- By mid-term review the
Govement wil have completed
methodology for liability
management of SOEs and
applied it to selected enterprises.
-VTF will submit quarterly
progress reports to the Bank.



Page 2 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
Proect Imdlementatlon Schedule
COMPONENT                   RESPONSILE AGENCY                          1IMETABLE
(d) Public Infomation and                  PPA                      - Advisers to be appointed
Marketing                                                  as condition of loan
effectiveness.
- By mid-term review the
Goverment will have
canied out a public information
campaign for the general
public.
- Quarterly progress reports will
be submitted to the Bank.
(e) Enviromental Liabilities               PPAIUTFT                 - Environmental consultants to be
Assessment/Plant                                                 hired as needed during the course
Reconfiguration                                                  of privatization.
- By mid-term review the
Goverument vill have adopted
a policy satisfctory to the Bank
for the settlement of
environmental liabilities for
SOEs to be privatized.
- Quarterly progress reports
will be submitted to the Bank.
- Government will have made
substantial progress in the
restrur ing and privatization
of Suner Holding A.S. by the
mid-term review.



ANNEX E
Pa8e3of4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
Proltd WIodemenItoSn Schedule
COMPONENT                    RESPONSIBLE AGENCY                          IMMETABLE
I. SOCIAL SAFETYNET
(a) Labor Adjustment Pogrm           UTFr/IBK/KOSGEB                - Advisrs au to be appointed
as condition of loan
efectveness  r initial contract
for one year.
- The Govemment will have, by
5131/94, ented into protocols
with lIBK and KOSOEB to carry
out the labor adjustment sevices
- Qutely Progres Reports will
be made to the Bank on progess
and delivery of abor adjustment
selvices.
(b) Analysis of Social Security             UT1F                      - Consutas to be appointed by
Pension Study Systems                                             7/1/94.
* Phase I wil be completed
3/31195.
- Phase 2 will be completed
3/3116.
- Quately Progress Reports wi
be submitted to the Bank during
the course of the study.
- Results and recommendations of
the study wi be submitted to the
Bank for review by 6/30/96.
- Agreed recommendations to be
implemented on a schedule
ageed with the Banti
(c) Unique Identifier System                UTFT                      - Consulants to be appointed by
7/31/94.
- Study will be completed by
1231/94.
- Quarutly Progress Reports will
be submitted to the Bank during
the couse of the study.
- Results and recommendations
will be submitted to the Bank for
review by 212V95.
* Agreed recommendations to be
implemented on a schedule
agreed with the Bank.



ANNEX R
Pagp 4  t4
REPU8LCOFT'R"Y
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCLAL SAFETY NET PROJECr
Prlect bnQlmenpn Scftedule
COMPONENT                           RESPONSIBLE AGENCY                            TIMETABLE
I11 ZONGULDAK REGIONAL
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
(a) Regional Development                      SPO                        - Consuhants to be appoite by
Plan                                                                  12/31/95.
Studytobecompletedby
1213 /96.
* Quarterly Progress Repors wil be
submitted to the Bank durig
tha cou  ofwe tudy.
- Results and recommendatios of
the study wil be submitted to the
Bank for review by 22897.
- Agreed recomendationsto be
implemented on a schedule
agred with  the Bank.
IV. STUDIES
(a) Tc  conmunai s                            UTFI                       - Consultants to be appointed by
RegulatoryStudy                                                      7131/94.
- Stuty to be complded by
5/31195.
* Quatedy Pga Repotds will be
submited to the Bank duing
the course ofthe sludy.
- Resuhs and recocmedatons Wi
be submitted to the Bank for
review by 7131/95.
* Apged recomendations to be
implamentedonscdle
agred wih dwh  Ban
(b) Studyto  nse Privat                                                  - ConsutAn to be appointed by
SetrPatcipation i                                                    9/30194.
influta  re Seor                                                      - Study will be comleted by
341/95.
* Quartely Reports will be
submiteto te Bank during
the course of the stdy.
- Results and recommendations will
be submitted to the Bank for
review by 5131195.
* Ageed rommendations to be
impleene on sched
ageed with the Ba.



ANNE F
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SAFETY NET PROJECT
Criteria for the Mid-Term Review
1.    The privatization of at least one-half of the number of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and
affiliated partnerships in PPA's portfolio as of January 1994, with privatization defined as the s4e of
not less than 51 percent of PPA ownership or the transfer of management control, and the sale of at
least one-half of PPA's portfolio of share participations as of January 1994.
2.    The Government will have carried out a public information campaign for the general public.
3.    The Government will have completed a methodology for detailed evaluation of the liabilities
of all SOEs subject to privatization and the application of that methodology to a set of selected SOEs
pursuant to privatization.
4.    The Govemment will have adopted a policy for the settlement of environmental liabilities for
SOEs to be privatized.
5.    The Government will have developed the methodology and made substantial progress in the
application and delivery of assistance to SOEs and labor adjustment services to workers in relation to
the programs for SOE restructuring and privatization.
6.    The Government will have made substantial progress in evaluating options for social security
and pensions systems after the completion of the studies included in the project.
7.    The Government will have made substantial progress in the restructuring and privatization of
Sumer Holding A.S.



ANNEX 0
page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRVATIZATION IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE AND SOCIAL SATY NETI PROJECT
Criteria for Financing Labor Adjustment Services
Gnera Cria: World Bank Loan Funds would only be available to provinces/communities meeting
two general criteria: (a) a state-owned enterprise (SOE) undergoing privatization/restructuring is
situated in the community; (b) the number of workers displaced at the SOEs involved encompass at
least 3 percent of the workforce and a minimum of 300 workers unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank.
Criteria for Specific Services
Criteria for Treasury/IlBK Funded Employment Services
1.    Eligible Services: job/social counseling, provision of labor market information,
aptitude/interest assessment, job search/job club programs, labor exchange and placement
services.
2.    Eligible Local Organizations: IIBK local offices, non-government non-profit agencies
(NGOs), private firms, labor organizations and SOEs that demonstrate minimum capabilities
to be service providers (e.g. staff qualifications, facilities, financial viability, placement
capability).
3.    Eligible Costs: staff and administrative personnel, rent and utilities, consumable
materials, client transportation for job interviews, non-durable goods, depreciation of capital
equipment - 20 percent per year.
Criteria for Treasury/IIBK Funded Retraining Services
1.    Eligible services: vocational skills, supporting literacy and mathematics skills, small
business skills training. Local organizations proposing training programs must: (a) agree to
achieve minimum negotiated job placement rates; and (b) show evidence of demand for
trained workers (e.g. endorsed by existing local tripartite employment councils).
2.    Eligible Organizations: enterprises, private/ public training institutions. Institutions
must show minimum capability for provision of training services (e.g. staff qualifications,
facilities, financial viability, placement capability).
3.    Eligible Costs: maximum length of training per client - 12 months, training and
administrative personnel, rent and utilities, consumable materials, client transportation, non-
durable goods, depreciation of capital equipment - 20 percent per year, subsistence stipends
at minimum wage level for a maximum of the difference between the months of severance pay



ANNEX (;
Page 2 of 3
received and months of training (displaced workers only). Maximum unit cost per trainee -
US$1,500; maximum cost per training contract - US$50,000 without prior no-objection of
the Bank.
Criteria for Treasury/IIBK Funded Public Works Programs
1.    Eligible Services: environmental cleanup, refurbishment of public infrastructure.
Local organizations proposing programs must provide evidence that the program will not
displace normal employment (e.g. evidenced by concurrence of local union and employer
representatives).
2.    Eligible Organizations: exclude the private sector but include government and non-
profit community organizations. Proposing organizations must provide evidence of
administrative and financial viability.
3.    Eligible Costs: supervisory personnel, maximum funding for worker stipends
(minimum wage), transportation costs, utilities, consumable materials and non-durable goods
(imited to 20 percent of total project costs), maximum length of individual programs
(6 months). Maximum project costs-US$100,000 without prior no-objection of the Bank.
Criteria for Treasury/KOSGEB Funded Small Business Consulting Assistance Programs
1.    Eligible Services: provision of legal, marketing, sales, financial services and other
consulting services to displaced SOE workers who are starting or operating small businesses.
2.    Eligible Organizations: private agencies, autonomous government organizations,
statutory occupational organizations, foundations, and associations (imcluding KOSGEB).
3.    Eligible Costs: personnel, transportation costs, utilities, consumable materials and
non-durable goods. 20 percent cost recovery from clients to be maintained.
Criteria for Treasury/KOSGEB Funded Small Business Incubator Assistance Programs
1.    Eligible Services: facilities, technical assistance, shared support services and
equipment and short-term working capital to be made available at positive real interest rates to
inhabitants of incubators.
2.    Eligible Organizations: private, and non-government associations and foundations.
Applicants will be judged on availability of facilities, qualifications of management staff,
linkages with existing small business organizations and financing institutions, financial and
administrative capabilities, experience with small business.
3.    Eligible Costs: facility refurbishment and/or rent, start-up capital for revolving fund -
maximum US$50,000, general equipment, staff and administrative costs, consumable supplies
and non durable goods, operating expenses with an agreed upon rate of cost reimbursement
phase-out from 100 to 0 percent over three years).



ANNEX G
Page 3 of 3
Criteria for Treasury Funded Local Economic Development Planning Initiatives
1.    Eligible Services: the development of proposals for studies and promotional materials,
local economic potential studies and the development of promotional materials on local
economic potential and investment projects.
2.    Eligible Organizations:
Proposals for Studies and Promotional Materials: local and regional organizations in
regions affected by SOE restructuring, to be selected by Treasury.
Local Economic Potential Studies: to be selected by Treasury from among those that
have submitted proposals for studies and promotional materials.
Promotional Materials: to be selected by Treasury from among those that have
completed Local Economic Potential Studies.
3.    Eligible Costs: local consultant salaries and fees, local travel and per-diem,
consumable materals and supplies.



IBRD 24903R
3 o F GEO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RGIA 
\ BULGARIA                                                                         3 -                                                                                GEO *  rJlnkccs
GR EECEV                                          @STOU                                                  *               ?t;s4N                               CZ 
ISLAMIC
A_          510512'                                                                                                                                                           0r      REROF  e. _,    R
AEGEAN    +             -         't                       SAL                                                                                                                         > 
SEa               1~~tV'                 IA 1                                                                                      TUGU                                                  IRA     N
At~~~~~~1011                * @110    *2Z 
~~~~'  0  8)854044~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0H"
5 ce                    Ic                                                                      >'><e  ,                                               TURKEY
;. & t < p ; <> X I J °~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
¢, : _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ > 8 s~~~~~~~~ PROVINCE CAPITALS
/A              MEDITERRANEAN SCA                                                                                                   -N WAJOR RADS
|~ t&s o                 /         op      i                                                                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
5440.0540041fi1)501h0   ILOMEoERtS 6  50   160   150  260   25D       >    CYPRUS                                                                       Province nomes ore the soae s province copilols.
MARCH 1994



