LOAN NUMBER 3728 TU
Loan Agreement
(Privatization Implementation Assistance
and Social Safety Net Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT    -
Dated             4,    1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3728 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   /<2            , 1994, between REPUBLIC OF
TURKEY (the Borrower) and INTERVATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of
the Project;
(B)   Part A of the Project will be carried out by the Public
Participation Administration (PPA) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to
PPA a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this
Agreement;
(C)   Parts B, C, and E of the Project will be carried out by
the Borrower through its Undersecretariat of the Treasury and
Foreign Trade (the Treasury);
(D)   Part D of the Project will be carried out by the
Borrower through its Undersecretariat of the State Planning
Organization (the SPO); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement
of even date herewith between the Bank and PPA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.


﻿-2-
(b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (1) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and the Public Participation Administration (the PPA) of even date
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such
term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the
Proj ect Agreement;
(b)   "PPA" means the Public Participation Administration of
the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to Law No. 2983
(1984), Law No. 3291 (1986) and Decree Law No. 414 (1990)
(Statutes), as the same may have been amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Project Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and the PPA pursuant to Section 3.03 of
this Agreement, including any amendments to such agreement as may be
made from time to time;
(d)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated December 6, 1993 and January 3, 1994
between the Borrower and the Bank;
(e)   "SOE" means   an  enterprise established, owned    and
operated by the Borrower pursuant to Decree Law No. 233 (1984), as
the same may have been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(f)   "IIBK" means the Turkish Employment Organization of the
Borrower's Ministry of Labor and Social Security;
(g)   "KOSGEB" means the Small and Medium Industry Development
Organization of the Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Commerce;


﻿- 3 -
(h)   "Zonguldak Region" means the geographic area of the
Borrower's territory delimited by the boundaries of the provinces of
Bartin and Zonguldak;
(i) "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year beginning
January 1 and ending December 31; and
(j)   "Special Account" means any account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal
valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part A of the
Project, cause the PPA to open and maintain in a freely convertible
currency satisfactory to the Bank a special account (Special Account
A) in a commercial bank or the Central Bank of the Borrower on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into,
and payments out of, Special Account A shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts B, C, D
and E of the Project, open and maintain in a freely convertible
currency satisfactory to the Bank a special account (Special Account
B) in a commercial bank or its Central Bank on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Special Account B shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
(d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such
date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance
of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall
thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    "Interest Period" means a     six-month period
ending on the date immediately preceding each
date  specified   in  Section   2.06  of   this
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in
which this Agreement is signed.
(ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
as reasonably determined by the Bank and
expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to


﻿- 5-
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989
bearing interest rates determined otherwise than
as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)    "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to
the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section
2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the
preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in
a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The PPA is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 6 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out, through the Treasury,
Parts B, C and E of the Project and shall carry out, through the
SPO, Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and economic
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of
the Project, including annual budgetary provisions in an amount and
on a schedule satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause the PPA to perform all its obligations set forth in the
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Project Agreement and the
Statutes, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable the PPA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.03. (a) For purposes of carrying out Part A of the
Project, the Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary project
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with the PPA, whereby the PPA
shall be appointed executing agent of the Borrower for carrying out
such activities under Part A of the Project as shall have been
specified therein, including, inter alia:
(i)    the carrying out by the PPA of Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and commercial practices;
(ii)    the carrying out by the PPA of the procurement
and related accounting for the goods and
consultants' services required for Part A of the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; and
(iii)    the utilization of funds by the PPA, including
the proceeds of the Loan provided by the


﻿- 7 -
Borrower, required for the support of the
operation of the PPA undertaken in accordance
with subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this Section.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Project Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Bank, to comply with the
provisions of this Agreement, and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Project Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 3.0A. Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts B, C,
D and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for
Parts B, C, D and E of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.06. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part A of the
Project shall be carried out by the PPA pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, through the Treasury and
the SPO, maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Parts B, C,
D and E of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.


﻿(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for its Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and    accounts   reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Bank
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account or payment out of its Special Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Bank's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such    records and accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of


﻿- 9 -
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall:
(a)   by October 31 of each year submit to the Bank for review
and comment a proposed work program for the carrying out of Parts B,
C, D and E of the Project during the following calendar year; and
(b)   by November 30 of each year, submit evidence to the Bank
that said work program, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly
approved by all appropriate action.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall carry out by October 31,
1995, together with the Bank, a comprehensive mid-term review of
implementation of the Project on the basis of criteria satisfactory
to the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall prepare, through the Treasury
and the SPO, and furnish to the Bank detailed quarterly reports on
the execution and operation of Parts B, C, D and E of the Project
and on other matters, pursuant to Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions, of a scop3 and within a timetable satisfactory to the
Bank.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (1) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The PPA shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Project
Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the PPA will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Project Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
(c)   The Statutes of the PPA shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of the PPA to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of the PPA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
(60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to
the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the Subsidiary Project Agreement has been concluded by
the Borrower and the PPA, respectively, by all necessary
governmental and corporate action;
(b)   the  Borrower  has  appointed  consultants  for   debt
management and labor adjustment services;
(c)   the PPA has appointed consultants for in-house strategic
planning, legal advisory services and the public information
program; and
(d)   the PPA has concluded contracts for financial advisory
services for the privatization of two SOEs.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by the PPA and is legally binding upon the PPA in
accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the PPA, respectively,
and is legally binding upon the Borrower and the PPA in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Undersecretariat of the Treasury and Foreign Trade of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik Hazine Ve Dis Ticaret
Mustesarligi
Inonu Bulvari
Emek-Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:                 Telex:
MALIYE-HAZINE             821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
821-42689 (ANK-TR)


﻿- 12 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
'uthorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment,
materials
and related
services:
(a) Part A of               400,000)
the Project                   )
(except                       )
for plant                     )
relocation                    )
or recon-                     )
figuration)                   )       100% of local
)       expenditures,
(b) Plant relo-           1,600,000)       100% of local
cation or                     )       expenditures
reconfigura-                  )       (ex-factory
tion under                    )       cost) and 90% of
the Project                   )       local expenditures
)       for other items
(c) Parts B, C              400,000)       procured locally
and E of                      )
the Project                   )
(d) Part D of                50,000)
the Project                   )


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(2) (a) Consultants'          43,000,000        100%
services, training
and promotion
services under
Part A of the
Project
(b) Consultants'          22,300,000        100%
services,
training and
study tours
under Parts B,
C and E of
the Project
(c) Consultants'           2,000,000        100%
services,
training and
study tours
under Part D
of the Project
(3) Media time and             8,750,000        100% of foreign
space under Part A                          expenditures
of the Project
(4) Labor adjustment          11,000,000        60%
services under
Part C.2 of
the Project
(5) Refunding of               2,000,000       Amounts due
Project                                     pursuant to
Preparation                                 Section 2.02 (d)
Advance                                     of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated                8,500,000
TOTAL                    100,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to
exceed $7,000,600, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2),
(3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures before that
date but after October 31, 1993; and
(b)   payments made under Category (4) of this Schedule unless
they are in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for goods and services not exceeding $100,000
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to promote efficiency
and productivity in the economy by facilitating the further
development of Turkey's private sector; (ii) to help ensure that
privatization is implemented in a transparent and efficient manner,
to accelerate the privatization process and to lay the basis for a
sustained divestiture and fiscal contraction process; and (iii) to
alleviate the adverse impact of SOE downsizing and divestiture on
displaced workers and their families by integrating social safety
net measures, including labor adjustment programs, into the
divestiture process.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Privatization Program
Strengthening the capacity of the PPA to carry out the
Borrower's privatization program through the provision of technical
assistance for the preparation and implementation of specific
privatization transactions, the assessment of environmental
liabilities and the assessment of plant relocation or recon-
figuration, as necessary; the provision of training and operational
support systems; and carrying out a public information campaign to
promote the Borrower's privatization program and broaden public
support for said program.
Part B:     Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the capacity of the Borrower to manage the
debt liabilities of the SOEs to be privatized and enhancing the
financial discipline of the non-privatized SOEs through the
provision of technical assistance and training to staff of the
Treasury.
Part C:     Social Safety Net
1.    Support of the social safety net, including labor adjustment
services, to assist the Borrower and SOEs to determine the extent of
labor displacement and to identify the services needed.


﻿- 17 -
2.    Provision of labor adjustment services, through IIBK, KOSGEB
and other selected agencies agreed by the Borrower and the Bank.
3.    Strengthening the capacity of the Treasury to administer funds
for labor adjustment services.
4.    Carrying out of studies to analyze options for the reform of
the social security/pension systems, and develop a unique identifier
system for tax and social purposes.
Part D:     Zonguldak Region
Preparation of a regional development plan for the Zonguldak
Region and feasibility studies for specific projects.
Part E:     Infrastructure Studies
1.    Carrying out of a study for the development of the legal and
regulatory framework for the telecommunications sector.
2.    Carrying   out  of  a   study  to  increase   private  sector
participation in infrastructure sectors agreed by the Borrower and
the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due               (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1999
through October 1, 2010              4,165,000
On April 1, 2011                           4,205,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 19 -
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment                         Premium
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                        0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                        0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                          0.65
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not                       0.88
more than 15 years
before maturity
More than 15 years before                        1.00
maturity


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Biddinp
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when contract award is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors, acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied to all foreign
currency components and the other to the local currency component of
the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in
the bid evaluation.
2.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with paragraph 1 of
this Section I, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the
Program. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other international recognized standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Turkey may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Icems or groups of items for goods estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of $100,000 per contract and less than the equivalent
of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$500,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of


﻿- 21 -
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers from at least three different countries eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank
prior tu the making of the first payment out of Special Account B in
respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of Special Account B, said procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan
Account are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 22 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ financial and management consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981. For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have
been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank review shall
not apply to the terms of referenre for such contracts nor to the
employment of individuals, to sinle source selection of firms, to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1994, enter into protocols
with IIBK and KOSGEB pursuant to which IIBK and KOSGEB shall carry
out the labor adjustment services under Part C.2 of the Project on
the basis of terms of reference and criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, including, inter alia:
(i)    the carrying out by IIBK and KOSGEB of Part C.2
of the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial and commercial practices;
and
(ii)    the utilization of funds by IIBK and KOSGEB
provided by the Borrower out of the proceeds of
the Loan for such Part C.2 of the Project.
2.    The Borrower shall:
(a)  (i)    by August 31, 1994, employ the consultants
referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to carry out the social security
pension s;udy under Part C.4 of the Project on
the basis of terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank; carry out the initial phase of such
study by March 31, 1995; and carry out the
second phase of such study by March 31, 1996;
(ii)    by September 15, 1994, employ the consultants
referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to carry out the study on the unique
identifier system under Part C.4 of the Project
on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank, and carry out such study by
December 31, 1994;
(iii)    by December 31, 1995, employ the consultants
referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to carry out the study on the pre-
paration of the Zonguldak Regional Development
Plan under Part D of the Project on the basis of


﻿- 24 -
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; and
by December 31, 1996 carry out such study;
(iv)    by August 31, 1994, employ the consultants
referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to carry out the study on the
regulatory framework for the telecommunications
section under Part E.1 of the Project on the
basis of terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank; and by May 31, 1995, carry out such study;
and
(v)    by September 30, 1994, employ the consultants
referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement to carry out the study to increase
private sector participation in the infra-
structure sectors under Part E.2 of the Project
on the basis of terms of reference satisfactory
to the Bank; and by March 31, 1995, carry out
such study;
(b)   not later than two months following the completion of
each study referred to in paragraph (a) above, furnish to the Bank
for review and comment the results and recommendations of each such
study; and
(c)   thereafter, put into effect the recommendations of each
such study as agreed with the Bank.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   The term "eligible Categories" means with respect to
Special Account A, Categories (1)(a), (1)(b), (2)(a) and (3) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and with rerpect to Special Account B, Categories (1)(c), (1)(d),
(2)(b), (2)(c) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)   The term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in a Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule as follows:
PPA Special Account A          $5,000,000 equivalent;
Borrower Special Account B     $3,000,000 equivalent.
2.    Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish such
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower or the PPA, withdraw from the
Loan Account and deposit in the respective Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower or the PPA shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of a Special Account, the
Borrower and the PPA shall furnish to the Bank
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower or the PPA shall furnish to the


﻿- 26 -
Bank the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment  or   payments  in  respect   of  which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
Borrower or the PPA, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit into the respective Special
Account such amount as the Borrower or the PPA
shall have requested and as shall have been
shown by said documents and other evidence to
have been paid out of the Special Account for
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower or the PPA out of its
Special Account, the Borrower or the PPA shall, at such time as the
Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding  the provisions of paragraph     3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
into a Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such


﻿- 27 -
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or
in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide or
cause the PPA to provide such additional evidence as the Bank may
request; or (B) deposit or cause the PPA to deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund or cause the PPA
to refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund or cause the
PPA to provide such evidence or make such deposit or refund, as the
case may be.
(b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund or cause the PPA
to refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower or the PPA may, upon notice to the Bank,
refund to the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in its
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
R SECRETAR


