Docmment of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4050-BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DMELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO TEE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 21.8 MILLION (US$21.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 26, 1985
Thdocment   a restricted distribution and wy be used by recipients wy in the perfora ce of
jthei oficiad duties Its contents umy not othewrwe be discinsed without Worl Bank autoritonmbn



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 490
CFAF 1 million = US$2,041
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                   =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (lm2)      =    0.39 square miles
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AfDB  -   African Development Bank ("Banque Africaine de Developpement")
BEPC  -   Lower secondary school certificate ("Brevet d'etudes du premier
cycle")
CFJA  -   Rural Youth Training Center ("Centre de formation des jeunes
agriculteurs")
DFOMR -   Directorate of Rural Training and Organization ("Direction de
la formation et de l'organisation du monde rural")
DOB   -   Guidance and Fellowships Directorate ("Direction de lVorientation
et des bourses")
DPE   -   Educational Planning Directorate ("Direction de la planification
de l'education")
DPR   -   Education Project Directorate ("Direction du projet education")
ENUP  -   National Primary Teachers College ("Ecole nationale des
enseignants du primaire")
FJA   -   Rural Youth Training ("Formation des jeunes agriculteurs")
IPB   -   Pedagogical Institute of Burkina ("Institut pedagogique du
Burkina")
MAE   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock ("Ministere de
l'agriculture et de lV6levage")
MEN   -   Ministry of National Education ("Ministare de l'educati^n
nationale")
MESRS -   Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
('1Ministere de 1'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique")
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FORt OMCIAL US ONLY
PRIKARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Burkina Faso
Beneficiaries:           - Ministry of National Education ('Kinistire de
1'e1ducation nationale" - MEN)
- Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
("Ministare de l'agriculture et de l1elevage' -
MAE)
- Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research (M'linistere de l'enseignement superieur
et de la recherche scientifique' - MESRS)
IDA Credit Amount:       SDR 21L8 million  (US$21.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project
Description:              The major objective of the project is to implement
a sector financing strategy for accelerating the
expansion of primary education through:
1.   Reduction of priAry education unit costs
by means of:
(a) The restructuring of primary teacher
training and the reclassification of the
main category of primary school teachers
("instituteurs-adjoints") at a lower
entry level of the civil service, and
related investment in tne National
Primary Teachers 0ollege in Loumbila;
(b)  Cost-efficient provision of primary
school textbooks through (i) promotion
of a national textbook development
capability at the Pedagogical Institute
of Burkina; and (ii) procurement and
distribution of textbooks and other
learning materials to meet short-term
needs through assistance to the School
Equipment Division of the Ministry of
National Education; and
This document has a estitd distibutkn and may be used by reipients only in the performancc
of thir oii duum Its contents may not otherwmi be diclose without Word Bank authorzaton.



- ii -
(c) Experimentation with and introduction of
low-cost primary school construction through
(i) a pilot school building program designed
to develop cost-efficient facniities and to
encourage, by establishing a system of
matching contributions for construction costs
and teacher salaries. regional and local
initiatives in primary school construction
and maintenance; and (ii) a primary school
building program in seven disadvantaged
provinces totalling 150 school units and
related equipment, and development of a
school maintenance and repair system.
2.  Development of the central institutions'
capabilities for planning, managing and
controlling education costs, in order to maintain
reduced unit costs over the long-term and to
reallocate resources among the various educational
levels, thereby accelerating the expansion of
primary education by:
Ca) Reinforcing the planning capacity of the
Educational Planning Directorate;
Cb) Strengthening the management expertise of the
Guidance and Fellowships Directorate within
the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research CIIESRS);
(c)  Improving the planning and monito.ng
capacity of the Directorate of Rural Training
and Organization (DFOMR) within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE); and
(d)  Expanding project preparation and
implementation capabilities in the MEN
through assistance to the Education Project
Directorate.



- iii -
Estimated Project Costs: (Net of taxes and duties from which the project
would be exempt.)
Categories                                       Local      Foreign    Total
US$ million
A. Reduction of Primary Education
Unit Costs
Restructuring of Teacher Training                 0.1          0.5       0.6
Textbook Development, Procurement
and Distribution                                0.3          2.2       2.5
Primary School Construction
and Maintenance Program                         4.5         4.7        9.2
Sub-total                     4.9         7.4      12.3
B. Institutional Development
Educational Planning                              0.2         0.4        0.6
Management of Higher Education                    0.1          0.4       0.5
Rural Youth Training Management                   0.3          1.2       1.5
Project Management                                0.4         2.1        2.5
Sub-total                    1.0         4.1       5.1
Total Base Cost                                   5.9         11.5      17.4
Physical Contingencies                            0.3         0.7        1.0
Price Contingencies                               2.1         2.7        4.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 8.3        14.9      23.2
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
US$ milliono
IDA                                               6.7        14.9      21.6
Government                                        1.6          -         1.6
TOTAL                       8.3         14.9      23.2



- iv -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86   FY87   FY88   FT89   FY90   FY91   FY92
_ -             _UUS$ mlioliio -
Annual                     1.6    3.0    3.7    4.3    3.9    3.0    2.1
Cumulative                 1.6    4.6    8.3   12.6   16.5   19.5   21.6
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Project Benefits:          The project would establish a framework for
expanding primary education by (a) restructuring
and reducing costs of primary schooling through
implementing cost-efficient modes of providing
the major inputs (teachers, textbooks and
classrooms), and (b) assisting in
institution-building efforts throughout the
education system which would lead to a more
efficient use of resources and make possible a
gradual reallocation of funds in favor of primary
education.
Risks:                     Risks include the inadequate tzchuical
capacities of the main institutions responsible
for resource use planning in the sector and the
limited experience in school construction and
project implementation in the Ministry of National
Education. A sizeable staff training program for
the implementing agencies and the provision of
specialist services in key areas are included in
the project to help overcome these handicaps.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 5443-UV
Map:                       IBRD 18294, Burkina



IDTERNAIIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO BURKINA FASO
FOR A PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Burkina Faso in an amount of SDR 21.8 million
(US$ 21.6 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
Primary Education Development Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country Economic Memorandum entitled "Upper Volta:  Investment
in Human Resources" (4040-UV) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
September 5, 1983.  The following paragraphs are based on this report and
on subsequent economic updates by Bank Staff.
Background
3.        With a GNP per capita of US$180 in 1983, Burkina (population
6.7 million) is one of the poorest countries in the world. As in most of
the Sahelian region, this poverty is largely the result of a limited
resource endowment. Soils are generally shallow, poorly structured, and
easily depleted by traditional methods of cultivation. Rainfall is scarce
and highly variable both among regions and from year to year. The lack of
a permanent water flow in the country's river system severely limits the
potenti.el for irrigation and hydroelectric power. The cost of mining known
mineral deposits (e.g. zinc, silver, phosphorus) is relatively high. The
country's landlocked position, scarcity of roads, and long distances from
seaports further constrain the country's development potential in all
sectors.
4.        An estimated 80-90 percent of the population depends for its
livelihood on the predominantly subsistence-oriented agriculture and
livestocK sectors.  Concentration of over half of the population on the
central plateau has resulted in declining fallow periods, rapid deforesta-
tion, and deteriorating soil fertility in this region. The impoverishment
of the central region has given rise to spontaneous resettlement to the
south and west, areas recently freed of riverblindness (onchocerciasis),
and to emigration to coastal countries, primarily the Ivory Coast. Approx-
imately 0.6 percent of the population emigrates each year and roughly half
of the emigrants are working age males.  Emigration has provided the
required safety valve for population pressure and has resulted in an annual
inflow of remittances of about 8 percent of CDP. Both demographic move-
ments, however, represent only partial and temporary solutions to the
challenge of raising the living standard of the population, which is
growing at approximately 2 percent annually (adjusted for emigration).



- 2 -
Past Economic Performance and Recent Developments
5.        The 1970's were good years for Burkina's economy.  Outperforming
other Sahelian countries, the country's GDP grew at an annual 3.9 percent
in real terms between 1970 and 1979 and GDP per capita at 2 percent. These
favorable trends were due to relative political stability, increased
inflows of foreign aid and workerst remittances (the latter accounting for
most of the gains in national income), and the expanded production of
cotton,  the  country's major  export  crop.   Also,  government  economic
policies were generally judicious. The three ruling administrations of the
1970's avoided major errors in the selection of investments, kept the
economy free from price distortions, and stayed well within the
conservative financial policy guidelines of the West African Monetary Union
(WAMU), of which Burkina is a member. There was, however, one area of
weakness in Burkina's otherwise creditable economic performance during the
1970's, namely, the inadequate planning of capital and recurrent public
expenditure. This led to a neglect of certain sectors such as health and
education, and, in the second part of the decade, to budgetary deficits
amounting to 1-1.5 percent of GDP.
6.        A string of adverse developments in the 1980-1983 period caused a
reversal of the 1970's trends and helped plunge Burkina's economy into a
severe recession. A rapid turnover of governments led to a climate of
political instability which, in turn, slowed down the inflow of both
foreign aid and workers' remittances - the two major stimulants of demand
in Burkina's modern sector. In addition, because of irregular and below
average precipitation, cereal harvests fell steadily from the peak reached
in 1981, thus substantially reducing outputs in agriculture, the country's
traditional sector. Public economic and financial policies deteriorated as
well in 1980-1983, a period when the goverrment undertook questionable
investments and inordinately expanded its debt burden by borro_ing from
local banks and contracting foreign loans on non-concessionary terms. The
budget deficits brought about by these policies and by falling custom
revenues led to mounting reciprocal arrears between the Treasury and the
state enterprises and contributed to further exacerbate demand for bank
credits. All told, between 1980 and 1982, investment fell approximately
50 percent, GDP stagnated, and the budget deficit increased to 4.2 percent
of GDP by 1983.
7.        The present Government, which came to power in August  1983,
initially directed its energies almost exclusively to establishing a solid
political base.  In mid-1984, however, the country's worsening economic
conditions compelled the Government to redirect its attention to the
economic front and to delineate a preliminary set of development and
financial stabilization policies. Thus, the new Government announced that
it would place increased emphasis on rural and human resources development,
tighten  budgetary  expenditures,   and  start  elaborating  a  National
Development Plan.
8.        A first concrete step to implement these policies was the launch-
ing of a "programme populaire" comprising a "self-help" program of small



investments and operations at the village level (construction of small
dams, grain storage, health and education facilities).  A second important
step was the passing of an "austerity budget" for 1985 calling for cuts in
expenditures (other than investment) and increases in revenues. Thus, in a
rapid succession of fiscal measures, the Government introduced taxes on
land title and on cattle, raised the tax on alcohol, and required employees
in both public and private sectors to forego their "13-month" bonus payment
as well as between 1/12 and 1/24 of their basic salaries in favor of the
Treasurrv. However, the Government has also taken steps to suppress rental
payments and establish new land tenure arrangements, measures which are
likely to prove counter productive.
9.        Although it is difficult to assess the final impact of the
foregoing measures on the economy and on public finances, preliminary data
indicate that economic growth has not yet revived. This is not surprising
given the continuation of drought conditicns in Burkina, which caused a
7 percent decline in 1984 cereals output (vis-a-vis the already depressed
average of the two preceding years), and the persistence of an unstable
political climate, which adversely affected both foreign aid and workers'
remittances. As for public finances, the budget deficit appears to have
remained at 4 percent of GDP in 1984 despite the austerity budget, as the
economic slowdown caused revenues to drop further.
Economic Policy Issues
10.       While some of the recent measures are prelimnnary steps in the
right direction and do indicate the Government's willingness to ulndertake
reforms, the redressing of the economic and public finance situation
requires a range of complementary policy changes in the areas of investment
planning, financial management, and public enterprises. Corrective action
in these areas could also pave the way for a possible IXF standby arrange-
ment.
11.       Investment Planning.   Burkina's public sector has never shown
great  enthusiasm  for -planning  its  investments.   Continuing  in  this
tradition, the current Government is prop'sing to embark on a number of
highly visible, large-scale projects without h<-ving made 2 serious analysis
of their economic merits or budgetary implications. The largest and most
controversial of the proposed projects, representing a total cost of about
US$320 million, is the Tambao project -involving the Ouagadougou-Kaya-Dori
railroad extension, development of a manganese deposit at Tambao and
construction of related infrastructure. Although more appropriate in the
Burkinabe context, the recently launched "programme populaire" appears
overambitiouis as well, when viewed against the rural communities' limited
implementation capacity.
12.       Recently, however, the new Government has appeared to be giving
increased consideration to economic planning and has asked the Bank Resi-
dent Mission to help.  Clearly, one of the major goals of any planning
process should be the definition of a realistic and well-conceived invest-
ment program, i.e. one which would channel investment resources towards



priority uses, and would be commensurate with the country's absorptive
capacity.  The objective ranking of investment proposals according to
clearly defined development priorities, estimated economic Inpact, and
budgetary implication would undoubtedly lead tc a shift of attention from
some high-risk propositions (e.g., Tambao) currently contemplated by tne
Government to sounder project proposals, such as exist in the agriculture,
transportation and human resources fields.  The definition of a sound
investment program could serve to rationalize not only the use of domestic
resources but also that of external aid, which has financed 80-90 percent
of Burkina's public investment in recent years. Such a program would be a
valuable instrument for improved aid coordination; it would provide the
donor community with a sounder basis for its decisions and would afford the
Burkinaba Government the opportunity of taking an increasingly firmer hand
in directing external assistance towards national economic priorities.
13.       Financial Management.  Burkina's public finances are - and will
for some years continue to be - severely strained by the peaking of debt
service payments. While this peaking is primarilv due to -he expiration of
grace periods on foreign concessional loans obtained after the 1973-74
drought, it also reflects payments due on non-commercial external anc-
internal debt incurred in the 1980-1982 period (para. 6).  Debt-service
payments due in 1984 amounted to CFAF 12 billion, with a further increase
projected for subsequent years.
14.      Restoring balance to the public finances requires a number of
actions - complementary to those recently taken by the Government - on both
expenditure and revenue sides. Thus expenditure cutbacks should be extend-
ed to deFense spending and public transfers, notably student stipends.
Non-concessional debt incurred in the 1980-82 period will probably need to
be rescheduled, and new borrowing closely monitored. Despite the limited
tax base, some scope exists for increasing budgetary revenues by raising
import taxes and/or the indicative prices of imported consumption goods and
petroleum products.   Improved tax collection could also prove to be an
important source of increased revenues.
15.       Putting the public  finances  in  order would  also  require  a
strengthening of such essential functions as budgeting, accounting and
financial control, particularly in the area-. of external debt and public
recruitment. The Government has recently proceeded to tighten control of
personnel expenditures, procurement, and technical assistance contracts.
An important complementary measure would now be the establic0-.ent of a
budgetary and accounting system to monitor the exteraal financing of public
investment and the associated counterpart and recurrent costs obligations
for the Government. A close watch also needs to be kept on the evolution
of debt service obligations to avoid the recent recurrence of late payments
to foreign creditors.  In addition, Burkinabe authorities should consider
elaborating annual investment budgets (para. 12) which would allow them to
adjust investment levels, from year to year, to the country's changing
circumstances and evolving economic parameters.



16.       Public Enterprises.  Burkina has several major parastatals whi-h
are managed quite efficiently and, in fact, could serve as models for
Similar entities in the West Africa region - notably OPT and ONE, the
telecommunications and water utiLities, respectively, and SOFITEX, the
cotton  marketing  organization.   However,  most  of  the  other  public
enterprises suffer from lax financial accounting and reporting to the
central Government, which makes it difficult to assess the impact of their
opc-ations on the consolidated public financial situation. The increasing
financial troubles of the public enterprise sector in recent years are
rooted partly in the liquidity problems of the Treasury and partly in
inadequate policies relating to prices and tariffs, employment and internal
management. To improve the financial performance of the public enterprise
sector, the newly created Ministry of State Enterprises will need to take
prompt action co ensure realistic pricing, curtail excess employment, and
strengthen public enterprise finances.
Long-Term Development Prospects
17.       Barring the discovery of major economically exploitable mineral
deposits, Bturkina must continue to rely for its growth on the development
of its agricultural and human resource endowments. Therefore the develop-
ment of these two assets should constitute the focal point of any long-term
strategy to extricate the country from its present conditions of extreme
poverty.
18.       In agriculture, top priority should be given to reversing the
deterioration of renewable resources - ground water, topsoil and forest
cover - which has resulted from the pressure of growing human and livestock
populations.    The  abandonment  of  traditional  shifting  cultivation,
overcutting of forests and brush to meet fuelwood demand, and uncontrolled
grazing have combined to create nearly irreversible damage to the carrying
capacity of parts; of the central plateau. To arrest this environmental
degradation and eventually raise productivity, requires erosion control and
replacement of organic matter in the soil by integrating crop cultivation
with  reforestation  and  livestock  husbandry.   More  and  better  focnsed
research is needed to overcome the technical and economic constraints to
the intensification of crop/forest/livestock production systems. Difficult
social and political issues as well need to be addressed, particularly
concerning land tenure and cGmmunal responsibility for management of
forests and grazing areas.
19.       A second major challenge for the country is to accelerate the
development of its human resources. Increasing access to primary education
and improving health through better primary health services, water supply
and sanitation, and nutrition will ba critical to expanding the application
of new agricultural technologies and to raising productivity levels.
Progress in these areas will require policy reforms aimed at reducing unit
costs, redirecting budgetary resources towards primary services, and in-
creasing cost recovery.  More widespread primary education is also an
important means of changing attitudes regarding fertility and reducing the
rate of population growth, which currently outpaces the expansion of



-6-
agricultural output and makes it difficult to adspt measures to preserve
the embattled agricultural resource base.
20.       Other elements of a long-term strategy must include exploration
and, where economically feasible, development of the country's mineral
potential to generate public revenues, diversify exports, and reduce the
country's vulnerability to its uncertain climate. Finally, development of
transport infrastructure - with an emphasis on ensurirg adequate mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of existing assets - is needed to complement
actions in the directly productive sectors.
Foreign Assistance and Aid Coordination
21.       Burkina has received, and continues to receive, a considerable
volume of external assistance. The bulk of this assistance is on highly
concessional terms.  However, the increasing constraints on counterpart
contributions and recurrent expenditures due to the tight budgetary situa-
tion call for a more selective and coordinated approach in planning foreign
assistance, on the part of the Government and the donor community alike.
The country's abilities to finance recurrent costs will remain very re-
stricted for some years to come, especially as it undertakes the expansion
of agricultural and social services which will inevitably increase demands
on  the domestic recurrent  budget.   Accordingly,  local cost financing,
recurrent cost financing, and high cost-sharing ratios will continue to be
necessary features of external assistance to the country.
PART II - WORLD BANlK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
22.       The Bank Group's commitments in Burkina, as of March 31, 1985,
amounted to US$250 million for twenty-eight IDA credits. IFC has made one
investment.  About US$150 million have been disbursed.  The IDA credits
comprise fourteen projects in agriculture (including one supplementary
credit), six projects in transportation (including one supplementary
credit), two projects in education, three projects in telecommunications
and one project each in industry, mining exploration, and urban develop-
ment. The IFC investment was made for the production of plastic products
destined for the local market. Burkina is also one of the major beneficia-
ries of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme financed by IDA and other
donors.   Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and IFC
commitments.
23.       Project implementation has generally been satisfactory over the
past fifteen years. However, the recent political turmoil and resulting
administrative and personnel changes have slowed the implementation or
start-up of many projects, in some cases necessitating the extension of
closing or effectiveness dates.   Also, project implementation has been
hampered by the Government's fiscal management problems which have made it
difficult  to meet promptly counterpart  funding obligations.   Burkina's
disbursement rate, which historically has compared favorably with that of



other countries in the region, has deteriorated in recent months.  Dis-
bursements are expected to return to normal levels, however, as the politi-
cal and administrative environment stabilizes.
24.       In the face of uneven progress in different areas of the economic
dialogue, Bank lending is being directed towards operations in sectors of
certain priority where the dialogue is advancing the best. Also, opera-
tions with heavy policy orientation, designed to improve overall sectoral
environments, have been given priority over exclusively "hardware"
projects.  Thus, recent lending operations in mining, rural development,
and the fertilizer subsector have addressed sectoral policy issues such as
sector investment priorities, institution-building, financial policies and
price  distortions.   The proposed Primary Education Project, now being
considered, ard the Health Project, to be submitted shortly, will substan-
tially improve the efficiency of the respective sectors, thus permitting
expansion of primary school enrollment and rural health care services
without excessive strain on the public finances.  Other projects under
active preparation are aimed at improving the delivery of agricultural
research and extension services and expanding livestock production.
25.       On the other hand, operations in sectors bogged down by major
issues, which can only be solved in the context of substantial progress in
the economic dialogue, are being hela in abeyance. Cases in point are the
RAN Rehabilitation and the Ouaga-Kaya-Dori Road Projects, which must await
the resolution of policy issues in the transport sector concerning the
economic feasibility of the Tambao project (para. 12) and the currently
inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
General Characteristics
26.       The Education System.  Burkina's education and training system
follows the pattern of other French-speaking countries in the region. A
six-year primary cycle starting at age 7 is followed by four years of lower
and three years of upper secondary school (general and technical) and
higher education at the University of Ouagadougou or abroad. In addition
to the formal education system, the country has developed rural youth
training (Formation des jeunes agriculteurs - FJA), which comprises a
network of about 600 rural youth training centers (Centres de formation des
jeunes agriculteurs - CFJAs) with about 15,000 trainees, 10 percent of them
girls. The three-year CFJA course focuses on literacy training and basic
agricultural   skills.    In   1983,   private   schools   (religious   and
non-denominational) accounted for less than 10 percent of primary
enrollments but dominated the secondary level, with 52 percent of all
enrollments in secondary general and '2 percent in technical education.
Burkina's poverty is reflected in its education system: after more than
two decades of development efforts and substantial enrollment growth, this
system still lags behind that of most other countries and appears to be



falling further behind. Nowhere is this more ia evidence than in primary
education.
27.       Organization    and    Administration.       The    administrative
responsibilities for education and training are divided among three
ministries: the Ministry of National Education (MinLst6re de l'education
nationale - MEN) for primary and secondary schoolirg; the Ministry of
Higher Education and Scientific Research (Ministrel- de l'enseignement
superieur et de la recherche scientifique - MESRS) for university
education, including studies abroad; and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock (Ministere de l'agriculture et de l'elevage -- MAE) for the FJA
system.   In addition,  several other ministries  such as Public Works,
organize their own pre- and in-service training programs
Issues in Primary Education Development
28.       Access and equity.  Burkina's gross primary enrollment rate of
about 19 percent of the 7-12 age group is one of the lowest in Africa.
Access to education is uneven. Rural areas are at a disadvantage compared
to urban areas, and girls fare worse than boys. Enrollment rates for the
35 inspectorates range from 5 percent (Dori in the Sahelian Region) to
71 percent  (Bobo-Dioulasso)-  Girls account for 37 percent of primary
enrollments, with only minor regional variations.   Many villages with
populations of 1,500 to 2,000 (sizes that would justify six-classroom
primary schools) do not have any schools; many others have schools with
three or fewer classrooms.
29.       Financial constraints.  In 1983, the Government allocated CFAF
11.3 billion to the education sector, a figure equivalent to 2.1 percent of
the country's GNP and about 22 percent of the central Government budget.
Capital investment in education amoun.ed to 7 percent of the total sectoral
budget over the period 1977-83. While these Nercentages are not very high
in the context of the other African countries,  a comparison with the
primary enrollment levels atained suggests severe constraints to further
growth. The unsatisfactory relationship between efforts made and results
achieved can be traced to two main factors: the relatively high cost of the
main input (teachers) into primary schooling and anomalies of resource
allocation in the rest of the education sector.
30.       The primary teacher work force consists mainly of two categories:
the "instituteurs" (level B1), recruited from graduates of the upper
secondary   schools   or   through   examination   promotion   from   the
"instituteur-adjoint" level, and the "instituEeurs-adjoints"  (level B2),
recruited from graduates of the lower secondary schools and trained for
two years.  While primary teacher salaries are modest by international
comparison (about US$2,100 for an "instituteur-adjoint" in mid-career),
they are high in comparison to Burkina's income level (more than 10 times
the GNP per capita vs. 2.4 in Latin America and 2.6 in Asia). Liberal
standards for promotion from the "instituteur adjoint" to the "instituteur"
category (reflected in an average annual net increase of the latter between
1980 and 1984 of over 9 percent) add another element of escalation to



- 9-
primary education costs. Since maintenance of primary schools in Burkina
is minimal and normally carried out directly by the village communities,
the bulk (98 percent) of the primary education budget goes for teacher
salaries. Consequently, any attempt at improved cost management in the
subsector would have to focus on this input. However, reduction of teacher
costs per pupil through an increase in the pupil/teacher ratio is not a
viable means: the national average of 65 being already high.
31.       Two other components of the education budget - fellowships and
subsidies to private education - stand out, both because of their size and
their indiscriminate use. The award of fellowships for higher education
ignores criteria such as economic need, academic performance or labor
market requirements, its only restrictive element being a rather generous
age limit. As the number of secondary school leavers grows, so does the
volume of university fellowships. Subsidies to religious secondary schools
have been granted at the uniform rate of 50 percent of their budgetary
requirements, again without taking account of the individual schools' needs
or performance.
32.       Thus, any major advance in primary education development would
require a restructuring of the primary teacher corps to reduce unit costs,
and a revision of present fellowship and subsidy policies. This conclusion
was confirmed and developed in detail with the help of an education
financing simulation model which has made a major contribution to the
sector policy dialogue between the Government and IDA. Discussions have
focused on a review of the major policy parameters in the education
budgeting process. These parameters cover three areas: (a) inter-sectoral
resource allocation (growth rate of the central Government budget and of
the education sector); (b) intra-sectoral resource allocation (growth rates
of budg?ts of various education sub-sectors and of their major elements
such as teacher salaries, fellowships, and subsidies); and (c) efficiency
of resource use (unit construction costs, pupil/teacher ratios, curriculum
hours). These parameters were entered in the model which simulates the
financial structure of Burkina's education system, and permits the effect
of policy alternatives on the education budget to be projected. The model
was presented during a policy seminar held in Ouagadougou in October 1983
with officials from the concerned Ministries (Education, Higher Education,
Rural Development, Finance, Planning, Labor).
33.       One  of  the  main  alternatives  considered  was  a  policy  of
non-intervention, i.e., holding the policy parameters constant at the base
year (1982) levels while assuming a continuation of recent total budgetary
growth.  This course of action would raise the gross enrollment rate only
slightly from about 19 percent to 27 percent.  The unit cost remaining
constant, the growth would be in proportion to the overall budgetary
growth. By contrast, the other alternatives postulated policy changes in
several areas, with the understanding that any budgetary savings in the
system would be channelled into the development of primary education. One
scenario  of  moderate  intervention  on  a  number  of  parameters  was
particularly instructive.  It would (a) combine a slight increase in the
share of the education sector budget in the total Covernment budget with a



- 10 -
decrease in the budget for secondary and higher education fellowships, an
increase in the remaining budget for secondary and higher education at an
annual rate slightly lower than that for the total Government budget, and
an increase in the subsidies to private education at the same rate as the
Government budget increase; and (b) include the reclassification of the
main category of primary school teachers ("instituteurs-adjoints") from
level B2 to Cl which would decrease significantly the primary education
unit costs (from US$38 to US$29 equivalent in constant 1982 US dollars).
As a result, the primary gross enrollment rate would increase to about
66 percent by the year 2000, a level in line with the Government's
unofficial target (para. 40).
34.       These simulations demonstrate that a substantial increase in
primary school enrollments before the end of this century is possible, pro-
vided the Government introduces a new category of lower-paid teachers
(recruited at Level Cl) to fill the additional posts and increases the
budget for primary education through the reallocation of funds to and
within the education sector.
35.       Quality.  Quantitative and qualitative shortcomings affect the
two key inputs into primary education-teachers and textbooks.  While the
general educational level of newly recruited primary school teachers is
acceptable, the insufficiency of training facilities (240 places at two
secondary schools) has resulted in a shortfall of qualified teacher
training graduates. Over the past three years an average of 180 primary
classrooms remained vacant during part or all of the school year for want
of qualified teachers.  Moreover,  the poorly balanced teacher training
program emphasizes general subjects at the expense of pedagogical training
and practice, training methods are inadequate, and pedagogical support to
primary school teachers, particularly in rural areas, is weak, mainly
because of inadequate transportation. With the opening, in Oc__ber 1985,
of the new National Primary Teachers College (Ecole nationale des
enseignants du primaire - ENEP) in Loumbila (para. 47), the physical basis
fAor restructuring primary teacher training will become available.
36.       Primary school textbooks are scarce, costly, heterogeneous and of
limited relevance. Some stem from foreign donations spread unevenly over
the country and showing undesirable diversity. The same holds true for
commercially provided textbooks, which in addition are costly and therefore
out of the reach of most families, particularly those in rural areas.
Moreover, all textbooks are either directly imported or only slightly
adapted to conditions in Burkina, thus curtailing their relevance and
comprehensibility. Since October 1984, the Government has standardized the
prices of textbooks and teaching materials throughout the country, and has
selected a set of textbooks to be used in all primary schools.  Never-
theless, even the reduced prices (e.g., US$14.55 equivalent for all
textbooks required for Grade 6) entail a considerable burden for most
families.  The organizational structures for the development, production
and  distribution  of  teaching  materials  are  already  in  place.   The
Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (Institut pedagogique du Burkina - IPB)



- 11 -
and the School Equipment Division of the Primary Education Directorate
share responsibilities in this area.
37.       As a result of inadequate and inappropriate inputs, the primary
education system suffers from low internal efficiency. Repetition averages
more than 18 percent over the six-year cycle and is as high as 45 percent
in Grade 6.  Within the normal time of six years, only a quarter of all
entrants pass the final examination, which is not a qualifying examination
for secondary school and therefore reflects achievement rather than a
scarcity of secondary school places. It takes more than 13 student years
to produce a primary school graduate in Burkina.
38.       Institutional Weaknesses.  While the simulation exercise (paras.
32-34) has demonstrated the possibility of a significant expansion of
primary education through a policy of reallocation of the education budget
and efficient use of resources and mobilization of incremental resources,
two impediments stand in the way of its implementation. The first is the
inadequate technical capacity of the main institutions responsible for the
planning  of  resource  use  in  the  sector:   the  Educational  Planning
Directorate, the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate, and the Directorate
of Rural Training and Organization (Direction de la formation et de
l'organisation du monde rural - DFOMR), in HEN, MESRS and MAE,
respectively. The other impediment is the limited experience in school
construction and project implementation of the newly created Education
Projects Directorate ii MEN.  A strengthening of these institutions is
imperative if the large and difficult task of reallocating and managing
resources for primary education expansion is to succeed.
The Government's Policy
39.       Burkina's education system, very small at independence, began to
develop in response to urgent needs for middle-level and professional
manpower.   By the late 1960s,  the task of developing basic education
throughout the country came to be seen as increasingly important. The
Government chose  the vehicle  of nonformal  rural  training  to combine
literacy training with the teaching of basic agricultural skills (para.
26).  In recent years, however, the Government has come to realize that
this alternative system is no substitute for widespread primary education,
mainly because of the educational preferences of most rural families, the
substantial physical requirements  of the FJA system  and,  due to the
necessarily small size of trainee groups, its considerable unit costs,
amounting to about US$143 per trainee year, versus US$38 in primary
education.
40.       Tie Government is now embarking upon the rapid expansion of
primary schooling as its foremost sectoral objective, having established a
tentative enrollment target of 60 percent for the year 2000. It realizes
that this will require major policy modifications, particularly general
resource reallocations within the sector and a gradual restructuring of the
primary teacher corps in order to lower average salaries. Signals of this
awareness are: the assignment of about 900 members of the recently



- 12 -
established National Civil Service to teach for one year in primary schools
- an expedient that avoids long-term budgetary commitments (but whose
educational merits are stili untested); a shift in university scholarships
wherever possible from the more expensive foreign institutions to
Ouagadougou University; a drastic curtailment of subsidies to private
secondary schools; a curb on the further expansion of the network of public
secondary schools; and a rethinking of fellowship policies.  These new
initiatives are expected to coalesce and take a more concrete form in the
forthcoming Development Plan for the five-year period 1986-90.
The Bank Group's Role
41.       Previous Projects.  Previous Bank Group assistance to education
and training in Burkina focused ci the FJA, with supplementary investments
in other areas. The First Education Project (Cr. 430-UV, signed in June
1973, for US$2.85 million) aimed at strengthening the FJA system in three
of the country's eleven regions.  In addition, the IDA Credit included
funds for building and equipping 22 secondary school science laboratories.
Following a one-year extension of the Closing Date, Cr. 430-UV was fully
disbursed  and  all  components--with  the  exception  of  the  science
laboratories-were completed, albeit on a reduced scale because of cost
increases and adverse rate-of-exchange fluctuations. (PPAR No. 3839,
March 1, 1982.)
42.       The Second Education Project (Cr. 956-UV, signed in October 1979,
for US$14.0 million) continued to provide support of the FJA system and
also gave assistance to the Public Works Training Center. The project has
experienced   initial  delays   and  difficulties  due  to  changes  in
administrative responsibilities. but performance has improved significantly
over the past two years.   After an initial one-year extension of the
original Closing Date and a second extension of six months, the IDA Credit
will be closed on December 31, 1985.
43.       Future Approach to the Education Sector.  Recognizing that a
broad base of literacy, particularly among the rural population, is an
essential condition for sustained socio-economic development, the Bank
Group considers support for Burkina's basic education the first priority
for continued lending to the sector.  Given the non-replicability on a
large scale of the FJA system to provide basic education, future assistance
would pursue this aim through the expansion of primary schooling. However,
care should be taken to harmonize the entire system of basic education
(primary and FJA) to avoid waste of resources. Support would be provided
directly (through the provision of critical inputs to primary education)
and indirectly (through participation in the efforts to restructure the
financing of the education system). More specifically, the Bank Group's
involvement will address  the following areas:   (a) cost-efficiency of
post-primary education; (b) institutional development and assistance to the
management of the education system, particularly for the management of
costs and the promotion of a cost-recovery system for post-primary
education; and (c) support of efforts to develop suitable modes of primary
education in sparsely populated areas.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The rationale  for  the proposed  project was developed by a
UNESCO-Bank education sector mission (November 1981) and an IDA economic
mission (4040-UV, September 1983) which identified primary education as the
priority areas for educational development in Burkina while pointing to the
need  for  more  efficient use  of  resources.   Project  preparation  was
undertaken by the Government with assistance from a UNESCO mission in
February 1983; appraisal took place in March 1984; and negotiations were
held  in  Washington  in  April,  1985.   The  Staff  Appraisal  Report
(No. 5443-UV) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A Supplementary Project Data Sheet is given in Annex III.
Project Objective and Description
45.       The project has as its main objective the implementation of a
financing strategy designed to accelerate the expansion of primary
education through reduction of primary education unit costs and development
of the central institutions' capabilities for planning, managing and
controlling education costs.  In order to reduce unit costs, the main
category of primary school teachers (instituteurs-adjoints) would be
recruited at a lower salary level, and the internal efficiency of primary
education would be improved through better focused training of teachers,
combined with the development of a textbook production, procurement and
distribution  capability.  To reduce primary school construction costs,
low-cost designs for classrooms, as well as ways to encourage local
initiatives in school building, would be developed and introduced through a
pilot school building program. By the same token, a system of periodic
school waintenance and repair would be established in the project area. To
develop the central institutions' capabilities for planning, managing and
controlling education costs, with a view to maintaining reduced unit costs
over the long-term and to carry out the necessary resource allocations
within the sector, the project would strengthen the Educational Planning
Directorate and the Education Project Directorate in MEN, the Guidance and
Fellowships Directorate in MESRS, and the Rural Youth Training Directorate
in MAE.
Reduction of Primary Education Unit Costs
46.       Restructuring of teacher training.  In order to reduce primary
education unit costs and thereby alleviate the financial constraints to
primary education expansion, the project would help to reclassify the new
category of primary school teachers (instructeurs-adjoints), who would
still be recruited with a lower secondary school diploma (BEPC) but
integrated into the civil service at level Cl instead of B2. It would also
help to upgrade the promotion examination for all primary school teachers
in order to introduce a measure of selectivity and slow down the overall
rate of promotion. The new "instituteurs-adjoints" who would comprise the
standard teacher category in primary education, would be trained for one
year at the National Primary Teachers College in Loumbila (para. 35). The



- 14 -
training course, an outline of which is already available, would have a
course content comprising pedagogical training (about 40 percent), general
subjects (40 percent), and complementary courses such as agriculture and
physical education (20 percent). The primary teacher promotion examination
would be upgraded by introducing general subjects. Promotion requirements
would thereby be tightened and the overall rate of promotion slowed.
47.       The National Primary Teachers College is being established with
assistance from the Netherlands (US$1.4 million for civil works).
Construction started in early 1984 and is expected to be completed by
mid-1985. The ENEP will have an enrollment of about 340 students, which
would be sufficient to meet the requirement for primary school teachers
training over the next five to ten years. The proposed IDA credit would
finance:   civil works  (additional housing for 12 staff); furniture and
equipment; fellowships; and incremental operating costs (operation and
maintenance of facilities, equipment and materials).
48.       During negotiations, the Government presented to IDA the decree
establishing the National Primary Teachers College and reclassifying the
main category of primary schools teachers (instituteurs-adjoints) from
level B2 to Cl, thus ensuring the timely introduction of the new teacher
training program. The Government also agreed that it will issue, prior to
December 31, 1986, a decree upgrading the primary teacher promotion
examination (Schedule 4, Part A, para. 1 (c) of DCA).
49.       Textbook development, procurement and distribution.  The project
would provide assistance to the Ministry of National Education to develop a
capability to produce, adapt, procure and distribute low-cost textbooks and
teacher guides for the primary schools.  This assistance not only would
help the Ministry to meet the urgent short-term needs for textbooks and
reduce their cost (para. 35), but would also, over the long te-m, improve
the internal efficiency of primary education and curtail any side effects
of the introduction of the new category of teachers (para. 46) on the
quality of primary education.   This textbook component would encompass
three activities: (a) development, over the medium term, of a managerial
and technical capability within the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (IPE)
to adapt suitable imported materials in the less culturally biased subjects
(math and science) and to produce national textbooks in French for Grades
1-3; (b) strengthening the capabilities of the School Equipment Division to
procure and distribute textbooks and other teaching materials; and (c)
assistance in the provision of about 800,000 textbooks and teachers'
guides.
50.       Assistance to the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (IPB) would
focus on the reorganization of the Teaching Materials Production Department
during the first year of project implementation in order to establish an
Editing Division staffed with 10 writers and three editors and a Production
Division staffed with two textbook production specialists, one layout and
one graphics designer, and 11 skilled printers (all nationals). The School
Equipment Division would receive seven additional staff to strengthen its
distribution and storage facilities. The textbook provision program would



- 15 -
encompass the production of about 180,000 textbooks each for math and
science (Grades 3-6), 155,000 textbooks for French (Grades 1-3). and 6.000
teachers'  guides for each of these subjects.   For reasons of economy,
expediency and quality, the printing of the textbooks would be done abroad,
but  the  teachers'  guides  would  be  printed  locally.   To meet  urgent
requirements that cannot, in the short term, be satisfied through national
efforts, the program would also include the importation of about 260,000
textbooks and 8,500 teachers' guides in French for Grades 1-6, distribution
of the combined stocks of the locally adapted and imported textbooks, and
monitoring of their use. Distribution of the textbooks would be carried
out in two stages:   from the School Equipment Division to tha Primary
School Inspectorates, and thence to the primary schools. Transportation
would be handled by private contractors. Textbooks which are expected to
last for three years, would be loaned free of charge to the primary school
students.
51.       The  proposed  IDA credit would  finance:   (a) civil works to
rehabilitatelmodify the IPB library, conference room and former printing
shop  into offices  for the Editing Division and to build an adjacent
printing shop and a central warehouse and rehabilitate two inspectorate
warehouses for the School Equipment Division; (b) furniture, equipment and
vehicles; (c) the acquisition of adaptation rights for textbooks, the
production costs of textbooks and teachers' guides, and the procurement of
imported textbooks and teachers' guides; (d) staff training and specialist
services; and (e) incremental operating expenditures (operation and
maintenance  of equipment and facilities and distribution  costs).   Thie
Government has agreed that, no later than June 30, 1986, the IPB's Teaching
Materials Produccion Department will be reorganized to establish an Editing
Division and a Production Division, with staffing in numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Government and to IDA (Schedule 4,
Part A, para. 2 (b) of DCA).
52.       Primary school construction and maintenance  In order to reduce
primary school building costs, encourage local initiatives in school
construction and maintenance, and increase the number of school units, the
project would: 'a) conduct a pilot program for identifying cost-efficient
modes of primary school construction; (b) establish a fund to encourage
village construction of schoois through matching contributions; and (c)
implement a low-cost primary school construction program, based on the
pilot program, which would increase the total number of school units by
about 12 percent and would be carried out in seven disadvantaged provinces.
This program would also aim at establishing a village-based system of
school maintenance (para. 55).
53.       For the pilot school building program,  the Education Project
Directorate would be provided assistance in constructing 30 classrooms and
supplementary facilities to experiment with various building standards,
with economy and ease of maintenance as important criteria in identifying
suitable modes.   To facilitate supervision of the program and also to
provide an adequate number of teaching practice schools for the National
Primary Teachers College (para. 46), some of the experimental classrooms



- 16 -
Ouagadougou.   During  project  implementation  the  Education  Projects
Directorate would conduct a systematic evaluation of the pilot school
building program, using criteria agreed with IDA, and the Directorate's
findings and recommendations would be submitted to IDA for review.  The
matching contributions would help:   (a) complete local school building
efforts in villages where most of the necessary investment has already been
made without help from the Government; and (b) defray the cost of the
salaries of teachers to staff the classrooms provided under the pilot
school building program and in cases where villages have built or are
willing to build a school. These matching contributions would serve as
incentives for local authorities and villagers to build and maintain
schools and would help to develop the organizational pattern for such
initiatives. The identification of participating villages would be made by
the primary school inspectors, who would turn over the candidacies to the
Education Project Directorate for further processing.
54.       For  the  primary  school  construction  program,  the  Edtcation
Projects Directorate would be provided assistance in constructing about
50 classrooms and teachers houses in 150 villages located in th ! provinces
of Bam, Gnagna, Gourma, Namentenga, Sanmatenga, Tapoa and Yatenga.  The
villages were selected mainly on the basis of a school mapping exercise
conduc^--d  by  the  Educational  Planning  Directorate.    Norma'lly,   a
three-classroom unit, supplemented by three teachers houses and a well,
would be built in a village lac'king a school building; in a few cases,
additional classrooms would be provided for large villages where there is
an acute shortage of student places. For each classroom, one housing unit
would be provided because the lack of adequate teacher housing has been a
major constraint  to educational  development  in the rural areas.   The
organization of civil works would be based on experience gained in other
rural projects, particularly in building Rural Youth Training Centers
(CFJAs) under Cr. 956-UV (para. 42). To adapt classroom and staff housing
designs to local conditions and to the availability of local building
materials, as well as to assess alternatives for organizing the work
(especially ways to permit the participation of villagers). a trial run
comprising 10 school units is being implemented in 1984/85, financed under
Cr. 956-UV.  Prior to the start of the main construction program's first
annual tranche (scheduled for October 1985), the results of this trial run
would be evaluated for application in the main program. As an incentSve to
further reduce construction costs, any savings that it may realize in the
primary school construction program would be made available for building
additional classrooms.
55.       In light of the Government's budgetary constraints and in order
to prevent rapid deterioration of the school infrastruct-re, as part of the
pilot school building program, cost-efficient methods of improving primary
school maintenance would be developed and applied throughout the primary
school system.  Taking into account the experience gained in the pilot
program, both with regard to low maintenance modes of school building and
the mobilization of village efforts, the Education Projects Directorate
would establish a school maintenance system th:at would be largely
village-based and require minimal financial support from the Government.



- 17 -
56.       The proposed IDA credit would finance:   (a) a lump sum of
US$1.1 million for the pilot program, with an estimated US$0.3 million for
matching salaries; (b) civil works (450 classrooms and teachers houses and
150 wells) and professional fees; (c) equipment and furniture for the 450
new classrooms and their distribution costs; (d) salaries of teachers for
those classrooms on a declining basis (to facilitate disbursements, an
average rate of disbursement of 65 percent for the period has been
calculated); and (e) funds to develop a systeit of school maintenance and
repair and to implement this system in the project area.
57.       The Government has discussed with IDA how it plans to organize
future primary school maintenance, with emphasis on village participation
and disengagement of the central Government, and agreed that it will
prepare and submit to IDA not later than December 31, 1985, a proposal for
the financing and organization of periodic maintenance and repair of
primary schools (Section 3.06 of DCA).
Institutional Development
58.       To enable the Government to implement a sector financing strategy
for accelerating the expansion of primary education, the central institu-
tions responsible for planning, managing and controlling education costs
would be strengthened and developed under the project. Specifically, the
project would reinforce the planning capacity of the Educational Planning
Directorate, strengthen the management expertise of the Guidance and
Fellowships Directorate, improve the planning and monitoring capacity of
the Rural Youth Training Directorate, and strengthen the operational
capabilities of the new Education Project Directorate. The major functions
of these vour Directorates, their proposed work programs and staffing, and
the assi--ance to be provided by the project are described below.
59.       Educational planning.  To develop a capacity for primary and
secondary educational planning and for financial plarning and cost monitor-
ing, and to improve decision-making in the reallocation of resources
available to the sector and ensure their efficient use, the Educational
Planning Directorate (para. 38) would be organized and staffed to be able,
in addition to its current main responsibilities, to prepare, follow up and
review the implementation of policy measures relating to the financing of
the expansion of primary education. The Directorate would, in addition to
its regular administrative tasks, have to undertake to: (a) improve the
reliability and timing of the analysis and publication of educational
statistics;   (b) complete  a country-wide  school mapping  exercise  for
primary education; (c) carry out, in collaboration with the Pedagogical
Institute of Burkina, a study on the introduction of a double-shift system
for primary schools; (d) conduct an organization and management study of
the Ministry of National Education; (e) define the criteria for subsidies
to private education in regard to total level of subsidies, subsidy level
per student, and selection of the recipient schools; and (f) prepare, on an
annual basis, a review Gf the education sector budget, aimed at increasing
the trend line of budgetary allocations to primary education through a
combination of measures. These measures would include an increase in the



- 18 -
allocations for education at a slightly higher annual rate than the Govern-
ment's overall budgetary increases, a decrease in the budget for fellow-
ships for secondary and higher education, and an increase in the remaining
budget for those two levels, at an annual rate slightly lewer than the
Government's overall budgetary increases. During project implementation,
additional staff would be assigned to DPE in numbers and qualifications
agreed upon between the Government and IDA.
60.       The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) construction of an
office building, to be shared with the Education Project Directorate (para.
66), furniture, equipment and vehicles; (b) staff training and short-term
specialist services; and (d) incremental operating expenditures.
61.       During negotiations, the Government presented a decree reforming
the system of subsidies to religious secondary schools. The subsidies will
now consist of a flat fee paid for each student enrolled by the Goverment
in those schools.  In adlition, the Government agreed that it will (a)
define in a directive to be agreed upon with IDA and to be issued not
later than June 30, 1986, the level of government subsidies to private
educacion; and (b) undertake with IDA, not later than April 30 of each
year, an annual review of the expenditures and financing needs of the
education sector with a view to providing for a reallocation of education
budget resources in f_vor of, or an increase in funds allocated to, primary
education (Schedule 4, para. B 1 (b) and section 3.05 of DCA).
62.       Management of higher education.  In order to improve management
of higher education with the aim of improving the criteria for the award of
fellowships and formulating a strategy for post-primary educational
development, the project would strengthen the Guidance and Fellowships
Directorate  (para.  38)  in  NESRS.   This  assistance  would  help  to:
(a) establish a modern data  storage/retrieval  system  to  eapedite  the
administration of fellowships and permit a more differentiated fellowship
policy; and (b) carry out a study of national manpower needs and of
post-primary educational development. The main tasks of the Directorate
during project implementation would be to improve the organization and
management of the fellowship files and the procedures linking student
school attendance and achievement to fellowships; propose new criteria for
fellowship awards; analyze higher education costs and contribute to the
preparation of the Government-IDA annual review of the education sector
budget (para. 61); and undertake a manpower study and formulate a
post-primary develoument strategy in collaboration with the Ministries of
National Education, Agriculture and Livestock, and Planning. To this end,
five additional high-level staff members would be recruited during the
first two years of the project.
63.       The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) furniture, equipment
and vehicles for the Directorate of Guidance and Fellowships; (b) staff
training  and  short-term  specialist  services;  and  Cc)  incremental
expenditures for the operation and maintenance of equipment.



- 19 -
64.       Rural Youth Training  (FJA) management.   In order to continue
strengthening the FJA administratiorn at the central and regional levels so
that existing resources may be used more efficiently, develop the
production and distributit.n of learning materials, establish a monitoring
and evaluation system, and initiate studies for the future harmonization of
the basic education system (primary education and FJA), the project would
provide assistance to the Di:2ctorate of Rural Training and Organization
(para. 38). During project implementation, the Directorate's main task
would be to establish an FJA management performance monitoring system;
contribute to the preparation of the manpower study (para. 62); collect,
analyze and publish on a regular basis statistics on the FJA system and
complete an evaluation of rural training through a sample of the FJA
Centers; produce and distribute about 11.3 million leaflets and other
learning materials; and organize, lead and provide technical information to
a national commission, which would direct a study on ways to harmonize the
basic education system (para. 43).
65.       The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) furniture, equipment
and vehicles for the Directorate of Rural Training and Organization;
(b) staff training and short-term specialist services; (c) salaries of two
additional   staff;   and   (d)   incremental   operating  and  monitoring
expenditures.  The Government has agreed that it will:  (a) establish, not
later than June 30. 1986, a National Commission under the auspices of the
Minister of Agriculture and Livestock to review ways to harmonize the
systams of primary education and of rural youth training, taking into
account the new objectives assigned to DFOMR; and (b) discuss with IDA not
later than June 30, 1987, the results of the above-mentioned review
(Section 3.03 of DCA).
66.       Project management.  To stzengrhen the operational capabilities
of the new Education Project Directorate (DPR), the Directorate would
receive assistance in the implementation and preparation of projects. At
its full development, which is expected to be achieved by late 1985, it
would comprise 14 technical/administrative and 14 support staff;   they
would be organized into an Administration Division and a Construction and
Equipment Division.   Because of the wide geographic dispersion of the
classroom construction sites (para. 53), three provincial cells, with a
staff of nine technicians (including three Dutch volunteers) for direct
on-site supervision of civil works and supply management, would be attached
to the Construction and Equipment Division. An important function of the
Directorate would be to identify and prepare projects both for investment
by the G vernment itself and by external agencies.
67.       The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) construction of an
office building, to be shared with the Educational Planning Directorate
(para. 60), a central storage facility in Ouagadougou, and three regional
posts which would serve as headquarters for the provincial cells and as
regional storage points;  (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles; (c) staff
training and specialist services; (d) the salaries of 25 national contract
personnel; (d) operational expenditures; and (e) funds for project



- 20 -
preparation work (feasibility studies, requirements surveys, architectural
designs, and development of equipment lists).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
68.       The total project cost over the six years of implementation is
eE,imated at US$23.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a
foreign exchange component of US$14.9 million (64 percent).  Base cost
estimates  are  in  rebruary  1985 prices.   Allowances  for  annwal price
escalations are as follows: for foreign costs, 9 percent for 1985-87; 7.5
percent for 1988 and 1989; and 6 percent for the years thereafter; for
local costs, a uniform rate uf 10 percent per year.  The project would be
financed by IDA (US$21.6 million, or 93 percent of total project cost) and
the Government (US$1.6 million, in the form of incremental staff salaries
and counterpart contributions for school maintenance and repair).
69.       Recurrent costs.  VWhen fully developed, the project components
under the responsibility of MEN would require annual budgetary allocations
on the order of CFAF 530 million (US$1.1 million), in constant 1984 prices,
to continue operation of the schools and institutions established or
expanded under the project. These incremental costs would be equivalent to
7 percent of the Ministry's 1984 recurrent budget.  While such an increase
is feasible, the expected continued expansion of primary education will
require stringent control of the entire education budget (paras. 32-33).
The  recurrent  budgetary  implications  of  the  components  under  the
responsibility of MAE and NESRS are estimated at CFAF 60 million and CFAF
10 million (US$0.12 million and US$0.02 million) annually, or 2.4 percent
and 0.3 percent, respectively, of their 1984 recurrent budgets.
Project Implementation
70.       Preparation.  Each project component is supported by a detailed
working paper, and educational specifications for the National Primary
Teachers College have been prepared. Initial experience with the logistics
of rural classroom construction is being obtained, and start-up of the
proposed project is being facilitated, under Cr. 956-LW (Second Education
Project).  Under that project, US$1.3 million ie being used to finance:
(a) initial operating costs and the purchase of start-up vehicles;
(b) furniture and equipment for the Education Project Directorate;
(c) early recruitment of two specialists for the Directorate; (d) priority
fellowships for staff of the Educational Planning Directorate and the IPB;
(e) architectural  design work and bidding  documents  for  the proposed
project facilities which are to be completed by June 1985; and (f) the
construction of 10 primary school units in 1984/85 as a trial run.
71.       Sites.  Suitable sites are already available for civil works to
be undertaken as part of the textbook development, educational planning,
and project management components.  Warehousing facilities for the textbook
and primary school construction components would be built on the grounds of
the Lycee Zenda in Ouagadougou.  Suitable sites for the three regional
cells at Fada N'gourma, Kaya and Ouahigouya have been made available. The



- 21 -
150 villages to be included in the primary school building program have
been identified (para. 54), and the provision of suitable sites in the
villages does not appear to present a problem.
72.       Implementation responsibility.  The main responsibility for the
technical aspects of project implementation would be given to the relevant
Directorates/Directorates General in the three participating Ministries.
The largest project component, the primary school construction and
maintenance program (para. 52), would be under the direct supervision of
the Education Project Directorate, as would the primary teacher training
component  (para.  46)  and  future  project  preparation.   The  Project
Directorate would serve as liaison between IDA and the implementing
agencies and would support all of them (except the FJA Directorate) in the
areas of procurement, financial administration, documentation, monitoring
and reporting.  In view of the familiarity of the FJA Directorate with
project implementation procedures, the role of the Education Project
Directorate vis-a-vis the FJA component (para. 64) would be limited to
liaison with IDA.
73.       Specialist services and fellowships.  The project would finance a
total of 209.5 months of specialist services and 402 months of foreign
fellowships. Terms of reference for the specialist posts have been agreed
with the Government, as have the scope and content of the fellowship
program. The Government agreed that it will require all staff having
received training abroad financed under the project to remain in their
assignments for a period of at least three years following the completion
of training (Section 3.04 of DCA).
Procurement
74.       The following procurement arrangements would apply, with the
figures in parentheses showing amounts to be financed by IDA:



- 22 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ million)
Category                  ICB         LCB         Other      N/A        Total
Civil Works and            3.0  bI    2.9  c/    2.5  d/   -              8.4
Professional Fees a/      (3.0)       (2.9)       (2.5)      -          ( 8.4)
Hatching
Contributions   e/       0.2         0.6  c/    0.2  d/   -             1.0
(0.2)      (0.6)       (0.2)                 ( 1.0)
Furniture, Equipment       0.5  fl    1.3 S/    0.07 h/   -               1.9
and Vehicles              (0.5)       (1.3)       (0.07)                C 1.9)
Periodic Kaintenance       -           -           1.2  i/   -            1.2
and Repair                                        (0.6)                 ( 0.6)
Textbooks                  0.5 i/    -             1.3  k/   -            1.8
(0.5)                  (1.3)                 { 1.8)
Specialist Services        -           -           4.0  1/    0.3 m/      4.3
and Fellowships                                   (4.0)       (0.3)     C 4.3)
Salaries nf
1/ Project staff         -           -          -           0.8         0.8
(0.4)     ( 0.4)
2/ Teachers              -           -          -           1.8         1.8
(1.2)     ( 1.2)
Operating Costs            -           1.5  o/      0.5  dl   -           2.0
(1.5)       (0.5)                C 2.0)
Total                 4.2         6.3         9.8        2.9        23.2
(4.2,      (6.3)      _(2)_    (1.9)       (21.6)
a/   Contracts awarded during preparation (1984) after local
prequalification.
b/   Contracts for construction materials valued at more than US$50,000.
c/   Contracts for construction, construction materials, labor and
transportation valued at between US$15,000 and US$50,000.
d/   Comparative shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations
from at least three reliable suppliers for items that cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least US$15,000.
e/   US$1 million for constructing about 75 classrooms and supplementary
facilities to experiment with various building standards under the
pilot school building program and for financing civil works, wells,
furniture and equipment to complete local school building efforts
(para. 53).
(Footnotes continued on following page)



- 23 -
75.       Because of their relatively small size and wide dispersion in
remote areas, civil works contracts would not attract overseas foreign
firms, and would be procured after local competitive bidding (LCB)
according  to  procedures  acceptable  to  IDA.   However,  construction
materials, equipment, vehicles and foreign printing of textbooks would be
grouped to the extent practicable to facilitate competition in bidding, and
packages of US$50,000 equivalent or more would be awarded after
international competitive bidding (ICB) according to procedures acceptable
to IDA. Goods manufactured locally would be given a preference ma-gin of
up to 15 percent or the applicable customs duty, whichever is less.
Procurement packages (announcements, bidding documents and proposed awards)
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review. For
contracts valued at between US$15,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, two
conformed copies of each contract would be subject to post review by IDA
before withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account. Contracts valued at
less than US$15,000 equivalent would be held by the Borrower for random
review by IDA supervision missions and for the audit.
(Footnotes Continued)
f/   Contracts of US$0.5 million for equipment, including vehicles, grouped
into bid packages valued at more than US$50,000.
g/   All contracts for furniture (valued at US$1.2 million) and contracts
for equipment that can be grouped into bid packages valued between
US$500 and US$50,000.
h/  Local shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations from
at least three reliable suppliers for items that cannot be grouped
into bid packages of at least US$500.
iI   Comparative shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations
from at least three reliable suppliers.
j_   Foreign printing of textbooks.
k/  Direct contracts with publishers of suitable textbooks for adaptation
rights and textbooks purchases.
1/  Contracts for specialists services valued at US$2.9 million equivalent
and fellowships abroad: World Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (April 1981).
ml  In-country fellowships.
n/   Including US$0.5 million for matching salaries under the pilot school
building program.
o/  Contracts for office materials, spare parts, gasoline, other
consumables and building maintenance that can be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$15,000.



- 24 -
Disbursements
76.       The  draft  disbursement  schedule  has  been  aggregated  from
estimates  for  the  individual  components.   The  following  disbursement
percentages would apply:
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Percent of
Amount        Expenditures
(US$'000)     To be Financed
a)  Civil works and professional fees             6,060             100
b)  Matching contributions                          810             100
c)  Furniture, equipment and vehicles             1,340             100
d)  School maintenance and repair                   410              45
e)  Textbooks                                     1,410             100
f)  Specialist services and fellowships           3,530             100
g) Salaries
gi)   Project implementation staff             290             IOU
gii)  Teachers in project primary schools      820              65
h)  Other operating costs                         1,590             85
i)  Unallocated                                   5.340
Total                       21,600
77.       The disbursement  rate for "Other operating costs" refers  to
expenditures including taxes and duties, to avoid cumbersome documentation
related to tax-free procurement.
Special Account
78.       To facilitate the prefinancing of expenditures by the Government,
an amount of US$750,000 would bc advanced from the proposed IDA credit and
deposited in a Special Account held in a local bank under the control of
the Project Director. The Special Account would cover about three months
of expenditures for:   (a) daily allowances and reimbursement  of travel
costs for nationals attending seminars or undergoing training abroad;
(b) teacher salaries; (c) purchase and transport of building materials;
(d) labor contracts for civil works; (e) small civil works including school
maintenance and repair, and furniture and equipment contracts; (f)



- 25 -
operating costs of the total project; and (g) purchase of teacher manuals
and transport of textbooks.
79.       All expenditures from the Special Account, except for "other
operating costs,' would be  reimbursed by  IDA  on a net-of-tax basis.
Reimbursement applications to IDA would be grouped into packages of at
least US$30,000 equivalent and would be fully documented, except for
expenses related to in-country training, staff salaries, and contracts
valued  at  less  than  US$15,000  equivalent.   These  expenses  would  be
reimbursed  against  certified  statements  of  expenditures,  for  which
documentation would be retained for review by IDA supervision missions and
the project auditors.  Reimbursement applications would also comprise a
statement of account movements since the last application, with the balance
certified by the local bank holding the account, and a reconciliation
showing that the balance represents the original amount deposited in the
account less payments awaiting reimbursement, or small working advances.
Should any disbursements made subsequently be disaflowed by IDA, the
Government would redeposit the corresponding amount.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
80.       The Education Project Directorate would establish accounts for
the individual project components and record all project expenditures in
accordance with sound accounting practices. These project accounts will be
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA and certified
copies of the accounts and the auditor's report will be forwarded to IDA
for review by September 30 of each year.   The auditor's reports will
certify that funds disbursed against statements of expenditures were used
for the purposes for which they were provided (Section 4.01 of DCA).The
Project Director will:  (a) submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports
throughout the project implementation period, the first report being due by
January 31, 1986; and (b) submit to IDA within six months of the Closing
Date (June 30. 1992) a final report summarizing the project outcomes and
identifying problpms that would be relevant for future projects.
Benefits and Risks
81.       Benefits.  The project would establish a framework for expanding
primary education by:  (a) restructuring and reducing costs of primary
schooling through implementing cost-efficient modes of providing the major
inputs  (teachers,  textbooks  and  classrooms);  and  (b)  assisting  in
institution-building efforts throughout the education system which would
lead to a more efficient use of resources and make possible a gradual
reallocation of funds in favor of primary education.
82.       The  direct  physical  impact  of  the  project  on  the  primary
education system would amount to an expansion of existing capacities by
about 13 percent. However, a more important long-range contribution would
be its demonstration effect: the adoption of low-cost building techniques
would keep the investment costs necessary to achieve the 60 percent
enrollment target for the year 2000 within a manageable size (about US$3.4



- 26 -
million annually by the end of the period, and less if the process of
tapping local resources can be carried further than is at present
envisaged), and than more cost-efficient combination of lower-paid teachers
supported by adequate learning materials would mean a stabilization of
recurrent unit costs at a level of slightly under US$30 per student by the
year 2000.
83.       Risks include the inadequate technical capacities of the main
institutions responsible for resource use planning in the sector, and the
limited experience in school construction and project implementation in the
Ministry of National Education. A sizeable staff training program for the
implementing agencies and specialist services in key areas are included in
the project to help overcome these handicaps.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Burkina Faso and
the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 26, 1985



- 27 -                                ANMEX I
Page 1 of 5
TA R LG 3&                                       PACE I
UPPQ VOLTA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEffT
UPPER VOLTA                         RE UEN    coun (SEIGHTED AVEAGS) /a
"OST               (NOST RCENT ESTIMATE) lb
R ttECEJtT  LW SUZ ArnICA    t       IDDIE INCOME
191/      196__     ESTIMATElb    SOUTf OF SAMAIU      AFRICA S. OF SAHA
Ant (110e SQ. tD)
TOrAL                              274.Z      274.2        274.2
AGRICULTURAL                       119.9      122.4        126.3
aMP n  CAILIrA (5S5)                   60.0       60.0       210.0           249.1                   1112.9
Tcr          u a   cAPT
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)        3.0        9.0         22.0           62.8                    529.0
PDOPALTIOl AM VML SuTnSr
POPULATION*tIO-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    4164.D    5071.0       6493.0
URBAN POPULATION (I OF TOTAL)        4.7        6.8         10.9            1i.2                    29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIOIS
POPULATION IS WEAR 2000 (NIL'.)                           LO.0
STATIONARY POPMATION (HILL)                               34.7
POPULATION SMOIENTU                                        1.7
PoPArrToI  DENSITY
PER Rt. to.                       15.2       18.5         23.1            32.5                    55.8
PER SO. Ot. AGR. LAND             34.7       41.4         50.1           119.2                   111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE CE)
0-I. YRS                         42.6       43.9         44.7            45.6                    45.4
15-64 YRS                         54.3       53.2        5;.S            51.5                     51.7
65 AYD ABOVE                       2.9        2.9          2.8            2.9                      2.9
POPULATION CROIT' RATE C:)
TOTAL                              1.9 /e     2.0 fc       2.1 IC         2.8                      2D 
UR115A                             5.7        5.7          6.0             6.2                     S.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIOUS)        *8.6       48.0         47.9           48.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER TNOUS)        26.6       23.6         21.3           17.7                     15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2        3.2          3.Z            3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOtS)           ..
USERS (- OF MARRIED WOMEN)          ..         ..
FOOD am funtmanit
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      101.0      102.0        95.0            85.8                     91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIFS ME OF REQUIRtENTS)       92.0       69.0         95.0            I6.4                    95.2
PROTEINS (GRAKS PER DAY)          71.0       69.0        72.0            49.9                     56.7
OF UNICS AN'IMAL AND PULSE      19.0        19.0        19.0 Id         18.3                    17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE         71.0       49.0         36.0           23.5                     18.7
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       37.5       42.0        44.3            48.4                     51.7
INFANT rtORT. RATE (PER THOUS)     234.0      186.0        157.0          117.5                    102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER  (I)P)
TDTAL                               ..       12.0         25.0 le         21.8                    35.6
URBAN                                        33.0        50. tc          61.5                     54.1
RURAL                               *-       10.0         23.0 7          14.2                    27.3
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         4.0          6.0 loe        32.0
URIAN                               ..       49.0         47.0 7-        (9.2
RURAL                               ..         ..           ..             4.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         82650.0    67&30.0     48510.0         27477.8                  11948.3
POP. PER NURSINC PERSON           3980.0 If  3980.0      4950.0          3396.2                   2248.9
-                  POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1720.0     1580.0       1600.0 Id       1089.0                   986.9
URBAN                            210.0      270.0        370.0 77-       395.2                   368.7
RURAL                           3090.0     2440.0       2470.0 Id       3094.0                  4012.1
AmIISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED           ..         ..
mNOS
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              7.5 Jb      ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                                          ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROCK
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. CZ OF WCELLCS)
TOTAL                               ..         ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                               ..



- 28 -                                  ANEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A 8 L E  3A                                       PACE 2
UPPER VOLTA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UP '.R VOLTA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
tOST                 (MOST RECENir ESMATE) lb
RECEIT     LOW INCOKE AFRICA          lDDLE rNICClE
i19I6      i97@kLb    ES,zEs_b    SOUTH OF' SAHARA         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
ADJUSTED ENROLLET RATIOS
PRIMARY:  TOTAL                      8.0        12.0         20.0    ,        69.2                      91.0
"ALE                     12.0        16.0         26.0             78.8                      90.5
FENALE                    5.0         9.0         15.0             57.6                      73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     1.0         1.0          3.0             13.1                      17.4
HALE                      1.0         2.0          4.0             17.6                      23.7
FEfaLE                                1.0          2.0              8.3                      14.8
VOCATIONAL (1 OF SECONDARY)           21.2        14.7         18.7              7.2                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRMARY                              47.0        44.0         54.0             46.1                      38.6
SECONDARY                           20.0        23.0         20.0 Ie          25.9                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                1.5 jj      5.0 1A       8.8 le          44.3                      35.6
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            0.4         1.3          2.0O             3.8                      20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP           0.7        17.2         17.9             41.6                     100.8
TV RECEIVERS/TNOUSASD POP              0.1         1.2          1.6              2.0                       I8.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENEaAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATTOS
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               . 0.3                  0.2 k           5.4                      17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA                    0.2          0.7 7Tk          1.4                       0.3
urns FOmZ
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           2380.0      2779.0       3320.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    47.1        46.8         46.1             36-5                      33.8
ACRICULThRE (PERCENT)               92.0        87.0         82.0             77.4                       57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   5.0         8.0         13.0              9.8                      17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               57.2        54.8         51.1             '1.0                       36.3
MALE                                60.8        58.8         55.3             52.1                      47.6
FEKIALE                             53.5        50.9         47.0             30.2                      25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9          0.9              1.2                       1 -
n DISRU
PERCENT OF P&IVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 57 OF HOUSEHOLDS
HICHEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 202 OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST H02 OF HOUSEHOLDS                                       --
rrm TGET  -
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                                       164.0 /k         168.3                      525.3
RURAL                                                      o105.0 7k          90.8                     249.0
ESTIMTAED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UkBAN                                                                        107.7                     477.4
RURAL                                  -                     53.0 /k          6;.0                     186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY I NCOME LEVEL (Z)
LlBAH                                                                         14-7
RURAL                                                                         65.4
NOr AVAILABLE
NOr APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a The group aversges for each ndicateor are population-eighted aritrhetic means. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on Availability of data and Is nort uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted. -Dat  for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Drta for L970- between 1969 and
1971; end daca for -oar Recent E.cmrteC between 1280 and 1982.
/c  Due to emigration population growch rate is lower than rate of atural Increase; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f 1963;
/j 1962; /h 1964; /1 1972; fj :978; Ik 1979.
JUNE. 1984



n-ins A   1s01p .ssa    *iat.i-  nniArp       sin aVW.     MP.S'
j- W I  tisa-Alai                 n  -ea- "             -   -    ---
S  ~  - " _        ~~    -      ~      amnn,-/t 4
-  OK 4      -I  Ptm, up-        P-  -ts-i -"    ta-  -    S
~~ i-II~~'(a- Ii- flilflt  an                                                  a1W-~-p Saiw   -  s- "l'f   : . a-Is    -S. -epilt A;dd  ins'.
.nWt-IS t.4p   ~~~~~isSpU9 a~~~anflnn~~2   - tn- 1 -  --I. a--      t-anraS;a.   i.i                                                        LE
"a -a ~~~~~~Si-o                                                                                         tt       a  tri   1 -"Mq 
sq..- (t-a-) an-i-'Ia's-*eInl.M                                                   I- s.W,4s--aS                                                     n-
--a-   Ss-    ts   n-nn-    n.(nc-i-
- l  n-  -  --  ~   -   iJ aisd  i-)i*l3. **Nfl*s-I                '1 n-tajO --  g; V- Ap T            --1 - (    J. -)  -11 Mas   l-I n-I Pll
~.  JAIrIS .ares              n     -t -nae  a-nus v-  p--        s  a-a-p.l eiI
stnaiIsla   3    fl    t  n2i                i alIe P-,    In-
--PeTnIIT  Il 5t-p 1      itima  n-'In  -asI..        --a fntI.-                         "         set S- i IrMnniht   ..- sq354sI-t'c
S--- ft~    ---a -O--t'naa'    e   anas                  n                  anmnl  i-aItal -   -           _-ne  aFt aan-S   n   ip5 .133-t
tAt.s's.cs sb '~  iasnanli ca-.At a       ~     r-I-aa                        .   3a-s               -l aaraltsT    a'c-d AtPI  a- i   nnan- Ss
5   tlhifi - -Ta-s at   t         - 1   - ln-S g   nian_& saas'a                                                                                   n's'
a.S= ..              wniAla                        i,atna  --en 5--Ts  aid wPe....                         ltiI -   t
'nwe  gi-  a            shass- Saa  in- lSasosd      a --n-,                               a-.  asn,adin'  nall--iq a-i .i-.    '1a    -
aP_  - ni 'ns    aiS.-a T-    aniaat   n-ti                 -ti
bas.  -i' na--a..enea    ai-isn  s  .-i        I' nasi                             's?  Pn  -Ins-apails   u1* ass  as&Ics sh  nnSa.
-.ts...-s-ss ia l-St _1- (f  s-Is-n   AMI-asl 555 -I.-ai   1l-S
-  a-at  -i-atet 2  -i-a-bis-ant  'sA  i-s  btsn.eta  ssnia                                                                        i-ana
- alade   -la'niadS33ilAiiP.l.              aiflGsinAr  la-na - Ist-sa  ia-n    -snss   - cnaS-lt
s-snia ni.1  - pasnl bais.. A.3usii I           n            f tsios                  2S g                                                           -isAaj-  -1 -d 
Xni-        Sia0lni    ns0as]s155a1esaaIn-    a-eOsn~                                                                      -1. a pnisad  nals Isn  Ps- sa
1an~  a    a -  a-s   t-spj               T 1s- ZaaIJ,    i-ass-,. -.ie  n,a    nai  -an  ss-I.g
an   et .nS   -s-     Ta A- n-na  -sawa s-  s'tIlnlc. I"    P15-p   an   e lslntI   'iiae   p;                                             a  angl  ns
_11la         ~1n 5!a551b5 se     nIi  n. ni Silni-in           =  S-i-ann                                       2-Cst  at  0a1-C A Ps.-d(i  a.ia
-ianIs-tetac  . nan.   -   ln    iaflS  -nt--lwIns  p                    -aneqis  in-    - n-S  -_1 n-e   atqi.    ilsP
-.wt- ti-n Aanlit-     -pil    A-i-  - caPs  -aea  Ia. -35   (a-s3-s -n   -1s I-ts-a-a
a   ni-A-s nas   Sa-n       -   11- a-sl    n-  1a es- nIla.3at,aj                             -,-Sat - e   Sr s  s' gs-   tnss.m   ala s-sane t n- in  w
A.-  ~ ~    ~    ~     nii Q                  -*i5StisIn (se-A-..l .. nIaIt               -. - 4s- 'a5n-asia  sp i-Isi-n
fts-i    ~     Inp   mis-. ps        n   11.
nI p.flan-5~t-3  3-as- 555-    -qafl-- lnaa.-d--Sd-'a  cp 
-Ins-elIa-ag  -(Asnef S           ratn   --ie-  ntsn                                     lt 'at  'I -nftM ta.53.  tsm..   
s-s elfaTai  i-juiui3.i~3 a alnt    ~inanW  -Pis-ac                  a-n-nI's.  13t -nii.s  Si  An. pi-a"I,          3  sA nt,pS    It-IsP-
itntrwaIa   "st'sn"ld"  p   a'   m                                1-I.nsns   fnn       tAn1-  sas-ti -t 15-  s la   an- --le-pS jn vIr  33At-  Aiu
Vla   SA,I -   -tm  -  i-AaAdwlsI-   n   a-S-aa                                         vni- .~t   IP~I  . a-       -a3-lstw.4  pa nsajj        3 
P- ~   St _ tan-15103   3InnS 51"      q 11  aIta            s-I31   pt*-fli'     -  nfl  VVs-i~asntn-st.e    s-.-
li-I pa sauTe-  a-tnt Aiieasneli-la  05,-nIp   sodle                               a-n- I nt     ftd         t I   LIsita    3.f
.ntslS-   in  nsaal - T~t ~i~3s  35~  fit a    M a   nftnan-               iAisna-   -A,ean-  i- f-pici              n1 -np l  a- nsitm a w
lfln,Tn '1~w1S3'eq.  -t~   .s  -i   ft.n  -ig       aSeasAtli   aadaa.a                                  Illa   tC            --"   11P   AL
-.4- iq-nara sPP55('-nsssi-sI                                                     -      .t at;s-1t sin-na. a'na
p-  -a   -  w. - . - Ip"  -  ,      _ .0             -Iinan            at- -    eas 9    ePT  sql '1 AsW     53113  - I-in5   bulTal
aii sna in Paas   Ant  't  AUsalnIaV              -W. aaiis   -a1a'                     . P ss n SamnltePs  Aiti  d    ala-"W        t  t.ss  a-n  n14
ins-  ats.0     'i~-    ISlli  in          ftns. miltiaS-li3  -                     -  nine-a  wile atnninlsa  gasil an .  IilfiA-    iia b --s sinna
ns n is-a  .a-a    a- saPa  ae-Il  -   3-  l n                n- n'ant a . Staln-aasa--i-s   sla       nlwntstTanh
-antis'   ti ag as.p niissipAaP pnsaa                          tnsn,-nniid  was                                       i  11-atninnsab at-  n
I--  at -s's    tsn-13.sgin   nasil3a                     nsl   sa 



- 30 -
cmiic iUIClTm                                             AM5'
gm  ETIWI   UCT IU El19  la                                         um) caoid roeb if  u     a, iu.tt   1 primal
USI NIB.    I                    1976-1  197-71977-12 1"9793
or iT 11   PICMB                           1012.1   101.0                      L5       L5      Li       LI
Om UEsTIc U_1ET                              39       13.L                      2.9    135    -3.       -2.4
EmS mnI. s5 n                               -24.3    -2.L                     -1.4    124      19.2    U.3
mITN m I ACCUI  LNT  E                      47.4   -4.7                        4.5    15.1   -15       -5.5
BPS VI ,  F_                                151.0    14.9                      4.7      3.      L4       .4
flIS F GM, FR                               331.4    37.7                      3.       4.5    -5.3      1.2
UWM, LM FOR AM norm 
VILI AED i 1934 fa    LU    FINE 11 I   lb    V.A  P   IKE R 1111  lb
US$         zI.                      1U 
1IRCILTUE                                            311.4    41.0             27    11.8              157    3L.
TIMU , fIISL, TrITIESB  OBINTE                      155       17.4             0.6    12              39.3    2La
SIESV                                                373L1    41.5              D.2    L4             247.2   3t.#
TBTImjAIGE                                         M.2   100.0               3.3   131.0             513.4    *L
hVhIW        FUSM Ic                                      CBITM.  _9l   T
C* billion                                          o if U
1910    131    1932    1933    195  in            193     191    112    11          195 1t
03R36  REMEIPS              41.2    44.9    N.2    52.2    57.4               14.5     LI    13.9   1L9          3s
0hfN  EPITE5B               334     36.7    5L3    U.7    51.4                11.7    11.2    15.7    17.2   I.4
cuR.ur siupuj                7.8     8.2    -4.    -12.S      6.0              2.7      2.5    -1.3    -33       1.4
CwArAL EPENIT0ES id          5.2     7.3      4.7     3.3      L6b             1.3      2.2     1.:     0g      0.9
WUERLL MAICE                 2.L     0.9   -11.3   -15.8      24               0.9      0.3    -3.1    -4.2    0.
MUlE, lBIT NIO PRICES If                             1931    199     192    1993    1I9I 
Chilli. 0F  habtuuel  Ed Period)
NOR! mu IhASIS-IEE                                   53.2      3.     71.4   31.1    5L9
EU CIBIT T PULC SECT=R                               -3.4      1.4     0.4    -4.9    -9.4
CE3IT To PRIVATE SECTE                           59.0    20      71.0    73.7    71.9
(hrc tap r Inor l   IIrs)
e   mu ml-ino  QOF)                                19.      19.5    19.1    21.3    20.7 1
IIWLICIT lil DUTIOU (t19o100) lb                   l.00C   110.0   121.2   130.9   13.5
buu   PurAitag Champ in:
W  DEFLAT  lb                                        10.0    LO.0    10.2      3.0      5.1
SIC CUBIT M PMLIU SECTn                             -47.8   147.1   -625  -1250.0  -244.4
Mu CEIDIT Ti PRIVATE SECTMR                           7.2      5.1    14.5     3.8   -10.1
/at Frm 'Recut Ecomauc h aui     ts% bgsst 195. IF staff ntimtes for 194 fiqrwn   193 daa We. prokisi.aw.
Jl/ Lat cmfss an in 1975; latest avAilmble ustiats only for I9
/cl 190 .m  IIII figuus frm th CEQ, 5utabw 193; far lt. yawm, sm la/  an.
Id Excludii  uztlraly fimad inhtmut  zpmdtwr.
/ol 1986 bWigL
If/ Frum Ictaraimal Fincil Statisticm, Jamy 15.
Igl 1M3 f4igrn a of th  ud of Nuch.
/hi For 1132 frm the CE14 for lawr yews som la/ ai.                                                            DA.  III15



- 31 -
T RnE PIN s m  CAPITA  FLM
Page 5 of S
BAUCE OF PIVNT  la                                                                      NE UISE  ETS Ibwap 193-3) la
1931    192      13       19841b
V51me.       z
Hilli0 US$ 
UhuriESIFS                           173.0   142.1   154.9   151.0                     LIVESTOCK MUOC                34.1    29.0
IMIPITS F GE  &  .S                  483.7   431L.    3.6   391.5                      Mit                           34.3    3.5
HESBCE iW                           -310.7  -Dt.0  -237.7  -230.5                      SEW S                         11.3      9.
mE Gs                        39.3    3w.7
NET FACTE [1U  Ic                     -7.S   -10.7   -121        -7.4
of whichg 3ILT int. payents Id        .6.2      7.6      7.4    10.7                   TUIM                         121.2    13.0
NET THAFR le                          115.2    89.8    31.9    72.1
Nun  U ORIENT AcllCl                -203.1  -216.9  -167.9  -163.8
E MlEEIW.I      (EM    31, 193) Id
OFFICIAL   MT AiD                    147.2   124.3   112.1    93.4                                                         USS ELm.
NET FFICIAL ILT IDSUN     /d          69.9    78.7    82.7    3.1                      rEC EBT, 10.  NIIU ISEN               631.2
Disbwsements            78.4    87.8  59.3   109.3                                   NO      1T3 _ RIE ITE .T
Amortization                         9.5      9.1      6.7    23.2
TOITAL IITSTUEIE & IISEIlSE          393.4
NET CRDIT FM11 TIE IIF                 1.8      0.0      0.0     0.0
OM  CWITIL (NET) If                  -17.3   -11.1   -42.3   -2t3.
MANGE ZN  PEERVES (incre   -I          1.3    24.3   -14.7    -9.
0P1T175 OF PETROEI PROMLTS Ia         50.1    51.7    46.5    326                      ET SEIMIl 3TI11 FE 11 Ig
KITE OF EIOWIIE                                                                        PUBLIC M3, 11.         TEED           9.1
USS 1.00 s CFAF                      271.7   328.6   391.1   437.0
iDA LEIUIJ  (PE      31, 191  it
OUTSTIADINS & DISBSER                112.6
/a/ Dta we frDm *R nt Emamic kwlapmts', Augst 19I4,                                    UnISIDISUU                           121.2
except as indicated atheruist.
lb/ IIF staff estimates.                                                               TOTAL                                233.8
Icl Excluding remittances.
ldf Fron IIII Mdt Reporting Sonicr (015); projection for 1934.
I/e Including remittan, pasion, etc.
If  Inludding wrors nd missios, direct investmnt, sbrt-twr capital,
discrepaq   etween   5 anS adGov    t-rwpoted dedt, etc.
/gi ALT interest paymts pln  mortizatio  as a proportion of
exports of goods and nn-factor service.
lht available.
DATE. 1119135



- 32 -                   ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1985
Borrower: BURKINA PASO
Credit  IDA. Fiscal                                       Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Yoar              Purp9se                          IDA      Undisbursed
-US$ mif-lion___  a
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                               82.6
759-UV     1977    Small & Medium Scale Enterprise            3.3         0.50
766-nv     1978    Urban Development                          8.2         1.77
956-EV     1979    Education II                              14.0         6.62
982-UW     1980    Forestry                                  14.5        10.01
1013-DV     1980    Niena Dionkele Rice Development            6.5         3.84
1097-UV*    1981    Second Bougouriba Agri. Dev.              16.0 b/      7.72
1164-UV     1981    Fourth Highway                            46.0 b/    27.81
1218-UV     1982    Third Rural Development Fund-             16.0 b/    10.70
1235-UV     1982    Third Telecommunications                  17.0 b/    11.76
1284-UV     1982    Volta Noire Agricultural Dev.              6.8 b/      5.31
1285-UV     1982    Hauts-Bassins Agri. Dev.                   4.7 b/      3.54
1293-UV     1982    Koudougou Agri. Dev.                       7.0 h/      5.57
1482-BUR    1984    Perkoa Mining Explor. & Tech. Assis.       7.4 b/      6.36
TOTAL                                              250.00
of which has been repaid                           2.04
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                           247.96
TOTAL undisbursed                                             100.51
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1985)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year      Obligator       Type Business       Loan       Equity    Total
1978      SOVOLPLAS, S.A.    Plastic            .41       .13        .54
a/   Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/   Computed at the rate of the approval dates.
*1 Beginning with Credit 1097-UV, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
doliar equivalents as of March 31. 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  First Bank Nission to consider the project:  February 1982.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  Goverment with assistance from
UNESCO/Bank Cooperative Program.
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  March 1984.
(d)  Negotiations:  April 1985.
(e)  Target effectiveness:  July 1985.
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions:
(i)  Issue a decree upgrading the primary teacher promotion
examination (para. 48);
Cii) Reorganizc the teaching materials production department of the
Pedagogical Institute of Burkina to establish an editing division
and 2 production division with staffing in numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Government and to IDA (para.
50);
(iii) Prepare and submit a proposal for the financing and organization
of periodic maintenance and repair of primary schools (para. 57);
(iv) Define in a directive to be agreed upon with IDA the level of
government subsidies to private education, and undertake with IDA
an annual review of the expenditures and financing needs of the
education sector with a view to providing for a reallocation of
education budget resources in favor of, or an increase in funds
allocated to, primary education (para. 61);



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v) Establish a National Commission to review ways to harmonize the
systems of primary education and of rural youth training taking
into account the new objectives assigned to the directorate of
rural tr.qining and organization, and discuss with IDA the results
of the abo,ve-mentioned reviev (para. 65); and
(vi) Require that all staff having received training abroad financed
under the proJect remain in their assignments for a period of at
least  three  years  following  the  completion  of  training
(para. 73).



50                    40                     3                     2
BURKINA                                              r
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT-
PROJECT
-140                                                   ;          -----
.41
TO Son !f0                  T-o
130
0 S
_ ) Nouno<@ *J               TBomo -a 5 p
HounDEdwsyLw         j   \ * t;; -.'.-        Lou     i
[ ~~~~~~~ogu.  g                                  X   0  AGDU5  -eGO
Q.                                                                          Kombmiro
BE00c  Prm rnary Schools
KOMO,, _                                                    Regional CellS
r- ..         7 Z            Teacer Training College
0 Wareh mms (School Equipmnent
-100                                                                      A .   Directorate of Planning/Project
* ,*. t1. _                          C ~2    j )    0  Pedagogical Institute of Burk'
IVORY              COAST                       \ l
S'                    40                      3' *                   r



IBRD 18294
*I0  S~~~*  *I%~~g * %*                             MAURTANIA
o00, oe   ~\_ * _ . oo                              lo , MA          .     MALI
*                                    I                            _  .    ,                   NIGER
.   ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~         S                          _t t ~~~~~~~~~~~/ BURKINA  />    -
NiGER    .J.~~~~~Pkv-~~ThENIN~
---  X  NIGER                        *         NIGERIA
Dibo                              II                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CO'ASt (.G.ANAj
>Dibo                                         Dori1t                                                 
140
-% ~        ~        C
N-A,- l-rn  GN-A-
-o
t<--FNsgwm@   r-                                                            i    -~~~~~~~~~~~~---a
{en k o d o g o\                     A                       X                      \gourn
-a------                                           \\                                      i*
~~~,
Kom
Ma    g
0~~~~~~~~~ GoC,                                                       B NI
xls-                                      Main Rocds
' ~ Ik                                    Secondary Roads
0   20   40   60   80  100KILOMErBtS
ining College                       @      Notional Capital             I    I    t                I
- (chool Equipment Service)              Provincial Capitals
of Planning/Project Direcorate     0      Towns                      Note Dwunng Mrhepartrtiw atf the map. the Gavorenr  10
ntfroduced rerJ changr ih Ohe prov.'.u bdohm,w
;  I Insfdiute of Burkino (IPB)             Provincial Boundnries          b&rthePnowan-ieem  Phwsrorfver beCrme"adzWe
-  m -   Intemational Boundaries
10                          00                           10                           20
JANUARY 1985



