Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5443-_W
BURKTNA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 22, 1985
Western Africa Projects Department
Education Division
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0 = CFAF 490
CFAF 1 million - US$2,041
W EIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)               =    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (kM2)       =    0.39 square miles
LIST OF ACRONYMS
AfDB  -   African Development Bank ("Banque Africaine de Developpement")
BEPC  -   Lower secondary school certificate ("Brevet d'etudes du
premier cycle")
CFJA  -   Rural Youth Training Center ("Centre de formation des jeunes
agriculteurs")
DFONR -   Directorate of Rural Training and Organization ("Direction de
la formation et de l'organisation du monde rural")
DOB   -   Guidance and Fellowships Directorate ("Direction de
l'orientation et des bourses")
DPE   -   Educational Planning Directorate ("Direction de la
planification de l'education")
DPR   -   Education Project Directorate ("Direction de Projet
Education")
ENEP  -   National Primary Teachers College ("Ecole nationale des
enseignants du primaire")
FJA   -   Rural Youth Training ("Formation des jeunes agriculteurs")
IPB   -   Pedagogical Institute of Burkina ("Institut pedagogique du
Burkina")
MAE   -   Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock ("Ministere de
l'agriculture et de l'elevage")
MEN   -   Ministry of National Education ("Ministere de l1'ducation
nationale")
MESRS -   Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
("Ministere de l'enseignement superieur et de la recherche
scientifique")
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN TRE PROJECT FILE ................... ...... . ...... . iii-iv
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................. ....... ...  v-viii
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................................    1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR ...................................... * * * * * * * * * * * * *    1
A.  General Characteristics ......................................... .    1
B.  Issues in Primary Education Development.  ............    2
1. Access, Equity and Financial Constraints ..........    2
2. Quality ................................................. 4
3.  Institutional Weaknesses.* ............                 5
C. The Government's Policy............ e ................. .   5
D.  The Bank Group's Role ...... .........................    6
1.  Previous Projects .................................    6
2.  Future Approach to the Education Sector ...........    6
TIII  THE PROJECT -............-........ 
A.  Project Objective and Description .....................    7
1.  Reduction of Primary Education Unit Costs .........    7
2.  Institutional Development ................             10
B.  Project Cost and F inanein8                  Plan .......   13
C.  Project Implementation .............................  13
i. Procurement ........*....  o....... ...   14
2. Disbursements ........0..  ...........                  16
3. Special Account .....................   17
4.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting .......             17
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AMI RISKS ......................     .        18
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................        18
This report is based on the findings of an TPA appraisal mission which
visited Burkina in March 19P4 and was composed of Messrs. Rouag (mission
leader), Thias (IDA staff), Abeille, Schaltegger, and Ms. Denning
(Consultants). Ms. van Wingerden and Mrs. Monaghan assisted ir
processing the report; Mrs. Angers and Mrs. Monaghan processed the data
for the cost tables, and Ms. Roos advised on the overall presentation of
the report.
I This docment has a resuicd distribution and may be used by recipients only in the peron=e of
their ofriial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discdse without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (continued)
ANNEXES
1-1       Socio-Economic Background
1-2       Basic Data
2-1       Structure of the Education and Training System
2-2       Enrollments by Educational Level, 1983
2-3       Organization Chart of the Ministry of National Education
2-4       Primary Education Enrollments, 1974-83
2-5       Comparative Education Indicators
2-6       Current Government Teacher Salaries, Fellowships and Subsidies
Policies
2-7       Education Expenditure by Sub-sector and Major Components,
1977-84
2-8       Unit Costs in Primary and Secondary Education in Selected
West African Countries
2-9       Evolution of the Structure of the Primary Teaching Force
2-10      Primary Teacher Categories and Salary Scales
2-11      Ouagadougou Seminar:  Main Primary Education Expansion
Scenarios Discussed
2-12      Pedagogical Institute of Burkina and School Equipment Division
Background Information
2-13      Status of the Main Planning and Management Institutions and of
the Primary School Construction Capabilities
3-1       Schedule of Textbook Adaptation, Development, Procurement and
Distribution
3-2       Production and Procurement Targets for Textbooks and Teacher
Guides
3-3       Suimmary of Fellowships
3-4       Summary of Specialist Services
3-5       Teachers Employed in Project Schools by Category and Salaries
3-6       Alternative Solutions for the Pilot School Building Program
3-7       Organization Chart of the Education Projects Directorate; List
of Staff Financed by IDA Credit
3-8       Project Cost and Financing
3-9       Implementation Schedule
3-10      Procurement Procedures
3-11      Disbursement Profile
3-12      Summary of Recurrent Expenditures Generated by the Project
MAP
IBRD No. 18294: Burkina



- iii -
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Ref. No.                         Documents                                 Document Code
1.    Ministere de l'Education nationale; Statistiques scolaires         BF-500
1970-71 a 1982-83/Ministry of -National Education;
Educational Statistics 1970-71 to 1982-83.
2.    Ministere du Plan et de la Cooperation, Institut naticnal de    BF-700
la Statistique et de la Demographie: (a) Fichier des v-illages,
Decembre 1979; (b) Atlas des villages de Haute Volta, carte
de localisation des villages de Haute Volta par district de
recensement/Ministry of Planning and Cooperation, National
Institute for Statistics and Demography: (a) Index of
villages, December 1979; (b) Atlas of Upper Volta villages,
map of Upper Volta villages by census districts.
3.   Ministare des finances; Budget de l'Etat 1980, 1981, 1982/          BF-182
Ministry of Finance; State Budget 1980, 1981, 1982.
4.    Unesco; Republique de la Haute Volta:  Perspectives de             BF-500
d6veloppement d'une education pour tous/Unesco; Development
prospects for universal basic education, September 1982.
5.    Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation; couts et financement de            Doc. No.
1'enseignement superieur en Haute Volta/Fonds d'Aide et de         221.927(5)
Cooperation; Cost and Financing of Higher Education in Upper
Volta, November 1982.
6.    Costs et financement des services educatifs en Haute Volta;        Doc. No.
situation actuelle et perspectives/Cost and financing of           129.397
educational services in Upper Volta; present situation
and perspectives, November 1982.
7.    La carte scolaire en Haute Volta, Avril 1983/                      Doc. No.
School mapping in Upper Volta, April 1983.                         129.264(0)
8.    Rapport sur les organisations non-gouvernementales                 Doc. No.
travaillant dans le domaine des techniques de construction        221.927(8)
a cout reduit en Haute Volta, Mai 1983/Report on the non-
governmental organizations working on low-cost construction
in Upper Volta, May 1983.
9.    Mobilier scolaire en Haute Volta, Juillet 1983.                    Doc. No.
School Furniture in Upper Volta, July 1983.                       200.050
BF-Cr956



- iv -
10.   Direction du Projet Education; Construction des Ecoles            Doc. No
primaires en Haute Volta/Education Project Directorate;           221.927(10)
Construction of Primary Schools in Upper Volta, Octobre 1983.
11.   Modale de simulation du financement de l'enseignement: le cas   Doc. No.
de la Haute Volta/Simulation model of the financing of           221.927(11)
education: the Upper Volta case, November 1983.
12.    Note sur le financement de l'extension a long terme de           Doc. No.
l'enseignement primaire/Note on financing in the long run of    221.927(12)
the expansion of primary education, December 1983.
13.    Rapport d'Evaluation:  Manuels scolaires/Evaluation Report:      Doc. No.
Textbooks (Working Paper), March 1984 (2 vols.)                   221.927(13)
14.    Programme pilote de construction scolaires/Pilot School          Doc. No.
Building program (Working Paper), April 1984.                    221.927(14)
15.    Construction de 150 ecoles/Construction of 150 schools           Doc. No.
(Working Paper), April 1984.                                     221.927(15)
16.    Services architecturaux, construction et passation des           Doc. No.
marches, d'etudes, de fournitures, de mat6riaux et de             221.927(16)
main-d'oeuvre/Architectural Services, Construction, and
Procurement (Working Paper), April 1984.
17.    Ecole nationale des enseignants du primaire de Loumbila/         Doc. No.
National Primary Teacher Training College at Loumbila             221.927(17)
(Working Paper), April 1984.
18.    Institut Pedagogique de Burkina/Pedagogical Institute            Doc. No.
of Burkina (Working Paper), April 1984.                          221.927(18)
19.    Division de l'Equipement scolaire/School Equipment Division      Doc. No.
(Working Paper), April 1984.                                     221.927(19)
20.    Renforcement qualitatif de la formation des jeunes agricul-      Doc. No.
teurs/Strengthening of the Quality in the Training of Young      221.927(20)
Farmers (Works Paper), April 1984.
21.   Direction de la Planification/Education Planning Directorate    Doc. No.
,Working Paper), April 1984.                                     221.927(21)
22.   Direction du Projet Education/Education Project Directorate       Doc. No.
(Working Paper), April 1984.                                     221.927(22)
23.   Direction de l'Orientation et des Bourses/Guidance and            Doc. No
Fellowships Directorate (Working Paper), April 1984.             221.927(23)



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Burkina Faso
Beneficiaries:           - Ministry of National Education ("MinistJere de
1'education nationale" - MEN)
- Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
("Ministere de l'agriculture et de l'glevage" -
MAE)
- Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research ("Ministere de l'enseignement superieur
et de la recherche scientifique" - MESRS)
IDA Credit Amount:       SDR 21.8 million  (US$21.6 million equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard
Project
Description:             The major objective of the project is to implement
a sector financing strategy for accelerating the
expansion of primary education through:
1.   Reduction of primary education unit costs
by means of:
(a)  The restructuring of primary teacher
training and the reclassification of the
main category of primary school teachers
("instituteurs-adjoints") at a lower
entry level of the civil service, and
related investment in the National
Primary Teachers College in Loumbila;
(b)  Cost-efficient provision of primary
school textbooks through (i) promotion
of a national textbook development
capability at the Pedagogical Institute
of Burkina; and (ii) procurement and
distribution of textbooks and other
learning materials to meet short-term
needs through assistance to the School
Equipment Division of the Ministry of
National Education; and



- vi -
(c) Experimentation with and introduction of
low-cost primary school construction through
(i) a pilot school building program designed
to develop cost-efficient facilities and to
encourage, by establishing a system of
matching contributions for construction costs
and teacher salaries, regional and local
initiatives in primary school construction
and maintenance; and (ii) a primary school
building program in seven disadvantaged
provinces totalling 150 school units and
related equipment, and development of a
school maintenance and repair system.
2.   Development of the central institutions'
capabilities for planning, managing and
controlling education costs, in order to maintain
reduced unit costs over the long term and to
reallocate resources among the various educational
levels, thereby accelerating the expansion of
prinary education, by:
(a) Reinforcing the planning capacity of the
Educational Planning Directorate;
(b) Strengthening the management expertise of the
Guidance and Fellowships Directorate within
the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research (MESRS);
(c)  Improving the planning and monitoring
capacity of the Directorate of Rural Training
and Organization (DFOMR) within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Livestock (MAE); and
(d) Expanding project preparation and
implementation capabilities iu the MEN
through assistance to the Education Project
Directorate.



- vii -
Estimated Project Costs: (Net of taxes and duties from which the project
would be exempt.)
Categories                                        Local       Foreign    Total
-------US$ million--------
A. Reduction of Primary Education
Unit Costs
Restructuring of Teacher Training                  0.1          0.5       0.6
Textbook Development, Procurement
and Distribution                                 0.3          2.2       2.5
Primary School Construction
and Maintenance Program                          4.5          4.7       9.2
Sub-total                     4.9          7.4      12.3
B. Institutional Development
Educational Planning                               0.2          0.4       0.6
Management of Higher Education                     0.1          0.4       0.5
Rural Youth Training Management                    0.3          1.2       1.5
Project Management                                 0.4          2.1       2.5
Sub-total                    1.0          4.1       5.1
Total Base Cost                                    5.9         11.5      17.4
Physical Contingencies                             0.3          0.7       1.0
Price Contingencies                                2.1          2.7       4.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 8.3         14.9      23.2
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total.
--------US$ million--------
DA                                                 6.7         14.9      21.6
Government                                         1.6           -        1.6
TOTAL                       83          14.9      23.2



- viii -
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92
--          _ ----US$ mIl3Llon _--- -   =-
Annual                      1.6    3.0    3.7    4.3    3.9    3.0    2.1
Cumulative                 1.6    4.6    8.3   12.6   16.5   19.5   21.6
Economic Rate of Return:  Not Applicable
Project Benefits:          The project would establish a framework for
expanding primary education by (a) restructuring
and reducing costs of primary schooling through
implementing cost-efficient modes of providing
the major inputs (teachers, textbooks and
classrooms). and (b) assisting in
institution-building efforts throughout the
education system which would lead to a more
efficient use of resources and make nossible a
gradual reallocation of funds in favor of primarv
education.
Risks:                     Risks include the inadequate technical
capacities of the main institutions responsible
for resource use planning In the sector and the
limited experience in school construction and
project implementation in the Ministry of National
Education. A sizeable staff training program for
the implementing agencies and the provision of
specialiot services in kev areas are included In
the project to help overcome these handlcaps.
Map:                       IBRD 18294, Burkina
WAPED
Apri] 1985



SURICINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOP?CzNT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Burkina has requested IDA's assistance In financing a
project to expand and improve primary education. The estimated project cost Is
US$23.2 million equivalent (not of taxes and duties). with a foreign exchange
component of 642. The Government would contribute US$1.6 million equivalent to
the project (in the form of salaries for national staff and counterpart
contribution for school maintenance and repair), and the remainder of US$21.6
mlillon equivalent would be financed by IDA. The African Development Bank (AfDB)
was requested to cofinance a part of the project, but was unable to do so.
1.02      The proposed project would be IDA's third contrSl'ution to the
development of the education and tralning sector. and the first major operation In
support of the Ministry of National Education ("NinIstlre de 1' ducation
nationals" - MEN). Its major objective would be to Implement a sector financlng
strategy for acceleratlng the expansion of primary education.  DA Is In a
privlleged position to assist In thiS effort, as over the past three years it has
been engaged In a sector policy dialogue on education cost and financing Issues
with the educational authorities. Detailed socio-economlc background Informtion
Is provlded in Annex 1-1. The basic data bheet Is at Annex 1-2.
II  TH! EDUCATION SECTOR
A. General Characteristics
2.01      The education system.  Burkina's education and training system follows
the pattern of other French-speaking countrles In the region. A six-year prisary
cycle starting at age 7 Is followed by four years of lower and three years of
upper secondary school (general *nd technical) and higher education at the
Unlverslty of Ouagadougou or abroad. In addltion to the forml education system,
the country has developed rural youth training ("Formation don jounes
agricultours" - FJA)* vhich compriseo a network of about 600 rural youth tralning
centers ("Centres de formation des jounes agriculteurs" - C?JAs) with about 15.000
trainees. 102 of them girls. The throe-year course focuses on literacy training
and basic agricultural skills. In 1983. private schools (religious and
non-denominational) accounted for less than 102 of primary enrollmoet but
dominated the secondary level, with 522 of all enrollments In secondary general
and 722 In technical education. Burkina's poverty Is reflected in Its education
system: after more than two decades of development efforts and substantial
*nrolloent growth, thl system still lags behind that of scat other countrles and
appears to be falling further behind. Nowhere Is this more In evidence than In
prSuary education. At Annex 2-1 is a chart showlng the structure of the educatlon
and training system. Annex 2-2 gives enrollmento by educational level.



2.02      OrRanization and administration.  The administrative responsibilities
for education and training are divided among three ministries: the Ministry of
National Education ('Ministire de l'Education nationale" - MEN) for primary and
secondary schooling; the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research
("MinistOre de l'enseignement supfrieur et de la recherche scientifiquo" - MESRS)
for university education, including studies abroad; and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Livestock ("Minist?lre de l'agriculture at de l'flevage" - MAE) for
the FJA system. In addition, several other ministries such as Public Works,
organize their own pre- and in-service training programs. An organization chart
of the MEN is at Annex 2-3.
B.  Issues in Primary Education Development
1. AcCesR. Equity and Financial Constraints
2.04      Access and equitv.  Burkina's gross primary enrollment rate of about 19%
of the 7-12 age group Is one of the lowest In Africa. Access to education is
uneven.  Rural areas nre at a disadvantage compared to urban areas, and girls fare
worse than boys. Enrollment rates for the 35 inspectorates range from 5% (Danr in
the Sahelian Region) to 71% (Bobo-Dloulasso). Girls account for 372 of primary
enrollments, with onlv minor regional variations. Manv villages with populations
of 1,500 to 2,000 (sizes that would justify six-classroom prlmary schools) do not
have anv school: many others have schools with three or fewer classrooms.
Annex 2-4 gives primary education enrollments for the vears 1974-83, and Annex 2-5
provides a table of comparative education Indicators showing how Burkina's
education svstem compares to others.
2.05      Financial constraints.  Tn 1983. the Government allocated CFAF 11.3
billion to the education sector, a figure equivalent to 2.1% of the country's GNP
and aboxt 222 of the central Government budget. Capital Investment in education
amounted to 7: of the total nectoral budget over the period 1977-83. While these
percentages are not verv hi-h In the context of the other African countries, a
comparison wi4th the primary enrollment levels attained suggests severe constraints
to further Rrowth.
7.06      Ihe uinsatisfactorv relationship between efforts made and results
achi-ved can be traced to two main factors: the relatively high cost of the main
input (teachers) Into primary schoollng and anomalies of resource allocation in
the rest of the education sector. Annex 2-6 provides background Information on
teacher salaries, fellowshlpN and subsidies policies. Annex 2-7 Rives education
expenditures bv sector and main components for the vears 1977-84. Annex 2-8 showa
unit costs in primarv and secondary education in selected West African countries,
Annex ^-9 the evolution of the structure of the teaching force. and Annex 2-10 the
teacher categories and salarv scales.
2.07      The primarv teacher work force consists mainly of two categories:  the
"instituteurs" flevel BI). recrulted from graduates of the upper secondary schools
or throtzgh examination promotion from the "instituteur-adjoint" level. and the
"Instirtiteurs-adjoints" (level R2). recruited from graduates of the lower
secondarv schools and trained for two years. While primarv teacher salaries are
modest l'v internationa1 comparlson (about USS2.10  for an "instituteur adjoint" in
sld-career)  rhev are high in comparlson to Burkina's income level (more than 10



-3 -
times the GNP per capita vs. 2.4 in Latin America and 2.6 in Asia). Liberal
standards for promotion from the "instituteur adjoint" to the "instituteur"
category (reflected in :m average annual net increase of the latter between 1980
and 1984 of over 9%) add another element of escalation to primary education costs.
Since maintenance of primarv schools in Burkina Is minimal and normally carried
out directly by the village communities, the 'bulk (98Z) of the primary education
budget goes for teacher salaries. Consequently, any attempt at improved cost
management in the subsector would have to focus on this input. However, reduction
of teacher costs per pupil through an increase in the pupil/teacher ratio is not a
viable means: the national average of 65 being already high.
2.08      Two other components of the education budget-fellowships and subsidies
to private education- stand out, both because of their size and their
indiscriminate use. The award of fellowships for higher education ignores
criteria such as economic need, academic performance or labor market requirements,
its only restrictive element being a rather generous age limit. As the number of
secondary school leavers grows, so does the volume of university fellowships.
Subsidies to religious secondary schools have been granted at the uniform rate of
50% of their budgetary requirements, again without taking account of the
individual schools' needs or performance.
2.09      Thus, any major advance in primary education development would require a
restructuring of the primary teacher corps to reduce unit costs, and a revision of
present fellowship and subsidy policies. This conclusion was confirmed and
developed in detail with the help of an education financing simulation model which
has made a major contribution to the sector policy dialogue between the Government
and IDA. Discussions have focused on a review of the major policy parameters in
the education budgeting process. These parameters cover three areas: (a)
inter-sectoral resource allocation (growth rate of the central government budget
and of the education sector); (b) intra-sectoral resource allocation (growth rates
of budgets of various education sub-sectors and of their major elements such as
teacher salaries, fellowships, and subsidies); and (c) efficiency of resource use
(unit construction costs, pupil/teacher ratios, curriculum hours). These
parameters were entered in the model which simulates the financial structure of
Burkina's education system, and permits the effect of policy alternatives on the
education budget to be projected. The model was presented during a policy seminar
held in Ouagadougou in October 1983 with officials from the concerned Ministries
(Education, Higher Education, Rural Development, Finance, Planning, Labor).  Annex
2-11 shows the main scenarios for primary education expansion which were discussed
at the seminar.
2.10      One of the main alternatives considered was a policy of
non-intervention, i.e., holding the policy parameters constant at the base year
(1982) levels while assuming a continuation of recent total budgetary growth.
This course of action would raise the gross enrollment rate only slightly from
about 19% to 27%. The unit cost remaining constant, the growth would be in
proportion to the overall budgetary growth.
2.11      By contrast, the other alternatives postulated policy changes in several
areas, with the understanding that any budgetary savings in the system would be
channelled into the development of primary education. One scenario of moderate
intervention on a number of parameters was particularly instructive. It would (a)
combine a slight increase in the share of the education sector budget in the total
Government budget with a decrease in the budget for secondary and higher education



-4-
fellowships, an increase in the remaining budget for secondary and higher
education at an annual rate slightly lower than that for the total Government
budget, and an increase in the subsidies to private education at the same rate as
the Government budget increase; and (b) include the reclassification of the main
category of primary school teachers ("instituteurs-adjoints") from level B2 to Cl
which would decrease significantly the primary education unit costs (from US$38 to
USS29 equivalent in constant 1982 US dollars). As a result, the primary gross
enrollment rate would increase to about 66% by the year 2000, a level in line with
the Government's unofficial target (para 2.19).
2.12      These simulations demonstrate that a substantial increase in primary
school enrollments before the end of this century is possible, provided the
Government introduces a new category of lower-paid teachers (recruitment at
level C1) to fill the additional posts and increases the budget for primary
education through the reallocation of funds to and within the education sector.
2. Quality
2.13      Quantitative and qualitativ-  shortcomings affect the two key inputs into
primary education-teachers and textbooks. While the general educational level of
newly recruited primary school teachers is acceptable, the insufficiency of
training facilities (240 places at two secondary schools) has resulted in a
shortfall of qualified teacher training graduates. Over the past three years an
average of 180 primary classrooms remn-ined vacant during part or all of the school
year for want of qualified teachers.
2.14      Moreover, the poorly balanced teacher training program emphasizes
general subjects at the expense of pedagogical training and practice, training
methods are inadequate, and pedagogical support to primary school teachers,
particularly in rural areas, is weak, mainly because of inadequate transportation.
With the opening, in October 1985, of the new National Primary Teachers College
("Ecole nationale des enseignants du primaire" - ENEP) in Loumbila (para 3.02),
the physical basis for restructuring primti,ry teacher training will become
available.
2.15      Primary school textbooks are scarce, costly, heterogeneous and of
limited relevance. Some stem from foreign donations spread unevenly over the
country and showing undesirable diversity.  The same holds true for commercially
provided textbooks, which in addition are costly and therefore out of the reach of
most families, particularly those in rural areas. Moreover, all textbooks are
either directly imported or only slightly adapted to conditions in Burkina, thus
curtailing their relevance and comprehensibility. Since October 1984, the
Government has standardized the prices of textbooks and teaching materials
throughout the country, and has selected a set of textbooks to be used in all
primary schools. Nevertheless, even the reduced prices (e.g., US$14.55 equivalent
for all textbooks required for Grade 6) entail a considerable burden for most
families. The organizational structures for the development, production and
distribution of teaching materials are already in place. The Pedagogical
Institute of Burkina ("Institut pedagogique du Burkina" - IPB) and the School
Equipment Division of the Primary Education Directorate share responsibilities in
this area. Annex 2-12 provides background information on these institutions.



-5-
2.16      As a result of inadequate and inappropriate inputs, the primary
education system suffers from low internal efficiency. Repetition averages more
than 18% over the six-year cycle and is as high as 45% in Grade 6. Within the
normal time of six years, only a quarter of all entrants pass the final
examination, which is not a qualifying examination for secondary school and
therefore reflects achievement rather than a scarcity of secondary school places.
It takes more than 13 student years to produce a primary school graduate in
Burkina.
3. Institutional Weaknesses
2.17      While the simulation exercise (paras 2.09-2.11) has demonstrated the
possibility of a significant expansion of primary education through a policy of
reallocation of the education budget and efficient use of resources and
mobilization of incremental resources, two impediments stand in the way of its
implementation. The first is the inadequate technical capacity of the main
institutions responsible for the planning of resource use in the sector: the
Educational Planning Directorate, the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate, and
the Directorate of Rural Training and Organization ("Direction de la formation et
de l'organisation du monde rural" - DFOMR), in MEN, MESRS and MAE, respectively.
The other impediment is the limited experience in school construction and project
impleme.itation of the newly created Education Projects Directorate in MEN. A
strengthening of these institutions is tmperative if the large and difficult task
of reallocating and managing resources for primary education expansion is to
succeed. Annex 2-13 gives the status of the main planning and management
institutions.
C. The Government's Policy
2.18      Burkina's ed-fcation system, very small at independence, began to develop
in response to urgent needs for middle-level and professional manpower. By the
late 1960s, the task of developing basic education throughout the country came to
be seen as increasingly important. The Government chose the vehicle of nonformal
rural training to combine literacy training with the teaching of basic
agricultural skills (para 2.01). In recent years, however, the Government has
come to realize that this alternative system is no substitute for widespread
primary education, mainly because of the educational preferences of most rural
families, the substantial physical requirements of the FJA system and, due to the
necessarily small size of trainee groups, its considerable unit costs, amounting
to about US$143 per trainee year, versus US$38 in primary education.
2.19      The Government is now embarking upon the rapid expansion of primary
schooling as its foremost sectoral objective, having established a tentative
enrollment target of 60% for the year 2000. It realizes that this will require
major policy modifications, particularly general resource reallocations within the
sector and a gradual restructuring of the primary teacher corps in order to lower
average salaries. Signale of this awareness are: the assignment of about 900
members of the recently established National Civil Service to teach for one year
in primary schools - an expedient that avoids long-term budgetary commitments
(but whose educational merits are still untested); a shift in university
scholarships wherever possible from the more expensive foreign institutions to
0uagadougou University; a drastic curtailment of subsidies to private secondary



-6-
schools; a curb on the further expansion of the network of public secondary
schools; and a rethinking of fellowship policies.  These new initiatives are
expected to coalesce and take more concrete form in the forthcoming Development
Plan for the five-year period 1986-90.
D. The Bank Group's Role
1. Previous Projects
2.20      Previous Bank Group r.ss4stance to education and training in Burkina
focused on the FJA, with supplementary investments in other areas. The First
Education Project (Cr. 430-UV, signed in June 1973, for US$2.85 million) aimed at
strengthening the FJA system In three of the country's eleven regions. In
addition, the IDA Credit included funds for building and equipping 22 secondary
school science laboratories. Following a one-year extension of the Closing Date,
Cr. 430-UV was fully disbursed and all components--with the exception of the
scier.ce laboratories-were completed, albeit on a reduced scale because of cost
increases and adverse rate-of-exchange fluctuations. (PPAR No. 3839, March 1,
1982.)
2.21      The Second Education Project (Cr. 956-UV), signed in October 1979, for
US$14.0 million) continued to provide support of the FJA system and also gave
assistance to the Public Works Training Center. The project has experienced
initial delays and difficulties due to changes in administrative responsibilities,
but performance has improved significantly over the past two years. After an
initial one-year extension of the original Closing Date and a second extension of
six months, the IDA Credit will be closed on December 31, 1985.
2. Future Approach to the Education Sector
2.22      Recognizing that a broad base of literacy, particularly among the rural
population, is an essential condition for sustained socio-economic development,
the Bank Group considers support for Burkina's basic education the first priority
for continued lending to the sector. Given the non-replicability on a large scale
of the FJA system to provide basic education, future assistance would pursue this
aim through the expansion of primary schooling. However, care should be taken to
harmonize the entire system of basic education (primary and FJA) to avoid waste of
resources. Support should be provided directly (through the provision of critical
inputs to primary education) and indirectly (through participation in the efforts
to restructure the financing of the education system). More specifically, the
Bank Group's involvement will address the following areas: (a) cost-efficiency of
post-primary education; (b) institutional development and assistance to the
management of the education system, particularly for the management of costs and
the promotion of a cost-recovery system for post-primary education; and (c)
support of efforts to develop suitable modes of primary education in sparsely
populated areas.



-7-
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objective and Description
3.01      The project has as its main objective the implementation of a financing
strategy designed to accelerate the expansion of primary education through
reduction of primary education unit costs, and development of the central
institutions' capabilities for planning, managing and controlling education costs.
In order to reduce unit costs, the main category of primary school teachers
("instituteurs-adjoints") would be recruited at a lower salary level, and the
internal efficiency of primary education would be improved through better focused
training of teachers, combined with the development of a textbook production,
procurement and distribution capability. To reduce primary school construction
costs, low-cost designs for classrooms, as well as ways to encourage local
initiatives in school building, would be developed and introduced through a pilot
school building program. By the same token, a system of periodic school
maintenance and repair would be established in the project area. To develop the
central institutions' capabilities for planning, managing and controlling
education costs, with a view to maintain reduced unit costs over the long-term and
to carry out the necessary resource allocations within the sector, the project
would strengthen the Educational Planning Directorate and the Education Project
Directorate in MEN, the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate in MESRS, and the
Rural Youth Training Directorate in MAE.
1. Reduction of Primary Education Unit Costs
3.02      Restructuring of teacher training.  In order to reduce primary education
unit costs and thereby alleviate the financial constraints to primary education
expansion, the project would help to reclassify the new category of primary school
teachers ("instructeurs-adjoints"), who would still be recruited with a lower
secondary school diploma (BEPC) but integrated into the civil service at level Cl
instead of B2. It would also help to upgrade the promotion examination for all
primary school teachers in order to introduce a measure of selectivity and slow
down the overall rate of promotion. The new "instituteurs-adjoints" who would
comprise the standard teacher category in primary educatlon, would be trained for
one year at the National Primary Teachers College in Loumbila (para 2.14). The
training course, an outline of which is already available, would have a course
content comprising pedagogical training (about 40%), general subjects (40Z), and
complementary courses such as agriculture and physical education (20X). The
primary teacher promotion examination would be upgraded by introducing general
subjects. Promotion requirements would thereby be tightened and the overall rate
of promotion slowed.
3.03      The National Primary Teachers College is being established with
assistance from the Netherlands (US$1.4 million for civil works). Construction
started in early 1984 and is expected to be completed by mid-1985. The ENEP will
have an enrollment of about 340 students, which would be sufficient to meet the
requirement for primary school teachers training over the next five to ten years.
The proposed IDA credit would finance: civil works (additional housing for 12
staff); furniture and equipment; fellowships; and incremental operating costs
(operation and maintenance of facilities, equipment and materials).



- 8 -
3.04      During negotiations, the Government submitted to IDA the decree
establishing the National Primary Teachers College and reclassifying the main
category of primary schools teachers ("instituteurs-adjoints") from level B2 to
Cl, thus ensuring the timely introduction of the new teacher training program and
obviating a previously sought condition of credit effectiveness.
3.05      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will issue,
prior to December 31, 1986, a decree upgrading the primary teacher promotion
examination.
3.06      Textbook development, 1rocurement and distribution.  The project would
provide assistance to the Ministry of Rational Education to develop a capability
to produce, adapt, procure and distribute low-cost textbooks and teacher guides
for the primary schools. This assistance not only would help the Ministry to meet
the urgent short-term needs for textbooks and reduce their cost (para 2.15), but
would also, over the long term, improve the internal efficiency of primary
education and curtail any side effects of the introduction of the new category of
teachers (para 3.02) on the quality of primary education. This textbook component
would encompass three activities: (a) development, over the medium term, of a
managerial and technical capability within the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina
(IPB) to adapt suitable imported materials in the less culturally biased subjects
(math and science) and to produce national textbooks in French for Grades 1-3; (b)
strengthening the capabilities of the School Equipment Division to procure and
distribute textbooks and other teaching materials; and (c) assistance in the
provision of about 800,000 textbooks and teacher guides. Annex 3-1 provides the
s*chedule for textbook adaptation, development, procurement and distribution.
Production and procurement targets for textbooks and for teacher guides are shown
in Annex 3-2.
3.07      Assistance to the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (IPB) would focus on
the reorganization of the Teaching Materials Production Department during the
first year of project implementation in order to establish an Editing Division
staffed with 10 writers and three editors and a Production Division staffed with
two textbook production specialists, one layout and one graphics designer, and 11
skilled printers (all nationals). The School Equipment Division would receive
seven additional staff to strengthen its distribution and storage facilities. The
textbook provision program would encompass the production of about 180,000
textbooks each for math and science (Grades 3-6), 155,000 textbooks for French
(Grades 1-3), and 6,000 teacher guides for each of these subjects. For reasons of
economy, expediency and quality, the prin_ing of the textbooks would be done
abroad, but the teachers guides would be printed locally. To meet urgent
requirements that cannot, in the short term, be satisfied through national
efforts, the program would also include the importation of about 260,000 textbooks
and 8,500 teacher guides in French for Grades 1-6, distribution of the combined
stocks of the locally adapted and imported textbooks, and monitoring of their use.
Distribution of the textbooks would be carried out in two stages: from the School
Equipment Division to the Primary School Inspectorates, and thence to the primary
schools. Transportation would be handled by private contractors. Textbooks which
are expected to last for three years, would be loaned free of charge to the
primary school students.
3.08      The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) civil works to rehabili-
tate/modify the IPB library, conference room and former printing shop into offices
for the Editing Division and to build an adjacent printing shop and a central



-9-
warehouse and rehabilitate two inspectorate warehouses for the School Equipment
Division; (b) furniture, equipment and vehicles; (c) the acquisition of adaptation
rights for textbooks, the production costs of textbooks and teacher guides, and
the procurement of imported textbooks and teacher guides; (d) staff training and
specialist services; and (e) incremental operating expenditures (operation and
maintenance of equipment and facilities and distribution costs). During negotia-
tions, the Government gave assurances that, no later than June 30, 1986, the IPB's
Teaching Materials Production Department will be reorganized to establish an
Editing Division and a Production Division, with staffing in numbers and with
qualifications satisfactory to the Government and to IDA. Annexes 3-3 and 3-4
give details of the staff training and specialist services programs.
3.09      Primary school construction and maintenance.  In order to reduce primary
school building costs, encourage local initiatives in school construction and
maintenance, and increase the number of school units, the project would: (a)
conduct a pilot program for identifying cost-efficient modes of primary school
construction; (b) establish a fund to encourage village construction of schools
through matching contributions; and (c) implement a loi-cost primary school
construction program, based on the pilot program, which would increase the total
number of school units by about 12Z and would be carried out in seven
disadvantaged provinces. This program would also aim at establishing a
village-based system of school maintenance (para 3.11).
3.10      For the pilot school building program, the Education Project Directorate
would be provided assistance in constructing 30 classrooms and supplementary
facilities to experiment with various building standards, with economy and ease of
maintenance as important criteria in identifying suitable modes. To facilitate
supervision of the program and also to provide an adequate number of teaching
practice schools for the National Primary Teachers College (para 3.02), some of
the experimental classrooms would be located near Loumbila, which is about 30 km
northeast of Ouagadougou. During project implementation the Education Projects
Directorate would conduct a systematic evaluation of the pilot school building
program, using criteria agreed with IDA, and the Directorate's findings and
recommendations would be submitted to IDA for review. The matching contributions
would help (a) complete local school building efforts in villages where most of
the necessary investment has already been made without help from the Government;
and (b) defray the cost of the salaries of teachers to staff the classrooms
provided under the pilot school building program and in cases where villages have
built or are willing to build a school. These matching contributions would serve
as incentives for local authorities and villagers to build and maintain schools
and would help to develop the organizational pattern for such initiatives. The
identification of participating villages would be made by the primary school
inspectors, who would turn over the candidacies to the Education Project
Directorate for further processing. For the primary school construction program,
the Education Projects Directorate would be provided assistance in constructing
about 450 classrooms and teachers houses in 150 villages located in the provinces
of Bam, Gnagna, Gourma, Namentenga, Sanmatenga, Tapoa and Yatenga. The villages
were selected mainly on the basis of a school mapping exercise conducted by the
Educational Planning Directorate. Normally, a three-classroom unit, supplemented
by three teachers houses and a well, would be built in a village lacking a school
building; in a few cases, additional classrooms would be provided for large
villages where there is an acute shortage of student places. For each classroom,
one housing unit would be provided because the lack of adequate teack - housing



- 10 -
has been a major constraint to educational development in the rural areas. The
organization of civil works would be based on experience gained in other rural
projects, particularly in buildlng Rural Youth Training Centers (CFJAs) under Cr.
956-UV (pars 2.21). To adapt classroom and ataff housing designs to local
conditions and to the availability of local building materials, as well as to
assess alternatives for organizing the work (especially ways to permit the
participation of villagers), a trial run comprising 10 school units is being
implemented in 1984/85, financed under Cr. 956-UV. Prior to the start of the main
construction program' s first annual tranche (scheduled for October 1985), the
results of this trial run would be evaluated for application in the main program.
As an incentive to the Government to further reduce construction costs, any
savings that it may realize in the primary school construction program would be
made available for building additional classrooms. Annex 3-5 shows the number of
teachers employed in project schools by category and salaries. Annex 3-6 shows
the alternative solutions for the pilot school building program.
3.11      In light of the Government's budgetary constraints and in order to
prevent rapid deterioration of the school infrastructure, as part of the pilot
school building program, cost-efficient methods of improving primary school
maintenance would be developed and applied throughout the primary school system.
Taking into account the experience gained in the pilot program, both with regard
to low maintenance modes of school building and the mobilization of village
efforts, the Education Projects Directorate would establish a school maintenance
system that would be largely village-based and require minimal financial support
from the Government.
3.12      The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) a lump sum of US$1.1 million
for the pilot program, with an estimated US$0.3 million for matching salaries; (b)
civil works (450 classrooms and teachers houses and 150 wells) and professional
fees; (c) equipment and furniture for the 450 new classrooms and their
distribution costs; (d) salaries of teachers for those classrooms; and (e) funds
to develop a svstem of school maintenance and repair and to implement this system
in the prolect area.
3.13      During negotiations, the Government discussed with IDA how it plans to
organize future primary school maintenance, with emphasis on village participation
and disengagement of the central Government, and gave assurances that it will
prepare and submit to IDA not later than December 31, 1985, a proposal for the
financing and organization of periodic maintenance and repair of primary schools.
2. Institutional Development
3.14      To enable the Government to implement a sector financing strategy for
accelerating the expansion of primary education, the central Institutions
responsiblc for planning, managing and controlling educatiun costs would be
strengthened and developed under the project. Specifically, the project would
reinforce the planning capacity of the Educational Planning Directorate,
strengthen the management expertise of the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate,
improve the planning and monitoring capacity of the Rural Youth Training
Directorate, and strengthen the operational capabilities of the new Education
Project Directorate. The major functions of these four Directorates, their
proposed work programs and staffing, and the assistance to be provided by the
project are described below.



- 11 -
3.15      Educational planning.  To develop a capacity for primary and secondary
eadcational planning and for financial planning and cost monitoring, and to
improve decision-making in the reallocation of resources available to the sector
and ensure their efficient use, the Educational Planning Directorate (para 2.17)
would be organized and staffed to be able, in addition to its current main
responsibilities, to prepare, follow up and review the implementation of policy
meaEures relating to the financing of the expansion of primary education. The
Directorate would, in addition to its regular administrative tasks, have to
undertake to: (a) improve the reliability and timing of the analysis and
publication of educational statistics; (b) complete a country-wide school mapping
exercise for primary education; (c) carry out, in collsboration with the
Pedagogical Tnstitute of Burkina, a study on the introduction of a double-shift
system for primary schools; (d) conduct an organization and management study of
the Ministry of National Education; (e) define the criteria for subsidies to
private education in regard to total level of subsidies, subsidy level per
student, and selection of the recipient schools; and (f) prepare, on an annual
basis, a review of the education sector budget, aimed at increasing the trend line
of budgetary allocations to primary education through a combination of measures.
These measures would include an increase in the allocations for education at a
slightly higher annual rate than the Government's overall budgetary increases, a
decrease in the budget for fellowships for secondary and higher education, and an
increase in the remaining budget for those two levels, at an annual rate slightly
lower than the Government's overall budgetary increases. During project
implementation, additional staff would be assigned to DPE in numbers and
qualifications agreed upon between the Government and IDA (Annexes 2-6 and 2-11).
3.16      The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) construction of an office
building, to be shared with the Education Project Directorate (para 3.23),
furniture, equipment and vehicles; (b) staff training and short-term specialist
services; and (d) incremental operating expenditures (Annexes 3-3 and 3-4).
3.17      During negotiations, the Government submitted a decree reforming the
system of subsidies to religious secondary schools. The subsidies will now
consist of a flat fee paid for each student enrolled by the Government in those
schools. In addition, the Government gave assurances that it will (a) define in
a directive to be agreed upon with IDA and to be issued not later than June 30.
1986, the level of Government subsidies to private educatior; and (b) undertake
with IDA, not later than April 30 of each year, an annual review of the
expenditures and financing needs of the education sector with a view to providing
for a reallocation of education budget resources in favor of, or an increase in
funds allocated to, primary education.
3.18      Management of higher education.  In order to improve management of
higher education with the aim of improving the criteria for the award of
fellowships and formulating a strategy for post-primary educational development,
the project would strengthen the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate (para 2.17)
in MESRS. This assistance would help to (a) establish a modern data
storage/retrieval system to expedite the administration of fellowships and permit
a more differentiated fellowship policy, and (b) carry out a study of national
manpower needs and of post-primary educational development. The main tasks of the
Directorate during project implementation would be to improve the organization and
management of the fellowship files and the procedures linkling student school
attendance and achievement to fellowships; propose new criteria for fellowship
awards; analyze higher education costs and contribute to the preparation of the
Government-IDA annual review of the education sector budget (para 3.17); and



- 12 -
underteke a manpower study and formulate a post-primary development strategy in
collaboration with the Ministries of National Education, Agriculture and
Livestock, and Planning. To this end, five additional high-level staff members
would be recruited during the first two years of the project.
3.19      The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) furniture, equipment and
vehicles for the Directorate of Guidance and Fellowships; (b) staff training and
short-term specialist services; and (c) incremental expenditures for the operation
and maintenance of equipment (Annexes 3-3 and 3-4).
3.20      Rural Youth Training (FJA) management.  In order to continue
strengthening the FJA administration at the central and regional levels so that
existing resources may be used more efficiently, develop the production and
distribution of learning materials, establish a monitoring and evaluation system,
and initiate studies for the future harmonization of the basic education system
(primary education and FJA), the project would provide assistance to the
Directorate of Rural Training and Organization (para 2.17). During project
implementation, the Directorate's main task would be to establish an FJA
management performance monitoring system; contribute to the preparation of the
manpower study (para 3.18); collect, analyze and publish on a regular basis
statistics an the FJA system and complete an evaluation of rural training through
a sample of the FJA Centers; produce and distribute about 11.3 million leaflets
and other learning materials; and organize, lead and provide technical
information to a National Commission, which would direct a study on ways to
harmonize the basic education system (para 2.22).
3.21      The proposed IDA credit would finance:  (a) furniture, equipment and
vehicles for the Directorate of Rural Training and Organization; (b) staff
training and short-term specialist services; (c) salaries of two additional staff;
and (d) incremental operating and monitoring expenditures. During negotiations,
the Government gave assurances that it will (a) establish, not later than June 30,
1986, a National Comnission under the auspices of the Minister of Agriculture and
Livestock to review ways to harmonize the systems of primary education and of
rural youth training, taking into account the new objectives assigned to r17oMR;
and (b) discuss with IDA not later than June 30, 1987, the results of the above-
mentioned review.
3.22      Project management.  To strengthen the operational capabilities of the
new Education Project Directorate (DPR), the Directorate would receive assistance
in the implementation and preparation of projects. At its full development, which
is expected to be achieved by late 1985, it would comprise 14 technical/adminis-
trative and 14 support staff; they would be organized into an Administration
Division and a Construction and Equipment Division. Because of the wide
geographic dispersion of the classroom construction sites (para 3.10), three
provincial cells, with a staff of nine technicians (including three Dutch
volunteers) for direct on-site supervision of civil works and supply management,
would be attached to the Construction and Equipment Division. An important
function of the Directorate would be to identify and prepare projects both for
investment by the Government itself and by external agencies. Annex 3-7 provides
an organization chart of the Education Project Directorate and the list of staff
to be financed by the IDA credit.



- 13 -
3.23      The proposed IDA credit would finance (a) construction of an office
building, to be shared with the Educational Planning Directorate (para 3.16), a
central storage facility in Ouagadougou, and three regional posts which would
serve as headquarters for the provincial cells and as regionnl storage points;
(b) furniture, equipment and vehicles; (c) staff training and specialist services;
(d) the salaries of 25 national contract personnel; (d) operational expenditures;
and (e) funds for project preparation work (feasibility studies, requirements
surveys, architectural designs, and development of equipment lists).
B.   Project Cost and Financing Plan
3.24      The total project cost over the six years of implementation is estimated
at US$23.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange
component of Us$14.9 million (64Z).  Base cost estimates are in Feb.uary 1985
prices. The project would be financed by IDA (US$21.6 million, or 93% of total
project cost) and the Government (US$1.6 million, in the form of incremental staff
salaries and counterpart contributions for school maintenance and repair). The
major assumptions in arriving at the cost estimates, as well as the detailed
project costs by component and cost category and the way these would be financed,
are given in Annex 3-8.
3.25      Recurrent costs.  When fully developed, the project components under the
responsibility of MEN would require annual budgetary allocations on the order of
CFAF 530 million (US$1.1 million), in constant 1984 prices, to continue operation
of the schools and institutions established or expanded under the project. These
incremental costs would be equivalent to 7% of the Ministry's 1984 recurrent
budget. While such an increase is feasible, the expected continued expansion of
primary education will require stringent control of the entire education budget
(paras 2.09-2.11). The recurrent budgetary implications of the components under
the responsibility of MAE and MESRS are estimated at CFAF 60 million and CFAF 10
million (US$0.12 million and US$0.02 million) annually, or 2.4% and 0.3%.
respectively, of their 1984 recurrent budgets.
C.   Project Implementation
3.26      Preparation.  Each project component is supported by a detailed working
paper, and educational specifications for the National Primary Teachers College
have been prepared. Initial experience with the logistics of rural classroom
construction is being obtained, and start-up of the proposed project is being
facilitated, under Cr. 956-UV (Second Education Project). Under that project,
US$1.3 million is being used to finance: initial operating costs and the purchase
of start-up vehicles; furniture and equipment for the Education Project
Directorate; early recruitment of two specialists for the Directorate; priority
fellowships for staff of the Educational Planning Directorate and the IPB;
architectural design work and bidding documents for the proposed project
facilities which are to be completed by June 1985, and the construction of 10
primary school units in 1984/85 as a trial run.
3.27      Sites.  Suitable sites are already available for civil works to be
undertaken as part of the textbook development, educational planning, and project
management components. Warehousing facilities for the textbook and primary school



- 14 -
construction components wjuld be built on the grounds of the Lyche Zends in
Ouagadougou. Suitab3e sites for the three regional cells at Fada N'gourma, Kaya
and Ouabigouya have been made available. The 150 villages to be included in the
primary school building program have been identifled (para 3.10), and the
provision of suitable sltes in the villages does not appear to present a problem.
3.28      Implementation responsibility.  The main responsibility for the
technical aspects of project implementation would be given to the relevant
Directorates/Directorates General in the three participating Ministries. The
largest project component, the primary school construction and maintenance program
(para 3.09), would be under the-direct supervision of the Education Project
Directorate, as would the primary teacher training component (para 3.02) and
future project preparation. The Project Directorate would serve as liaison
between IDA and the implementing agencies and would support all of them (except
the FJA Directorate) in the areas of procurement, financial administration,
documentation, monitoring and reporting. In view of the familiarity of the FJA
Directorate with project implementation procedures, the role of the Education
Project Directorate via-a-vis the FJA component (para 3.20) would be limited to
liaison with IDA. Annex 3-9 shows the project implementation schedule.
3.29      Specialist services and fellowships.  The project would finance a total
of 209.5 months of specialist services and 402 months of foreign fellowships.
Terms of reference for the specialist posts have been agreed with the Government.
as have the scope and content of the fellowship program. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will cause all staff having received training
abroad financed under the project to remain in their assignments for a period of
at least three years following the completion of training. (Details are in
Annexes 3-3 and 3-4.)
1.   Procurement
3.30      The following procurement arrangements would apply, with the figures in
parentheses showing amounts to be financed by IDA:
(Footnotes continued from facing page)
h/   Local shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations from at
least three reliable suppliers for items that cannot be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$500.
1/   Comparative shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations from
at least three reliable suppliers.
/   Foreign printing of textbooks.
kl   Direct contracts with publishers of suitable texcbooks for adaptation rights
and textbook purchases.
1/   Contracts for specialist services valued at US$2.9 million equivalent and
fellowships abroad: World Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (April
1981).
ml   In-country fellowships.
nl   Including US$0.5 million for matching salaries under the pilot school
building program.
oX   Contracts for office materials, spare parts, gasoline, other consumables and
building maintenance that can be grouped into bid packages of at least
US$15,000.



- 15 -
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(USS million)
Project Element                                Procurement Methods
Category                       ICB        LCB       Other            N/A    Total
Civil Works and                3.0 b/     2.9 c/        2.5  d/      --          8.4
Profeassonal Fees J/          (3.0)     (2.99)        (2.5)                    (8.4)
Matching Contributions */      0.2 bt     0.6 c/        0.2 d/       --          1.0
(0.2)      (0.6)         (0.2)                   (1.0)
Furniture, Equipment           0.5 f/     1.3 L/        0.07 hl      --          1.9
and Vehicles                  (0.5)      (1.3)         (0.07)                   (1.9)
Periodic Malntenance             --         --          1.2  11                  1.2
and Repair                                             (0.6)                    (0.6)
Textbooks                      0.5  /      --           1.3  kI      -           1.8
(0.5)                   (1.3)                    (1.8)
Specialist Services             --         --           4.0  1/      0.3 m/      4.3
and Fellowships                                        (4.0)        (0.3)       (4.3)
Salaries n/
I/ Project staff                       --        --             0.8        0.8
_          =_        __            (0.4)       (0.4)
2/ Teachers                --          -         --             1.8         1.8
-1.2)      (1.2)
Operating Costs                            1.5 o/       0.5  d/      --          2.0
(1.5)       (0 .)                    (2L0)
Total                 4.2          6.3         9.8           2.9       23.2
a/   Contracts awarded during preparation (1984) after local prequalification.
b/   Contracts for construction materials valued at more than US$50,000.
cl   Contracts for construction, construction materials, labor and transportation
valued at between US$15,000 and USS50,000.
d/   Comparative shopping and direct contracting on the basis of quotations from
at least three reliable suppliers for items that cannot be grouped into bid
packages of at least US$15,000.
e/   US$1 million for constructing about 75 classrooms and supplementary
facilities to experiment with various building standards under the pilot
school building program and for financing civil vorks. wells, furniture and
equipment to complete local school building efforts (para 3.10).
f/   Contracts of US$0.5 million for equipment, Including vehicles, grouped into
bid packages valued at more than US$50,000.
All contracts for furniture (valued at USSI.3 million) and contracts for
equipment that can be grouped into bid packages valued at between USS15,000
and US$50,000.



- 16 -
3.31      Because of thelr relatively small  ize and vide dispersion In remote
areams civil works contracts would not attract overmeas foreign firms, and would
be procured after local competitive bidding (LCb) according to procedures
acceptable to IDA. However, construction materials, equipment, vehicles and
foreign printing of textbooks would be grouped to the extent practicable to
facilitate competition in bidding, and packages of US$50,000 equivalent or more
would be awarded after International competitive bidding (ICB) according to
procedures acceptable to IDA. Goods manufactured locally would be given a
preference mrgin of up to 152 or the applicable cumtons duty, whichever io loss.
Procurement packages (announcements, bidding documents and proposed awards)
exceeding US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to TDA's prior review. For
contracts valued at between US$15,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, two conformed
copies of each contract vould be subject to post revlew by IDA before vithdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account. Contracts valued at less than US$15,000
equivalent would be held by the Borrower for random review by IDA supervision
missions and for the audit. During negotiations, the Government has confirmed Its
intentlon to apply the procurement procedures outlined in Annex 3-10.
2. Disbursements
3.32      The draft disbursement schedule has been aggregated from estimates for
the individual components. The following disbursement percentages would apply:
Allocation and Disbursement of DA Credit
Amount       X of Expenditures
7tem                          (USS'000)       to be Financed
a) Civil works anl
professional fees                        6,060               100
b) Matching contrlbutlons                     810              I1O
c) Furniture, equipment *nd vehicles        1,340               100
d) School maintenance and repair              410                45
e) Textbooks                                1,410               100
f) Specialist services and fellovships    3,530                 100
g) Salaries
(i) Project implementation staff          290               100
(ii) Teachers in project primary
schools                               820                65
h) Other operating costs                    1,590                85
l) UTnallocated                             5,340
Total                                   21 600



- 17 -
3.33      The disbursement rate for "Othe. operating costs" refets to expenditure
including taxes and duties, to avoid cumbersome documentation.  Annex 3-11 shovs
the disbursement profile, and Annex 3-12 a sumary of Government contributions to
the project.
3. Special Account
3.34      To facilitate the prefinancing of expenditures by the Government, an
amount of US$750,000 would be advanced from the proposed IDA credit and deposited
in a Special Account held in a local bank under the control of the Project
Director. The Special Account would cover about three months of expenditures for:
(a) daily allowances and reimbursement of travel costs for nationals attending
seminars or undergoing training abroad; (b) teacher salaries; (c) purchase and
transport of building materials; (d) labor contracts for civil works; (e) small
civil works including school maintenance and repair, and furniture and equipment
contracts; (f) operating costs of the total project; and (g) purchase of teacher
manuals and transport of textbooks.
3.35      All expenditures from the Special Account, except for "other operating
cost8," would be reimbursed by IDA on a net-of-tax basis. Reimbursement
applications to IDA would be grouped into packages of at least US$30,000
equivalent and would be fully documented, except for expenses related to
in-country training, staff salaries, and contracts valued at less than US$15,000
equivalent. These expenses would be reimbursed against certified statements of
expenditures, for which documentation would be retained for review by IDA
supervision missions and the project auditors. Reimbursement applications would
also comprise a statement of account movements since the last application, with
the balance certified by the local bank holding the account, and a reconciliation
showing that the balance represents the original amount deposited in the account
less payments awaiting reimbursement, or small working advances. Should any
disbursements made subsequently be dissllowed by IDA, the Government would
redeposit the corresponding amount.
4.   Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
3.36      The Education Project Directorate would establish accounts for the
individual project components and record all project expenditures in accordance
with sound accounting practices. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that these project accounts will be audited annually by an independent
auditor acceptable to IDA and that certified copies of the accounts and the
auditor's report will be forwarded to IDA for review by September 30 of each year.
The auditor's reports will certify that funds disbursed against statements of
expenditures were used for the purposes for which they were provided.
3.37      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the Project
Director will (a) submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports throughout the
project implementation period, the first report being due by January 31, 1986; and
(b) submit to IDA within six months of the Closing Date (June 30, 1992) a final
report summarizing the project outcomes and identifying problems that would be
relevant for future projects.



- 18 -
IV.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01      Benefits.  The project would establish a framework for expanding primary
education by (a)irestructuring and reducing costs of primary schooling through
implementing cost-efficient modes of providing the major inputs (teachers,
textbooks and classrooms), and (b) assisting in i:istitution-building efforts
throughout the education system which would lead to a more efficient use of
resources and make possible a gradual reallocation of furda i.t favor of primary
education.
4.02      The direct physical impact of the project on the primary education
system would amount tc sn expansion of existing capacities by about 13%. However,
a more important long-range contribution would be iL.5 demonstration effect:  the
adoption of low-cost building techniques would kesp the investment costs necessary
to achieve the 60% enrollment target for the year 2000 within a manageable size
(about US$3.4 million annually by the end of the period, and less if the process
of tapping local resources can be carried further than is at present envisaged),
and the more cost-efficient combiuation of lower-paid teachers supported by
adequate learning materials would mean a stabilization of recurrent unit costs at
a level of slightly under US$30 per student by the year 2000.
4.03      Risks include the inadequate technical capacities of the maln
institutions responsible for resource use planning in the sector, and the limited
experience in school construction and project imrlementation in the Ministry of
National Education. A sizeable staff training program for the implementing
agencies and specialist services in key areas are included in the project to help
overcome these handicaps.
V. ACGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a) prior to December 31, 1986, issue a decree upgrading the primary teacher
promotion examination (para 3.05);
(b) not later than June 30, 1986, reorganize the Teaching Materials
Production Department of the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina to
establish an Editing Division and a Production Division with staffing in
number and with qualifications satisfactory to the Government and to IDA
(para 3.08);
(c) not later than December 31, 1985, prepare and submit to IDA a proposal
for the flencing and organizatlon of periodic maintenance and repair of
primary schools (para 3.13);
(d)  define in a directive to be agreed upon with IDA and to be issued no
later than June 30, 1986, the level of Government subsidies to private
education; and undertake with IDA, not later than April 30 of each
year. an annual review of the expenditures and financing needs of the
education budget resources in favor of, or an increase in funds
allocated to, primary education (para 3.17);



- 19 -
(e) establish, not later than June 30, 1986, a National Commission under the
auspices of the Minister of Agriculture and Livestock to review ways to
harmonize the systems of primary education and of rural youth training,
taking into account the new objectives assigned to the Directorate of
Rural Training and Organization; and discuss with IDA, not later than
June 30, 1987, the results of the above-mentioned review (para 3.21);
(f) cause all staff having received training abroad financed under the
project to remain in their assignments for a period of at least three
years following the completion of training (para 3.29);
(g) carry out, by means of an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, an
annual audit of the project accounts, and forward to IDA for review
certified copies of the accounts and the auditor's report by September
30 of each year (para 3.36); and
(h) submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports throughout the project
implementation period, the first one being due by January 31, 1986, and
submit within six months of the Closing Date (June 30, 1992) a final
report summarizing the project outcomes and identifying problems that
would be relevant for future projects (para 3.37).
5.02      Subject to the above assurances, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for an IDA credit of US$21.6 million equivalent to Burkina Faso.
WAPED
April 1985



- 20 -
ANNE 1-1
Page 1 of 2
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
The Country
1.        Burkina is one of the poorest countries in the world, and its
poverty, as in most of the Sahelian countries, has its origin in the
natural environment. Rainfall varies highly from region to region and
from year to year, ranging from 100 mm in the far north, to 1200 mm in
the southwest, with most cultivated land receiving between 600 mu and
900 mm. Soil quality is also highly disparate, although generally
better in the southwest. Most of the available agricultural land
consists of shallow soils, which are easily eroded and depleted of
organic matter by traditional methods of cultivation. Few river systems
have water throughout the year; the potential for irrigation and
hydroelectric power is therefore very limited and costly to develop.
Mining of known deposits, mainly zinc, manganese, phosphates and massive
sulfide, is also costly and exacerbated by the country's landlocked
position, some 600 km from the sea. Given its poor physical resources,
Burkina's most important productive asset are the people.
The Population
2.        With an estimated population of 6.5 million in 1983 and an
area of some 270.000 k1M2, the average population density is about 25
persons/km2. This varies greatly, however, with the southwest, north,
and southeast being virtually unpopulated and density reaching 80
persons/km2 in parts of the central plateau. Ninety percent of the
population lives in rural areas, spread over more than 7000 villages,
70% of them having less than 1000 people. This extreme dispersion poses
considerable problems for the provision of basic social services such as
primary education.
3.        Burkina's population has had an estimated annual growth of
2.6Z in recent years. About one third of the natural increase has been
offset by migration to neighboring countries-in particular to the Ivory
Coast-a process which relieved population pressure on the central
plateau and contributed significantly to Burkina's GNP.
4.        As with all rapidly growing populations, the number of young
people is rather high. According to the 1975 census, 45% of the
population was below the age of 15 and 172 belonged to the primary
education age group (7 to 12 year olds). At present, some 200,000
children reach primary school age each year.



- 21 -
AM=  1-1
Page 2 of 2
The Economy
5.        Over 902 of the population derive their livelihood from
agriculture and animal husbandry, a sector threatened by periodic
droughts. Wage employment is insignificant (less than 50,000 in 1976)
and largely accounted for by the services sector, In particular the
Government.
6.        In the absence of widespread urbanization, kinship networks
are still intact. While poverty affects most people and the food
balance Is always precarious-requiring periodic rellef efforts from
abroad-there are no population groups living In a state of permanent
destitution. However, continuous population growth and, possibly,
diminishing prospects for migration could upset this tenuous balance in
the foreseeable future.
7.        Burkina's development perspectives are constrained by her
meager known natural resources, her landlocked location, her poor level
of human capital development, and the remoteness from major markets.
Mineral deposits, notably of zinc and manganese, may offer some
possibilities for non-agricultural development, but for the lnediate
future the further growth and siprovement of the agricultural sector and
the continued absorption of part of the excess labor force by
neighboring economies appear to offer the sost realistic development
prospects.
8.        Although the economy has grown approximately three percent
annually for the last two decades, it will be difficult to increase or
perhaps even to maintain this rate given the weak and deteriorating
physical resource base and the severe imbalance between the quality of
human capital and the economy's need for it. To improve its long-term
development prospects even modestly, the country will have to raise the
productivity of Its own resources and develop human capital whether for
domestic employment or for vork abroad. In the agricultural sector,
further increases In production will require the reflnement of existing
and adoption of new farming systems which combine Improved inputs with
soil and water conservation and aim for the Integratlon of livestock
raising with crop cultivation. This approach will place a premiu on
trained manpower to disseminate the new farming techniques and on a
minimally educated farm population to apply them. The gradual
broadening of the country's slim Industrial base will also depend partly
on the availability of a trained labor force.
JAPED
January 1985



- 22 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page 1 of 2
BURtKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BASIC DATA
General
GNP per capita (1982)                         US$ 210
Land area                                      274.000 km2
Population (1983)                             6.5 million
Population growth rate (natural)              2.6% p.a.
Urban population growth rate                  4.0% p.a.
Life expectancy at birth                      43 years
Education and Training
Gross enrollment in 1983 in public and private institutions:
Z of Age
Level                             Number      % Female      Group Enrolled
Primary                           251,269        37              18.4
Rural Youth Training (FJA)         15,634          9               -
Secondary general                  27,618        32               2.6
Technical and vocational            4,738         42              2.6
Teacher training                      262         22              --
Higher education
- University of Ouagadougou        3,086        22              0.06
- Abroad                           1,318       n.a.             0.03
Teachers
Primary                             4.410         21
Rural Youth Training (FJA)            752       n.a.
Secondary                             757 -     n.a.
Technical                             352       n.a.
University (1982)                     177       n.a.
a/ Teachers in private schools estimated.



- 23 -
ANNEX 1-2
Page.2 of 2
Education Financing (1982)
Central Government recurrent expenditures on education:
As a percentage of GNP:                    2.1
As a percentage of total reyurrent
Government expenditure: a               21.7
Recurrent Costs per Student CUS$, 1982) a/
Primary                           38
Rural Youth Training (FJA)       143
Secondary general                334
Secondary technical              369 bI
Higher education               1,734 -
a/ Public schools only.
b/ Estimated.
WAPED
April 1985



BURKINA
PRIlARY, XDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEINT PRIMAIRE
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM/STRUCTURE 0R L#ENSEIGNEMENT ET DE LA FORKATION
Ado
thE4tIqt 1         g      *       to 10      2l              2      14      ii UlUo2553 14  Is  t o                                                   22 2n
4~~~~~~~~~~~~as tesde                                                    *1e   e  t_  - 
Vkal  smrieuqu de lacitei.s
at tc r-etlgt  bIm
floo kfnel Fearstau of
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~el s E3er, ago_{ mlolas
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t. C1 -  ...  tiUei.,,   
ornsinApiowIUIet k&t
leeoles) of F.veewak.
Swelgie asbciqesIIas6ta6ti .
PastitIeu 0w ftp.k.t aeete
Age   15       16      1?                                                                                                                                                   IV   31i | ^|"Wpitls *t_te"'. o
EHd l clltls |j_est ':1r;         I P        FmahimtS   t lc|e e  td
fv  bul.   tf   al~ l.u:le.teeSaIgmeC   tI migh  Se. Tech. Ije.:  Tas. Ipede
V -   E        H                     wj~~~~~~~~l Catle.^ deee.Aeee. lteq:Ct           VII 1w  Se ji t." toeb.i dmc.z
lit Caste seem.                                WI_t 4  tS Pelmp _t*ace Telel     od
II    tFemeleet   dee _ J  ;_ins   A*Ir lteusu @   3  be    ti et h  tra-l_ l g tt  t
VI                                           -0        -0~~US:Crstsa   't~   riie                            ofiste    US:ftnpEmti    esfe
Mft: S,,etlves d*iudee 4. ifeel., cylell          CS: 11iiE S e    Xt tutm  CtitlEteem
ix                                                                                                                                                                 fsfttC Autleate            I
!I  we r._.d  -  leeslge.iE  p* tleIPetllc 1he51  l,.ui
AgePED, Janury 195



-25-                                    ANNEX 2-2
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPENENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIKAIRE
E ULG NTS BY EDUCATIONAL LEME, 1983/
EFFECTIFS PAR NIVEAU D'ENSEIGNEMENT. 1983
Public    %  eemale    Private % Female        Total    % Female   % Private
Level/wlvean                Publlque  % Fllle    Prlve    % Filles        Totaux    % Fillee   % Priv6
PrS arv/Prlsire                         229,661       37        21,608      40       251,269        37           9
Secondary/Second Devri
General/CGural                         13,065      26         14,553      38        27,618        32          52
lver/Premier Cycle                  (10,078)    (27)       (11,813)   (39)       (21,891)      (31)
Hliger/Deuxl&me Cycle                 (2,967)   (22)        (2,71W0)   (32)       (5,727)      (27)
Tecbnical/Techblque                     1,309      (24)        3,364      49         4,673        43          72
Lower/Prcmler Cycle                    (782)    (17)        (2.602)   (52)        (3,384)      (41)
Higber/Deuxlie Cycle                   (527)    (34)          (762)   (42)         (1,289)     (39)
Te_aher Trainiug/Normal                   262       22          ...       ...           262       22
Risher Education m
EneSeunesent aupriLeur
oniversity of Ouagadougou/              3,086      22            ....                3,086        22
UnIversite de Ouaspdougou
Students Abroad/Bouralera               1,318       a.&     .             ...        1,318       n.a.
A l'dtranger
Rural Youth TraininglForm_tlon           15,234        9                     .        15,234         9
deo leunes *Rrlculteurs (FJA)
Sources: NO, MSURS, MAE/FJA:
January 198S



BWRKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATON DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE LENSEIGNEMET PRIMAIRE
Organization Chcxt of the Mlnty of National Educatlon/
Oganigmme du Mlncsm re de rEducatlon nattnole
Corwmnce Mnsr4* e  _du_h__C__l____I__d____qmoc
jahonoeACtnCreci                                                          cw*tio secxv diuc Swn  gi
Adn*mstrotion and1 Fiwo" crwla/
ofAh<n d  ss                              b_  _ .9vod D                            e di Pon
Sec*fcr Gin*W
NatlI C saT   *r U/        .     _ ___   _                                  iTh Educaion Psc D1 ct4 0_
_______                __I              _ .__                                   idn T lan W*gW d
Fbdogo0c~ hwtihl                                                                  o f  e
~~.9*U* ~~~~~id~~cmgIc         dk*km  k Ukhcvor'  A
_~  ~      ~      ~ ~ a.b~viA1 .     _. _                                  - ---                _.
Dmctot/O/dScn do l               of de Fom do  Au deal   5                                   ph
Foff>w -__io _*A fpmw
L __
ShxftL C   -fficlAo and Pailigoglical                                  de rbweiwrem pimnW
_EmkM  DkWfcwta/ion____     
.   [__  |                                           Meb ~~~~~~~~RVu ad  Pod    k 
&AXcbmeSo*WO9cfbio do
remewwri,i lph            _    .
noduction                                               I et du pi4scdoL
An| Ocdad.te d Sobo-                                                 [                             j
WorUd B*-26M52



-27-
ANNEX 2-4
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRLNAIRE
PRIMARY EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS, 1974-83/
EFFECTIFS DE LMENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE, 1974-83
Year    Public Schoo.s    1974    Private Sc1ools  1974   Totals   1974
Annee  Ecoles publiques   -100       Ecoles privEs   -100   Totaux   -100
1974        118,885        100           8.081        100    124,966  100
1975        124,848        105.0         8,259        102.2  133,614  106.9
1976        131,472        110.6        10,227        126.6  141,699  133.4
1977        138,542        116.5        10,728        132.8  149,270  119.4
1978        147,352        123.9        13,176        163.0  159,948  128.0
1979        157,359        132.4        14.148        175.1  171,506  137.2
1980        170,773        143.6        14,885        184.2  185.688  148.6
1981        184,759        155.4        17,568        217.4  202,327  161.9
1982        203,566        171.2        21,004        259.9  224,570  179.7
1983        229,661        193.2        21,608        267.4  251,269  201.1
Source: Ministry of National Education/Ministare de
1' ducation nationale.
WAPED
January 1985



'gVlt  LI  aquC  -  -        Ut         -       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cI  Em    -    -    -  'nu~~~~~~6-t  Ar:,    ai,tt   9nI I    UtTAD
aou*LE  -       3q~~~U199     -                       it                 3 t0         95                        %Vs -I l               OOtti  *1         ML            AWIfliml
-    9       ii~~~~z     a 9         Wal         CC         l         Vs         fie    or   11   VIP   As-l           Aqri       Glec   ri         IC   vu31 9 oWxiMiu
AntI         at        aL          at          m'1*                   Ss       to         Ulf   St   SI   Cs          V9it         Ic      CooatI   rig1    UNm               EU
WUi         Li        it         i          artL         VI         It        to         911   at   41  ZIP          rwt        A  In       Ml'* Ir'   t  Si             909
aqut*K      AlIl1    Aqu           E%m          nitl     A411Z       -        -qia        41w    LI  ELI  U??       'qmfltE    aaeCr    RUSSCI  q69tf    VtL                 1993
-    ~~      wgtt         --qv          -         RIC         91     aqim        *3.  -     -     -          46993       MqlL      qohy   qvtz    Ulf            VLIUIU
01DEl       i        Vi          lot         5i*         99P        CI        Us         Cs    ii   at   99           -L .OLi             ont 13 1 t%9    am               ODIUMk
awno        C    e     V SI       to          [l t                   V61   q3   u  3406 09 StE      Vl  IL3E 19 q9i           a.S*       U        vtz     Ut            's38S9
Wur         lt      of          MEW           tgl        IV         or        as        qig    ,    a    so       AuWL          AWt       OCT    qrs        UVcmVI
Aq t  -       AM445         -             -        MA4C         -      a. -                     -   --        s,m*uI       Aqtrm      unS      nol     91             iVMh
Awl,.   Aq&i    LaqsI              be           -       Aqb          -      6.49   -                  -    -V          Wit1      Aer?      Ourt I    *ti    Mt           rmiVAzvnu
"4JtL       A%&1    sieVEl          it           -          aC         EL    Aqlu          t    LIt   U    39      AI-cZ         AqttL    099       t9       LI        tiOVAlV9'la
ENVUr       93        9         93y          Yti        VI         g- ot                io    91   It   59          LVOL       sri       of OIC  q-,u      UV             0092
Citti1      it        utC         goYB                   6 1 5       i E       U        qSV     Z   It ii   bE       u'Ll         6ri       U c'    rs      oN     Jill M's21S1DM
Auzwel        Si    &,tII           me           -       &4q9I         n6    nei I I- ---                              0.13         r m     -        V's      III              gum
irtI        ii        659         Li          06         CC          i        C           i t (b   I LT   At         PIEt         no    qUil't  4Zt         Dum       rjim VAsc
"eWul         tl        9         --v'                     tt         VI       Mt        'aim    a  t       SC VG  E  0P11         Et    quilt' I qCVLi   EUm             VluOW
&qRUN, I     '@     aqI            -- -1                 4 q91       -        0411953I    -      -    -    -_         qitti       Aqrll     0.81I   at&t    9                 MMt
qtti    Ane         Ant           SIq ml,    'ar        htl          -       Anti         Vt    yr  -       is        Z.u Vrt              Ott' I    ut:   w1               iixiu
'unit  ---      'u~~ft                              &a- lt     -         A9j         Co   -    -_  -           'oElo       Apt.y      tILt     V'S     OmI           93311
--  AOE       441         U'n         dorel       Lit        Ela      A001       114   Mot pit  act          'Pitz    ""yin        Ogg' Z   t.a      ma           600991
UVtL       3         It          LU                      I     I    Lb        UN       REV    93,  NIL t 3(9          ut         LIZ    Ujltt   Cz    hm ufunu
in'shMhmu3 as. CMV ViiUlflv UIAVII
'469    1      x%I           itU       'aura        GE        --         i          $Ii    -    -    -_       'irvt:       qOiv       SIE     9'L      I I     7diiJI V9IF919
AltarP        It        ci          or            -       'e9                 9K           ci    ci   v       t        rar          Ulf     (Kt      ri,1     it IsmnA
Aurg        'eti       t           Ut         91n        'it         'Vt       L I        U    35   mEt  ari       EwVV         Luct9    0OC       Cli      Ut               nith
iCes        iz       S           lot         atEt                   UV 0      it        qit    St   Et   CE         S'sI        1Cf    4UZE    qnt          VI        VISJiUflunk
ottC       at        CZt    I   Vt             luNt      it         CL        CS         Ut    WE   El   It         961a           Ci9    all      aEI      UV            9139331
*-oa'I        it    a', I           I t         eVEa       St          99       Uo       'tU1     L I   Vt   CL        U's19        Voul   '0i0'E a1'         Em v I    4MVCU 941
sari         ad        it         Im        duS9U         UL     t        Vt Li            Ut   got  NMI  "IE          -        dgpi'i    dftI      LI%      at             V*aiao
It    &qbt          -             -        &%/Z        -       asqht         -      -                  qs'ii        Au,t      009e     C'tE    'at              93990
a It   3411               09         alit       "411       iSI      4q09        qIal   eV   DEC   IVt       qa.*V       A"L,C    Utzl      i        it             Viewti
'StE  "tE        --          -             -       Miuet       -         --         -      -    -    -          Arlo        qL t't    Uit't&  i'D       Lit             030
-KW't       Mutt       --           a            --       q          -         -          -_   -    -_ -_           .mg'LEr    AAS.Ve        Cii     l'i1     Ut              0Mwl
Aorui        It       L          --                       LIt        -        L? -               -   -               qLIl      Ajt'&      UzE      9'9.    it                aut
*sDL'0                                                   ^&L- 31     -         -                                    .&-- -  -luVtt  j.bi'C  09      ciI      at..V:
*uttI        91       493         not         witE        AG0;       EiK      all         -    ma  3(9  ftC          0'VI        A11,     6139     I'll     Ut           36363S
tUrn        91       L           vtI          LISTt      IS         tt        91         a      U    6t St   It      gi'         aI'l  ut .01      C        (9      63695 WoISE
Atj49E       It        El          Vt         mri         It         UL          T       11t 19  i     EI  t LI,       Er         45S      ol 'K.v  U W      hi    ------ SA
Ui't        Li        %t         IN u         rut        at         ELb       hi       qVt      V    CS   zE        i'aE          Ill    quilt    qI' I     EN           iMuvUkil
aLK,        11         Ii         VI         *'tt         st        tim       km0      q tti     t   El   Ut         rIgl        d%yt    qgif     q-s       UN             ViUViti
EM'S        Li       S           I            ---        it         ii       UK%        Utf  'aID  Ric  'LE        al'Vi         -       quest    4'aV'lI    6UN           95913
Uot        wiE       it           n          1.1         91   [      IN      411       qoIt    91 of   it            rut          6 'il    liii    SNO      CCUV           IVIZ3INV
...      VI  v            9?t                     if         9       NMI%'       Ik    ..    St   IV          --          U'(    40Kv   'at'b        US              NUVIW
Mel'I       it      qtl         quom        qa           "Ie       %Um      'ati       JUL    4's  qVW  'ai          b'Ui         %,I     mint    i6'i      ii             il
---  .-;  -                                f~~~' it                              Motsu   'aE  'Vt     Ut't          e.      (III,I   v'u      at         UMlulAm1
fl*63       j         v9         y           0.9I        Ut         ZIP      ELI       qit      It   If   l's        1.11         IC L uz ilt    ai16    UN                3099mm
ann         I  t      tv         'I at        PiE          Z        VI? Ut    9         V      I    UV   St         fi'll        0.9    0uvU'I 'at'I       UN3         91fE1,ilUU
ut'U        II        9          II          691.        13         LE        it       qsi     i1   93   UtL        9.11        I'L    qUIt  ~I'W          EU             IISVI
AW'LtE'       Li        91          mL          695       4611         CL     34956       II      oi   Ut   El.        v,91        W499    lOcE      I'Mw     Z I        UVJhiVLuO9
c I         oE Vt                 It         trbE        tm          91       ES        It9    93   bE   I1          OVUI        AM' 1    UFA      ('It     Si              VA*99
%rtu        W9        'PI        te          I'Mt        LV        got        At        Iit     ut   a.   St         mL'V        db'1     ilvl    13Zlt   IV             IEdvJEl3
IV,U        bE       0i           UV~        tlim        63                   i ut             ...i    "  vt   Lit   mEtl         U.S    633       v'63     93iEIU
li's I      IEI     KL           ZI           ru.         ILk       SC       .196       It      it   Uit             U6 it   u'e   .1m'a   Il      i'9      1w            3uIinsEIlW
*.I'I       we        iii      vedL          19(1        ZL         9        ta      4'tC      %I   Siz  NW         1.43        dL'V    quill    RV q'LI    Uow         31N9."Al
-*'63'VL    "sUt       'Si          6363         al         Ul         alWe   6 Vl u  W   466     nE   all   El        t'UI         ura      vs%t'IE  I'm     St             59014
.'ar`%        b         LU          63IN        i'lI        tt        act       ge1    'aS        VIEt IC   It         9'LE        'Lti'   qIvUU'  qt't       UV9       hUflVfz MIAN
fl'g.3      LI        ZU         Se          t'tt         Ut        io        VS      40 I6     t   %L   Ut         11  I'S'             E149'UE  utti    at         9t1W13itimjM
'cr11l      ---        va        awcl           ---      -          NMIs    'eml        4164    ---       -_ -,                   VI      ti'itI  i'l9    Si         1951j ANIUiWI
Au-etc      Vl       tie          oct       tmet          E          uE       mmii      el 31 is BlSO  6  w tIAV  3516  Lmfl'm  'C       qUIte,  4t'LC      IV             999390
nmu'is     ki         El          ee          ---         El        BliE    .L01        '       -                    9it          Lt'I    633'S  qttE,0    cm           VPiiEJ.uilV
511 UJjiat UAdU`tAAM4
(VI)    (Li)        it         (El)         toE)        (B)        CS)       Ct)                                  (v liC)       Cci       C(Z       Ci
(A)     M6ELVIS      (hi)       CW       n.1aaugaa411  UNCVI*S    (u          (xi   (VLSI)         LI)         iafELtuNUfll N0U3INIUWMl   (mliE) (Ozl61
4u101m       Ul       U1iVe   ANvrmwamB stomad NWs        a1s       21`oaa   MAINt    ()    IN  mms  lad    MufmUmAcCIll. awnom   CiVil) 'SrtiC  Wit
'7r1392  bJSrZdelM   * ThomaS1 @i AevklUd  bseevisV3U  WIhMEILU      lasNm2  *ll5u'j      Ziti iUll USStDYfl' '193101  1IVAA3&Ldut 3904  V. ISv:j  'dud  SW
MNIIEU N AWOA'sUgNm AbiMeIdAUIN     MRSLVa    AIVUIWS  995139d   3195d A1515 V       9M11WIbIISddMNMMLt"      MSiMd SV         ~       Mld dUO
uiijtn   AI                                                                  JJ.1idD iLNLio  MOiS   UI.VMAID N
Z   JO   I                                                     We  '1   itM&M
S-Z KINKY.



-29-
ANNEX 2-5
*u~~  ic. asia             ~PaRe 2 of 2
I ~~~~~~~~U            n.CSTA PSI            a   TR3A  CfWIFP1Ll 3311'f5C4 31119 Ta  a   PUM.L. IMP579111ICWA1 PSINYP541           Iii P54    N3EIuhIhN  41194W.117A9  1`111I.
(3919) 114115)  KmucAI4U  SxIPSU3               fi)         lf) (3993 C)       CO T) Ar.VS  rI1P/CiP,IT          "*3          (23    W9d!01t    ('3
(a)  (3)  (1)        (9)          ~~~~         ~~~~      ~~~~~(S)  (B)  (73  (Al  (53    (0           3)         lii        17       9
P"IqA  PI   ouh.0-    vo-    1.6          4.1        M713                o        n         3        2           .            F           n        I         .1
Knm          ~~~i   15.                 .w.1 S                                                                 22       19.4          90&a                  le        11i
HAIAVIaA       3      N2h  S~il 2ob    S2         32.41                                                                 a2*DP7w       57 ow  o
PAP" ".G.     m       7.I     a        1.9         15.n             Il 7        -                                       3n7"IM    .4  77            1.      21t      1
P"ILIPINKI    1i    44l       *on'    3.3'         39.0       AG11d-            7                    %         i.1                   Om39                               w
RIW.~.        an      2.A   442         .            .         4,6        6     a 9.1  WI                      )I        9.1          IN99                             .i
IUA3IAJN           -     *7.1Ii    7279P   1.9          20.9       29   IS     I      MNi      99         -          7       -;.1          1           is        21      9Z*141
IAi]EIC3b          75    93*311     on      **3p        140.1*9    51   3?   is       339      91        -          `1         7.9         -           39        m7A
*AgTO*  I/         W      1.2       gol     LB         II."        -     -     -     l0        12        -         -         ---           ---
INDIA              if   979.9      230      2.51,       %.5u       -                  " -  - 191724',I ---    i'3lu
WWAL          4      1 *nb    I7d%    3.9        -            -                  lo   S   70        -          35         --                      32        21       1.11.-
P.93319*           19    79,7      270      3.9u'       1.1'       19   29,  27      39        %111      ml"       95         eS1          S3          221 n
Rm iSarM              ;M7.    -b        3.            .          7   Is   is      a 2       739'    #A          in        -                         a        ti...     I.""
ALaIEEIA           79    35.1   31147    1.108          12.1       SAO  iMe  218    11         32 9M"               1 I.F1 j7                          i4.      19        I.10,
"0Pr               Al    91.114    9108    9.9.         1.0        13*  Ile  29      9         73.       wis       Ili        eu           ml.         4        Its 3    I 1.40
053113        19~~~~~7  93   9.190     2.96        111.99     2?   Ps   23 I              OM        --         399       9.27         --          19.       27k.    I I juvii
IRAN               79    39.9      -       S.Iffy      39.1.        -   - -    -     10        1419                Ila12     -             ---        49m4 ft             6.4man
INN                79    12.9   2,110      9.3111       %.low                                 low- -  '            I am      ---                      :%6                 5Iftwo
I W3MANW           93     1.9k  9,941      9.1*'       I 33.f.7     -an-             f         el        9         2'        -f                         I       39       13.400
.1053*40 a3    2.26  1.70~  4.9*                        303        39   44   in      lob      low9      11         13 a       1.7          53hi                  17       tamsI
3J13989            7'     2.7      -       -           39*amer    -    -    -_    --           4491      -         Is        -             ---          9'      ---    27.unev
M150               WIt  10.        793     6.11100     21.19       39   44   20       M          A 35 79ev  21      3               as      n          25       Ia        9.713
aemuN              I2   flosk S.9 0    3.19'            32.7'      -   -      -       W3197    lIE       971        31       -             as          II        391
FORMA7UL            7     9.J9  3,49        7.9        22.2        7313 25    3      7M        el        an        3ts       32.3          man        AN-       Its       5,:4.
5411051            ?m    32.3   2.1hn,    S*.Iy         9.21       -    -- --        93       349        -         I a       -             3W          SAk      22'      311,910.
ffAl3             lB    11.0   9.910       71v3        3947Y       -     -                     99       -          299       -             -           1.19     -         4io
MIA                7e     4.4,  3*70        *p          0.1        DO   IS   29    'A          9799      WI        t79                     An         933w      73 I     2I2.94
T511339            79     9.9   **1330      7J1p       39.4        923129   is    929         30                   job35     32.0          30          VP4      Sn4       9.
166131        *j~~~~~l     lb  3*999    3.3        29.2       -    --  --        739b    I3ON       Om         26        7*9          Iain                  744      9,74
Au3.m.          an     9.3      920      7.1 3m2.9              99    7    1      DID       17        Its       1Sf       91.0         as            1       an        1.14
1141  F.b.S.       ml    71.4k    920k    7.96          9.7        99  3I"   as    33          93        19        it        22.0.,        419         II       34        2.11n
EM   T  cosmottlef                    A U              99       n 0 9   by        is       go        99        994       92            12          go       1B      457
Rowe.                                   (I.9            3.7-   le-  (17  (2-    c1b-       (31.     (32-        (II-      (1.1-         (9~        (1-       (9      (.-
10.0)         9303  914)   461  19)    "1)        339)      "9.        IF)       97.0)        593         393       WI)    39.4
Omrtilm.t Uppers                          1.9          30.1      Si    1   23      14        ea        PS,       91        30            as         97    1            3(1i.9.
gallantg                      9.0           315.1    93   27   le      72        as        90        1S 1      I6 92                     77        3        3k.1
Loweri                        3.0           30.11    17   to   IN      39        19        31        ay         7            an          II       im        j.n
Quart le halatletIuq                      2.3            .1.    7.11  9.0  9.0   33.0      39.7     221,7       7.7       A.9          22.7        I7.7      R.%        9.1
Poage                                    9.1            39.3     992        to    71         71       93n        39        39            94          13       23       9.S
qmtantrd ue1.t3..                         3.9            7.9     33  to    1       In        29       as         II        II            21         37         1        P.9
3.11453                                  9.0           311.1     91   as   to      Si        as       A3 I       I1        Il           93           34       72        1.1
-   3T13  UU99IAILNU                                         A   MAIl  P510  In 391  19A*                          A - 53445799 OF XIUMIC9YIfS114) fULl
-WORTUh11L953 nlt IUNW3IOU.                               a. 3910  MM36 BUSII 1*  BiM 101                       T - M* O    siTsli 313 O111POWW   nUY LY
7  3910  0U3y1493Z                                          a *    5087 PIC111                                   U - 1051.NM ftmyTPR1'  ow..
0  330.0    P*31'.?39 UIUUlUA                               P  -4-11                                             S   t$- 383.M3  IW3P..Wt 3171061
108u103 351340
301133.                                                                                                                          P   IAGIM 4P1731999T OIL'
0.ls 3 ..d 2o 4w6ld Is   Alla  or 3W  Ugulmw.
0.wtummuIt 1 isINS, 3Wdem1.m. GS.wsAm. 9.1s9 9.9/e fos..k littImtia 1.05399.
Cuaveativs 11douem.l  Data am. smusl la the nol.mintilon .1  -sme uues9um  s70tus  OMl amlygim of v..ttlws 5wago   of u1sr93ema oloelosome  motere wo,mm
wSnttluU. thwr. em the BUse of 19. grein"u dm9. *tsu-mt9Im1 .sm4aumt eBtuli or aWfumebw a9019 are" esutI. Noto p.susb.d  les 9... 1mso akI. %mov
burns cogllete leausIp by amal mglmeam from susvm.e s.eqs.ua tL- ?sM*90.r a,. Gtulf .etle.e.Or 41.9 ft.. 604su4. SYfm.tfIowow,... bee 590 .3. mdmofra.
dofstletLes, .9d. 90t193. 1190t.. to  oessma39 ain s, seo .1yo  "a. sole.  waa.et9.lft. 9.19, data we otall Ioweft to s..ta  isujurt. anl 196 lemB le wasele  to
awrow. 1955 eersu.3s3el -an 196 ala.at1eems     fi s o mml.. sue.  to.ago "Mn of 196.. data. t95 f.3m   m.11                     s.o oHtog n at-madh bepno   toIt and
(33  -EAueatturn  as dftrA  In 19. 1.92.ag ing3aft  .II si.wmim  amg tinonh9N  331h formal .90 u.s-aml3.
(2)   Pr39fe education. rtwutu. is  dmctle. at t96 flEet tawul .90 -oeuesuh          ojusetI. rsfsqm t. &13 a0msa.11,ua .1 Iis .e.msrv 1-1e rm59rdlse, of lvi.
(e.g., Sueneal. t.9l.deai. GW=1.ultuvl.
(1)   LlimeyV Manns  C.1.!. 9) OMu sftes  BtAIMI lv.. aiN.1r7  mu           .  1. sAeP 0uuMVI.s na6y. are v Sale  eP.10  3..  Me1 iti d.setwf..  1-thgs our ol.,.
dsfa1l113.. of 'literate  Imm Rouse f.ll39d nos.s1.sust1.
(9 -rouse1 .ee.uitsu  to sle.ai3   (e'W.1.   a MIII vatime.t 1oi3 eupiteR G"0 sn.guwwsa .g..ulhiu.  ie.sS    t. .04gratte  9. ..931e a.' .rIe9
903.11...
M7 '1mes3Is1 r1..C Scale. 7. 3: me 3*3 if.4m to wammo poe MI a it9. anmumIw of e31u19l. .91l91. ..etsa 19 .m 3-flu 351. co 9erm.e1. secloo3*
inbIle M"0 pvl.to by lessi.  1.., mm 60"s1 MISubjc  toa 90dt m sup            of .inv Is1. afd&OmsaaIp  omltmin. MIre to nowIllinem 1. 214 accu.racy of Inor
fAt cl.a.. owgee net 3.0.1, :am .90 ognownto). lAnisAlmu rimer" tvom srl am. Damon, None t9. swmbier stud.ents .rct..1 3 la ecIn6.3 Oea.t-wd
s190.81. wh.e loclopgha le 2disItud by terminab ala mU    m  Inflae.t.  res.,mi.5



-30-
ANNEX 2-6
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENT GOVERNMENT TEACHER SALARIES, FELLOWSHIPS AND SUBSIDIES POLICIES
1.        Teacher *alarles make up practically the entire primary education budget
(98%). While they are modest by international standards (only about US$2,400
equivalent for an "iastituteur adjolnt" In mid-career), they are high (more than
11 times the GNP per capita) in comparison to Burkina's income level. These
relatively high salaries are attributable to: (a) legislation enacted in 1978
promoting the "instituteur-adjoint" category from the level Cl to B2. making this
type of teacher the highest paid civil servant at this level of qualification; and
(b) liberal standards of promotion from the rank of "instituteur adjoint" to
"instituteur," 1/ vhich Increased the percentage of higb-level teachers between
1975 and 1982 from 23Z to 362 of the total teachlng force, without an assured gain
in general qualifications.
2.        In 1982, the total cost of fellowships to students at the secondary and
higher educational levels amounted to 35% of the education budget-an amount
higher than the total budgetary allocation for primary educatlon. Whereas at the
secondary level fellowship awards are linked to the general criteria of age and
need, for higher education (except for a not very stringent age limitation) the
awards do not have any built-in restrictlons, lgnorlig such criteria as economic
need, educational performance, and choice of faculty. This fellowship policy was
appropriate at independence when the country needed to increase the number of
national professional staff; however, It is no longer fittl 1, glven the financial
constraints, the changed socio-economic situation characterized by rising
unemployment of university graduates, and an enrollment profile that favors the
humanities (702 of all domestic enrollments).
3.        The Government provides subsidies only to religiot-, private secondary
schools. In 1982. these amounted to about 32 of the total education sector
budget. The allocations were made on the basis of financinl half the annual
deficit of an Individual religious school.
1/  For level B1, the promotion examination consists of a dissertation on a
pedagogical theme and evaluation of the individual's teaching skills, and If
successfully completed, results in an Increase In the average annual salary
level by about CFAF 110,800 or USS 260.
WAPED
January 1985



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIVNEMENT PRIMAIRE
EDUCATION EXPENDITURE BY SUB-SECTOR AND MAJOR COMPONENTS, 1977-84/
DEPENSES D'ENSEIGNEMENT PAR SOUS-SECTEUR ET COMPOSANTES PRINCIPAUX, 1977-84
(CFAF billion/FCFA milliard)
Ministry and Sector/
Ministare et Secteur                   1977       1978       1979      1980      1981      1982     1983      1984
I. Ministry of National Education/
Ministere de l'Education
nationale
Primary/Primaire                    1.8       2.15       2.3        2.5       2.9      2.9       4.2      4.3'
(Salaries/Salaires)                (1.75)   (2.1)       (2.2)      (2.3)    (2.9)    (2.9)    (4.1)    (4.2)
Secondary/Secondaire                1.0       1.1        1.0        1.5       1.6      2.0       2.8      2.7
(Fellowship/Bourses)               (0.25)   (0.25)      (0.3)      (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.8)    (0.8)    tl.1)
(Subsidies/Subventions)            (0.15)   (0.1)       (n.a.)    (0.2)    (0.25)   (0.3)    (0.3)    (0.2)
Administration and Other/
Administration et autres            0.2       0.4        0.3        0.4       0.4      0.4       0.6      0.6
II. Ministry of Higher Education
and Scientific Research/Minis-
tare de 1'Enseignembnt Superieur
et de la Recherche Scientifigue
University/Universitg               1.5       2.1        2.7        3.15      2.8      3.5       2.7      3.2
(Fellowships/Bourses)              (1.2)    (2.0)       (2.35)    (2.2)    (1.8)    (2.6)    (2.4)    (2.7)
III.Ministry of Agriculture & Live-
stock/MinistOre de l'Agriculture
et de 1'Elevage
Rural Youth Training/F3A            n.a.     n.a.        n.a.       n.a.      n.a.     0.95      1.0      1.1
(Salaries/Salaires)                (n.a.)   (n,a.)      (n.&.)    (n.a.)   (n.a.)   (0.9)    (1.0)    (1.0)
TOTAL/TOTAUX                        447 ZA
WAPED
January 1985



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEKENT DE L'ENSEIGNEHENT PRIMAIRE
UNIT COSTS IN PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION IN SELECTED WEST AFRICAN COUNTRIES/
COUTS UNITAIRES DE L'ENSEIGNEHENT PRIMAIRE ET SECONDAIRE DANS QUELQUES PAYS DE L-AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST
Annual Recurrent Cost per Student/
Dipenses Ricurrentes Annuelles par Ellve
as Z of GNP per capita/
in US Dpllars/en dollars E.U.                en X du PNB per capita
GNP per    Primary          Secondary General       Primary          Secondary General
capita/    Education/       Education/              Education/       Education/
Year/     PNB per    Enseignement    Enseigneuent              Enselgnesent    Enseigaueent
Country/Pays      Annde     capita      Prisaire       GCniral Secondaire        Prisaire         Gin6ral Secondaire
Burkina ^/        1982        210             38                 334                  18                  159
C.A.R.            1981        298             55                 117                  18                   39             1
Guinea            1979        290             54                 203                  18                   70
Mali              1981        180             30                 395                  15                  207
Mauritania        1978        270            142                 797                  52                  295
Senegal           1980        420             67                 ;70                  16                   88
Sierra Leone      1980        270             68                 216                  25 b/                80
Togo              1983        380             28                  82 c/                7                   221c
Source: World Bank missions/Missions Banque Mondiale
a/ Public Schools/Ecoles publiques.
b!/  Estimates/Estimations.
c/' Lover secondary only/Premier cycle secondaraire seulement.
WA.3ED, April 1985



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEHINT DE L'ENSEIGNEHENT PRiXAIRE
EVOLUTION OF THE STRUCTURE OF THE PUBL.IC PRIMARY TEACHING FORCE/
EVOLUTION DE LA STRUCTURE DES ENSEIGNANTS DU PRINAIRE PUBLIC
Instituteurs/Teachers         Instituteurs-adJoint                boniteurs
Number/                       Number/                       Number/
Year/Annie           Noubre             %          Noubre            2           Noubre            2          Total
1975/76              614            23            1,895           71             160             6          2,669
1976/77             687             25            1,895           69             137             5          2,719
1977/78              722            26            1,917           69             139             5          2,778   t
1978/79              845            29            1,952           67             117            4           2,914
1979/80              940            31            2,002           66             91              3          3,033
1980/81             1,232            37           2,031           61             67              2          3,330
1981/82             1,259            36           2,210           63             62              2          3,531
WAPED
January 1985                                                                                                             l



BURK INA
PRIMARY EDIICATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE. DFV.ELOPPEIENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMFST PRIMAIRE
PURLIC PRIVARY TEACHER CATEGORIES AND SALARY SCALES/CATFCORIFS ET GRILLE DES SAT AIRFS DES ENSEIGNANTS Pt' PRI1WAIRE PUBLIC
Hierarchical Levels/                  Tnstituteurs                lnatitutenrs-ad.oint              Instructeurs -/                   Moniteurs
Echelonnement hierarchique                CatIsgorie RI                   Catfgorie B2                  Catfgorie Cl                     Cat6gorie Dl
Gross Salary (CFAF)             Cross Salary (CFAF)             Gross Salary (CFAF)           Gross Salary (CFAF)
Initial Grade/Grade initial    Index   Salaire brut (FCFA)   Index   Salaire brut (FCFA)  Index   Salaire brut (FCIA)  Index  Salaire brut (FCFA)
1st level/le 6chelon           330           703,560            295           628,940          255           543,660           190         405,080
2nd level/2e 8chelon           360           763,520            320           6F2,200          265           564,980           195         15,740
3rd level/3e fchelon           '80           810,160            345           735,540          275           586,300           205          437,060
4th level/4e $cheJon           400           852,800            370           788,840          290           618.280           220          469,040
Intermediate Grade/Grade
Intermid iaire
1st level/le echelon           460           980,720           420            895,440          320           682,240           245         522,340
2nd level/2e echelon           49n         1,044,680            440           938,080          335           714,220           265          564,980
3rd level/3e echelon           510         1,087,320            460           980,720          345           735,540           275          586,300
Terminal Grade/Grade Terminal
1st level/le 6chelon           585         1,247,220            510         1,087,320          385           820,820           305         650,260
2nd level/2e Ochelon           605         1,289,860            535         1,140,620          395           842,140           315          671,580
3rd level/3c echelon           625         1,332,500            555         1,183,260          415           884,780           335         714,220
Exceptional Class/Class
excepti4nnelle              655          1,396,460          585          1,247,220          425           906,100          350          746,200
I/  Proposed new category of teachers/louvelle cat(gorie d'enseignants propos6e.
WAPFD
January 1985



-35-
ANNEX 2-11
Page 1 of 3
BURKrINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMT PROJECT
OUAGADOUGOU SEMINAR: MAIN PRIMARY EDUCATION EXPANSION SCENARIOS DISCUSSED
1.        The main objective of the seminar held in Ouagadougou from October
12 to 14, 1983, was to introduce to the officials of the interested ministries
the problems of financing educational development and, in particular, to
discuss and simulate with the help of a policy model the effect of alternative
policy packages aiming at reallocating resources within the education sector
in favor of primary education expansion.
2.        The major lesson derived from the simulations was that the
unofficial 60Z enrollment target for the year 2000 could be attained, and
indeed surpassed, while realizing simultaneous quality improvements through
an increase of teaching materials. None of the required policy changes would
involve a drastic break with previous policies but rather constitute changes
at the margin which, when combined, would produce the necessary resource
shifts in favor of primary education expansion. On the other hand, a policy
of complete laissez-faire would permit only a minor increase of the primary
enrollment rate (to 27Z by the year 2000).
3.        The most important part of the policy package in support of primary
education expansion would be, in the short run, the introduction of a new type
of primary teacher to be trained in a one-year course, to be placed not higher
than level Cl of the civil service 1/ (initial annual gross salary
CFAF 544,000), instead of the present "instituteurs adjoints" 2/ who start at
CFAF 629,000) and of a promotion policy for all teachers that would entail a
greater degree of discretion than is present practice and would lead to a
gradual reduction in average teacher salaries.
1/  It is expected that the creation of this new category of teachers will
have no adverse effect on the quality of education. Indeed, the teachers
will continue to be recruited at the same academic level (junior
secondary education degree), trained for one year through a more focused
training program and assisted in their tasks in the field througb the
provision of textbooks and teaching materials, regular pedagogical
support, and a gradual decrease of class sizes. In addition, the primary
education expansion would widen the promotion opportunities for current
experienced teachers in urban areas (school directors, pedagogic
counselors), thereby facilitating the mobility of qualified teachers.
2/- The Government eventually decided not to create a new category of
teachers, but instead to decrease to level Cl the entrance point for
newly recruited "instituteurs-adjoints."



-36-
ANNEX 2-11
Page 2 of 3
4.        In the longer run. this measure vould be supplemented by policy
changes aiming at a reduced growth (not an absolute reduction) of expenditures
for secondary and higher education. This slowdown would be brought about
mainly through a curtailing of the total allocation for secondary and higher
education scholarships (introducing criteria such as economic need, academic
performance and manpower requiresents) and the introduction of a tighter
policy for subsidies to private secondary schools.
5.        This more stringent use of resources within the education sector
would be combined with a gradual increase of the sector's share in the
Government budget. Again, the model siulations did not postulate an absolute
reduction of budgetary allocations for other Government activities, but rather
a preferential allocation of incremental resources to the education sector.
6.        The graph on the following page gives in sumary form the results of
four alternative policy packages in terms of primary enrollment rates (7-12
age group), entrance enrollment rates, primary education budget, and primary
education unit costs.
7.        It appears that changes in the curriculum load would offer further
scope for lowering primary education costs. At present, Grades 1 through 6
have uniform loads of 30 periods per veek. A gradual increase in the number
of weekly periods over the six-year cycle would be responsive to obvious
differences in physical and mental development vithin the primary age group
and at the same time would permit teachers to instruct more than one grade.



MORT SNUT1011 O            0 P      lIUOJ O 0 KVlOPPhlT 5  L'S36IC31    DUDI
OUADOO  SEI: RAI IRDIM  EDUCATtOW UIAISow SCfiU06 DISW55SD/
IDIAIu n w 0 In0~uc SVI             I IOS DI !U    S LU'AllE fiDgL LS3IUDE   lDAlUZ
*  S  0O15G:A01 s      10    15     20                        10     1      20      M1                        5
le~~~ .riedl   rir                                              1e-         P -   Ir
-~ ~ _ A f    ***Co of.>~ -lr ef tbo Cewnt b* -
.~~~      A   I       *.~~~~~~.-  ~~~~.-- 
S                                                                               S  de ereIwrjvlwTrrIr  5  .  dubI
rojeetlew witboat1C                 0    103    AS 20              1t  of 10            er   ef 20    1te         3      101          20
himary Iducatia,*  0 0015S       a;t    draseter da uset das/hus   *ie  TeCr Gds   a.1                                  trtimz   si ost
buge j setlew mo  ftuer            Ibv a Crbu         lC)                      U       Su de lrsta   m  a   asTu    erel doe  dua bu4etto   dca  Umietatr a  Kaegrte
IS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~I 'zms d.03  2{ Pl)t                                       '       re ef  ler do ef baoi te    t    ielde
csP64da .liDDucj Fet kesaof rsurse d'iutorvstriaas  WptII
IIS   0 03                            Sea~~~~~~~ur de crelessana  du badges dol fauermstie    e  e
Projctin. wthotCS   *    0.055IA                                           -  Rate of Incrsea  of thle sedutin setry edtlee/
ussuies4' &ateweatias  Nouveux eosoeu.atsTaus de croisseace du budget doe Ioueeoelt tranfrts
51 *    0.03                     (Iivee  oI) o                                      Rat of rincreaqste orivatuel eduatnt  susdis
Aw   *   ipO                       A     *   -00 OOIS                                  Cd s croissant dec     seubventiooe ce l'ssina   rsires
B    B  -0.01              "    "IDS     0.01
CsD   *   0.02                     U0   *  -0.02RD                                      aeo   ceaeorua  otiriinhdg/
RJ   *   O                RS~~~wl  *    0.. 02iular
RUt  *   00                        R WJ  *  !r o                                                           te
A  *   0          A          0.001S                                    oOt mitare dcc fumuQurasecoleirA
Roy teachra (Leve Cl~/    RI tea10r (Leel20)                         CS    *  Clas sis    20ti              1 ssss-Elv20
Nauves uz *   soign,               es lauveuw eTseignants
(Niveu nl                          (Nvsu  I)
31mr *  -0.02n  3kg1    *tiw  0.01                     alw    ts              tmyVn   "rGosmal                           fioui   ot
USudge *    0mmtPvmr                  Tom3 Scu 0eSaaiaLsds                    "tatlaxBa d   etrlte                       otfiat   ni
MD   *   0.02             MD~~~~t  *  -0.02a t ireAgsd   'EO-                                                  ftml
U    -   0    38    *    0.02~~~~~~~~~~~tiir
Policy *   0.541                    001  *  I 0.541tiao
AI*5.4'                        C    *L 54.aeo4ic"oo  teGvrmia   cg
hAlED ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Tu  ecossned   tga  oS-mn
roebruars 1985                                 .3                             A     -tt   fiirueo   h   daio   Co  ogt



- 38-
ANNEX 2-12
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PEDAGOGICAL INSTITUTE OF BURKINA AND SCHOOL EQUIPMENT DIVISION
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
1.   The organizational structures for the development, production and
distribution of teaching materials are already in place. The
Pedagogical Institute of Burkina ("Institut pedagogique du Burkina" -
IPB) is responsible for (a) developing and evaluating programs, methods,
and achievements in primary education; (b) training and upgrading
primary education supervisors; and (c) developing and producing teaching
materials. Its staff presently totals about 145, of vhom 26 are
assigned to the Teaching Materials Production Department. Most of the
IPB staff lack sufficient training and experience in textbook
development, production and evaluation, and printing techniques.
Moreover, the IPB's facilities are inadequate and do not have sufficient
furniture and equipment. The School Equipment Division of the Primary
Education Directorate (with a staff of 12) is responsible for the
procurement, storage and distribution of school furniture, equipment,
textbooks and other teaching materials, including those produced by IPB.
It faces severe physical constraints: a lack of adequate storage
facilities and a lack of funds for importing textbooks and for procuring
equipment and teaching materials for the primary schools. Its staff
needs training In some key areas (procurement, stock management, and
organization of storage).
WAPED
January 1985



-39-
ANNME 2-13
Page 1 of 2
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STATUS OF THE MAIN PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT INSTITUTIONS
AND OF THE PRIMARY SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES
1.        Educational Planning Directorate ("Direction de la planifi-
cation de l'education" - DE). This Directorate's current main
responsibil.ities are to (a) collect, analyze and publish education
statistics, and (b) carry out studies for school mapping and for the
planning of educational development, including its costs. Its present
staff of 16 is inadequate and most are not sufficiently trained and
experienced to tackle the tasks of educational planning, particularly
school mapping, budgeting, and cost monitoring. In addition, the
Directorate lacks basic equipment and office facilities.
2.        Guidance and Fellowshilps Directorate ("Direction de
l'orientation et des bourses" - DOB). This Directorate's main
responsibilities are to (a) provide guidance and follow-up on student
attendance, both in Burkina and abroad; (b) administer the fellowship
program; (c) collect, analyze and publish statistics on higher education
in collaboration with the Educational Planning Directorate of the MEN;
and Cd) carry out planning and cost and financing studies related to
higher education. While the present staff of 38 is adequate, requiring
only minor additions, some areas (e.g., educational and manpower
planning, career information and guidance, and fellowship adminis-
tration) call for an upgrading of staff. In addition, the Directorate
lacks adequate furniture and equipment.
3.        Directorate for Rural Training and Organization ("Direction de
la Formation et de l'Organisation du Monde Rural" - DFOMR). This
Directorate's main responsibilities in operating the FJA Include: (a)
the development, planning and evaluation of the system; (b) the training
of instructors and regional supervisors; and (c) the provision and
distribution of instructional materials. The total FJA staff is 1,106,
of whom 46 are supervisors and only 12 agricultural professionals. The
staff shortcomings are in specific areas of expertise--notably,
agronomy, pedagogy, evaluation, and maintenance-and a lack of
up-to-date knowledge on the part of the instructors and supervisory
staff. In addition, a shortage of funds for supervision, and for
production of institutional materials, as well as insufficient
equipment, reduces the efficiency of the FJA system.
4.        Beyond the immediate needs of the FJA, the future orientation
of Rural Youth Training needs examining. As the expansion of primary
education proceeds, the FJA system's original rationale (the provision
of a less costly alternative to primary education) will be weakened, its
unit costs being more than three times higher than those for primary



-40-                        ANNEX 2-13
Pag  2 of 2
education. To avoid a costly duplication of efforts, a reassess_nst of
the role of the FJA and a dovetailing with primary education has become
inevitable.
5.        Primary school construction.  During the past few years. about
100-150 primary school classrooms have betn built each year In Surkina's
rural areas, most of them with external assistance from bilateral or
non-governmental sources compleamented by village contributions. However
this number of construction was too low to speed up primary education
expansion. Apart from the villages themselves, soveral non-governmental
organizations have been involved In the construction of primary school
classrooms. Except for the subsequent staffing of the new classrooms,
the Government has not been involved In this effort, nor until recently
did it have an appropriate adidnistrative structure to deal with this
aspect of primary educatlon expansion. An additional difficulty was the
lack of teacher housing In rural areas, which frequently delayed the
posting of teachers to newly built schools. The limited and late
involvement of the Government In primary school constructlon hbs led to
(a) uncoordinated growth of facilities reflectiag a regional
distribution of non-governmental organiztions' activities rather than a
nationwide approach to primary school constructlon; and (b) has impeded
the development of low-cost construction and maintenance standards.
However the nev Government co_ittmnt to primary education expansion
encompass the danger of the central government bearing all costs of
construction. To overcome this danger Increase of local lnvolvement
should be sought.
6.        The Education Projects Directorate, created in September 1983
within the MEN, provides the administrative focus for an enlarged and
coordinated school construction effort. In addition to Implementation
of school construction programs and project adtinistration and financial
management, the Directorate's ualn responsibilities are to deflne annual
operational objectives and the timing of project implementation, and to
undertake or coordlate and evaluate implementation activities and make
adjustments where necessary. The Directorate presently has 12 staff.
Its major shortcomings are insufficient expertise In the areas of
financial management and school constructlon, 4*nadequate and poorly
equipped facilities, and lack of an iuplementa.ion structure at the
regional level.
WAPED
January 1985



mini ci mmcci ~,unn. uuui. w_IIA            nn       ,zsuiiniimi
ML. me         I~ t        mi~L'mmi ~                    
c *@nru-,~                                   . .   n
?Uflooa/Punw     nAscciAIa-----------  - -u- -  ._  ,                                                                             -      _
-'fl 'UI'J*ii jI  '13,>b1 J()I1, K  f:P J11i Pl,rtr   'u: Jl t.J:L'I'Ju]u !ULJULbLJL'J 'JLUJU J'uiL-J2'JJrJ   NEJL'JEVXJ'J
--
-ig                                                    ----------------                                   i--iiiiiili-ii-i---------------------    -----ii---
- _________ _________________________        _    _    ____         __   _  _  __   _  _  __   ___                              _
, wn  er cii I  alEn QIQX   -----=---------------------------
-, Igtbg ,ti*Cd ,,. ,      M, mIIIIIII uhuuinmuhuin|uiniumuhuminmhh**EUUEUE*EhUiiiUEiU**iEUEiEiUiiiUEU**i
-   fiisktim aflh.imaLtmAfe &sd                                                                          i i'ii     ii1111iiiii11  UUEiEUUiliiiiiiiiiiiiii j-j
-. DuihwJr,.4ag .... /L     .. , IR a aa     uumummmmmmaummmmguuuuuuuUuuumuuuuu*u-- ____iiiiilliiiiiiiiiiiitiiii 
t;j    _     *        EIEEEEUUEUEIU!!!EUEEEUEU E   u***uuu* wuumwmm.uuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
d| -Nasew  dllszIr (NathaIeimsg-)         *                   -.----LL-L----LLL-L--L- ------------                      --------------------- -  
Adep.ti  for Grae )IDJatate por~            JiIII..         .  LI~E.    --m.imu                                                                         u
IIl I I I I I 111111      *     ----------
----- w - ------* U----                                        .- ..- ------------
-----------_                                        IIIII======= 11I1I===:iII
---   -----------------------      ---------------i                                1h3fl E1fl flfl



nnsuT  tavvuTIOl        MrmwM W/non   w9 DEMAM                    OnTt D L@"SltCX801 nuxa
SCIRU   O  TEIS 1      t It O, OMElM1, PXXNOW                      AM lt D0ISMURTal (C=tlD}{
CAumpi    wAmn tUta    Dl W.m            mm    D'Act    w  ot oDsmwri                m  mss A J (w            )
TLn      SIXV/L=S SCOIAIUS __M   Slm  uXn  
_  Develolmnt for Grad  II/O"Iolpmwat p-r Ct}ll                           IIII Wlll1 . 1                                          n I      IlIII                                                   lI[     
- I{riawticalimtresbton (Ctl                                              rr:m I:I                      n.mI                                                     1. z                        lllL  
.-g__ _  ::lop l fo  :fd  2j #vlGpVwllj    r  : nrlTlm..Z .11-iF
Dlsrtibutioe/DlstriWtion (CR2)_                                     _              _.              ._       I        m     r        .          II       LT.
_ tristi ress~~~~~~ie{tI  i ;X           l
_._. Ui . 1 . ; TTTT;Ll Lrrr 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ : : I 1: : : I I Z I 111 1 T 1 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



DURIINA
FRINAUY FDUCATION DEVELOPHINT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPD4ENW  DE L'INSEICGNEIMT P3tDAIUE
TEXTSOOK PRODUCTION AND YROCUUDEHNT TARGSTS/ODU CTIFS D'ACHAT CT DE PRODUCTION DE KAJUlS SCOIATIES
Imuber of Textbooks/lo.bre de Manuels scolaires
A. Textbook Procuren nt/Achat de Manuels                    1985/86          1986/87           1987/88           1988/89            1989/90             Total
Grade I/CP1 (French/Franuals)                     41,300                                                                                     41,300
Crede 2/CP2 (French/Francois)                     62,100                                                                                     62,100
Grade 3/CCI (Vrr=ueblrFncsis)                                       37,900                                                                   37,900
Grade A/CU2 (French/Franeate)                                       31,000                                                 27,600            58,600
Grede 5/C4I (French/Francois)                                                          25,600                                                25,600
Crade 6/042 (French/Francais)                                                          34,100                                                34,100
Subtotal/Sous-total                         103,400            68,900            59,700                               27,600           259,600
*.  Textbook Adaptation/Adaptation 4d  Nanuels
Grade 3/CI (Nathematics)                                          35,800                                                 45,700            81,500
(Science.)                                           35,800                                                 45,700            61,500
Grade 4/C12 (Matheatics)                                                            33,000                                                 33,000
(Sciences)                                                             33,000                                                 33.000
Grade 5/04I (Hathemwtice)                                                                              27,100                              27,100
(secences)                                                                               27,100                               27,100
Grade 6/042 (Matheotices)                                                                              36,200                              36,200
(Sciences)                                                                               36,200                               36,186
Subtotal/Sous-total (Mathematics)                     ...             35,800             33,000            63,300            45,700           177,600
(Sciences)                                       35,800            33,000            63,300            45,700            177,600
C. Textbook Develoamnt/D*veloppement de Manuele
Grade I/CPI (French/Francais)                                                         57,900                                                 57,900
Credo 2/CP2 (French/Francals)                                                                            51,000                              51,000
Crsde 3/CFI (Irench/Francais)                                                                                              45.700            45,700
Subtotal/soue-totel                            ..                                57,900            51,000            45,700            154,600
TOTAL                                                                                      177L0
VAPED                                                                                                                                                           15
January 1985
^1%



IOUINA
PIINMY 1DUCATION DIvmOPHT FOJZCT/PUOJZT Dg DEL01PDTCm     Dt L'uS                 IIUT  nDIAals
TIACHING GUIDE PRODUCTION AID ?UOCOUDIT TAICITS/OMICTIFS D'ACHAT IT PRODUCTION DC GUIDES DI MAITRE
NIuer of Teachina GuldWh/o.bre de Guides du Hattie
A. Guide tPocureuetlAchat de CuGdee                        1965/86           1986/87            1987/U            198/89            1989/90             Total
Crade I/Ctl (Freoub/Francaia)                     1,700                                                                                        1,700
Grade 2/CF2 (frmncb/froncars)                     1,600                                                                                        1,600
Crade 3/C1t (Fr.ocb/?raocals)                                        1,400                                                                     1.400
Crade 4/Cl? (Iruoc1./1;..^aie)                                       1,400                                                                     1,400
Grade 5/Ca1 (Fre,ch/Franga;l)                                                          1,100                                                   1,100
Grade 6/C02 (French/Frangaie)                                                          1.300                                                   1,300
Sub-total/Soue-total                          3,300             2.800              2,400                                                   6,S00
2. Guide Developut/D&.1opoc_ont de Guidee
(for adapted textbookslpour  anulo adaptec)
Crcdo 3/Cu1 (Natbr.tics)                                           1,600                                                                     1,600
(Science.)                                           1,600                                                                      1,600
Grads 4/C92 (Nstbeutic.)                                                             1,500                                                   I,S00
(sciences)                                                              !,500                                                   1.500
Grade S/Oil (NatbenaticS)                                                                              1,200                                 1,200
(Sciences)                                                                                1,200                                 1,200
Grade 6/OI; (Nathbe.:ic)                                                                               1.,00                                 I,500
(Science.)                                                                                1,500                                 1,500
Subtotal/Soue-total (Nathemtcs)                        .               1,600             1,500             2,700                                 5,B00
(sciences)                      ...              1,600             1,50               2,700                                5,800
C.  Guide Develo,eet/Divlo.,unrt do Cuides
(for oewly developed texttoobspour
nouveau unuele dOveloppi.)
Grade I/Cul (Frencb/FVan;a1s)                                                          2,300                                                   2,300
Grade 2/C?? (Froheb/Frnecats)                                                                            2,000                                 2,000
Grade 3/CCI (Frencb/Vrnecaia)                                                                                               1,700              1.700
Subtotal/Sous-total                           ...                ...*            2,300                                1,700              *.000
TOTAL                                                                                      17I ..Q                                .11Qa
Jauary 1985                                                                                                                            .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9



nlaXH  nCaldm DommLONIT PioJECasczU D6 DosILOPPEH  DE L'INS1CXNIS, n1=x4
UMOT 01 1FLfLOVS/?ABLRAD SOMIU DNS BOMBS DIS PEJICZOUT
11u            Total                    hotat Qmlitictlm        statte
Alroe/         Ihatba/  TStal CosU/ of Trainees/                Daut/
Feojest Duuiptiaa/                              yield of Stdy,         3Aor/ ISI_ tt            Total      colts tota  qQsllftcettc. de          Dote di SU    _     of bopat btlitSoa/
it  tdo Violet                                  tlot ilituio          eStb     A l'dtrauz        Is-ko    (008)3)  baa do. bormstoew             d4mn        DevhttM        nauaOIAbil1tdh
L    ^tLc. of felmey Sinstioa  gait Ono/
Ud..ti dos ctta mtairos deaods Lvmsj
Usteeturtaq of yrtmyy tomober            Cmral teoesbs mthodhleu/    4              A              40       U1,O0    Adumoe dos  to educ-   10I65            TS_bor traian  staft (MI)/
tvo1uiAfsttucturtioc   de i              lbtodologto de l'    _aoigont                                               teo. and epruteue in                   Vorbml eauotont de I'm
fontatiin dos, mitres de pvtmalr                                                                                      Wgbnnok             selmoucs
de l'ddWsteom at eqirteue
de I'as"4oit
lnlustIc. am abeegattea          I        A              10         22,000   Adred nalg        Ik educ-   10/65    Teecher training scoff (UM)/
toebiqu/lkhbcbqueo dd,o-                                                    tie. en   aertowto                     Frooml  betiwot deo I'
tuatlon St 4'b4peuryttoin                                                  tc4schfnllt e m u4tma
de lldwtton St  rOLM
do I'dfett_  t sqfec
de 1'ouotpemmt
Ltbrortan/bcsinmetalistt         1        A               0         14.000   eaoebarfrutitutow           10/65       M stff/hroaml li
Sktol   tam/matlAhAls-           2        A               2         20,000  Director ad Dquty            wilgs     Director  i kFto  DtyOtor
tratic  de 1'4a0_Dommt                                                      Dinretor for  twde.l/                  of    /Htrectaw et Dhrettar-
Ditretzr et Diutear-                  Adjoitt de I'M
Mdjidt dol ituisa
Twtboo&  dolapmmt/                      Uhttin  Dtrecter/Dirctour de    1           a               S        14,000    vaced dg te in  eue-   10/65          Stff of the luatituto of
3t.orattc. de mm_le                      l'ditia.                                                                    tto and   erteoco of                    Uefom ad fedgoisal ActLoo/
edittng/Studes On aeeieo             fhr oael do 1'IgActttt do TUOVIn
de 1'duacont at upd-                  et d'ntio  pddee  .(q_
etce de ldd4.4on
fdttdLs  ttte                    2        A              10         44,000  Adancod ,tgte In tdo           / 10/IS  Stu   of the tntituto of
tict  nd   p    crarme el              atom and hftd tan l Uttos,
edittng/Icuioan uct                   Fototeh l de Il'natitet de rifom
de l'6ddesto. at asp-                 at dlactic. pddgsgiq
rimec de l'tditico
Lay out ArttatAqtist.            I        A               4         10,100  OrwSbt mnabip studieos      01/Id      Staff of tho Ilstttut. of
nd proctical ozprtieca/       bbfos  al felagical Actteo/
Etudes dc datto at sql-                 orecuol de 'lustitut de r fo m
ionce protiqw                         et d'agtite  pdda4o0
o I



DUNUm
PAlA! EDUCATIOt DYOPIHlXMrI PIOJECT/PROJIT DE DlKVLPPMfiT Dl L'MISRICItU     PRIlIU
SUIEAY  0  1RLL0IMUIP8/TABLEAU SOWISUR DES KESS  DE PIUrCTIOINEIT
(continued/suito)
latal           Total                    fete  Qualificattion      startles
Abroad/          _NthI/  total Ccte/ of ftat^a/                    Datof
r,oct Dmeeiti.ft                                  tisld of stogy/         _mborl LoaolinSt bo l               Cate totin  Q.allfisatiisn  d          Date f 4.       U  ot bsqoolblitItss/
andate de klet                         t              t                   alitul  br.   A l'dtTeaauv    Ibte-_m.  (USUSM)    bass dUa     lavet    _ darmn        DeLmttm  dos ru,t_ aulIltde
Textbooks deelopeut/                       C ic   I .t           t           1         &              10         22,0m0   k tatiip o e                 1*0/SI     stagf of the hatituto of
lushorattom de amsels                                                                                                     na  girtc dallp saer-                   Rehm and Pedaageal Att/
ee/ltus de dosaoa at                  ersunel de  'Ilatittt de rEf.f
zpitms  pratiqo  de                     et daseim e ddqgtq
pahimm  d'Uitiao
3ao&hLsdeUrJ_r~                   1         A               I          7,600   Prastical exariee of         01/3       Iuff of t  t lutitote Of
bacik.epiaaj14rt       _      e      e      1111 Wl 1d1gieAl AtteM/
pratle_r den.?t fqaap          l'Pamsl d 1'letitut d  r1fem
0t 4.Gtio pddgqiqr
VIeai&p-far/Qa-<f d'atolter   1             A              L2         25,300  berlma  of priatta            10/5,    stalf of the Institute of
uoitahago/kpdwia                       Sof11 _t h_eda cal Atteal
*as  1t'ateaoi                          tournmenl d l'!atitut de rifeave
*t d'etioo Pddgp&tqfe
mating tte/OicLtjftedtizte    I             A               2          7,00 CO?sctci  of 11 pzrXt-   01/54            ltuff of te lmtitue  of
/!.Stetzem  de lour                   p.fru cl Pdsmical 4*t11/
primita DU                              Pareomal de l'lntitU  Ue rudfer
et d'eettoe pudqcgtque
Printing tochnileailthama-        1         A               2          7,t00   S dueit.l of  W1  grist-   011/S t       taff of thu ta tLtet. of
-                                                          ebog/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a M4teAicfoo de I'b-  1staomad. mlooVadglal Aetlc./
pwriine  MP                             Peronnel do I't?strtht Ue rhfoT.
at d'acttoa pi4asoliqu
!aatboo&  pdetlee*/koeduetioe 2             A              20         44,000   Ad ceutnd dSe in adUA-   IA/SI          luff af the Iatitote of
ttbac ml cportia       of     t         ifer &nd loodagogle1 Action/
tn.thoob pode..tiw                      hTaremo  do lIlntit,t de dfOe
Ditl'  - ecta... do                     et i*eattic  ,ddcqe"o
I'docatlee  et oqiriin
do la I cioctiae do
_1e
fteleetlAceelatleo                1         A              10         22,0C0   Ad  eeed dp'  La sda-    I0/SS          Staff Of the lhtiguto of
tt. mpod  huouloda                     lofom mld Ptdag l Action/
of SUttsis.t/em pl'  -                  leuucinal de  'lotit t d rif.to.
cctabn. de l'dwaatLa.                  at d'aotioo pdd4 plque                                 w
et asmikem "a  sto     - ou.
tiutiqm                                                                                     to
feeatba    r prcuremnt ml                  Wro    o         It/Cet           1          A               S        1,000 lod baste tesbokl edo-   0/lI              Scool Iptpoest t311.1m
dletftbuttoo/Atat at di*e                  eotr de stocken                                                                satin  ml eaat*utlta                    staf/lp"ocmml de 1 Ditueito
tu*stato    oe _mels                                                                                                      eqrtin _l  ferattm                      do 1*qnipit
tImui    at        t d do
ll'ati tntim



PRIKART EDUCATION DEVILORIMT PWIOICT/fROJIT DE DhY3LP1M3  DO  L'IShICIT  PIm&xIZ
smwmv oir umLSipS/TABLBA                   RD SQU&3 DU 30R31 DE PnICT!ON12T
(Continued4suite)
Latal        2!tal                     Basic  mllfateit s ne    starens
hbrr.l /           mtI*I  Total Costs/ of Trsltem/             Dto/
project Doaeriptia.l y/eld of 3tut/                                   3iar/ Leel_nmt         Total       Coats tot.   q.lIfteatios  4        Date 4a    _ar     of l.spolbilttlea/
1icnlts to Prolet                              3.12t dedhi            Haisr   A l'dtiriar    mlie4eon   (UXS/Wf) 4em des boanier.            dmna    Doer etetnfi.n des nawtlitf
2   lutitutioual Dkveleo,ot/Ddyalogog -nn  teutitu. Il
R*AttiaOa& 91mut4/PUAt-                 SUdztitaal  1intnghhat-          I         A             2N        #,000  Dhe In ee_o of ads-   10155            Uwatten l nPIrina H -
ffcat I de lddwutiam                    fiCatimO   4 1'dd4nAt                                                      uutet1/tIas eqirwotm                 tout. *t ff/j_o..l de to
m doo_Somia  1 IseatLos              Dtrectim de Is PImifutim
hducational _uaoat/lOr-         3         A             10        G6,000  Dip. In hfdor aWoe-         10/55     Ueattenmal fIoIag Dine-
nleatim at adklaLatratios                                                 time/Dfpl_ *ts.l1-                    torut utaff/P* erUnol 4. Is
ont spulear                          Dlreetlono  1 t PlasifatttL
k.ogvae&yjDbqrqbla              1         A              tO       22,000  Dkgie in bi*er .ied.-       10/i      hdataial Mlalas DSire-
tton a  goad baiti                   torat  taff/Penrwoil de la
binlidp of "tt_ties/                 Diestio  d ld I. Pmanifiesti
DiPI&  4. I lwmgmt
s41w at, h|E
ftl;4t%    st.%wa   t-
uafi,ino des uatbdati-
Scbool aqylag/CirUt. eleire    2          A              6        14,000  Dsp. ton bLoru edit-        101/5     Uloatitma I Slag StKre-
ti  am  ood kii                       outents stff/Paornl do Is
t.oled   of vatanitical              Dtiutine ds Ua tlzanftcat2
Dtplf  de 1mtmlist
.qoirU at bosem am-
sate,o d. mtM_mtt-
r4wational stattitics/          2         A              12       28,00   Offtian with repom-         10/55     Uaeteim  nLaam    Di-
statiitl'ive dI lidusatoi                                                  bilitia  n tdwatioal                 teots dtff/l_1 4 U
aUtiattestitte4t-                    Diruetfl  de la 1. Plifatfm
nsag deoinivlif des .ta-
_tnarn for prnasfiai le/        3         *              3        301000 AO steiitnateoni m  age-     O"/U      Uu.esotal Pltii  Dr e-
"Snatm  pgr profeastofm-                                                  etleiste of tLh dine-                 toute atmf/flural de la
nAle                                                                      trmtU/JMiewtritoom                    Dirstietm d  la Pndfifeatitm
St q4etalatoo des Is
diritia.
Udatioa l statisties/          (40)       L                        390      stmal iupetor l           01/U6     Eduatioal PIn-og Dire- 
stt itt:Ip  de  'duI a tlee                                                  gets   r       tdgia               tant. staif/Fonrol de U
DrMtton de la " Mlfiutioc
Soal    iung/cart. eolair    (40)         L                        I t,W   aggiml ipa.e"o/            01/7       dUattioml IIil        Dir.e-
lapieCtn rditiema                    touet. taff/mior_l de Is
trctim de la Flaficfatiom



PRIKUT IEDUCATIOII D6V6LOIUS; PIJC/PIJT BE DE8MYLOIPUNT DE L'USl!ICNZ3                          nfnAU
SMIIT oF iSMSU            /UBTABALUV I0WAI  DIS IoOUIs DE IfIZC!IOlUU
-              ~~~~(coutlauedleultt)
14oal         total                   lUsic Qmltfcnttun       startig
Abroad/       P1inpeal/ Tol Coste/ of .Eess9/                 keel
Projfit Dkeeritfo/                             Field of Etui/        3Aor/  Wtalnt           Total     CeUta tet    qunltttnttoaa de   hoa  do            ary of bsnttilttLn./
112te 0 irolt                                  &Wet d'dtie           FgArs  A 1*'twinmr   thtn-le   (_I/*)  ban. 11nS tarnhafo              idmrra.e   kR1atilee des puinnniltde
Iooganst of iSvI                       diductial pl7a1 l"NIza          2         A              al       4,000  Dupe tn oa_h  of .1.-  09/U5           Gtdec ed  tIllwhtpe Dhme-
dAtattoaGtesutt  de                     ohftcnt1o dei 'dwntlao                                                    entloo/Itudn aqdrirora                toyrter staff/Pue l de I
I'tuai_mat Mdrhmr                                                                                                 Go dtomie di 1'4dwati                 DiOtho. de 1'Outant to. at
4n Su.a
Cars" ptdeace/IatafuatiAs       I         A             10        12,000  A    ed does te e i en.   09/Si      a     tdews   ee nleIbip  ir-
at oestattes miteltnhmu                                                   tor with uqoztrlem  of               torou  staifftnlt de In
th edeotin qst_ oGr-                 Direett. de' 0ttentatto et
.EzntIin/Ein aa  aelmc               des kwns
de l'ddtatu_m ms ed-
wItene due I'ovetoettm
di qostb  de lMofttoa
i_er plSni/PlMsifiea-           I         A             S2        28,00   Due  en _o       d  of edn- 01/*7      oldeses m       l Fell e  Dim-
tt, do Ir Mtn d'oesn"                                                     ton/Itudat mftmWe em                 tout s tsff/Fm1l de In
dofa do 1'1estim                     Dtrmatt  de I'OreMtttIM et
Udwr odatiin statistice/        2         A              +        Up00   It*tntteCe officre of the  01V66 f      Mia O      V hllinbl  Hm,-
ItAt.titlquee   i l'teip at                                               Diretot tenout_pnan h                 totome euff/Pnl de Is
- stsetitt     do . lairoth_ do I'Odrtatti  et
Dimatfam                             di  1eroes
htltow&te edotaietr ltt         I         A              4        U,100   hetllnme  t rdoutore  01/i            at6sm a nd fltht     . DKrc-
Adaitratim doe boe                                                        of die Dtreoatnou/was-               tonts stnff/eroml de In
"notes de Loolnintro-                Direaettm de .'Orttetm et
tCe de bise de to                    du b      .
Di tfae
$asire  for poeutoe.uls/        S         A              S        50,000  Abemtrotom od reft-  10/2165          Xtdom  NW ieltwis Dine-
iNot  Ire pow pfefseomes                                                  lItu of the Otztorte/                etent *mf           l do IA
t rCLttAT0    e at "l- UeezfMe do *loi' stu                      *t
eialtatoo do In iettem               du  _ouress
ieel yosth ttatng/                      G_esl dte  Eneptosltel/   S               A             10        150,00  2o,olCrl teutL.n/i/ 00/65             Sl 1  pWip    Diutaem
femiles du j-ea                         fmtur as twav   apn cols                                                  fuchalfa  apteate                     etoff/fereaml de I DIYUI.
eptieitme                                                                                                                                               dG l'Upint 
bma  tutuhn  toehr,            (935)      1              -       117,6   Of fie    with tmahteil     10/U      isaii  p4mt Diwtom
edts, aeetateat tedia                                                     ad adenintuti"                       eteff/ uenl do la iWiteM
iltIt foh_tim rISIVI                                                      nue"_itbtUtti  IA  e                 de 1 3 I  p'i t
eeeillu, uscluaes                                                           ettlftersssel qmt
de  tee9 seatdo 
_t_bS      at a-to-
tetiom     a dei



wanmvb as &mm ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Sam
Fo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~m
",.DOM ZMFOM wnrim    swa    -9. PM "OJlw3333SI3g                                    -Ws ._bP U  as-PM
*_omm a"wo  minle   SW"              _oipw                                                              , I  I   -a-d - _
-316 I 9 116VP13            NSp, OjI)6J3S                                      35 fin    -p  -mm11J
3MsmInGP 9 WNMp                     quptsmu                                     Ifwmmm "aain,         at
-nmx WI 69 INIMSNJUWSU           inm    m a3)/3                                       335iS nui~3
^tnm    wmaam "         fa wo E-                                                     .      *
1  aM   ^q    _ 3 /T   -_J 69 a181J1
--MM o1 MP T-.1 op   _I)t #o o-P
_zm 99 GP tomen   -an RA3upq_   PM                                                    ornow 39 o   o po                    Po 00 ensue
-SNWI6 iinUinj/5UI        .S"E w  =81oMMI V  "  pmmwm -wn.  "gm                     Upb 33US3333                      S UPi 69 U1M
2U33 334 US)~     In"l  WJ3W     W m1   so MOO N'R   Si"        I       I JPp  n1u311                             /Uq3I
pm muzapm   nuam    a*pMjmqN63 in"I             Tom   -m,Vl69mP3j 3m                                                9i~
/inI~inbge~59 3~69)3WJf1~S 333                         W~    3Uw   P             /~  ~9138             ~S13inISUO.
-~~~~~~S                       113u 33 13in0 1US1 /"U           I3
_    n4-_X_    gVtO ms    S33_90l3                     *          *       T13363
wn"_  __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_ _Tw~~S3~~SUp~
iql ~   ~    ~    OZD U   me _pno -.T         uu _lvauziwr   o wi
w ~~~~uuu T3'  36 3iaum  36lPt  _iqilotu  -iw* a~ U0UY                                  @1 *E.U IU



P AlRMAY  DUCATION DEMLOY     T  ltO.PulTcr/IOwJ    3S DZoYv   PSOT DS L'SUSSIZET  nUAR
UUNT  01 SPICIALIST S1TICUS/TABLAU  S&Alln  DU  JUVICIS DE SPICIALZSTU
ant
1sr of       Local         1.tl        catimstm/  itauti
1,atlists   bredl         Vial*/   lattottlo   Data/
Preiset C_aWeuts(                                   titls/                 N"m de    lacalmmat    lata             die aians   Data de      auy Job keuuit  /
glsamegi do h.eit                                   flta                    Adistallatm   A l'sammt bta-hom _ nolSW    oTi                  kcttm summ    dit tia11O
k. t1   of trly 1datlm galIt Catu/
Imidttm du asito wittatm  dMa llssidnat 1i' agtt
rmztbu& bul1m2t,                                   t Iditig  _Sualit/           I                       U       Z.fh           li/JS    eutbsatl a   to  e iI4zmbe of te"-
hwwit dad                   bt -  Mhtisa _so1mal                                                                                         sal tustw* Afaifa*iml h1l_w d of
Datrtkttau/                                                                                                                              t* at,  ittul IIf=if do sow
at I      tim, mAt at                                                                                                                    Gafes/ Cit _a    a It41       ttim d
distrttbim "a  _ti                                                                                                                       sIkUftat tedt ta1       do   wswet. -
telmime                                                                                                                                 iW, toqe   du m i at             u loe
sditMatl ido posajeas di ale.
Tett_eb hediatim 1malSaI                         A           12      In,=@          li eitat                     I to  t_r * I
rt  _ w      tt_e dw ves                                                                    Fistlad ,sdis lnmt, eftl  a
rpiatia  spoid.ftoame of  -mmta
Itmalag atais gssmaim bagtrimm a
to mi  - _U1     I,dtd d'dtilt m et de
pseatim dlabseatfm di. sw6uUiawas
t   _uqm   4'fquuwie   et a t Ptdift-
MAIS at tmail #A gm.ii
rddtiertim mwaimo.
cmOltmt cmt fIgA  a7i9       t     a             A            7       70,OO         hiS       ost-ttsgp _IMt=t fdM Ot Fqt_C
tm mt _ alsutm  dat1/                                                                       at taate*        tiim eq2_ ft
mltmt V l't Ile"  dM                                                                       miet  d_matr _  1w uaa
emits td'agtmthi. as _1tm                                                                    tamiMt a own tcome PM t            -
et Is min -0 pint 4w                                                                        ratim da dntuite v   " d*o'fta
agacdM d'dtilintlee.                                                                         pw lIamt dio enite d's5meim doe
male et 1tae*tttlm.
CowtEti U        *et *b Ga         2                         1.5      23,U00        tom    nn-co  mintl ue tw ura   VtW
- _        t   ad t-tte  of                                                               mm       d erzatim of _ t    _
dtatrt1at^tm/tap ow                                                                          tint tEma gw tI pigat_m  du
laa et la sudki et Is                                                                       immits d'tql doftuso pow ledat
di t tllttm *s male.                                                                        do mame *t  l'wimtt1m do at_sgs
sof wimul at de Is ditmtil.*im.
2.  ruubiaiksni tll_        lyliint f mst ttgu la
EBe_tiii Fl in    /                         OsamiatM  tst fa hel t   t i.       7             A           U       uo,eoo         10/Si     eat-tam amIltaU ibr sadetl w"tf,.
gimuusatto. 4d1wa:tUm.                      sUttstis. me se   l _ ietig",                                                                  _ tial statistiso.    tun itng  d
nalaw  meting me prepnoame                                                                  Ufupinieg. giiei*o etlnasisa of Wi               i
goetm is Wiedttw SW                                                                          qr edetn ml stafr at th srp1mntte.
menum/Osatu Een pew le                                                                       OA  euv t of as Enmazaty of Ubsoadm/
eantS alSmt", lI" eumtheu4eso                                                               Cosellwati A gout team  gin Im "v"e
ectlihiru, I" atst et flewsammto                                                              "I"oli, Ia" autiati -P   doi dt'dbautm
o Igrointm  at lee ie de to                                                                 Is gwmmtow at RWatme. du asia
rileiw  it Il'rpisthiait la                                                                 dI  dtom  at llr'timstlei do titat ti
pitist.                                                                                     de lMdsagtin.



nfiRA  IDUCATION DEVILOIW       T IZW/CT/       SJI  W  DRZLOPFDWK DE L'USEIGUEIT  nIAz
IMULY Of SPECILI! ST .WXcIS4TABSLEA  IGEAKh  DE0   UUYICIS DS SVlCIALISIS
(coatlnudiul{ta)
ew   f    taeil         Iota!        bet_tmt/  Stardia
vft.jtt C_omaata/                                    Title/                  Ipoop         Ilemest   Total           4W C      t te de        S m x Jib kat4 W/
t1_. go palat.                                        ntm                    bdelahtaa    tAdtimi,  kbl!-!Me  (6/w               MEMO         Dueia:ta  somme dun taibia
Uf2 s  wntm atesoaaust/                       oamltata hi imrovmet oilf the    A               A           tO      1,0o0           1/       S ert-ta  emiatt  hr ib   oiaetin
afnti" de 1'ab.paat                           meteuto Nd hi*_ _oetta                                                                        o the puma. me fellovA4 Utin..tuat
rspdriar.                                   htllemabpS os_st ompufetta                                                                      ad htl15.  as t mi milpel. of out
of hllwt  p ailso, d1o_mmt of                                                                 ad fI Snao% f atom a4atwafm_ml-
tIltaI d  attintb      ertwtis, teo                                                           tate & eown-tan pw  1'inUsUm  de
ad flsa-hg al"hi of  tgdhe rdo-                                                               ls dinatfa do u 'atot  at do
ea /eaaltit. VWi l'adutmn-                                                                    baw".a do  t^  de suk ats 4W ba
tun do l'.tumatai  eat to &ata                                                                at pow I'1ty dW *m at fimmt
do s ltmstim et do bgua de                                                                    de l'm.ipmtm  dIu W.
I'amit_wi        svrtar, Poipul-
natti  dW Ila,, "a bamfente,
It di,glqppin    do edUrsa d'att,t-
bowm du   rmes et l'dt    *u.
*Ota et do ftt tm    d I'do a-
_m           _ t I -am
ou rt .qht_ *                                                                                                                                      a  s,wOhX _ * _ U * 
CouultaU  for a a-porn mdaid        4             A           1       250.00          0l/116   Nqmi mado astu dy meiibanim of
.tad ml dm1t     of. aput-                                                                    a a.oadozo ad WOW s.tfgm  doulep-
Piimq a atta t_togty/                                                                         mm stilntoJI  4as beodo a m
ontsulta  "W  l'4ad.t lea beaa                                                                dlea.m at td_ltppin  d4_ atm-
do mab-d'oaw. at la dit,_Maint                                                                t      et.  1_r ocatim a   .otinmte
Vs   ntttdo 1'ohett                               '                                           otqa .
hni TatI Tntiaiu/         i                  consultanos te    pttia ad          3             As ttl               to/t4    lt-t4n, e                     tMt  LW eWAtIn
Totuttoa dss jatas                           mo ia_nat, developqt of tt.cbtm                                                                ad  _nust of the hil Yook Dtroc-
ptaltaro                                     "t.itata ad eveluatts/cAul-                                                                   tonts ad    mitheuim to tts dulop-
tat. p   1'wiar tiutm  at                                  *st  tef blag maa    ad walntlm/
pasta,o enucuptm deoW aqota                                                                   camautest a gmn-et'. P           ew
pddaeos   et fiuatia.                                                                         aatim a' llmh_iutio  do la patia
do Is t~tmidu J_m j     sautin .
1l agtitbgttei & 10dt4bortta. do ai-
pas #_pdlqo          at ptw I'dlt_tt.
Projait 14q_mt/ I                             q rtil alratmat/Cesttcmta         I             A           46      4U0,0OD         07/65  0 mal omtat of thU puoj et/Ostti
uSie. dt  po iet.                                                                                                                           imala do Wojat.             
Anhitet/Azebitrta                                 A           Al   UDODD              07/64  Wptuta of  InUtutoal 4.11   mt
puot eati" at du eatlwtiou.
Cao.eltata for moiittbgjItossltmnts               A            -      15001061S   Aait:is of nou psojat. axmmi/wdLtfisa-
Jmtz1r1f6tit de5tt. t5e                                                                            dee e"tes d pre!t
W&M
Jymm ULZ



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'lESEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
TEACHERS EMPLOYED IN PROJECT SCHOOLS La BY CATEGORY AND SALARIES/
ENSEIGNANTS EHPLOYES DANS LES ECOLES DU PROJET La PAR CATEGORIE ET SALAIRES
Teachers/ b/         Salaries/        Teachers/ h/        Salaries/       Teachers/ b/        Salaries/
Enselgnants          Salaires         Enseignants         Salaires        Enseignants         Salaires
FY                 B2            (CFAF '000)             C1            (CFAF '000)       B2 & Cl           (CFAF '000)
86                10               6,289.4               --                --                10             6,289.4
87                40              25,157.6               10             5,436.6              50            30,594.2
88                70              44,558.8               50            27,183.0             120            71,741.8
89               100              65,026.0              110            60,015.8             210           125,041.8
90               130              86,026.2              170            93,488.2             300           179,514.4
91                160            108,092.4              230           127,600.2             390           235,692.6
Totals/
Totaux             i 2            M7jLO                                                                   j4 22    37A   287
a/ Schools In Primary School Construction Program only/Ecoles du progrume de construction des
icoles primaires seulement.
b/ Teacher-year/Annees d'enselgnants.
January 1985



-53-
ANNEX 3-6
page I of 2
BUREThA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR THE PILOT SCHOOL BUILDING PROGRAM
In order to develop an adequate construction system, the
Government would experiment with various standards/ways of financing and
organizing rural schools through the contruction of 30 classrooms and
related facilities. The chart which follows provides information on the
experimental program and indicates three alternatives at eleven different
levels, such as financing, payment, decision making, architectural design,
type of contracts, procurement, supervising, surveying, techniques,
construction materials and maintenance program. The alternatives suggested
to the Government can be suizarized as follovs:
(a) Alternative 1: Direct payments from Bank to general contractors;
building decilsion taken by Government according to a school map;
PIU provides plan, supervision and survey; semi-industrial
techniques using concrete and metal sheets.
(b)  Alternative 2:  Payments from Special Account to small
contractors, craftsmen, construction material suppliers and
transporters; building declsion taken by Government according to
a school map; PIU provides plans, supervision and surveys through
technical regional cells; semi-industrial techniques using
concrete and metal sheets or improved local techniques using
local material and intensive labor.
(c) Alternative 3: Matching funds to regional authorities who are
motivated enough to make the decision to build with local
contributions; local authorities hiring craftsmen and buying
construction materials; PIU provides plans or random technical
assistance through technical regional cells; local technique
using local material and Intensive labor.



-54-                                             ANNEX 3-6
PagR  2 of 2
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DFVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEWENT DE L' ENSRICNMENT PRIMATRE
ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR THE PILOT SCHOOL BUILDINC PROGRAM/
SOLUTIONS ALTERNATIVES POUR LE PROGRAMME PILOTE De CONSTRUCTION D ECOLES
stag/1   Activity/                     Alternative 1/               Alternative 2/                  Alternattve 3/
Niveau    Activiti                       Solution I                   Solution 2                       Solution 3
1     Financing/                100l   Government 4 Bankl    IOO  Government & Bank/      Users & Matching Funds/
Financement              Couversnemnt 6 Banque        Couvernmenet & Banque         Utilijataurs * subventions
2     Payment/                  Directly Bank/               Special Account/              Local Authorities/
Paiement                 Directemnt Banque            Compta special                Autorit6e locales
3     Decision uaking/          School sop/                  School map/                   Local authorities/
Prime dFc!slon           Carte scolaire               Corte mcolaire                Autorit6a localee
4     Architectural design/   Standard/                      Standard/                     (a) Standard/Standard
Plan architectural       Standard                     Standard                       (b) as local/conow local
5     Type of cpntract/         General contractor/          (a) Small contractors/        (a) Force account., PIU/
Type de contrat          Entreprie. gFnfrale               Petitea entreprimes .gie, Bureau projet
(b) Force Account/            (b) Craftenn/
Rlgie                         Artisans
6     Procurement               ICB/                         (a) LCU/                      NeRotiated contracts/
Procedure murchi         A.O. international                A.O. local               Marchft nIgocifs
(b) Negotiated contractsl
March#s nAgocilfs
7     Supervision/             PIM/                          PIU 4 Regional cells/         (a) Local authorities &
Supervision              Bureau projet                bureau projet & Cellules          Rrglonal cells/
rfglonales                        Aurorit6s locales 4
Cel lul es rfgionales
(b) Local authorities/
Auroritfs locales
8     Surveying/                PIUi/                        PIU 6 Regional cells/         (a) Random visit by
Controle                 Bureau projet                Bureau projet &                    reg,ional cells/
Cellules rfrionales               Visite cellules r6glon.
(b) none/aucun
9     Techniques/               Semi-industrlal/             (a) Seml-industrial/          (a) Local and Improved/
Techniques               semi-Induetriell-s                Sesi-industrielles            Locales et &mliorie.
(b) Local and Improved/       (b) Local/Locales
Locales et .m&liorfes
10     Construction              Concrete. Iron work &        (a) Concrete, iron work &   (a) Clay & metal aheets/
Materials/               metal *heets/                    metal sheets?                  Terre & couverture
Mat6riaux                B*ton. charpente et              BEton, charpente 6             mltallique
construction             couverture uftallique            couverture mntallique   (b) Locel/Locaux
(b) Clay & metal sheets
Terre 6 couvertire
ndtallique
11     Maintenance program/    PIN/                          PIU & Regional cell?/          (a) Tocal authoritles 6
Programe entretien       Bureau projer                Bureau projet &                    regional calls/
Collulee rlgionales               AutoritFs locales &
cellules r gionalee
(b) Local suthorities/
Autorit6s locale-
WAPED
Janus-y 1985



ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 2
X                                           .9
FE2t X
ii  I i111
1/l, -1 1



-56-
ANE  3-7
aq    2 of 2
IUUITNA
PRIMRY TEDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/
PROJET DE DEVELOPPE PM   DE L'ENSEIGNEMFNT PRIIRE
LIST OF STAF FINANCED NY IDA CUEDITL
LISTE DU PERSONNEL ITNANCE PAR CREDIT IDA
Cross Salary/Salaire brat
Unit/Unitd                           Staff/Personnel                   (CFAP'F000/,e&r/CVA 000 *unse)
Project Directorate/      Accountant/Coptable                                          2,400.0
Direction du Projet
Director's SecretarylSecretaire de Direction                 1.660.0
itTypt/ds.yLogr.'mV                                            S6.0
to               Assistant 5.-,smtant/Aidm-comptmble                            705.5
huulding Tecbnician  (6)/Techniciens du bitl nt (6)          1,200.0
to               OrderlylPlanton                                                332.6
Storekeeper/lMagnler                                           403.5
Drivers ()/Chauffeurs (4)                                      403.5
Driver and Nelper (2)1Chauffeur et Aide (2)                    403.5
of               Watchman (2)/Gardien (2)                                       322.3
DFOPR              Acccountant/Co ptable                                       12,00.0
Procurmeent Specialist/Spfciallste des m*rchis               1,680.0
Asaistant Accountant/Aide-co ptable                            705.5
Go               Printer/Typographer                                            705.3
to               Director's Secretary/Secretaire de Direction                 1.680.0
AuPED
January 1985



-57-
AMNU 3-8
Page 1 of 4
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPrENT RPOJECT
PROJECT COST AND FTNANChNG
1.        Physical contingencies of 102 ver. applied for all expenditure
Items except expert services, national staff salaries and recurrent cost.
Allowances for annual price scalations are as follows: for foreign costs,
92 for 1985-87; 7.52 for 1988 and 1989; and 62 for the years thereafter;
for local costs, a unlform rate of 10! per year.
2.        Cost estimtes for office bulldings and warehouses are based on
recently constructed comparable buildings, and estlmates for primary
schools on the ongoing experience of the Second Education Project. For the
chools and teacher staff houses, a m zaxu  use of local resources (village
labor, sand, gravel) was sought. As a result and notwithstanding the
dearth of building mterials in Burkina and the distance from major foreign
suppliers, primry school building cost* vere held at an acceptable level:
uS$100 per classroom place and US$70 per u2 of teacber housing. These
figures are 222 and 20S respectlvely of the median cost in Bank Group
education projects approved during the period FY81-FY83.
3.        Cost estimates for the other expenditures *re bs"ed on recent
experience with the Second Education Project and supple snted by specific
enquiries made to suppliers. The average cost per amonths of
Internationally recruited specialist servlces Is estimted at US$10,000,
wichb Is In line with present UNDP comparator prices. Fellowship cost
estlmtes are basd on Unesco benchbmrk figures, and national staff salary
estimates on the public service pay scales in Burkina.



oi all.
1W1I1!fTI1" KVLLWIFt
- -   ~~~~~mIital
laIwI   WM. NIWAR WMA                            1AF1 P M. TOIN                                 atW1
call ~ ~     ~         ~        ~        ~       ~        l
muuciiazisv   mum    ~uo iW  INUIIOI II'JILOtIis    FNIS. 33!t~m                                       i-
A. 2A44N1W  CO IMII N                                                                   W7IIin
.92.3        .             20.0        -       2,.2            42.4                        -       47.3   h         N.       .7
Cs PUWMIHISI Fin                                 t0         0.3             9.3        -           5.m          0.7                        -       521        3.   0U       4.4
I. flElfm                                      23.0         3.0             2.6       -354.0                    2.0          7.3         2.2        .1.     oP.?  10.0   40.4
1. (MOUNT                                      51.0        14.7            I5.5        -          29.0          5.0          9.4        74.9       12.9    WrI  10.0    2 _J
F. IlU1n     l11.                                                         349.3                      -                          -                              . -  91 , 0.    4 9.2
U. TWIIIcI. UPITs   E                                     11.5l            10.6       *          29i1s.M9        .             4          74.-    46.9   31.7  t0.0    0.9
N. FE1.FIMW                                    41.0        0.               4.         -             -         0.4           -0.)      1           1.       447.3   ".t   440.
t. FBJPllti  1103.7                                          1.0.     4                       -                 2.. 1.4                                      93.0  10.0    9.
fotal 14111611 CMI                               23.7        M92.            465.2   394.7        3,034.3        207.         225.3       359.       31.   604i4.4   0.2  1211 
a. 1M   t                                        .        73.5            11.7   3KI.4 4-J                    1.3          31.1        40.3      Sze.]    2.3    0.0    0.0
. KIIC   IIVAU    W a                            -       Jn 1                                   44.1 -                         -          -          -    442.1   lo.    0.0
C. 01M  Kr"-in  COSTS                          0.3        14.4            74.;                   19.9         73.7         21.3       343.9      200.7     7.1       .     0.0
TeW  rMi    Calls                                 N.)         0.2              9.%   332.4 -943                   79.0         12.4       Met        329.0 - ,1n.9   0.0    0.9
et"  al i5    cuSts                               314.0       742.0           494.4    SIf.        3,933.1        217.         247.7       743.5   1,217.9  315M4.3   6.1  052.
twecl CIltftZmiJ 23.4                                       12.0            39.15     39.5        30e.          14.4           e.? 21.3             20.0 3. .5    9.0    0.0
Prieo Cstiinewies                               47.3       Ives5            V7.    39.9         2,27.9          12.2         C5.,        W.        31M.3   NM73.    5.2  115.4
TSUI PUS.CT CallS                                 364.4       9V.3           423.3   765.5         35132.5        3572         319.9       Met   2,176.  J33in.0   3.7  44.0
--- - -------- -          -aM11a1.a     N s   maim. . ms          Lam maa-m-             - --- .    -- W-3o-r a.                         m .
Fetu  tCwUo                                      9.?       M4              5l.l   71.           2.#            2e1.t        2n3.7       7M.1  b12P.1  7,303.9   6.0  437.0
~~~~~~~._ .. .___ ...... . __.................__.__
r,bl "Mut wgts  *e.l  ".2     l.5    1t2.4           "4.3          n.           .e        r.         b.F   >,>.    .           .v     ~     SI
t^:  1E   X  Zl^|  7^."      "e.^     sn.l         ln.           227.&          *7.7       t4IS    12217   t.sH.X        .1  525.
~~1X@1 illtlz  23.4  52.     n.s    n.s            X1*t          l.e            ^.        tJ.I       22.    B.5    #.0         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A



PRIKiRY EV^ICATTr  PMJELOIT POJECT
PROJECT COST I94IPRY
(CFAM  Hillion)              (Us$ '1001                      I Total
...........   ........- .. *----------.----.--- - - --    Foreign    30se
Local  Forium   Tot.)    Local  Forelsn   Total    Erchmot    rostf
iguau  uul-  .azuaau   *U2Ua   *U:3u2J; Ua :JU  rW2a2u~~  ?. 31--r
A. REUCTION OF PRIWNRY EDUCM1" LWIT COSTS
. .... _.. - ----   -  - --  --------
RESIRUCTURING OF TEACMER TRAINING                          73.9   240.0    314.0    15t'.V    499.8    640.7            76        4
TEXTBOOK DEWLOPNEPN                                       106.0   636,9    742.8    216.3  hX1,6  16515.9               86        9
TEXTiCOK UROOJWENl AED DISTRI31TIDr                        37.1   457.6    494.6       75.7    933.8  1,009,5           93        6
PILO  9CHOOL OUILDINS PRERbM                              360.3   716,0    ',77.1    735.4    442*4  J,177,7            38        7
PRIMY SKMOO  CONSTRIICTION PRoGoAm                      lIJ,1 21,00.0  3931.1  307778  49245.0  9,027.8                 53       46
&Ab-Totsl RIUUCTION OF PRIWRY  WEJCATION UNIT COSTS         2420.4 3,131.   P6059.6   tl9 ?5.    70410.6 1J2366.5          60       71
to INSTITUT tONL DIWlOMIENT
EIUCATIOI.L UI ING                                          78.2   209.4    n7.6    159.6    427.4    587.0             73        3
N6IET  OF HIEM   UUCTION                                   36,7   231,0    747.7       71.0    471.4    16.4            96        3
RUN    OTH TM AINING 1 6EIWhT                              136.6   604.8    741.5    278.8  1,234.4  19513.2            8!        9
PJCT KMAE1EN                                              225.4   "2.5  1,217.9    460,0  ?sO5,5  2,405.5               et       14
Sub-Total INSTITUTI. DIEULOIPENT                              476.9 2s037.   2P514.7    9733  44197 s5137.0                e!       29                                                        U
Total 3ASELINE COSTS                                          2M,90.3 5.669.0  8,524.3  5,9294. 1J1549.3 17,49946            66      100
Pluuical Continirncis                                        161,6   363.8    575.e    329.9    742,5  1,077.4            69        6
Price Contlnipiis                                          1,007.1 1,271.1  20778.2  7,055.3  2,59.'..J  4w649.4          56       27
Total PROECT COSTS                                            4,074.1 79303.9 11,378.0  0,314.4 149(6.0 23,220.4             64      133
0I 
n,. W



PtIK*Y E[ATI eEWELOPIENT MP.CT
rT  ACCOUTS COST S;RY
(CFAF filliun)             (USi '0001                     Z Total
..........   2.Z Foreiin  lase
Local Forui   Total    Local Foitulsn   Total   Enchanr.t    Cr. ts
v3usauz ::a=:u _:Zz--=  :=32                        --- 
t. IIUS1IINT COSTS
Al ITCHIU CUNTRIWTIOMS                177.9  216.8   394.7   363.1   442.4   905.6              55        5
e CIVIL VN                          1067.0 1139.6  2,M0M.  2,177.6  3,74.6  !(,932,2            63      34
C.  OfESSIOIW  FEES                    49.4    14.2    63.6   100.9    29.0    129.9            22        1
to FlUITUfl                           233.2  170.5   403        476.0   3i7.9   6)3.9           42       5
E. EuWIf                                  -  252.7   232,7          -   ?1d.7   51S.7          100        3
F. TUlIKI S                            51.6   60.8    692o3    105.X  1W3O.7  19413.0           93        a
. TECHNICAL ASSISTNICE                    - 1,19.?7  IA89.7         - 29429.0 72420.0          100       14
No FEILOMIPS MM                           -  447.9   447.3          -   913.1   913.1          100        5
1. FU.LUIPS lWUUN1                     37.3   51.8      93.0    76.1   1131.    119,9          60        1
Tatal I1TNEN  COSTS                    1,66.S 4,928.0  644.4  3#291.9  9#813.0 1XI,51.9            75      ?5
11,  CIJNT   COSIS
A. M IIIES                           909.3       -    9.3  1m,S5.6          -  lIm,.i t                 It
3. fMIIIIC NAINTEICE AND REPAIR   239.1   23.0   442.1   46.9    414.4    02.3                 46
C  O am  REODET COSTS                140,5  63910    773.5    26.7  1,30.0  IS511.7            92        9
Totl U NT    COSTm                     1t2M 8.18 .0  2129.9 2.630.3  1,716.3  4460.7               39      25
Total #111i  COSTS                      29M.3 5,669.0 8t574.3  5v99.2 11,549.3 17M4926              66     t00
fYwical Contin nicias                  161.6  363.8   525.5   329.9   742.S  1,072.4             69        I
Prlce CantinImncin                   1M0071 1V271.1  ?2.2 ?2S5.3  7,!W4.1  4d4ff.4               56       27
Total FOSCT CO5'S                       4,074.1 79303.9 1.3?11.0  ,314.4 149"/.0 71',0.4            64     13
VAPriD
April 1985                                                                                                                                                                   a



BURKINA
PRIMARtY CDUCATtON OEWLOZPN PTOJICTJPPDAJT DE DIVILOPPIMNT DI L'ENSEIGNECENT PRIAIEU
IltQUrATlON SaKDUIX/CALENDIER D' EXECUTION
1. REDUCTIONi of PRlZSU   IDUCRTION UltIT CO SSTS       /                         1998     t    1         1i87          |1985                  149           9          -L         129-           1ee
18WCTIOlt DS COUTS UNITAIUS DE L'ZNSIlCRE    _Tt _                    __                                                                                             s            I        U9x           -
A. Ational  Pry Teacher Colltac/Ecole Norml                                            . . .    . . . . . . . -|   . . . . . . .     . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . .                    - - - - -  - -  --- - - - - - 
d1lamainats du trimair    Np)                                                                                    . .                                                         .....- - - -f
-u  I    oll      _     _  _        _a    I I I   I I I II I I II I I I   1111  1   1 1 1 1   1 11  _z    z   _ z     _ _ _ _. _ Hi_l              _ _  I 
-, EquilOnti!Suipment______.     Z                                                    |       |_3                                                                3.  
- Fllovships abroad/Bourses a letranger
- Incremntal operatinI  costs/Fri de _            CiS
fonciddtl onnmnt. bdditvionnelc         _n _vr   tC8   tre   rcmltdi   Y5(rprto)
S.TxtbokDedvocuent Fdo ap    t andora, pittrib dtoou
1.Textoo   Derlen deopsn  de  _m ol
Citvil w.ggs/Cgnie civil=_
-n   liddingk docurenentu and ardu/appeli           d_ffe  at a ttributions.                 f |0fi0 f  l| f f i{||           |||||           1}
- T  hnical eltceeiec  technique                        __
-  ellowch(pe abrord/lsurses IL l'dtranter___
- Inrezentel operating costc;Fraia de=__
Pronctiuon duent dd 'cppnele d'frr   pe   'free   trbto  cnnh   u*hvee   8    pEaei
2mx   Bldiboo  drocuremnt oand disriutr on/Appl hd'tt et atrblocQ
WAFID   198'
January  1985                  d



BURKINA
PRUAR'Y EDUCATION DEVELOPMIENT FROJECTIPROJET DE DEVELOPPEMEIT DE L'ENSEIGNEMEN? PRIDAIRE
IMPLENINTATION SCHEDULS/CALEIDRIEU D'EXECUtION0
(continued/suite)
. . !l5I3 t86 - } l S7 191                                     8     S    }8            1                                                 Ig_|X1  1991    1
NDJPN          1          r'ND7   A   J.ASaN             A        J     0   DJI JJA OED                   N       .1AI        FYQ      A
A_  _                       I1 AISIDIN D J FMI'W IS10       S  OIN@D131FIKAIM   i AISIO|N|D5JIFlg| KJ|ASoNFj|>:JIAISIOINlDiJ       A S 0
C. Pilot and Prima   School Construction Pro rams__                                                                                                               ..                  - |--
Progree  pilte et construction d'Gcoles Priairea                                                                                                                        I I I     I H      I I I I   I I I
1. Pilot School Building Pro tram/Programe Pilot.
.(Natchinz Contributions/Fonds de contrapartie)
Clvl vorks/ ienl  .ivilII
- Salaris/Salaires
-Civil~~~ ~ ~          ~ y2k an w.l/at .ii Pt .ut                                 .  Y                                    lllll 
-Furniture/Kobilier
Equipmnt/E uipagent
- Cntrtal store a facilitia/a a inn stock fel/
R-  lot  aI  I cI e o/^R llules rfaiLn lo s                                                                                             . . . . 
a,
11. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPENIT/DEVELOPPEXENT 
INSTITUt ONNEL
A. Educational .lanni,g,Planification de l'Education
- civil vorks/CGnie civil!
- fqupnctiEqnna ent Idllonl
I/  Bidding document, bid invitation and avard process started or completed in 1Y85 (preparation)/
Procedures document d'appel d'offrea, appel d'offres at attribution cocncds ou achevis en 11s5 (preparation).
2/  Consultants.
Bidding docijmnts and awards/appels d'offres et attribution.                                                                                                                                                     :w
VAPED
January 1985



BURXINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DELOPHENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVEDPPEHiUr DE L'ENSEIGNEIMEN PRU4AIME
INPLEVENTATION SQIEDUI/CALINDRIER D'EECUrlON
(continuedl?uite)
I      al7        I        ; 7                                     595       vZ I          109  I    Y     29I
s 8501    IFI A MI  aHJIJ U15L OINDl J Ff hA1 3J A S t n D J F H A C  J JIA 151PNgDl Jl Fl KAI  J JIAISIOIN D J {F iADts^R{2J ls l o SOII mFJRA
HIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"
B.rcsieduent dofumtent  Educatiedon  rest,o dpeldofeetatbuinc nc     oihv   nFBS(rpain)
Blasiddne ocment supndrierdapeadft                tatibio.
- Teuhnituemb a   ioaee/A   i tac   Iehiu                                                                            I                     
- Equipent/Equipenent  /Zl l                                                     X                      ==        ==            =       i|||||||             -
-_-   echni -II assistance/Assistance technique              _||||L...I               =    A    LI T..                     1 1          IIIIIJIIIJ 4l
- Fellowships abroad/Bourses I l'etranger ____IW               ;           
- lncrtmeaentl operating costs/Fernta23toonsone de                                          TII;                        I                                      1=_
DroiectionnRoment additionnd pels                                 -        iS            1ii--i                                   7                              FF
_- Technicl assistancelAssistance technique eIL.L1 LL.._.1_11llllllllllL          l1111   
- Follov hip  abToadftoursee  Ik l'etranaer_                            __3                              ___         _         .1
IInns-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-    Incremlental    operating     coeeFam  d e   a- -|||     -   lLIE;I|||||1|IIII==l
Janaorc   nsteent/Gdstion .     proLe.
- Civil w=rks/Cdn   1 civill  1111111 L = I X                             ITIl
Inoceremeta doueranit t'optel Fd'oEEree,.p    'tree   trbto    oonEo   eeEe  Y5(rprto
wzm    Bidding documents and awards/appets d'oEtrts et attributions.                                                                                                                                             9|
WAPED
January I85                                                                                                                                                                                               l



-64-
ANNEX 3-10
Page 1 of 5
BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
A.  Civil Works
1.       t.ivil works contracts for the construction of administrative
buildings and for the extension of the National Primary Teacher College
of Loumbila, together valued at about US$0.65 million equivalent, which
are not likely to attract overseas foreign firms, would be procured
after Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), according to procedures
acceptable to IDA.
2.        Civil works for the construction of rural primary classrooms,
teacher houses and wells, scattered in remote areas, totalling about
US$7.5 million equivalent, vhich are unsuitable for competitive bidding,
would be carried out under force account with and under separate
contracts for labor, construction materials and transportation, as
follows: (i) through International Competitive Bidding (ICB), in
accordance with the IDA's guidelines, for all purchases of construction
-materials valued at more than US$50,000 equivalent, totalling about
US$3.0 million equivalent; (ii) through LCB according to procedures
acceptable to IDA for contracts valued between US$15,000 and 50,000
equivalent, totalling about US$2.0 million equivalent; (iii) through
comparative shopping and direct contracting on the basis of at least
three quotations, according to procedures acceptable to IDA for
contracts valued at less than US$15,000 equivalent, provided the
aggregate amount of such procurement shall not exceed US$2.5 million.
B.   Equipment
3.        Equipment, including vehicles, valued at about US$0.5 million
would be procured through ICB. Domestic manufacturers would be allowed
a preference margin of 15Z of competing imports or the total applicable
customs duties and taxes, whichever is lower. All goods would be
grouped, wherever possible, into bid packages of US$50,000 equivalent or
more.
4.        Items that can be grouped to form packages valued between
US$500 and US$50,000 equivalent, totalling about US$100,000 equivalent
would be procured through LCB procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.        Items that cannot be grouped to form packages of at least
US$500 equivalent, would be procured through comparative shopping and
direct contracting on the basis of at least three quotations, according
to procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the aggregate amount of such
procurement shall not exceed US$70,000 equivalent.



-65-
ANNEK 3-10
Page 2 of 5
C.  Furniture
6.        Furniture, valued at US$1.2 equivalent, would be procured
through LCB according to procedures acceptable to IDA.
D.  Specialist Services
7.        Specialist services, technical assistance and audit services,
valued at US$2.9 million equivalent, would be contracted In accordance
with the IDA's guidelines.
E.   Textbooks
S.        Foreign printing of textbooks, valued at about US$0.5 million,
would be procured through ICB. The purchase of textbooks and of
adaptation rights would be procured after contract negotiations with the
publishers whose titles have been found suitable (US$1.3 million).
F.   Other Operating Costs
9.        Other operating costs (office materials, spare parts,
gasoline, other consumables, and building maintenance), valued at about
US$2.0 million equivalent, vould be procured through LCB according to
procedures acceptable to IDA. All goods or services would be grouped,
wherever possible, into bid packages of at least US$15,000 equivalent,
totalling about US$1.5 million equivalent.
10.       Items which cannot be grouped in bid packages of at least
US$15,000 equivalent would be procured through comparative shopping and
direct contracting on the basis of at least three quotations, according
to procedures acceptable to IDA, provided the aggregate amount of such
procurement shall not exceed US$0.5 million equivalent.
C.  Contract Review
Prior Review
11.       For all contracts or bid packagea of at least US$50,000
equivalent, each of the following stages in the procurement process
would be subject to IDA's prior review and commented upon by IDA staff
before they are implemented and finalized:
- Advertisement
- Prequalification (if called for)
- Bidding documents and addenda
- Bid evaluation and proposal for award of contract
- Contract documents
- Subsequent major modifications of the contract



-66-
AMNEX 3-10
Page 3 of 5
Initial Review
12.       For all contracts valued at up to US$50,000 equivalent, an
initial review by Bank staff would be required for standard documents
which are coimon to a number of procurement operations, for example:
- the general format of advertisements and their circulation;
- the pre-qualification questionnaire and method of
evaluation;
- standing registers of pre-qualified contractors; and
- standard bidding documents, including instruction to
bidders, general conditions of contract, and in some
instances technical specifications.
Post Reviev
13.       For all contracts or bidding packages valued at between
US$15,000 and US$50,000 equivalent, two copies of the final contracts,
together with the bid evaluation and the award decision, would be
furnished to IDA for post review before the first application for
withdrawal of loan funds against these contracts.
Random Review
14.       All contracts valued at under US$15,000 equivalent would be
subject to random review by IDA during supervision missions. Contracts
would not be submitted to IDA, but held by the Project Directorate for
such review and for auditing.
H. Margins of Preference
15.       The preference allowed by Bank for local manufacturers in the
award of contracts under ICB does not apply to LCB even in cases where
foreign firms, including in the four neighboring countries, are
permitted to bid.
Domestic Preference for Goods
16.       For goods procured under ICB, a margin of preference would be
granted to bids offering goods which are manufactured to a substantial
extent in Burkina Faso, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) bidders are required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of
entry) price of imported goods and the ex-factory price of
locally manufactured goods;
(b) except to the extent hereinafter provided, bids will be
compared on the basis of their ex-factory or c.i.f. (port of
entry) price, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales and similar taxes
on locally manufactured goods;



-67-
ANNEX 3-10
Page 4 of 5
(c)  after evaluation, responsive bids will be classified into one
of the following groups:
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Burkina, if the
bidder shall have established that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Burkina equal to at least
202 of the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
Group B: bids offering goods manufactured in Burkina Faso
other than bids classified in Group A;
Group C: bids offering asy other goods;
(d)  all bids In each group will be first compared among
themselves, to determine the lowest evaluated bid in each
group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group will then be
compared vith each other and if, as a result of this
comparison, an evaluated bid from Group A or Group B is the
lowest, it will be selected for the purpose of award;
(e)  if the lowest evaluated bid in the comparison under paragraph
(d) above is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids will be
further compared with the lowest bid from Group A, as
determined under paragraph (d) above. For the purpose of this
comparison only, each Group C bid will be compared on the
basis of the sum of its c.i.f. (port of entry) price adjusted
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) above, and
an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such
Group C bid; or (ii) 152 of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods. If the Group A evaluated bid in such further
comparison is the lowest. it shall be selected for the purpose
of award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from Group C, as
determined under paragraph (d) above, shall be selected.
I. Participation by Foreign Firms
17.       Most of the contracts would be procured through LCB according
to procedures acceptable to IDA; if foreign firms wish to participate
under these circumstances, they should be allowed to do so in accordance
with local procedures.



-68-
ANNEX 3-10
page 5 of 5
PROCUREMENT PROFILE OF VALUE/NUMBER OF CONTRACTS
Threshold      No. of Contracts       Cumuletive             Cumulative
(US$ '000)      Above Threshold   Value (USS '000)    Value 2 (Number Z)
A. Works
500                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
100                24               4,000            49.5      (5.3)
50                31               4,400            54.2      (6.8)
15                51              5S100             70.4    (11.3)
5               3S1               8.000            '99.0    (77.8)
0               451               8,200           100.0   (100.0)
B. Equipment
500                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
100                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
50                10                 600            87.5    (38.5)
15                16                 600            98.8    (61.5)
5                26                 700           100.0   (100.0)
*9          ~~~~26             70             10.
C. Furniture
500                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
100                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
50                 0                   0               0      (0.0)
15                 4                 120            10.2    (21.0)
5                19               1 080           100.0   (100.0)
-                19               18.0   (100.0)
WAPED
February 1985



BURKMMA
PRtUAt1 EDUCATISN OEVKLOPHENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEHEIT D  L'ERNSEZICNENT PRIMAIRE
DISBURSEENT PROFILE/PROFIL DES DEDOURSEHENTS
Estimted Credit Disburseoent/                                                                           S
Estimatif des diboursements du
IDA Fiscal Years                     Cridit               Regional Sector Profile/- E         stimated Credit disburse-
and Quarters/                                             Profil A l'Echelle         ent Profile/Profili
IDA Annes ficsa-         By Quarter/        Cumulative/  rdgionale                           estimetif des dfbour-
les at trimestres        Par trimestre    Cumulatif         (US Million)                     sesents du CrEdit
1986     I                    0.2              0.2                             u
II                   0.4              0.6                              &
III                   0.5               1.1
IV                   0.5               1.6              1.5            e
1987     I                   0.7               2.3
II                   0.6              2.9                                                      --  - Regional Sector
III                   0.9              3.8                                                             Profile/Profil
IV             ~~~0.8            4.6              4.3               4rfie/roi
1988  1  0.8       5.4                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~du secteur I
1988     I                   0.8              Su4                                                     /       Il'chelle
II  0.8          6.2                              b                             rEgionale
III                   1.1              7.3                              0.
IV                   1.0              8.3              8.2
1989     1                    1.0             9.3                               a
II                   1.0             10.3                                            /
III                   1.1             11.4                                is-
IV                   1.2             12.6              12.7                      /
1990     I                    1.1            13.7
II                   0.0             14.6                                      86     87      8i    89    90       91     92
IV                   0.9             16.5             16.4                           Fiscal Years'Annfes fiscales
1991     1                   0.8             17.3
it                   0.7             18.0
III                   0.7             18.7                                   Assumed Date of Credit
IV                  0.8              19.5             19.1                  Effectiveness: July 1985/
Date probable de mism  en
1992  0.6      20.7                                    vigueur: juillet 198'
II                   0.6             20.7                                                                                       i-
III                   0.5             21.2
IV                   0.4             21.6             20.9
WAFED
February 1985



BURKINA
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT/PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE
SUM4ARY OF PECURRENT EXPENDITURES GENERATED BY TIlE PROJECT (CFAP HILLION)
RESUME DES DEPENSES COURANTES DECOULANT DU PROJET (FCFA NILLION)
Salaries/   Operation, Maintenance, Repairs/         Others         Totals/
Activities/Activites                     Salaires    Fonctionnement, maintien, reparations  Autres /a        Totaux
1. Reduction of Primary Education
Unit Cost/REduction des coats
unitaires du primaire.
(a) Primary Teacher Training/
Enseignemnt normal                     --                         12.0                   3.0           15.0
(b) Textbook Development/
Developpement des manuels             10.7                        13.0                   4.8           28.5          1
(c) Sclool Construction/                                                                                                 0
Constructions scolaires             440.7                        116.4                   --           557.1
II. Institutional Development/
Ddveloppement institutionnel
(a) Resource Planning/ /b
Planification des resources           21.1                        52.6                  13.6           87.3
(b) Project Management/
Cestion des projets                   26.1                        27.6                  10.8           64.5
TOTALS/TOTAUX                               498.6                       221.6                   32.2         752.4
mu."....         ........                          m .....    .....
/a Office supplie.. staff travel, outside services/
Fournitures de bureau, diplacements, services regus.
/b  MEN, NESRS, HAE
WAPED                                                                                                                       W
January 1985



IBID 1294
_  ,r                                 i
BURKINA                                                    .-' /                        r
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT r f                                           *x NIGER  I
PROJECT                     ,           S
8 8 % ffi gSA~~~~~~~HEL ..__
[ ;. <                  _                       .  *_   t   s\3                4       BENINN.A
Ii.~~~~~os
om aw~~~~~~~~~~                 b   CN mHOLI..
0 ~ ~     ~
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W~w0w Zpm (si                              @  Pu' _
9.    / KOMO             0  <   0  100ow coh                ik               I? 0   ?qs o.a
, jr / ~~~~~~~~PONI                  Z z   Tdr_  _. T. CM            "af- o
"o              0  (INI.          .
IVORY      COAST            \ (
r   r          w             r  .  w  |    r             1'           o             19 r~'
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 i                                         lug.. .r   






