Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14464
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(EDUCATION III)
(CREDIT 1598-BUR)
MAY 4, 1995
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(February 28, 1995)
Currency Unit                 CFAF
US$                    =      515.40 CFAF
CFAF 1 million        =       US$1,943.63
SDR 1                        US$1.49
US$1                   =    SDR.67
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER                                              SCHOOL YEAR
January 1 - December 31                                              September - June
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DFOMR          Direction de la formation et de I 'organisation du monde rural (Directorate of Rural
Training and Organization)
DOB            Direction de l 'orientation et des bourses (Guidance and Fellowships Directorate)
DPE            Direction de la planification de 1 'education (Educational Planning Directorate)
DPR            Educational Project Directorate
EDFISIMO       World Bank Education Financial Simulation Model
ENEP           Ecole nationale des enseignants du primaire (National Teachers Training College)
FJA            Formation desjeunes agriculteurs (Youth Training Program)
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IPB            Institut pedagogique du Burkina (Pedagogical Institute of Burkina)
MEBAM          Ministere de I 'enseignement de base et de l 'alphahgtisation de masse (Ministry of Basic
Education and Mass Literacy)
PIU            Project Implementation Unit
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Rights
UPE            Universal Primary Education



uopuzuoqlnu queg plioJM  fnol1M posolosip aq ostAuotfo lou Aeui sluauoo sll sasonp jv!txo
|  oq<jo aoueumuopd oql u! (Iuo sluo!didpo  Cq posn oq Sum pue uopnqLnsrp popuisai e seq luoumnop spt
duWj '
-dDj mil 01 uoiinqljluoD s,JDMoiJoe a
saI1OW?wU-DplV SU0!SS!I V
:S3lXIUN3dJV
kz.P.........-FaoId aujI Aq poaueuil PUOIOJ uIurnIjp 8!ms :f 1 le
.Z                     *                     foard ai,l Xq pavueu! a aueisissvf leaiutpa  : zI D alqe
.Z        *     *                                         suoissr  :sa1nosa3>   Ue  :11 alQw l
tz .................s.ndu.. .                  fS :sdnosa       T                jue  :01  q
.S1----------  .. - - - - ------ --- - sIueuaaoD le8aN Jo Sfl11_ :6                3  Il)I
.Z w   -sllnso>J 3zaf0ig :I aIlqej
61 ..                                                 SuueuTA (a) pue sIsOD laafOId (V) :L aoqe
81 ....old a, UT p3pnflpU saTpnIS :9 aIqej.
91 .uo..lumutidul loofold IoJ svolmipuj XoN :c alqe
Sl ........    .        .        .        ..     joSo0 D Aq siuawDsinqsiC :ab alqu
VI................... ............      p put iisa 2A lUnm   :suwinqsia iTp ueo  vv  lq
El.                                                           .... 'S'lpa1j vC[I powlmd :Z alq:.L
Z        . *---      -                                         sZussUassV jo iLuwumS :I alqeS
1-.. . .S3X3.  WVI1sI1viS :11 IHVd
01-.00 ose IuTnW  ul JoaODS aqI u! safbld mlmnf 10J Suossag  ;)
6...                                                         I!qurelsnS pute suorlemado 0    a
8.asuapadg uofle1uawa1duI lCoaod jo s8uTpupi ue1oduw  y
SNOSS3i AaX (WV SNOIV1IdO 3IIfLA 'SfNa(MA AO AHVP3WfS 'Al
........................................................ " , .womlno   sJloSol0djo  lu uwssass   !3
8..      .      .      .              amufloJIDd S,DI0lS02 aip pIe S,)Ieg Om Jo luaUIssassv 'j 
L.......................................................  SA Rqo ofe   urpogV solo   o ssAuV -
/ L.nt1paqS uornizuswmlduI '(
9.-s1Lu1wa8uenlV 8uIaueuI 3
9                                    .'I... 'so 'JO 'aX ''ns g
.............................................   !lqeu   lsnS  pue  ssazsnS  S,)1aro1d JO  lu3wssassV   V
s................. sY1ms3H aNV 3j)N:ml9I:X     NOIIVINJ3H 'IdA                                 *II
...                                     .        .S...I... smp iAoqo 1d:poj jo uonun31Ag a
£.....................................I...... sluouix)BV   rej:aadS pue  slueuuAoD  ir.palD   ;D
E.        .         .                                     suuodUIo0 pue uonduosaG laarod g
Z...  ''''' '''''''''   ''''''       ' ''''      ' ''''saA,fl3arqo pvro1d 1UuILJuo v
.Z                                                                  M1@ S  flO 13BOHd II
z.................................................................. soAlass  auo    u looXi   sLUeg   gV
z                                                IOIOOS Dql ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UT OT!0H S,3[Uug -2
1    -.-                                                                  NOI.jfaUOHINI 1
...................SS.SS   NO..IVN3d: ]IVd
1*****.~~.........................AHVNIAJf1S NIOIIVfYIVA2[
SNININO3 AO 3IlVI
(IMr-8691 !P,JJ)
13afOHd IN3WdOIIaA3U NOILVJaf13 AUIVONCI
OSIA vNnXui
IJHOa3  NOI1TjIqaO3 NOI1VJL3N3'1d1alIW
AINO gsf1 lVIDJzO WAO



;



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1598-BUR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Primary Education
Development Project (Education III) in Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1598-BUR was
approved on May 21, 1985, in the amount of SDR 21.8 million (US$21.6 million
equivalent in 1985) and which became effective on November 18, 1985. The Credit was
closed on March 31, 1994, 21 months behind schedule. It was disbursed up to the amount
of SDR 20.4 million (US$27.6 equivalent in 1994), with the final disbursement in August
18, 1994. The undisbursed amount of SDR 1.4 rnillion (US$2.0 million equivalent in
1994) was canceled.
The initial completion report (PCR) was prepared by Atle Hetland of the
Population and Human Resources Division of the former Sahelian Department (AF5PH),
with additional substantive contributions by Djmalddine Rouag of the same division. It
was reviewed by Djmalddine Rouag (Task Manager until the reorganization of the Africa
Region) and Slaheddine Ben-Halima (AF5PH). The report was redrafted according to
new ICR guidelines and finalized by Makha Ndao and Ross Pfile (AF4PH), reviewed by
Whitney Foster (AF4CO), Ian Porter, Division Chief (AF4PH), and Franz Kaps,
Operations Adviser (AF4DR). The Borrower submitted its input to the ICR in a final
report, dated March 1994. The Borrower's acceptance of the ICR was received in a letter
dated February 28, 1995. Both of these documents can be found in the Appendixes of the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mnissions in February 1993 and March/April 1994. It is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower, and other relevant records.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1598-BUR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Country and Sector. Burkina Faso remains one of the
world's poorest countries, with a GNP per capita estimated at US$240, and low social
indicators in primary school enrollment, adult literacy, access to health services, and life
expectancy (para. 1.1). The Bank's role in the country aims at enabling Burkina Faso to
achieve sustainable economic growth with equity through support to critical actions in
order to alleviate long-term constraints on economic and social development and to
reduce poverty. Until 1988, the economy of Burkina Faso enjoyed relatively good
growth. In 1989 and 1990, real GDP growth slowed to 1.7 percent per year on average.
In 1991, the Government adopted a structural adjustment program which was supported
by IDA and the IMF. The corrective measures implemented under this program
contributed to a narrowing of the overall fiscal deficit and to the containment of the
current account deficit (para. 1.2). This structural adjustment program (SAL I) coupled
with the first PFP helped to reinforce the objectives of the Primary Education
Development Project and better link it to the macro and sectoral reforms. In January
1994, the Government decided, together with other countries of the CFA zone, to devalue
the CFA franc by 50 percent in foreign currency terms. IDA supported the Government's
updated medium-term structural program.  Developments since the devaluation are
broadly satisfactory. Despite the progress made to date, much remains to be done in all
sectors to overcome Burkina's landlocked location, very poor natural resource
endowment and the legacy of the country's past policies (para. 1.4).
2.     The Bank's involvement in Burkina Faso's education sector started with the First
Education Project (Cr. 430-UV, signed in 1973, for US$2.85 million) which succeeded in
providing rural youth with basic literacy and agricultural skills through the Formation des
jeunes agriculteurs (FJA). The Second Education Project (Cr. 956-UV, signed in 1979,
for US$14.0 million) assisted in consolidating the FJA program, thereby making a
significant contribution to the productivity of communities and improving their living
conditions. However, the FJA system, which was planned with a view to developing a
low-cost alternative to primary education, turned out to be the opposite. Thus, the
Primary Education Development Project (Education III) became the first to focus broadly
on primary education (para. 1.6).
3.    Project Objectives. The main objective of the Primary Education Development
Project (Education III), was the implementation of a financing strategy aimed at (a)
accelerating the expansion of primary education, reducing primary education unit costs,
and improving quality; and (b) developing capabilities in education planning,
administration, and management, including controlling education costs (para. 2.1).
4.    Project Description and Components. Under objective (a) the major project
components included: (i) reorganization of training for primary school teachers and
reclassification of these teachers at a lower category of the civil service; (ii) gradual



ii
reallocation of resources within the education sector; (iii) cost-efficient provision of about
800,000 textbooks and teachers' guides and their distribution to primary schools; (iv)
testing of low-cost, alternative primary school construction methods; and (v)
implementation of a primary school building program, totaling 450 classrooms and 450
teachers' houses in seven regions in northeastern Burkina Faso, and development of a
primary school maintenance and repair system. Under objective (b) the institutional
development program  included components aimed at:  (i) improving the planning,
budgeting, cost control, and project coordination capacities in the Ministry of Education;
(ii) improving cost-effectiveness in post-primary education; and (iii) improving the FJA
system and harmonizing it with primary education (para. 2.2).
5.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements. Agreements with the Borrower
(Burkina Faso) were reached on the following issues, namely, that Burkina Faso will (a)
establish, not later than June 30, 1986, a National Commission to review ways to
harmonize the systems of primary education and of FJA; and discuss with  the
Association, not later than June 30, 1987, the results of the review; (b) cause all staff
having received training under the project to remain in their assignments for a period of at
least three years; (c) review with the Association, not later than April 30 of each year, the
expenditures and financing needs of the education sector; (d) furnish to the Association
not later than December 31, 1985, a proposal for the financing and organization of the
maintenance of primary schools; and (e) provide the Bank with semi-annual progress
reports, audited annual accounts and auditor's reports, and finally, at completion, with a
Project Completion Report (para. 2.3 and Table 9).
6.    In addition to the above agreements, the following conditions of Credit
effectiveness were also agreed upon: (a) approval of a decree establishing the National
Primary Teachers College (ENEP) with acceptable requirements, and (b) recruitment of
ENEP graduates at Category Cl of the Civil service and abrogation of the previous B2
recruitment Category.
7.    All the above conditions of Credit effectiveness were complied with by Burkina
Faso to the satisfaction of the Bank and the Credit was declared effective on November
18, 1985.
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. By the late 1960s, the task of developing
basic education throughout the country came to be seen as increasingly important in
Burkina Faso. The Government chose the vehicle of non-formal, rural training (FJA) to
combine literacy training with the teaching of basic agricultural training. After several
years, the Government came to realize that this alternative system is no substitute for
widespread primary education, mainly because of the non-replicability of the FJA system
on a large scale due to its considerable unit costs (para. 2.6). It is in this context that the
Government requested IDA's assistance in financing a project to expand and improve
primary education. To clarify the overall project objectives a policy workshop was held in
October 1983 using the Bank's Education Financial Simulation Model (EDFISIMO). The
project's policy objectives and associated investment program were timely, appropriate,
and in line with the Bank's education sector policies. Overall, the project was successful in
meeting its principal goals (paras. 3.1-3.7).



iii
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
9.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability.  The main project
objectives were met: (a) the overall gross enrollment ratio grew from 23.9 percent in
1985 to 32.8 percent in 1993; (b) unit cost reduction was achieved in several fields, i.e.,
cost reduction in primary school construction is estimated to be about 50 percent,
textbook prices have been reduced in nominal terms by about 30 percent, and teachers
were trained for one year and recruited at a lower salary category; (c) the share of the
education budget allocated to primary education grew markedly from 42.6 percent to 51.0
percent in 1993; (d) availability of textbooks increased considerably (more than twice the
project target of 800,000); (e) the local communities' participation in school
construction/maintenance developed well; (f) major progress was made in planning,
administration, and overall cost-monitoring; and (g) progress was made in better use of
the FJA network system.
10.   Several factors contribute to sustainability, i.e., (a) means for unit costs reduction
are in place and fully operational, (b) local communities' contributions have increased, (c)
the capacity of the Ministry of National Education to produce low-cost textbooks was
strengthened, (d) teacher training was reorganized and the lower entry level salary--
Category Cl--is applicable to all new recruits, and (e) administration, planning, and cost-
monitoring improved. In addition, the Government's significant resource allocation to
education, and in particular to primary education, increased sustainability probability.
Thus, the project's sustainability can be ranked as 'likely" However, in a poor country like
Burkina Faso, foreign assistance will be necessary for some time to come to further
expand enrollment and improve the quality of education (para. 3.7).
11.   Summary of Costs. The total cost of the project (Table 7) was estimated at
appraisal to be US$23.2 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties). IDA's contribution
was estimated at US$21.6 million and the Government's participation at US$1.6 million.
Total disbursements of IDA's Credit at ICR preparation (US$27.6 million) were higher
than projected at appraisal due to changes in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate. The
actual Government contribution (US$1.2 million) was lower than foreseen at appraisal
because the Government chose to involve local communities in school maintenance rather
than using the Government budget to fund 55 percent of the costs under Category (4)
(Periodic maintenance and repair of primary schools in Project Area) of the Credit
Agreement. The estimated and actual disbursements are given in Table 4A.
12.   Implementation Schedule. The project was timely and adequately prepared (para.
3.10 and Table 3). Project start-up was delayed by 16 months (from June 1986 to
October 1987) due to the political changes in Burkina Faso (para. 4.1). After a revised
program, which accommodated the new Government's concerns, was agreed upon the
project was able to start its normal implementation. The original closing date was June
30,1992, but the Credit was not closed until March 31, 1994, after two extensions.
Disbursements against commitments were made until August 18, 1994. An outstanding
balance of SDR 1.4 million (about US$2.0 million equivalent in August 1994) was
canceled at Credit closing.



iv
13.   Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Two key issues were
central in reaching the Project's objectives. These were: (a) securing adequate technical
capacities of the main institutions responsible for resource use planning in the sector; and
(b) the risk related to the limited experience in school construction and project
management in the Ministry of National Education. A sizable staff training program for
the implementing agencies and the provision of specialist services in key areas helped
overcome these handicaps. The severe delays that occurred at the beginning of the project
were mainly due to unforeseeable factors, i.e. political changes in the country. The
disagreements mentioned above were addressed and solved to both the Bank's and the
Government's satisfaction.
14.   Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance.  The Bank's
overall performance was satisfactory and contributed to the achievement of most of the
objectives. The Bank's role can be divided into two phases, with the dividing line set by
Burkina Faso's entrance into an adjustment program in 1991 (first year PFP and SAL I),
reinforcing the priority placed on the Primary Education Development Project (Education
III) objectives. The Borrower's performance was also satisfactory. In some areas, the
Borrower performed particularly well, notably, the component concerning organization
and production of teaching materials. Table 1 provides a Summary Assessment for both
the Bank's and the Borrower's performance.
15.   Assessment of the Project's Outcome. The Primary Education Development
Project (Education III) can be classified as satisfactory in its effort to expand formal
primary education. The project made considerable progress in helping the Borrower to
achieve major efficiency gains by reducing unit costs of primary education, which
contributed to a significant expansion of enrollment at this level, and by improving overall
management of the education sector (paras. 3.13 and 3.14).
IMPORTANT FINDINGS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
16.   The political changes in Burkina Faso had an important effect on project start-up
and implementation. The new post-revolutionary Government wanted (a) to scrutinize the
former Government's project plans, (b) to ascertain that all project details were within the
new Government's strategy, and (c) to discuss with the Bank major changes in utilization
of the Credit. Although this project was the first to be implemented by the new Ministry
of Primary Education (MEBAM), and minor implementation problems are all too common
in Bank operations, it was not expected to encounter such problems at such an early stage
(para. 4.1).
17.    Some further delays occurred, both in classroom construction/maintenance and in
other more qualitative fields because of the relative complexity of the project, the
implementation of which required major participation of at least nine departments or
agencies belonging to three different ministries. Delays which affected the classroom
construction were primarily procurement delays which were mainly due to staff changes at
the PIU and included slow recruitment of technical assistance. Greater attention should
have been given to the institutional development needs and arrangements in project
implementation (para. 4.2).



v
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABILITY
18.   The Primary Education Development Project (Education III) supported part of the
Government's strategy for the education sector which aimed at increasing the level of
basic education in the country and improving the quality of education at all levels.
Because of the low primary school enrollment ratio, emphasis will continue to be placed
upon expanding access to, and improving the quality of, primary education to raise the
general educational level of the population and thereby their productivity, and to facilitate
the introduction of improved technologies. Future operations will build directly on--and
seek to further--the positive results of previous and ongoing investments in the sector,
particularly in terms of cost reductions and quality improvements. Moreover, measures
aiming to further increase the involvement of communities in the provision of primary
education will be provided for, with a view to further improving girls' access and
expanding access to education of underserved population groups (para. 4.3). Support for
post-primary education will aim at improving the overall quality of general secondary,
technical and vocational training, and higher education, and to help design and implement
good quality, low-cost training programs to meet basic technical skills requirements (para.
4.4).
LESSONS FOR FUTURE PROJECTS IN THE SECTOR IN BURKINA FASO
19.   A major lesson learned in this project is that project ownership should be well
developed and communications between the Bank and the Borrower, including
professional aspects of planning, accounting of commitments, and drawdown of proceeds,
should be sufficiently well documented so that when major political changes in the
government occur, such changes will not unduly affect project implementation (para. 4.5).
20.   A second lesson to be drawn from this project is the importance of paying more
attention to, and defining the roles and responsibilities of, the Government, local
communities, and other contributors to primary education at project planning and
implementation stages. The depth and clarity of analyses at planning should be such that
as few misunderstandings as possible occur during implementation. This was generally the
case in this project. However, one case, notably the FJA system and its relation to
ordinary primary education, could have been analyzed more stringently and realistically
during project planning--without underestimating the FJA system's political/administrative
complexity (para. 4.6).
21     The third lesson learned is that in countries in which the Government has to ask
for community contributions, the system becomes more fragile and dependent first and
foremost on usefulness and relevance to its user--otherwise contributions will be
withdrawn (para. 4.7).






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
PRIMARY EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit 1598-BUR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
L     INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting.
1.1   Burkina Faso is a resource-poor, landlocked country in a transitional zone between
the Sudano-Guinean regions and the Sahel. Although fragile, soils are comparatively
fertile. The majority of Burkina Faso's population of roughly 10 million (nearly 90 percent
rural), depends mainly on agriculture and stock raising. Population growth of more than 3
percent per annum is creating severe pressure on arable land. Burkina Faso remains one of
the world's poorest countries, with a GNP per capita estimated at US$240 in 1994, and
with low social indicators in primary school enrollment (estimated at 19 percent in 1993),
adult literacy (13 percent), access to health services, and life expectancy (43 years).
1.2  In spite of the handicaps constraining its economic performance, in the 1980s
Burkina Faso recorded a growth rate that was sufficient to slightly raise per capita income
and consumption, as real GDP grew by 3.5 percent per year between 1980 and 1993.
Year-to-year variations in growth were significant and depended mostly on the weather
and related agricultural and livestock production developments. Because 1991 was a
good agricultural year and the private sector started to respond to reforms in the incentive
framework, the expansion of GDP in real terms reached 6.0 percent. In contrast,
economic developments in 1992 and 1993 were, on the whole, disappointing, as external
political factors and weak external demand combined with uneven rainfall slowed the
growth of domestic output and income, worsened the public finance situation, and
weakened the external position.
1.3   The Government adopted a structural adjustment program in 1991 supported by
IDA and the IMF. The corrective measures implemented under the program, which
initially focused on internal adjustment policies, have contributed to a narrowing of the
overall fiscal deficit and to the containment of the current account deficit. Taking into
account changes in the external environment, as well as economic and financial
development in Burkina Faso, the Government recognized both the limitations of the
purely internal adjustment strategy to achieve the necessary depreciation of the real
effective exchange rate and the need to strengthen the ongoing structural reform program.
Thus, the Government decided, together with the other countries of the CFA franc zone,
to devalue the CFA franc by 50 percent in foreign currency terms effective January 12,
1994, and it adopted an updated medium-term structural adjustment program (supported
by the IMF and IDA). Developments since the devaluation are broadly satisfactory.
Inflation appears to have been contained within the projected range, and, as expected, the



2
Government was able to lift the price controls that had been reimposed after the
devaluation. There is also strong evidence of a rebound in export and import substitution
sectors, such as textiles, soap, and cycles. Despite the progress made to date, much
remains to be done to overcome the severe structural and institutional problems left as a
legacy of the country's past policies.
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector.
1.4   The Bank's involvement in Burkina Faso's education sector started with the First
Education Project (Cr. 430-UV, signed in 1973, for US$2.85 million), which closed in
1980. This project was designed to (a) support informal sector training by providing rural
youth with basic literacy and agriculture skills and training agricultural managers; and (b)
strengthen the teaching of science in secondary schools. The Second Education Project
(Cr. 956-UV, signed in 1979, for US$14.0 million), which closed in 1986, continued
support for the rural youth training program (Formation des jeunes agriculteurs- FJA)
that started under the first project, including in-service training for agricultural project
managers and public works personnel. Table 2 provides related IDA credits in the sector.
1.5   The First Education Project succeeded in providing rural youth with basic literacy
and agricultural skills as a second-chance alternative to the traditional primary school, but
had limited success in encouraging rural youth to stay on the land and become more
productive. The Second Education Project assisted in consolidating the rural youth
training program, thereby making a significant contribution to the productivity of
communities and improving their living conditions. However, the FJA system, which was
planned with a view to developing a low-cost alternative to primary education, turned out
to be the opposite (para. 2.6). Also, attainment of the project objectives was hampered by
conflicting views of the FJA program as skill training for rural youth, on the one hand, and
as an alternative to basic education for rural children on the other; in particular parents
held the former view and wanted formal primary education for their children. Thus, the
Primary Education Development Project (Education III) became the first to focus broadly
on primary education because of the non-replicability of the FJA system on a large scale
due to considerable unit costs.
H.   PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Original Project Objectives.
2.1   The main objective of the Primary Education Development Project (Education III)
(Cr. 1598-BUR, signed in June 1985, for US$21.6 million), was the implementation of a
financing strategy aimed at (a) accelerating the expansion of primary education, reducing
primary education unit costs, and improving quality; and (b) developing capabilities in
planning, administration, and management, including controlling education costs. Given
the limited number of pupils who were receiving training through the rural youth training
system (about 15,000 students yearly), and the extremely low enrollment ratio in primary



3
education (estimated at 19 percent in 1983), it was necessary to put more emphasis on
educational expansion.
B.    Project Description and Components.
2.2   The project components consisted of the following:  (a) primary education
expansion, unit cost reduction, and quality improvement including (i) restructuring of
teacher training, including upgrading and expanding the facilities at the National Teachers
Training College (ENEP), training fellowships for ENEP staff, improving the systems for
trainees' selection and promotion of primary school teachers, and lowering entry level
salary for instituteurs-adjoints; (ii) developing, procuring, and distributing textbooks,
improving buildings, and upgrading staff at the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina (IPB),
reorganizing IPB's production department, strengthening textbook distribution and storage
facilities at the Ministry of National Education, and producing, adapting, and importing
about 800,000 textbooks and teachers' guides and distributing them to primary schools;
(iii) constructing and maintaining primary schools: this program included testing of
alternative construction methods (about 30 classrooms built under a pilot program);
constructing, equipping, and furnishing of about 450 classrooms and about 450 teachers'
houses and associated facilities in the project target area in seven regions in northeastern
Burkina Faso; and developing and implementing a cost-efficient school maintenance
system; (b) institutional development to (i) improve the primary and secondary educational
planning capacity of the Educational Planning Directorate (DPE) through upgrading
human resources competence, organizational set-up, and physical infrastructure; (ii)
strengthen the capability of the Guidance and Fellowships Directorate (DOB) to manage
higher education, develop a more differentiated fellowship policy and formulate a strategy
for post-primary educational development (inter alia, to increase the number of students
being trained locally in place of costly overseas courses); (iii) improve the performance of
the Directorate of Rural Training and Organization (DFOM) through upgrading physical
infrastructure at central and regional levels and strengthening its capacity in preparing and
distributing teaching/learning materials, and future harmonizing of primary education and
rural youth training; and (iv) strengthen physical and human resources of the Education
Project Directorate (DPR).
C.    Credit Covenants and Special Agreements.
2.3   During Credit negotiations, the following agreements were reached, namely, that
the Borrower will: (a) prior to December 31, 1986, issue a decree upgrading the primary
teachers promotion examination; (b) not later than June 30, 1986, reorganize the Teaching
Materials Production Department of the Pedagogical Institute of Burkina to establish an
Editing Division and a Production Division with staffing in number and with qualifications
satisfactory to the Government and to IDA, (c) not later than December 31, 1985, prepare
and submit to IDA a proposal for the financing and organization of periodic maintenance
and repair of primary schools; (d) define in a directive to be agreed upon with IDA and to
be issued no later than June 30, 1986, the level of government subsidies to private
education; and undertake with IDA, not later than April 30 of each year, an annual review



4
of the expenditures and financing needs of the education budget resources in favor of, or
an increase in funds allocated to, primary education; (e) establish, not later than June 30,
1986, a National Commission under the auspices of the Minister of Agriculture and
Livestock to review ways to harmonize the systems of primary education and of rural
youth training, taking into account the new objectives assigned to the Directorate of Rural
Training and Organization; and discuss with IDA, not later than June 30, 1987, the results
of the above-mentioned review; (f) cause all staff having received training abroad financed
under the project to remain in their assignments for a period of at least three years
following the completion of training; (g) carry out, by means of an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, an annual audit of the project accounts, and forward to IDA for review
certified copies of the accounts and the auditor's report by September 30 of each year; and
(h) submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports throughout the project implementation
period, the first one being due by January 31, 1986, and submit within six months of the
Closing Date (June 30, 1992) a final report summarizing the project outcomes and
identifying problems that would be relevant for future projects (Table 9).
2.4   In addition to the above agreements, the following conditions of Credit
effectiveness were also agreed upon: (a) approval of a decree establishing the National
Primary Teachers College (ENP) with acceptable requirements, and (b) recruitment of
ENEP graduates at Category Cl of the Civil Service and abrogation of the previous B2
recruitment Category.
2.5   All the above conditions of Credit effectiveness were complied with by Burkina
Faso to the satisfaction of the Bank and the Credit was declared effective on November
18, 1985.
D.    Evaluation of Project Objectives.
2.6   By the late 1960s, the task of developing basic education throughout the country
came to be seen as increasingly important in Burkina Faso. The Government chose the
vehicle of non-formal, rural training (FJA) to combine literacy training with the teaching of
basic agricultural training. After several years, the Government came to realize that this
alternative system is no substitute for widespread primary education, mainly because of the
non-replicability of the FJA system on a large scale due to its considerable unit costs
amounting to about US$143 per trainee year, versus US$38 in primary education. In
addition, the Government realized that if the stagnation of the education sector, with its
extremely low literacy rate and primary school enrollment rate, were allowed to continue,
the low level of human resources development would have serious detrimental effects on
the country's long-term economic growth prospects. It is in this context that the
Government requested IDA's assistance in financing a project to expand and improve
primary education. To clarify the overall project objectives for different components and
develop a consensus and common understanding--at the planning stage--among all parties
involved, a policy workshop was held in October 1983 using the Bank's Education
Financial Simulation Model (EDFISIMO). Overall, the project was successful in meeting
its principal goals (paras. 3.1-3.7).



5
m.  IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability.
3.1   Expanding primary education. The project's principal goal was to expand primary
education. During the period 1985-1993, the overall gross enrollment ratio grew from
23.9 percent to 32.8 percent, total intake at first grade increased by 40 percent, and the
share of girls in total enrollment increased slightly (2 percent) (Table 8).
3.2   Reducing unit costs and improving quality. The efficiency gains are the following:
the training period for new primary school teachers (institeurs-adjoints) was reduced to
one year, and they have been reclassified at a lower salary level. The project was
instrumental in changing the entry level of the instituteurs-adjoints in the civil service.
Candidates were recruited with a lower-secondary school diploma and integrated into the
civil service at Category Cl instead of B2. Considering that the starting salaries of B2
Category are 29 percent higher than of Cl Category, this change helped contain growth in
the teacher salary budget and reduce unit costs without affecting the quality of the
teachers. The teacher:student ratio grew slightly from 1:57 to a high of 1:62 due to the
introduction of double-shift teaching (one teacher teaches one group of pupils in the
morning and another in the afternoon) in urban areas and the expansion of multigrade
teaching (one teacher teaching two or more grade levels in the same classroom) in rural
areas. Repetition rates were reduced from 19 percent to 16 percent on average in grades
1-6. Classroom construction costs were reduced by almost 50 percent in current prices
between 1987 and 1990. As regards cost recovery, fellowships at the university level
were cut by 27 percent in 1992. In addition the cost of textbooks was reduced by about
30 percent.
3.3   The project supported reforms to improve the quality of education. A total of
2,400 teachers were trained under the project. The Teacher Training College's curriculum
was revised to accommodate the new one-year course, and focused on professional
practices. The availability of textbooks increased considerably: 1.6 million books and
70,000 teachers' guides and books were distributed to primary schools since effectiveness-
-more than twice the project target of 800,000. However, the textbook renting scheme
was not implemented and has been carried over to the new project (Cr. 2244-BUR). The
proceeds of the textbooks sold was deposited into an "Edition Fund" which, at closing,
had a balance of CFAF 968 million.
3.4   Classroom construction. The program calling for the construction and equipping
of 450 classrooms, 450 teachers' houses, 150 canteens and 150 double latrines in seven
provinces was implemented.



6
3.5   Macro and sectoral impact. A major policy aspect of this project was to develop
greater Government attention to, and understanding for, primary education in general and
in the remote, rural areas in particular. The achievement of this goal can partly be
described quantitatively, i.e. in figures showing greater access to primary education and
reallocation of Government resources from secondary and higher education to primary
education. During the period 1984-92, the share of the Government's education budget
allocated to primary education grew from 42.6 percent to 51.0 percent and the share of
education in the total budget grew slightly from 21.7 percent to 22.3 percent.
3.6   Planning, administration, and management. Some of the project's achievements
in this area include (a) regional school mapping surveys; (b) a sub-sector strategy for
primary education; (c) improved data collection; (d) implementation of efficient
procedures for hiring new teachers; (e) new criteria for fellowship awards at the secondary
and higher education levels; (f) local communities' participation in school
construction/maintenance developed well; (g) major progress in planning, administration
and overall cost-monitoring; and (h) progress in better use of the network of rural youth
training centers (the FJA system).
3.7    During the project's implementation period, major improvements in primary
education were made with a view to future sustainability. Several factors will contribute to
sustainability, i.e., (a) means for unit costs reduction are now in place and fully
operational, (b) local communities' contributions have increased, (c) the capacity of the
Ministry of National Education to produce low-cost textbooks has been established, (d)
teacher training has been reorganized and the lower entry level salary--Category Cl--is
applicable to all new recruits, and (e) administration, planning, and cost-monitoring have
improved. In addition, the Government's significant resource allocation to education, and
in particular to primary education, has increased sustainability probability. Thus, the
project's sustainability can be ranked as 'likely". However, in a poor country like Burkina
Faso, foreign assistance will continue for some time to be necessary to sustain the results
achieved under this Credit, and, naturally, to further expand enrollment and improve the
quality of education.
B.    Summary of Costs.
3.8.   The total cost of the project was estimated at appraisal to be US$23.2 million
equivalent (net of taxes and duties), with a foreign exchange component of US$14.9
million (64 percent). Base cost estimates are in February 1985 prices. The breakdown of
the project's costs into local and foreign currencies in term of project costs, is given in
Annex Table 7.
C.    Financing Arrangements.
3.9   IDA's contribution was estimated at US$21.6 million and the Government's
participation at US$1.6 million, in the form of incremental staff salaries and counterpart
contributions for school maintenance and repair. Total disbursements of IDA's Credit at



7
ICR preparation (US$27.6 million) were higher than projected at appraisal due to changes
in the US dollar/SDR exchange rate. The actual Government contribution (US$1.2
million) was lower than foreseen at appraisal because the Government chose to involve
local communities in school maintenance rather than using the Government budget to fund
55 percent of the costs under Category (4) (Periodic maintenance and repair of primary
schools in Project Area) of the Credit Agreement.  The estimated and actual
disbursements are given in Table 4A.
D.    Implementation Schedule.
3.10   The project was timely and adequately prepared (Table 3 and Table 11). It started
with a joint Bank/UNESCO education sector mission in December 1981 and a Bank
mission in February 1982. A project brief was issued in March 1982 and an education sub-
sector memorandum in December 1982. Staff from the UNESCO/Bank Co-operative
Programme assisted the Government with project preparation during missions in June and
November 1982. Pre-appraisal took place in October 1983, and the project brief was
updated in March 1984. The IDA appraisal mission visited Burkina Faso in March 1984,
Board approval was given in May 1985, and signing of the Development Credit
Agreement took place in June 1985. The Credit effectiveness date was November 18,
1985. Project start-up was slow due to the departure of two expatriate volunteers at the
Project Implementation Unit and delays filling three technical positions. More important
was the effect the political changes in Burkina Faso had on the project start-up and
implementation. The new Government began to explore and discuss with IDA major
changes in utilization of the Credit; thus, implementation was delayed for 16 months (from
June 1986 to October 1987).  After a revised program which accommodated the
Government's concerns was agreed upon, the project was able to start its normal
implementation. The original closing date was June 30,1992, but the Credit was not
closed until March 31, 1994, after two extensions. Disbursements against commitments
were made until August 18, 1994. An outstanding balance of SDR 1.4 million (about
US$2.0 million equivalent in 1994) was canceled at Credit closing.
E.    Analysis of Key Factors Affecting Major Objectives.
3.11  Two key issues were central in reaching the Project's objectives. These were: (a)
securing adequate technical capacities of the main institutions responsible for resource use
planning in the sector; and (b) the risk related to the limited experience in school
construction and project management in the Ministry of National Education. A sizable
staff training program for the implementing agencies and the provision of specialist
services in key areas helped overcome these handicaps (Table 12 and Table 13). The
severe delays that occurred at the beginning of the project were mainly due to
unforeseeable factors, i.e. political changes in the country resulting in a revised program
(para. 3.10), which was addressed to both the Bank's and the Government's satisfaction.



8
F.    Assessment of the Bank's and the Borrower's Performance.
3.12 Through the Primary Education Development Project (Education III), the Bank
made positive contributions to the general development of primary education in Burkina
Faso. The Bank's performance was satisfactory, and contributed to the achievement of
most of the objectives initially established for the project. Despite delays in project
implementation in certain fields at project start-up, the Borrower's performance was also
satisfactory. In some areas, the Borrower performed particularly well, notably, the
component concerning organization and production of teaching materials.  Table 1
provides a Summary Assessment for both the Bank and the Borrower's performance.
G.   Assessment of Project's Outcome.
3.13  The Primary Education Development Project (Education III) can be classified as
satisfactory in its effort to expand formal primary education.  The project made
considerable progress in helping the Borrower to achieve major efficiency gains by
reducing unit costs of primary education, contributing to a significant expansion of
enrollment at this level, and by improving overall management of the education sector.
3.14  Critical Variances. As for achievement of the project development objectives, a
low rating of "3 " was given during the first years, but was then upgraded to "1", and then
stabilized at "2" through project completion (Table 11). The two critical variances for the
low rating were: (a) very slow implementation rate during the two first years as explained
above; and (b) delays in procurement, which primarily effected the school construction
program, and were mainly due to staff changes at the PIU (para. 4.2), including slow
recruitment of technical assistance.
IV.   SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED
A.   Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience.
4.1.  The most important reason for the delay in project start-up was the political
changes in Burkina Faso. The new Government wanted to (a) scrutinize the former
Government's project plans, (b) ascertain that all project details were within the new
Government's strategy, and (c) discuss with the Bank major changes in utilization of the
Credit. Reallocation included items such as a low cost school construction program, with
more community participation and local government funding (rather than financing from
the Credit); exclusion of Credit funds for teachers' salaries; and increased local
involvement in textbook production (which had been found uneconomical during
appraisal). Although this project was the first to be implemented by the Ministry of
National Education, and minor implementation problems are all too common in Bank
operations, it was not expected to encounter such problems at such an early stage.



9
4.2   Due to a high project staff turnover rate between 1986 and 1993 (six individuals
succeeded one another in the Project Director position), the project experienced delays in
procurement throughout the life of the project. Such delays, often associated with
management and staffing, are common, but should have become more rare during the last
two years of the project. Delays, both in classroom construction/ maintenance and in
other more qualitative fields occurred because of the relative complexity of the project, the
implementation of which required major participation of at least nine departments or
agencies belonging to three different ministries. However, the first phase procedure of
allocating funds in tranches which were managed by local governments was quickly
abandoned because management left much to be desired. During the second phase of
classroom construction, the matching contribution for the school-construction program
had favorable results because the new procedures included entering into contracts with
local community groups or Parents' Associations rather than allocating funds in tranches
to local governments. Greater attention ought to be given to the institutional development
needs and arrangements in project implementation.
B.   Future Operations and Sustainability.
4.3   The Primary Education Development Project (Education III) supported part of the
Government's strategy for the education sector which aimed at increasing the level of
basic education in the country and improving the quality of education at all levels.
Because of the low primary school enrollment ratio, emphasis will continue to be placed
upon expanding access to, and improving the quality of, primary education to raise the
general educational level of the population and thereby their productivity, and to facilitate
the introduction of improved technologies. Future operations will build directly on--and
seek to further--the positive results of previous and ongoing investments in the sector,
particularly in terms of cost savings and quality improvements. Moreover, measures
aiming to further increase the involvement of communities in the provision of primary
education will be provided for with a view to further improving girls' access and
expanding access to education of underserved population groups. A major leap is
expected to be taken during the ongoing project, Cr. 2244-BUR, whose SAR estimates an
enrollment rate of 40 percent in 1996/97, up from 31 percent in 1988/89. Maintaining and
improving community mobilization and participation will be crucial. Success will
ultimately be decided by the parents' and communities' assessment of how useful it is to
send their children to school, which again will depend on the relevance of the curriculum,
and the links between the education system, the labor market, and national development
needs.
4.4   Support for post-primary education will aim at improving the overall quality of
general secondary, technical and vocational training, and higher education, and to help
design and implement good quality, low-cost training programs to meet basic technical
skills requirements.



10
C.   Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Burkina Faso.
4.5   Although it is impossible to foresee major political changes in a country, similar to
those that took place in Burkina Faso between project planning and implementation, a
sector project, particularly in primary education, should strive toward a very high degree
of consensus among all parties involved. A major lesson learned in this project is that
communications between the Bank and the Borrower, including professional aspects of
planning, accounting of commitments, and drawdown of proceeds, should be sufficiently
well documented so that when changes in the Government or Bank personnel occur, such
changes will not unduly affect project implementation.
4.6   A second lesson to be drawn from this project is the importance of paying more
attention to, and defining the roles and responsibilities of, the Government, local
communities, and other contributors to primary education at project planning and
implementation stages. The depth and clarity of analyses at planning should be such that
as few misunderstandings as possible occur during implementation. This was generally the
case in this project. However, one case, notably the FJA system and its relation to
ordinary primary education, could have been analyzed more stringently and realistically
during project planning--without underestimating the FJA system's political/administrative
complexity.
4.7   The third lesson learned is that in countries in which the Government has to ask for
community contributions, the system becomes more fragile and dependent first and
foremost on usefulness and relevance to its user--otherwise contributions will be
withdrawn.  The  communities'  often  impressive   participation  in  school
construction/maintenance shows the demand for primary education.



I1
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES






12
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Not
A. Achievement of objectives   Substantial    Partial  Negligible      applicable
Macroeconomic Policies           X
Sector policies                  X
Financial objectives             X
Institutional development                     X
Physical objectives              X
Poverty reduction                             X
Gender concerns                               X
Other social objectives                                                   X
Environmental objectives                                                  X
Public sector management         X
Private sector development                                                X
B. Project sustainability      Likely      Unlikely     Uncertain
x
Highly
C. Bank performance          satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Identification                   X
Preparation assistance           X
Appraisal                                     X
Supervision                                   X
Highly
D. Borrower performance      satisfactory  Satisfactory    Deficient
Preparation                      X
Implementation                                X
Covenant compliance                           X
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of outcome     satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
x



13
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDrrs
Credit title                           Purpose                       Year ofapproval                        Stat
Preceding onerations
Cr. 430-UV
First Education Project                FJA training centers             6/73                                Closd 10/O0
for rural youth-
science equiptnent for
sec. schools
Cr. 956-UV
Second Education Project               FJA training centers            10/79                                Closed 12/85
for rural youth and
public works training
centers
Operations under ICR review
Cr. 1598-BUR
Primary Education Development Project    To expand prim. ed.,           6185                                Closed 3/94
reduce unit costs and
improve ed. planning and
administration
Following oDerations
Cr. 2244-BUR
Fourth Education Project               Further dev. ofenrollment        7/91                                Closing 6/97
and qual. of prim. ed..
improve qual. of sec. ed.
and strengthen insL capacities
in the ed. sector.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TnIETABLE
Steps in project cycle                                            Date planned                          Actua date
Identification (executive Project Summnary                           7/81                                  12/81
Preparation                                                          3/82                                  10/83
Appraisal Mission                                                    4/84                                  3/84
Negotiations                                                         4/85                                  4/85
Board Approval                                                       5/85                                  5185
Credit signature                                                     6/85                                  6/85
Credit Effectivenes                                                  11185                                 11/85
Credit Closing                                                       6/92                                03/31/94



14
TABILE 4A: CREDrT DsBuRSsMEENTS: EsTudATED AND ACTUAL (SDR milION)
Bank FYcal Year and    Fjtimated Cunulative      Actual Cuunatdve      Actual % of          Actual % of Total
Quarter                                                            Estimated
1986
I                           0.2                     00.0                0.00                    0.0
II                          0.6                     00.0                0.00                    0.0
III                          1.1                    0.76                03.5                    3.7
IV                           1.6                    0.76                03.5                    3.7
1987
I                           2.3                     0.76                3.5                     3.7
II                           2.9                    0.92                 4.2                   4.5
HI                          3.8                     1.01                 4.6                    5.0
IV                           4.6                    1.35                 6.1                   6.5
1988
19SS                        5.4                     1.76                8.1                     8.6
it                          6.2                     2.11                 9.7                   10.3
III                          7.3                    2.46                11.3                   12.1
IV                           8.3                    2.90                13.1                   14.0
1989
1                           9.3                     3.43                15.7                   16.8
11                          10.3                    4.01                18.4                   19.6
III                         11.4                    4.57                21.0                   22.4
IV                          12.6                    4.91                22.5                   24.0
1990
I                           13.7                    5.35                24.5                   26.2
11                          14.6                    6.22                28.6                   30.4
III                         15.6                    7.39                33.9                   36.1
IV                          16.5                    8.59                39.4                   42.0
1991
I                           17.3                    09.82               45.0                   48.0
II                          18.0                    10.32               47.3                   50.4
III                         18.7                    10.60               48.6                   51.9
IV                          19.5                    11.89               54.5                   58.1
1992
1                           20.1                    12.88               59.1                   63.0
11                          20.7                    13.25               60.8                   64.8
HI                          21.2                    14.28               65.5                   69.8
IV                          21.8                    14.72               67.5                   72.0
1993
I                                                   15.81               72.5                   77.3
II                                                  17.08               78.3                   83.5
III                                                 17.81               81.7                   87.1
IV                                                  18.20               83.5                   89.0
1994
1                                                   18.62               85.4                   91.0
II                                                  19.57               89.7                   95.7
III                                                 19.61               90.0                   95.9
IV                                                 20.04                92.0                   98.0
1995                                                   20.44               94.0                   100.0
Date of final disbursement: August, 18, 1994.



15
TABLE 4B: DISBURSEMF.NTS BY CATEGORY (IN USS MILLON)
Estimated at Appraisal    Actual at ICR           Percentage
Preparation'           Disbursed
Civil Works and Pro-                6.1                    9.6                  157.4
fessional Fees
Matching Contributions              0.8                    2.6                  325.0
Furniture, Equipment and            1.3                    3.1                  238.5
Vehicles
Periodic Maintenance and            0.4                    .02                    5.0
Repair
Textbooks                           1.4                    3.9                  278.6
Specialist Services and             3.5                    5.9                  168.6
Fellowships
Salaries Project Staff              1.1                    1.1                  100.0
Operating Costs                     1.6                    1.4                   87.5
Unallocated                         5.3                    .1                    1.9
TOTAL                              21.6                    27.6                 128.0
*Figures have been rounded.



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECr IM NrEMNATON AND OPERATION
SUBJECT                                                    PROGRAM                                            ACHIEVEMENTS
A. Reduction of Pnmary Education Unit Costs
1. Rtructuring of Teacher Train.ng:      (a) ENEP constructed at Loumbila: expected completion mid-1985; expected  Construction completed in 1986, average
enrollment 340 students;                                               enrollment 350.
(b) Instihuteurs-adjoints candidates recruited from graduates with a lower-secondary  Implemented
diploma and integrated into the civil service at Cl upon completion of training; and
(c) Not later thn Dec. 31, 1986, measures will be put in place to upgrade the  Not fully implemented because of
primary teacher promotion exammation.                                  opposition of the teacher's union.
2. Development, Procurement, and Distribution  (a) Rehabilitation and Modification of the IPB library, conference room and fonner   Implemented
of Textbooks                          printing shop into offices for Editing Division and constuction of adjacent printing
shop and central warehouse, and rehabilitation of two regional warehouses;
(b) Reorganization of the Teaching Materials Production Dept. not later than June    Implemented
30, 1986, by the establishment of an Editing Division and Production Division;
(c) Assignment of seven staff to strengthen the distribution and storage capabilities   Implemented
of the School Equipment Division; and
(d) Production of about 180,000 textbooks each for mathematics and science courses  Total of 1.6 million textbooks and 70,000
in Grades 3 to 6, about 155,000 textbooks for French courses in Grades I to 3 and    teachers'guides produced-more than twice
about 6,000 teachers' guides for each subject. Importation of about 260,000  the project's target.
textbooks and about 8,500 teachers' guides in French for Grades I to 6. Distribution
will be handled in two phases, and transportation will be handled by the School
Equipment Division or private Contractors.
3. Primary School Construction and       (a) Construction of about 30 classrooms and associated facilities through the pilot    Implemented with 15 classrooms
Maintenance                            school building program by DPR, which will be evaluated using criteria agreed with
IDA;
(b) Matching contributions to complete local school building efforts and to meet the  Implemented nith Community parlicipation
cost of teachers' salaries, and                                        and Parents'Associations
(c) Construction of about 450 classrooms and teachers' houses in about 150 villages  Implemented.
by DPR.



17
B. Institutional Development
1. DPE                                     (a) Construction of an office building to be shared with DPR;            Implemented
(b) Organization and staffing of DPE will be strengthened, in addition to current
responsibilities, it will undertake to: (i) improve the reliability and timing of the  (i) Small improvement
analysis and publication of educational statistics; (ii) complete a country-wide school  (ii) Completion underway
mapping exercise for primary education; (iii) carry out a study on the introduction of  (iii) Implemented
a double-shift system for primary schools; (iv) conduct an organization and  (iv) Implemented
management study of MEN; (v) define in a directive to be agreed upon with IDA and  (v) Not implemented-Gov't aproved
to be issued not later than June 30, 1986 the level of Government subsidies to private  subsidy to religious schools
education as a function of the number of students which the Government will enroll
in private institutions; and (vi) have an annual review with IDA of the expenditures   (vi) Implemented
and financing needs of the education sector with a view to providing for a
reallocation of education budget resources in favor of, or an increase in funds
allocated to, the primary education system; and
(c) Training will be provided for DPE staff in relevant fields.          Implemented
2. DOB                                     (a) In order to strengthen DOB's capability, it will (i) establish a modem data  (i) Partially implemented
storage/retrieval system to expedite the administration of fellowships and permit a
more differentiated fellowship policy, and (ii) undertake a study of national  (ii) In progress
manpower needs and of post-primary educational development in collaboration with
other ministries; and
(b) Fellowships will be provided for the training of DOB staff in relevant fields.  Implemented
3. DFOMR                                   (a) Furniture and equipment will be provided for DFOMR offices;          Implemented
(b) Strengthening of DFOMR at the central and local levels sill include: (i) the  (i) Partially implemented
establishment of a DFOMR management performance monitoring system; (ii)  (ii) Implemented
contribution to the manpower study, (iii) the collection, analysis and publication of    (iii) FJA system approach was changed
statistics on the FJA system and completion of an evaluation of rural training through
a samnple of FJA centers; (iv) production and distribution of about 11 mrillion leaflets  (iv) Not implemented due to change in (iii)
and other learning materials and (v) the provision of information to the National  (v) Implemented
Commission; and
(c) Fellowships will be provided for the training of DFOMR staff in relevant fields.   Partially implemented
(a) Construction of an office building to be shared with DPE, a central storage  Implemented
4. DPR                                     facility, three regional branch offices and two regional storage points;
(b) Strengthening of DPR's capability by the organization of an Administration  Implemented
Division and a Construction and Development Division. Three regional offices with a
staff of nine technicians for direct on-site supervision and supply management will
be attached to the Construction and Equipment Division;
(c) Fellowships will be provided for the training of DPR staff in relevant fields.  Implemented



18
TABLE 6: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Topic/Puoe as Defined at                       StatusIYear                 Impact of Study
Appraal                               Implemented
1. Classroom construction
1.       Burkina's habitat and architectural traditions            1989-90      Local building materials used
2.       Evaluation of construction quality levels of the 150 schools
being built under the project                              1992        Not evaluated
H. Textbooks and Teachers Guides
3.       Preparation ofteaching materials                            1988
IIL lHigher Education
4.       Development of a new student register and practical manage-  1991      Improved student management
ment manuals
5.       Managerial and administrative
improvement plan for the Directorate Improved management   1990        Improved management and administration
and of Guidance and Fellowships
6.       Student bursaries cost analysis                             1990
Note: International consultants carried out study no. 1 and no. 3, while
the others were carried out by national consultants.
IV. Educational Planning
The following studies are still in progress:
7.       Analysis of documents of the five-year plan
8.       Strategy and action plan for some secondary schools
9.       Development progranmme for training and infrastructure
concerning middle and higher level staff(1991-96)
10.      Socio-economic study of the University of Ouagadougou
11.      Study of secondary school reform



19
TABLE 7: PROJECT COsTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Cosb (In USS minilon)
Appraisal Estimate (USSM)
Local             Foreign
Items                                      costs             costs     Total
1. Reduction of Primary Education
Unit Costs
(a)     Restructuring of Teacher Training  0.1               0.5      0.6
(b)     Textbook Development, Procurement
and Distribution                 0.3                2.2       2.5
(c)     Primary School Constuction Prgr.  4.5                4.7      9.2
Sub-total                        4.9                7.4       12.3
2. Institutional Development
(a)    Educational Planning              0.2                0.4       0.6
(b)    Management of Higher              0.1                0.4       0.5
Education
(c)    Rural Youth Training              0.3                1.2       1.5
(FJA) Management
(d)     Project Management               0.4                2.1       2.5
Sub-total                         1.0               4.1       5.1
Total base costs                           5.9                11.5     17.4
Physical contingencies                     0.3               0.7       1.0
Price contingencies                        2.1                2.7      4.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        83                 14.9     23.2
B. Project Fnancing (USS mIllon)
Source                                  Planned (Credit Agreement)          Final
IDA                                               21.6                      27.6
Government                                         1.6                       1.2
TOTAL                                              23.2                     28.8
Comments:
Eg. Co-financing was sought, but without materializing. The Netherlands financed bilaterally building construction for the National Primary
Teachers College.



20
TABLE 8: PROJECT RESULTS
Dtrect Beneflts
PRIMARY SCHOOL ENROLLMENT
TOTAL             NEW INTAKE          % GIRLS        REPEATERS            ENROLLMENT
ENROLLMENT           FIRST GRADE                                                 RATIO
1985             351,807               72,782             37%              19%                 23.9%
1993             598,580              104,877             39%              18%                 32.8%
Physical Faclities
TARGET                                   ACTUAL
OVERALL                 RURAL               OVERALL             RURAL
CLASSROOMS                           450                     450                  480               480
CANTINES                              150                    150                  138               138
BOREHOLES                             150                    150                  138                13S
TEACHERS'HOUSES                      450                     450                  381               381
Textbooks
TARGET                                   ACTUAL
Textbooks                                      800,000                                  1,635,000
Teachers guides and books                                                                70,000
Training
ACTUAL
Number over overseas fellowships                       52
Number of local fellowships                            22
Other training                                         91
Total manmonths under project                          340



21
TABLE 9: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement    Section: t Covy.       Status      Original     Revised                         Description ofCovenant                                                Coment:
Type                Fulfillmnenrr:   Fulfill-
Date        ment
Cr. 1598-BUR      3.03      M, T    OK, after  06.30.86       06.30.87    The Borrower shall:                                               The Government has established a system acceptable to IDA to
long                                                                                                 develop the FJA system to provide skills training for adults and to
delays                             (a) establish, no later than June 30, 1986 ,a                     link this with the establishment of cooperatives, rather than to
National Comnmission under the auspices of the                    harmonize the systems with primary education - a more effective
Minister of Agriculture & Livestock, to review ways to harmonize the  way to use FJA program. A national Commission has been
systems of primary education & rural youth training, taking into account the  established to provide recommendations on ways to achieve this new
new objectives assigned to DMOFR;                                 objective. The harmonization between the education and FJA
and                                                               systern is included in the government-economic program 1994-96
and is underway.
Not    06.30.87                   (b) discuss with the Association, no later than                    No longer relevant in view of above comments.
fulfilled                        _June 30, 1987, the results ofthe review referred to in par. (a) above.
3.04       M      Partially                            The Borrower shall cause all staffhaving received training abroad under the  Stafftrained thus far have generally been appointed and for the most
fulfilled                            project to remain in their assignments for a period of at least three years  part retained in the appropriate positions. However, it appears that
following the completion of their training                        some ofthe   ple trained for textbook editing have retired.
3.05       F      Partially   04.30 of each            The Borrower shall review with the association, no later than April 30 of  The draft budget for 1994 planned under the PAS has been reviewed
fulfilled    year                    each year, the expenditures and financing needs of the education sector with   & allocations of resources found acceptable. 950 additional teachers
a view to providing for a reallocation of education budget resources in favor  were recruited for primary education as planned; the budget for
of,s or an increase in funds allocated to, primary education.     fellowships in Higher Education has been increased by about 10%
following the decrease of last year, but those for Secondary
Education have decreased by 11%/*. However the devaluation will
certainly have an impact on the fellowship budget.
3.06      F,T    Partially    12.31.85                 The Borrower shall prepare & furmish to the Association, no later than  Maintenance manuals for schools have been produced, & the
fulfilled                            December 31, 1985, or such later date as the Association may agree, a  distribution ofthese manuals to schools in project regions is in
proposal for the financing & organization of the periodic maintenance &  progress. Seminars on school maintenance have also been held in
repair of primary schools &, promptly upon agreernent between the  the various project areas.
Borrower & the Association on such proposal, give effect thereto.
4.01 (b)     F        OK                                The Borrower shall have the accounts referred to in para. (a) of this Section,  The audit report for FY92 was provided to IDA as well as for the
including the Special Account for each fiscal year, audited, in accordance    textbooks components. A social audit for DFONR has been carried
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent  out & the first draft report submitted to IDA
auditors acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association
certified copy ofthe audit report.
Sched. 4      T     Not                                  The Borrower shall, no later than December 31, 1986, put into effect  The issue remains "Pending "because the government is reluctant to
Para. A,            fulfilled                            measures agreed upon with the Association to upgrade the primary   raise it with teacher's trade union until a stable political environment
I(c)                                                     education teacher promotion examination by introducing general subjects.   is established. Not critical for fulfilling objective.
Sched. 4     M         OK       06.30.86                 The Teaching Materials Production Department of IPB will be organized no  The editing division has been established & is operating effectively.
Para. A,                                                 later than June 30, 1986, by the establishment of an Editing Division with a
2(b)                                                     technical staffin numbers & with qualifications satisfactory to the Borrower
I & to the Association.
Sched. 4      F     Partially   06.30.86                 Define in a directive to be agreed upon with the Association & issued no  The government enrolls students mainly in the religious schools to
Para B,             fulfilled                            later than June 30, 1986, the level of Govermment subsidies to private  which it provides a subsidy.
I (bXv)                                                  education as a function of the number of students which the Government will
enroll in private institutions
M = Managerial; T = Technical; F = Financial



22
TABLE 10: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
(STAFFWEEKS)
Stage of project cycle    1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993  1994        TOTAL
Through Appraisal    52.4   36.8                                                                                  89.2
Appraisal through           37.9   36.4                                                                           74.3
Board Approval
Board Approval                      12.1                                                                          12.1
through Effectiveness
Supervision                         2.6    20.4   8.8    6.4    8.9    12.2    12.2   23.5   27.0   14.0          136.0
Completion                                                                                               8.4      8.4
GRAND TOTAL          52.4   74.7   51.1   20.4   8.8    6.4    8.9    12.2    12.2   23.5   27.0   22.4    320.0
IL ----------------------------=



23
TABLE 11: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of project cycle          Month/year    No. of    Days in field    Specialized staff skills repre-  Performance rating a\     Types of
persons                  sented                                                      problems
Implementa-   Development
tion status   objectives
THROUGH APPRAISAL
FY83                            6/82          2         7              GE,A                           _
FY83                            10/82         4         5              GE,A,E,Tx/C
FY83                            1-2/83        4          12            GE,A,E,Tx/C
FY83                            3/83          1          1             GE                             _
FY83                            5/83          1         7              GE                             _
FY84                            10/83         1          18            GE                             _
APPRAISAL THROUGH
BOARD APPROVAL
FY 84 Appraisal                 3/84          5          12            GE,E,A/C,TE/C,Tx/
FY 85                           7/84           1        2              GE
FY 85                           3/85           1        6              GE
BOARD APPROVAL
THIROUGH EFFECTIVENESS
FY86                            7/85           1         8             GE
FY86                             11/85        2          12            A,E/C                          _
SUPERVISION
FY86                            4/86          2          5             EP,A                           2             2
FY87                            11/86         2          5             EP,A                           3             3               M,O
FY87                            2187          2         7              EP,A                           3             3               M,O
FY88                            1-2/88        1          13            EP                             I             I               M
FY88                            4-5/88        1          1 8           EP                             I             I               M
FY89                            8/88          1          14            EP/C (UNESCO)                                -
FY89                            10/88         3         13             EP,TE                          I             I              M
FY89                            2-3/89        2         27             EP,A                                         -
FY90                            4-5/90        1          14            EP                             I              I             M,T,O
FY90                            7/90          2         5              EP,A                           I             I              M,T,O
FY91                            5-6/91        1          12            EP                             I             I              M,T,O
FY92                            11/91         3         13             EP,A,Tx/C                      2             1              M,T,O
FY92                            2/92          4         12             E,A,Tx,GE                      3             2              M,T,O
FY93                            7/92          5         15             E,A,O,O,E/C                    2             2              M,T,O
FY93                            10-11/92      3         13             E,A,GE                         2             2              M,T,O
FY93                            3/93          3         8              GE,GE,O                        2             2              M,T,O
FY93                            5/93          2         7              GE,O                           2             2              M,T,O
FY94                            10/93         3         2              GE,O,E                         2             2              M,T,O
FY94                            12/93         3         13             GE,O,E                         2             2              M,T,O
FY94                            1/94          1         5              GE                             2             2              M,T,O
FY94                            4/94          2         11             GE,O                           2             2              M,T,0
a/Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: Rating from I (highest) to 4 (lowest).
L Key to specialized staff skills: GE=General Educator; E=Economist; A=Architect; TE=Technical Educator (incl. Agric.Educator); Tx=Textbook Specialist; EP=Educational
Planner; O=Operations Officer-, -/C=Consultant;
clKey to problems as shown in Supervision Form 590: F=Financial; M=Managerial; T=Technical; O=Other.
Note: Most missions also included supervision of preceding education project, and preparation of following project. On average, it is estimated that 1/3 of time spent in field, was
actually used for work on other projects than the one being reviewing.



24
TABLE 12: TECHNICAL AssISTANCE FiNANCED BY THE PROJECT
(PLANNED AND ACTUAL)
Planned at Apprisal            Actual Duration                      Conmnents
Specialist Services
A. International Staff                                                   216 marnonths      Long-term experts, I year or more
B. International Consultants                                             41 manmonths       Short-term experts, from I week to 4
months
C. National Consultants                                                   17 manmonths
TOTAL                                       209.5 manmonths              274 manmonths    In four cases, duration of contracts was not
indicated and could therefore not be
included in the table
TABLE 13: TRAINING OF PERSONNEL FINANCED BY THE PROJECT
Type of Training         Planned at Apprasal       Actual Duration      No. of Penons                 Conmnents
trained
402 manmonths
1. Textbook component                                 111 manmonths                  19       All courses were overseas and lasted for
2-12 months
2. Educational Planning                               142 manmonths                  33       112 months were for courses overseas,
28 for courses/tours to other African
countries and 2 months locally, notably
the computer training for 8 pers.
3. Guidance and Fellowships                           25.5 manmonths                 12       Except for two 8-months and one 4-
Directorate                                                                                   month courses, the other fellowships
were short study tours. All but 5 fellow-
shipmonths were used in Burkina or
other African countries
4. National Primary Teachers                          61.5 manmonths                 10       All courses, lasting 3-10 months, were
College                                                                                       over-overseas. Three 2-week study tours
were to other African countries.
TOTAL                                                 340 manronths                  74






APPENDIXES
A:    Missions' Aide-memoires
B:    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C:    Map






Section l(b)
8 Fdvrier 1993
BURKINA FASO
Troisieme et Quatrieme Projet Education
(Cr. 1598-BUR et Cr. 2244-BUR)
Mission de Supervision
1.    Une Mission de la Banque Mondiale dirigee, par Mr. D. Rouag (Chef de mission), Composde
de MM. S. Benhalima (Architecte), P. Lauvas (Educateur) et Mr. Zymelman (Economiste) a visite le
Burkina Faso du ler au 8 Fevrier 1993. L'objet de la mission etait essentiellement de proc6der I la
supervision du Troisieme et du Quatrieme Projet Education et d'entamer les discussions sur un
dventuel Cinquirnie Projet axd sur 1'enseignement superieur. Cette mission sera continuee du 9 au 24
Fevrier 1993, par Mr. Lauvas auquel se joindra I partir du 11 Fevrier, Mme. J. Lamoure,
(consultante, specialiste de l'enseignement superieur) qui auront I mener une premier examen de
l'enseignement superieur, en cerner les principaux problemes et elaborer les termes de references
pour les etudes plus approfondies eventuellement necessaires. La mission remercie 1'ensemble des
responsables rencontres pour la chaleur de l'accueil et l'aide qui lui ont ete fournies durant son
sejour.
Troisieme Proiet Education
2.     Ce projet, qui devait etre clos au 30 Juin 1993, sera prolonge pour une seconde fois, de 6
mois, soit au 31 Decembre 1993, et cela, en vue de completer les constructions de classes primaires
en cours, dont l'achevement est prevu pour le 30 Septembre 1993. Une demande I cet effet devra etre
adressee I l'IDA avant la mi-Mars 1993. La mission a precise I la Direction des Projets, que les
contrats resultants des appels d'offres en cours ou prevus devrait etre signees au plus tard le 30 Juin.
Bien que deux autres missions soient encore prevues avant la nouvelle date de cloture, la mission a
discute avec les responsables de la DPE, les modalites et contenus du rapport d'achevement du Projet,
et en particulier, la preparation de sa partie II relevant du gouvernement.
(a). Les aspects administration et gestior
3.     Direction des Projets de l'Education (DPE). Depuis la dernibre mission le journal des
engagements a ete etabli; l'inventaire de tous les marches et lettres de commandes, passes depuis
1986, a ete fait. Les totaux par categories de depenses et par composante du projet sont maintenant
disponibles et fiables; et l'inventaire des acquisitions depuis le dEbut du projet est disponible; II reste
encore I definir les valeurs d'acquisitions et les valeurs comptables. Ces derniers devront etre acheves
au plus tard le 31 Mars 1993. Par ailleurs, le cabinet SOFIDEC a repris ses activites dont l'objectif
est d'etablir un nouveau rapport d'audit des comptes du projet au 31 Decembre 1991 et au 30 Juin
1992. Cette mission fait suite aux remarques de la Banque sur le rapport fourni precedemment par ce
cabinet. Compte tenu du fait que pratiquement tout le travail doit etre refait de maniere approfondie,
et suite I la demande en ce sens de la DPE et de l'auditeur, la mission a acceptE le report de la date
remise du rapport du 31 Janvier au 25 Fevrier 1993. Par ailleurs, le necessaire doit 6tre fait (lettre



-2 -
d'invitation I soumettre a l'IDA et deja demande dans notre telex du 15 Ddcembre 1992) pour le
recrutement dans les meilleurs delais de I'auditeur qui sera charge de verifier les comptes du projet au
31/12/92. En tout etat ile cause, le rapport devra atre adresse a l'IDA au plus tard le 30 Juin 1993.
Des informations plus d4tailles sur ces aspects sont donnes en Annexe 1.
4.     Statistigues et planification (MEBAM). Statistigues. Au 8 Fevrier 1993, les questionnaires de
collecte des statistiques de l'enseignement primaire - plus compliques que necessaire - n'etaient pas
encore revenus. Par ailleurs la periode de collecte de ces informations ne correspond pas a la periode
de stabilisation des differents effectifs du systeme. La consequence etant des ecarts certains par
rapport I la realite des effectifs une fois stabilises (para. 19). La mission avait deja suggere qu'un
consultant soit recrute pour la revue: du questionnaire utilise; des circuits de transmission des
documents pour en avancer la disponibilite en relation avec les mesures d'amelioration de la
preparation de la rentree scolaire; du type de verification a mener pour en accroltre la fiabilite, et des
besoins de formation qui en ddcoulerait. La presente mission reitere la suggestion deja faite. Etd
sur les depenses dducatives des parents. Cette etude, confide a l'lREDU, et dont il reste a traiter et
analyser les donnees devrait pouvoir etre complete des que possible et au plus tard fin Mai 1993.
Etude sur l'organisation et gestion du MEBAM. Les termes de refdrences proposes seront 6tudies par
la mission et feront l'objet d'une communication ulterieure. II en est de meme pour les termes de
reference pour l'etude du secteur de l'education de base dont il semble que le temps necessaire pour
la realiser et l'eventail des competences I cet effet semblent etre sous estimes. Seminaire sur les
vroblemes gualitatifs de l'enseignement. La DEP/MEBAM se proposait d'organiser, mi-Fdvrier, un
seminaire regroupant les principaux intervenants dans les aspects qualitatifs de l'enseignement. Le
document de base de cette rencontre etant l'etude sur les ddterminants de la qualite menees en 1991
avec le concours de l'IREDU. La mission a rappele qu'une etude sectorielle sur les aspects qualitatift
de l'enseignement primaire Burkinabe a etc menee en 1991/92 par la Banque Mondiale. 11 a ete
convenu que, parallelement au report de la date du sdminaire, I'IDA procederait au plus tot I la
traduction de cette etude et sa mise I la disposition du MEBAM pour revue et discussions de ses
resultats et propositions lors du seminaire.............
5.    Direction de l'Orientation et des Bourses (MESSRS). L'organisation du fichier des boursiers de
l'enseignement superieur, son informatisation ulterieure, et la mise en place des modalites de suivi des
nouvelles normes en liaison avec le futur systeme d'information de gestion de l'Universite, ont fait
l'objet de discussions avec la DOB/MESSRS. Le programme pour la premiere phase a recu une non
objection de l'IDA, L'exdcution devrait commencer au plus tot. Par ailleurs, concernant l'acquisition
des livres et du materiel de reprographie pour la bibliotheque de l'universite, la mission a explicite I
Mr. Ie Recteur, les procedures I suivre (deja expliqud dans un prdcedemment dans un tdlex) et les
attributions de la Direction du Projet dans ce domaine.
(b). Les aspects 2edagogigues
6.     Manuels scolaires. La couverture actuelle des disciplines aux differents niveaux de
l'enseignement primaire est la suivante: pour le frangais, les cinq premiers niveaux sont couverts, le
livre pour la cinquieme venant d'etre receptionne. Le livre pour la sixieme annee a ete elabore par
I'IPB, avant l'appel d'offres pour son edition eventuelle, il devra etre soumis pour evaluation, a la
Commission de Publications des livres scolaires prevue dans le Quatrieme Projet Education. Par
ailleurs les livres de calcul, d'histoire et de sciences d'observations pour la 3eme annee sont
disponibles. Au total, 1,216,274 manuels ont etc achetes ou edites/imprimes, dont environ 70% pour
cent avait ete vendus I la date de la mission. Les livres continuent d'etre vendues au prix de moyen
de 725 FCFA (le prix moyen I l'achat, rendu I Ouagadougou, est de 530 FCFA), et cela
contrairement I ce qui dtait initialement prevu, soit leur location. Depuis les reconunandations de la



derniere mission, un arretd portant sur les modalites d'application de la location des manuels scolaires
dans les ecoles primaires parallelement a leur vente, a ete pris (No 92-103/ MEBAM/SG/DAAF Du 8
Decembre 1993. Une esperimentation de la location, dans 30 ecoles reparties dans les cinq plus
grandes villes du pays 4 ete lancee cette annde. La valeur des manuels en stocks au 31.01.1993 etait
de 221,169,355 millioks FCFA. Les montants des ventes, versds au Fonds de I'Edition etait de 651
millions de FCFA. Toutefois, des fonds restent encore dds par le FASO YAAR (environ 52 millions
FCFA) ainsi que par les inspections.
7.     Soutien pDdagogigue aux maitres du primaire. Le projet prevoyait que les inspecteurs devait
dans le cadre de leurs fonctions contribuer, par l'organisation de journdes pedagogiques et des visites
de conseils aux mattres les moins qualifies particulierement ceux du SND, I l'amelioration de
l'enseignement. Par suite de la reorganisation de l'administration de l'enseignement au niveau
regional, les inspecteurs ont davantage ete pris par leurs taches administratives et d'inspections au
detriment du soutien pedagogique proprement dit, qui a ete de plus en plus confie aux conseillers
pedagogiques (CPs). A cet effet, ces derniers, sont appeles I se ddplacer sans toutefois en avoir les
moyens. La derniere mission avait donna un avis de non objection a la dotation des CPs de
mobylettes sous reserve que le nombre de visites annuelles de conseils I mener (standards), la grille
d'observation et de conseils aux maitres ainsi que'les modalites pratiques de suivi de la mise en
oeuvre des deux points pr6c6dents par l'administration centrale soient precisees dans un projet de
texte d'application. Un document tres general sur ces aspects a ete produit par la Direction de
l'Enseignement de Base (DEB), auquel toutefois, il manque les standards, la grille et le projet de texte
d'application. La mission a convenu avec la DEB que le texte et ses annexes devront etre adresses
pour avis a l'IDA, au plus tard le 19 Fevrier 1993, et ce afin de permettre le lancement a temps de
l'AOI, en cours d'elaboration.
(c). Les aspects physigues
8.     Genie Civil. mobilier et eguipement. Depuis la derniere mission (Novembre 1992), I'etat
d'avancement des travaux de constructions de classes n'a pas ete significatif. Les activites ont surtout
portes sur l'etablissement d'un diagnostic detaille de la situation des differents chantiers, en vue de
definir les mesures a prendre pour assurer l'achevement des travaux au plus tot et permettre la pridse
de decision sur la date de cloture. les dossiers d'appel d'offres pour l'acquisition des mobiliers et
tables bancs ont ete soumis a la mission et il a ete convenu que les dossiers seraient revus en utiisant
les documents modbles discutes. Des informations detailles sur les differents aspects de cet element,
sont donnees en Annexe 2.
Ouatrieme Proiet Education
(a). Cadre gdn6ral et mesures
9.     Les aspects budgetaires (1993 . La part du secteur de l'education dans le budget de l'Etat a
diminue par rapport a ce qu'elle etait en 1992. La part de l'enseignement primaire dans le budget du
secteur a dgalement diminue 3 l'interieur du budget de l'education, et cela, contrairement I la lettre et
a 1'esprit du Quatrieme Projet Education. Le montant prevu pour les depenses sociales a diminud
entre les budgets de 1992 et 1993, passant de 6,2 a 5,8 milliards de FCFA, toutefois comme le
budget total a diminue, il en resulte, en pourcentage, un leger accroissement de ces depenses, qui
depassent maintenant les 30 %.
10.    Recrutements annuels des enseignants du primaire. Le nombre total des enseignants du
primaire pour I'annee scolaire, 1992-93 n'est pas encore disponible. L'analyse de l'evolution des



I



Le 15 avrl 1994
BLURKIA FASO
Troisi' e et Quatribme Projet Education
(Cr. 1598-BUR at Cr. 22-4-BUR)
Projet propose sur I'Easeignement SupSrieur
AIDE-NMEMOIRE
1.            Une mission de la Banque mondiale composee de NMNM. D. Rouag et NI. Zymelman
(Ezonomist, consultant) a s6journd au Burkina Faso du 3 au 15 avril, 1994. L'objet de 1a mission Stait
essentiellement: (a) de superviser les deux projets Education en cours et en particulier les aspects relatifs
a la preparation de la rentree scolaire 1993/94; (b) de completer la collecte des informations necessaires
au fonctionnement du modele Edfisimo de l'enseignement superieur et de discuter, avec les responsables
de ce niveau, de leurs hypotheses de developpement de l'universite et leurs effets et, (c) de discuter de
l'Ntat d'avancement de la preparation du projet de consolidation de l'enseignement superieur et du
calendrier de la mission pour sa pre-evaluation. La mission remercie S.E. Mme Alice Tiendrebeogo,
Mlinistre de l'enseignement de base et de l'alphabdtisation de masse, S.E.M. Joseph Kabore, Ministre des
travaux publics, de l'urbanisme et de l'habitat; M.A.Traore, Recteur de l'Universitd de Ouagadougou
et M. B. Sirima, secretaire executif du PAS, ainsi que l'ensemble des responsables rencontres du
MNEBAM et du MESSRS, pour la disponibilite et l'aide qui lui oat Etd accordees durant sa visite.
2.            Au cours de son sejour, la mission a Egalement eu I rencontrer et discuter des aspects
sectoriels avec Mime Rima Salah, Representant resident de l'UNICEF et M. Louis Van Der Akker,
Charge d'affaires de l'Ambassade Royale des Pays-bas. Elle a eu egalement l'occasion de participer I une
r6union des donateurs sectoriels organiseo par la cooperation frangaise ainsi qu'a celle organisee par le
Rectorat de l'Universite de Ouagadougou dans le cadre des festivites du 20me anniversaire de sa
creation, pour presenter son plan de developpement et les investissements prevus.
LE ClUATRItNfE PROJET EDUCATTON (CR. 244-BUR)
3.      La mnission a rencontre, a sa demande, S.E.M. Joseph Kabore, Ministre des travaux publics, de
l'urbanisme et de l'habitat. L'objet de la rencontre a ete, pour M. Ie Ministre, l'occasion d'appeler
l'attention de la mission sur les capacitds de son ddpartement a mener des travaux importants de
constructions, en particulier dans les domaines de la sante et de l'Education, de souligner la tendance vers
le monopole qui serait celui de Faso Bara si l'on n'y prenait garde, et que son ddpartement envisageait
la possibUite de creer des institutions du type Faso Bara. La mission a pris note de ces remarques,
soulignant que ces derniers aspects ne relevaient pas de ses competences. Toutefois elle a suggdre que
s'il dtait possible de faciiter les procedures de passations de marches (dans le sens de ce qui avait Ete
octroye au BPE au cours du Troisitme projet education pour les marches en dega d'un certain montant)
ceci faciliterait certainement la tlche du BPE en matiere de genie civil.



4.             Considerations 24n4rales. Lors de son sejour en octobre 1993, la mission avait suggdre
au Bureau du Projet, 1'6laboraEion, en commun avec les differentes composantes, du programme de travail
pour 'ann4e 1993-94, et cela a partir de ['exp4rience accumulde lors de la preparation relativement
laborieuse et trrs etalee dans le temps, de celui pour 1992-93. La mission qui considere cet aspect, et
ceux concernanc la preparation de la rentree scolaire, 1'elaboration du budget du MEBAM, la gestion du
personnel, le renforzemenrt de la fonction information statistique et planification, etc. comme des aspects
fondamentaux du ddveloppement institutionael vise par le projet, ne peut que constater que ce programme
de travail a'a pu etre mene a bien de maniere compr6hensive. De ce fait, et comme pour la derniure
ann4e scolaire, le progrimme annuel est developpe de manibre indgale avec toutes les consequences qui
en decoulent du point de vue des realisations. Le Quatrieme projet education, le seul maintenant en cours
- effectif depuis le 3 janvier 1992 ot sa revue I mi-parcours est prevue pour octobre 1994 au plus tard -
souffre d'un serieux retard dans sa mise en oeuvre et qu'i se doir de rarmaper. Ca retard se reflkre dans
son niveau de deboursement qui s'eleve I DTS 755,904 sur un montant initial de DTS 17,800,000.
Considerant le retard evoque ci-dessus ainsi que ceux qui le sont dans les paragraphes qui suivent, la
mission fait de nouveau part de sa preoccupation quant aux problemes de gestion se posant au secteur,
problemes qui devraient beneficier de I'arrention directe et soutenue des plus hauts responsables du
secteur.
5.     Recomrnandaions: Concernant specifiquement la capacite de gestion du Bureau des Projets, il
serair necessaire avant le 15 juin 1994, de proceder, apres les consultations prevues avec l'MA, au
recrutement de l'administrateur-gestionnaire national de haut niveau, prevu et finance sur le Credit et qui,
sur la base de termes de rdf4rence qui defnirait precisement ses responsabilitds, aiderair le directeur dans
les aspects techniques de la gestion administrative, comptable et fmanciere (telex de l'IDA du 11
novembre 1993). Par ailleurs, considerant que le Troisieme projet education ayant ete clOt le 31 mars
1994, le personnel local recrute et remunere sur le Quatrieme projet doit etre stctement celui prevu dans
ce' dernier. Une liste de ce personnel devrait etre adressde I l'IDA au plus tard le 30 avril 1994
parallblement aux CVs et descriptions des fonctions.
Le Ministere de 1'enseianement de base
1. Pr6paration de la rentree scolaire
6.             Le recrutement des enseignants : Dans le cadre des mesures d'accompagnement decidees
en commun apres la devaluation, il a ete prevu le recrutement de 2750 eleves-maltres et enseignants pour
la rentree 1994-95 repartis comme suit: 750 eleves-maitres pour les ENEP de Loumbila et de Bobo-
Dioulasso; 1100 nouveaux maltres pour definitivement remplacer les 1100 SNDs recrutes et formes
annuellement; et enfin les 950 maitres normalement recrutes. Considerant les problemes rencontres
jusqu'a present pour assurer le recrutement, l'impregnation pedagogique et I'affectation dans les
&tablissements des nouveaux enseignants avant la rentree scolaire, les deux principaux ministeres
interesses ont essay6 de trouver les solutions n6cessaires. Leurs discussions ont abouti I : (i)
I'krabiissement d'un seul exarnen au lieu des deux separes prevus pour les 6coles normales et les
recrutements directs ; par ailleurs, il a ete retenu que la saisie informatique des rdsultats serait faite au
niveau du NEBAM (DEC). A cet effet deux micro-ordinateurs seront achetds sur le credit qui flnancera
egalement la formation localement du personnel approprie; (ii) la determination du nombre total de
candidats qui pourront tre retenus comme admissibles en fonction de l'ordre de merite et le nombre des
postes I pourvoir. Compte tenu du nombre tres elev6 de candidats, ce systeme permettrait de ne retenir
qu'un nombre reduit d'admissible mais toutefois 25% k 35 % supdrieur aux postes I pourvoir et
perrnettrait, en consEquence, de reduire les delais de passation des epreuves orales et ecrites ; et (iii) de
demander aux candidats admissibles selon la nouvelle formule de se presenter pour les epreuves orales
et sportives avec le compldment du dossier administratif, de maniere I ce que les dossiers des admis



-3-
puissent atze craites et transmis au Ministere de la fonction publique et, de 1, au Ministere des finances
et redu'Lre ainsi les delais de regularisation et de paiements qui actuellement sont de pres d'une annde
aorzs le recr-arement. LUenLsemble des mesures prdc6dentes s'inscrivent dans un calendrier qui, s'il &it
pleinement, respect6 pourrait assurer la dispoaibi1ite de la liste des admis des le 15 aoat 1994, ce qui
permettrait de mener l'impregnation pedagogique avant l'affection des nouveaux maitres dans les
4ublissements. 11 devait revenir au secretariat du PAS de s'assurer que le calendrier est respecrt. 11
devrair 4g31ement lui reveair, en etroite consultation avec le projet de modernisation de l'aminisnration,
d'4largir les travaux par l'inclusion du miaistere des Finances en vue de deflnir un calendrier et prevoir
les eng-aemets aD4essaires pour assurer, a une date a definir, le paiement des nouveaux enseignants.
7 .           L'EN-EP de Bobo Dioulasso: Le document d'appel d'offres pour l'acquisition du mobilier
de ['E.NEP en reference (finance par la Banque Islamique de Developpement) sera lanc6 au courant du
mois d'avril 1994. U fauE esperer que ce mobilier, dont la mission de juin 1993 avait deji suggere deja
de lancer l'appel d'offres, puisse atre reellement en place lors de la rentree d'octobre. Le directeur de
l'4cole a deja ete nomme et il est prevu que le reste du personnel soit affect6 dans le cadre du mouvement
de juin-juilet 1994. 11 faut souligner que I'ENEP de LoumbUa continue, I ce jour, de souffrir du manque
de personnel permanent, ce qui entraine une r6duction du nombre effectif d'heures d'enseignements
re-ues par les eleves-maitres qui s'ajoutent au retard de d6marrage de l'armde scolaire (duree de la
presente anmee scolaire: du 11 janvier au 18 juin 1994, ce qui est nettement insuffisant. Elle continue
A souffrir egalement de l'absence d'un budget minimal gerd de maniere autonome et lui permettant de
r6pondre aux besoins quotidiens de fonctionnement et de maintenance.
8.     La convention avec Faso Bara pour la construction de 100 complexes scolaires au niveau du
primaire a etd signde par l'ensemble des parties intdressdes. La convention pour la fourniture et
l'installation du mobilier dans ces complexes par le meme Faso Bara a ete signde par le MEBAM et Faso
Bara et sa signature par le ministere du Plan et en cours.
2. Aspects edago2iques
9.            La double vacation. Durant l'amnde scolaire 1993-94, 203 classes appliquent le regime
de la double vacation. Malgre les discussions menees a cet effet lors des prdcedentes missions et la mise
a la disposition du MEBAM de l'information disponible sur ce type d'enseignement, les ndcessaires
alldgements des programmes et des horaires, en particulier pour les besoins de la double vacation, n'ont
pas ete mends avant la rentrde de 1993/94, mais semblent atre en cours. La consequence en est que les
horaires retenus pour la double vacation sont tres lourds pour les enseignants (44 heures/semaine), qui,
il ne faut pas le sou.s-estimer, est un exercice tres eprouvant. Cette situation a mend aux protestations
justifiees des enseignants aggravds par la non-fourniture des materiels didactiques prdvus et au paiement,
tres en retard deja en 1992-93 et renouvele cette annde, des indemnitds prdvues - financdes par la CEE
dans le cadre de son appui budgdeaire au gouvernement - cela par suite de leur non identification dans
le budget de cette annde - et malgrd les correspondances a cet effet du MMBAM (letres No. 94-089 et
94-0887 du 15 mars et du 5 avril 1994). Les enseignants expdrimentateurs de la double vacation, rEunis
les 17, 24 et 28 fdvrier et les 2 et 4 mars 1994, ont menac6 lors de cette dernibre reunion, d'arreter
1'experimentation jusqu'a la satisfaction de leurs revendications dont les plus importantes sont, il nous
semble, celles enoncdes ci-dessus. Les autres (visites mddicales mensuelles et l'augmentation de leur
indemnird, dtant des consequences des anomalies signaldes). Des discussions de la mission avec le
responsable sectoriel de la CEE, il s'avere que le paiement de ces indemnitds serait encore possible si
elles etaient inscrites dans le budget, ce qui devrait pouvoir etre fait.



10.    La mission attire I'attention sur l'importance de la double vacation comixe instrunent
strat4gique dans tout processus d'acceJeration de l'accs a l'enseignement primaire. Le but poursuivi
dans ce domaine - commence a travers ce projet - et qui constituera un element essentiel des
nouveaux projets envisages, sera de generaliser ce systmrne dans 1'enseignernent primaire et d'en
faire une modalite majeure d'enseignement dans le cadre de la strategie d'expansion acceleree. D'oui
['importance de la creation et de la consolidation des conditions educationnelles et administ-atives
et financieres de cette exp6rimentation.
II.    Recommandariors: S'agissanc de la survie d'un instrument strategique menace essentiellement
par des problemes de gestion, il est recommandd que tout soit fait pour que le m.iistere de
['Enseignement de base et surtout celui des Finances puissent tres rapidement trouver une solutioa aux
problmes du paiement des indemnites des enseignants selon des procedures et une periodicite I definir
et de s'assurer, par les textes necessaires, que la solution trouvee soit permanente. Par ailleurs, afin
d'aider au plan methodologique les resporsables pedagogiques concernes dans leur tlche d'allegement
des horaires et des prograrntnes, de definition de la strategie de communication et de mise en place et
d'organisation de L'extension progressive de la double vacation, un consultant specialise pourrait etre
recrute de maniere a contribuer a la prdparation de cet aspect de la rentree prochaine.
12.    Remargue: Lors de la seance de synthbse, des representants des maitres-experimentateurs ont
6te invites sans en prevenir la mission qui, en tout etat de cause, considere leurs revendications justifides.
La mission n'a pris conscience de leur presence que lorsque le representant I pris la parole pour soutenir
la double vacation et regretter les retards de toutes sortes qui la menace. La mission avait dEja estimde
qu'il na'tait pas de son ressort de rencontrer les maItres-expdrimentateurs, pour discuter de problemes
de gestion administrative qui relevent du ministere. En consequence, elle estime qu'elle aurait dfl ttre au
moins informee de la presence du representant des maltres-expdrimentataurs lors de cette seance.
i3.           Soutien 26dagogigue aux maitres sous-aualifi!s: Suite aux propositions faites par la
mission en novembre 1992 relatives au renforcement du soutien apportd par les conseillers pddagogiques
aux maitres sous qualifies du primaire, et aux ddlais mis a ddfinir les standards de visites et les modalites
p6dagogiques et administratives y relatives (circulaire No 93-032 /MEBAMISG/DEB du 9 septembre
1993) pr6alables au lancement de I'appel d'offres pour la dotation des conseillers en mobylettes pour leur
deplacement, il est maintenant ndcessaire, apres la clOture du Cr. 1598-BUR, de procdder I cet appel
d'offres sur le Credit 2244-BUR.
14.           Manuels Scolaires. La DAAF/MEBAM  a remis I la mission le document de demande
relatif au programme du minist&re pour la mise en place progressive, I partir d'octobre 1994, d'un
systeme gdndralisd de pret des manuels scolaires au niveau du primaire. Ce programme qui prdvoit
'introduction, des octobre prochain, du systeme dans environ 900 ecoles, se doit pour reussir de prdparer
des maintenant les conditions administratives, organisationnelles et physiques ainsi que l'acquisition des
manuels a cet effet. La mission souligne qu'il est possible de financer sur le projet, les etudes, les
consultants et les formations ndcessaires. Par ailleurs, la mission a indiqud qu'elle fera tres bient6t part
de ses commentaires sur le document d'appel d'offres relatif a ['edition du livre de calcul de la 4eme
annee primaire.
i5.    La mission rappelle que le Quatrieme projet prevoit la prise en compte dans les manuels, qui
auront a etre ddveloppds, de la promotion de I'education sanitaire, nutritionnelle et environnementale en
parriculier dans ceux de sciences d'observations. 11 prdvoit egalement ['elimination des stErEotypes relatifs
aux filles dans tous les manuels finances. En outre, la mission appelle I'attention sur l'integration prevue,
dans tous les documents didactiques a ddvelopper, des aspects relatifs a la facilitation du suivi et de



- 5 -
I'4valuation de I'enseigernent par les maites. Par ai.leurs, la mission a discur4 avec la Direacioa de
n'tnstirur Pedagogique du Burkina des problemes de gestion et d'orgaaisarioa auxquels semble wafronts
'Lastir't. E!le a fair part a la direction de l nlcessic de pr4parer des termes de r4f4rence pour une etude
da prccbere:s pos4s et des solutions possibles et de les soumertre I l'DA pour avis.
16.            EY.arnz-ns !r 4valuation. Le program de  e cravail discut4 avec la Direction des exameas
ea concours lors 4es r-cs  missioLs a zornmenc4 I 3tre mis en oeuvre. I1 avaiE ete convenu que, dans
ur.e premire phase. deux consultants seraient recur=s anna de definir I'approche m4thodologique de tout
le processus d'4valuation, en particulier celui relarif aux objectifs vises pour le CEP et le developpement
de tests normalises pour 1'4valuarion des acquis de la troisieme ann4e. Deux consultants, I'un local et
1'autre exterieur, ont 4ce recrutes et ont elabore un plan d'action pour le developpement des instruments
d'4valuaEion des ;onnaissances aux niveaux considerds du primaire. Le rapport vient d'etre acheve et sera
adresse I I'IDA pour avis.
17.            Actions: La formation de sp4cialistes nationaux, dont le d6marrage avait et convenu
pour janvier, devrait maintenant etre prevue I partir d'octobre 1994. U serait necessaire de procsder I
Videntification des stagiaires et celle des centres de formation. A cet effet, le Bureau des projets education
pourrait apporter son aide dans ces domaines.
18.            Erude sur la scolarisation des filles. Les enquetes sur le terrain sont maintenant achevees
et le trairement des donn4es est acruellement en cours, parallelement a l'etude des contenus des manuels
s,olaires et a celle de la pr6sentaEion de la condition femnine. En l'absence du consultant national, les
responsables de la cellule ont reporre a son retour l'information de Il'A sur la nouvelle date prevue pour
I'achevement de l'4tude. I1 faut rappeler que cette etude avait commence avec du retard par suite de
nombreux changemenrs dans l'approche et dans les cotlts et que lors de la mission d'octobre 1993, la date
convenue pour I'achevement du rapport etait le 31 mars 1994. La mission a confirme l'importance de
certe 4tude comme base pour le ddveloppement d'un eventuel projet "expansion du primaire et de la
scolarisation des filles et promotion des fenmmes".
19.            Am_lioration de 1'4tat sanitaire at --rit-nnel des 41~ves.  Le Directeur de la
DEB/INMBAM a &d change. La Direction de 1'enseignement de base a prepare un document synth6tisant
son appr6ciation des problemes poses dans 1'ex6cution de certe composante et sa proposition de ce qui
semble 4rre un nouveau programme de travail. Ce document sera adresse officiellement I l'IDA dans les
tous prochains jours pour avis. La mission a rappele les travaux mends, lors des deux dernieres missions
de Mife Tonia MNarek dans ce domaine, le programme de travail propose ainsi que le seminaire de
sriesibilisation entrepris avec le Ministere de la sant6.
. D4veloppement institutionrel
:0.            Les dtudes. Concernant les d&udes prevues pour lI'laboration de progrnmmes de
renforcements des fonctions 'budgetisation' et r gestion des personnels", la premiere est en cours alors
que pour la seconde, qui souffre d'un grand retard, il a dtd convenu avec la DAAF/M:EBAM, que des
termes de reference seront pr6parxs et adresses a l'IDA pour avis dans les tous prochains jours.
21.    Renforcement de la Direction de la planification. Le recrutement du consultant pour la carte
scoiaire a ete fait. Le premier seminaire de formation a ete mend et les enquates sur le terrain sont en
cours. Ceci permettra, des septembre prochain, d'etablir la carte actuelle des implantations et de cerner
les populations restant encore a servir. Un seminaire sur 1'4tablissement de la carte previsionnelle est
prevue en octobre-novembre 1994. Cette carce devrait commencer par celle de l'implantation, selon un
ordre de priorit6 a definir selon les criteres retenus, des classes prevus dans les programmes



- 6 -
d'investissements du primaire (IDA, BM,BAD, etc..).  La mission reitere sa non objection au
financement d'un consultant pour la revue des problemes de collecte, analyse et publication des
statistiques discutes. Par ailleurs, et concemant la sminaire sur les problemes qualiutifs mends en
decembre 1993, la mission apprecierait de recevoir la rapport des discussions menees et les
reco=amndarions. Par ailleurs, concernant 1 etude en cours avec l'REDU sur les depenses des f:amiles,
la mission encourage sa finalisation au plus tot.
Ministbre de I'enseianement secondaire sup6rieur at de la recherche scienrifique.
22.           I)Direction de la olanification. La mission a reitere ce qui a deja ete discutd lors des
precedentes missions: ['objet de la composante inclus le renforcement de la collecte, analyse et traitement
des informations staristiques, le financement d'4eudes relatives I I'analyse des problames de strategie et
de politiques des enseignements du secondaire eE du superieur, en particulier celles relatives aux mesures
budg4taires pr4vues. Elle prevoir egalement 1'4rude des problbmes de l'nseignement techaique et
professionnel due au 30 juin 1993, et reportee au 30 juin 1994. Des termes de reference pour l'4tude sur
l'enseignement technique et professionnel ont ete remis de maniere non-officielle I la mission. La mission
A fait part de la possibUite pour l'IDA, d'initier un evenruel Projet pour la consolidation de
l'enseignernent technique et professionnel lorsque [a coanaissance de ce sous-secteur sera suffisamment
avancee. Elle a aussi sugaare a la Direction de 1'enseignement techaique et professionnel et I celle de la
planification du MESSRS, de mener une etude plus approfondie que l'tude tres jgndrale actuellement
prevue day/par les termes de reference, erude qui devrait porter sur l'administraion, le fonctionnement,
la qualite et la pertinence de la formation et des filieres en fonction du marche de l'emploi, les
mecanismes de suivi et de prise en compte des signaux de ce meme marche, le niveau d'implication des
employeurs dans la definition des politiques pour et dans la gestion de ce sous secteur, ses modalites de
financement ainsi que le cadre de fonctionnement at le rOle laisses au priv6 dans ce domaine. La mission
a suggErd, dinclure dans la mission d'etude propos6e, deux spdcialistes des formations industrielles et
tertiaires dont l'un avec une boane connaissance de la gestion des etablissements et l'autre de celle de la
formation continue, ainsi qu'un economiste, spEcialiste des problemes de l'emploi et qui aurait egalement
A itudier les aspects du financement du sous secteur.
23.            Direction des inspections de 1'enseignemenc secondaire. Le malentendu sur le paiement
des encadreurs des stages de recyclage au dell des frais de voyage et de perdiem habituels, vient d'4tre
leve. Le programme actuel de recyclage int6resse les professeurs de sciences naamrelles et comprend trois
sessions prevues respectivement pour juillet, septembre et octobre 1994. La mission encourage la DIES
i pr6voir des sessions interessant les autres disciplines et particulierement pour celles ouz la situation
semble difnicile: les sciences physiques et les mathematiques. Considerant la dramatique faiblesse des
effectifs dans la filiere C (maths et sciences), la plus imnportante du point de vue de la formation des
cadres pour le developpement et dont l'impact sur la distorsion des effectifs au niveau de l'universit6
(concentration des effectifs de l'universitd au niveau de trois ou quatre facultes sans grande perspective
d'emploi pour les competences de leur sortants), il est sugg6r6 de proc6der au plus tdt, avec ['aide de
specialistes dans ce domaine, (equipe mixte compose. de specialistes de la discipline et des techniques
de mesures) I une evaluation diagnostic des programmes et des difficultds d'apprentissage des
mathdmatiques et des sciences physiques I partir de la premiere annde du premier du cycle du secondaire.
Le probleme de la repartition des effectifs au niveau de l'universitd et surtout de la maltrise de leur
accroissement sera aborde lors de la preparation du projet enseignement superieur prEvu.
24.            Concernant les formations prevues, il serait ndcessaire de reprendre contact avec les
centres vises, d'en obtenir les programmes et de les adresser pour avis I ['IDA en mame temps que les
CVs des candidats eE les coats. Le processus d'acquisition des trois vehicules a ete acheve. Toutefois, les



soumission.s 4t.an libellees en FCFA, la processus d'ajustement des prix doit atre men6 sur la base des
formules dUveLopp4es par le ministare du du Plan, ce qui ne saurait maintenant tarder.
5.             Gestion des bourses de I'enseiaznement suoerieur. Des termes de reference out ete prepares
et adresses A I'DA pour avis. Tourefois at parallelement, les termes de reference ost ete adressees I trois
universires pour sol!iciter des offres de services pour le diveloppemeat du schema directeur sans que 'la
lertre d'invitatica' pr&: se les zriteres sur lesquels les offres eventuelles seraient evaluees; en outre, un
projet de coarrat n'a pas 4t6 joint a la lettre d'invitation. La mission a fait part au BPE quil serait
ne essaire et prudent de respecter les proc4dures prevues pour les coasultants et d'arresdre tes
commentaires et avis evenruels de I'MDA.  En outre, un 'audit informatique' de la Directioa de
l'orientation et des bourses a et engage sans consultation prealable de l'IDA sur le bien fonde de ces
'trnavaux" qui font double emploi avec la mission de consultation prevu sur le schema directeur. En
consequence, la mission fait part que le contrat, a cet effet, avec 1'entreprise 'EINTELAC' ne pourra tre
financz sur le Cr4dit 2244-BUR.
26.            Svsreme d'information de gestion de l'Universite. Peu de progres semblent avoir et4
accomplis dans ce domaine.
7.             Audit et comotes des oroiets. Les audits des deux projets au 31 decernbre 1993 (Cr.
1598-BUR et Cr. 224t4BUR) ont deja 4t4.cffectuds et les rapports seront transmis a I'DA durant le mois
d'avril 1994. 11 a 4t6 convenu avec le BPE que l'audit des comptes du Cr. 1598-BUR au 31 mars 1994
devrait etre rapidement effectue at adressd A I'MA avant la fin du mois de juin 1994.
TROISTEME PROJET EDUCATION (CR. 1598-BUR)
28.            Le Credit 1598-BUR a ete clos le 31 mars 1994. Pour permete le reglement des
engagements pris avant le 31 mars 1994, et comme indique dans le telex du 9 fevrier 1994 adresse I cet
effet au gouvernement, les comptes financiers du credit seront clos le 31 juillet 1994. Le montant
initialement verse au compte special a ete recupdre, I l'exception des fonds retenus danm l'ancien compte
du projet I la BNDB.
29.            Action: Le compte spEcial etant 'solde", il serait necessaire de preparer et d'adresser I
l'IDA les demandes de paiement au profit des differents fournisseurs de biens et services pour leur
permettre d'etre payes avant la cloture des comptes du credit.
30.            Leas tbleaux quantitaifs sur l'etat d'execution des differents programmes du Credit ont
ete Elabores par le Bureau du projet et remis A la mission.
PROJET PROPOSE DE CONSOLIDATION DE L'UNIVERSITE DE OUAGADOUGOU
31.    Le modele de simulation du fonctioanement de l'universite de Ouagadougou a pu etre alimente
des donnes necessaires et cela grace aux efforts consentis par les responsables et cadres administratifs et
financiers de l'universite. Le modble et ses resultats ont ete presentes I M. Ie Recteur ct k deux de ses
principaux collaborateurs. Les aspects [es plus frappants sont: (i) le faible aiveau des ressources alloudes
A I'enseignement, environ 25 % au lieu des 40-45 % generalement admis; (ii) le faible montant affecte
au materiel didactique au sens large, environ 5 % ; (iii) le niveau eleve des horaires d'enseignement
confies I des vacataires avec toute les consequences sur la qualite. Par ailleurs, le niveau eleve des
admissions au cours des recentes annees, va signifier un accroissement rapide des dipldmes (et cela
maalgre la faible retention) dans des specialites qui, pour le moias ne semblent pas tres demandees par
le marche de 1'emploi. Tout accroissement des effectifs dans les facultes concerndes (FIASH, FASEG,



(FIASH, FASEG, etc ..) ne fera qu'aggraver la situation 1. Une analyse plus d6taillee des problemes
posds et des mesures I prendre k cet effet sera adressee bientot au gouvernement.
32.            Au cours de ses rencontres avec les responsables de 1'enseignement supdrieur et tout
particulierement avec M. Ie Recteur de l'Universite et M. Ie Directeur de la planification, la mission a
discute de I'etat d'avancement de la preparation du projet identifle en decembre 1994 et pour laquelle des
termes de r6fdrences ddtaillds avaient dtd proposds par l'IDA. La mission a pris note du peu de progres
accomplis dans cette preparation. M. le Recteur de l'Universite a indiqude a la mission qu'il tenait
toutefois a ce que la pre6-valuation du projet propose puisse se tenir selon le calendrier initialement prevu
soit en Mai-Juin 1994. Parmi ces problemes, les plus importants semblent fet: (a) le ddveloppement
rapide des effectifs durant les dernieres annees, ce problbme commence toutefois a recevoir une solution
(paragraphe ci-dessus) ; (b) la rigidite de l'organisation acaddmique ; (c) la faible efficacite interne et
externe; (d) la distorsion dans la structre de qualifications des personnels enseignants; (e) la faiblesse
des services de bibliotheques ; et (f) le management centralise de l'universite et les problemes d'allocation
de ressources. Le developpement d'un cadre general et des mesures d'accompagnement constitue
l'1lement fondamental du projet dans lequel viendraient s'inserer les investissements pertinents.
DIgLm F0/7- 4/U. i)
AAfl1\DOC'AWU.MMOL3UR
DRI~
L .f-Vils d_I   &w i udge C   tr.t UW h g  am sh_a (M _ aI  mur m _ de 7.112 im 1.1 A  I it& 0).
Le   d   u_i    L       F dm Ikm wb (3 PI a FZ sd1mv - IM I S



GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
MINISTRY OF BASIC EDUCATION AND GENERAL LITERACY
SECRETARIAT-GENERAL
Education Projects Bureau
COMPLETION REPORT ON EDUCATION PROJECT HI
CREDIT 1598-BUR
Ouagadougou, March 1994
Education Proiects Bureau



I



MINISTRY OF BASIC EDUCATION AND GENERAL LITERACY
SECRETARIAT-GENERAL
Education Projects Bureau
REPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
ON EDUCATION PROJECT m
CREDIT 1598-BUR
I.    INTRODUCTION
1.1   This document is the Completion Report on the Primary Education Development
Project in Burkina Faso, financed by IDA under Credit 1 598-BUR.
The First Education Project (Credit 430-UV) financed reinforcement of the FJA
(Formation desjeunes agriculteurs) system and construction of 22 science laboratories.
The Second Education Project (Credit 956-UV) made funding of US$14 million
available for support of the FJA training system and strengthening of the Vocational
Training Center operated by the Ministry of Public Works.
1.2   The Primary Education Development Project, which focused on expansion and
quality improvement in primary education, was signed on June 17, 1985 and became
effective the following November 18. It was the first of the three to be the exclusive
responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Total cost was estimated at SDR 21.8 million,
roughly equivalent to US$21.8 million. The Burkina Government was to contribute an
additional SDR 1.6 million.
1.3   Education Project III was completed on March 31, 1994, after two extensions, and
the Credit closing date is July 31, 1994.
This Completion Report, intended for the Government of Burkina Faso and
prepared by the Project Directorate, renders an account of what has been achieved in the
field of education as a result of implementation of the project.
H.  BACKGROUND
2.1   Proiect obiectives and components
2.1.1  The key objective of Education Project III was to put a financing strategy into
operation that would accelerate the expansion of primary education by reducing unit costs



at this level of the education system, and that would strengthen the education authorities'
planning, management, administration, and cost-control capabilities.
2.1.2 In order to ensure that these overall objectives would be accomplished, the project
designers focused on the following specific objectives:
2.1.2.1    Reducing unit costs, by recruiting new primary-school teachers
(instituteurs adjoints) at a salary level below that of the main corps of Grade 1
teachers, and also by improving the internal efficiency of primary education by
focusing on teacher training and on means of producing, procuring and distributing
textbooks.
2.1.2.2 Reducing primary-school construction costs, by executing a pilot school-
building program to design and construct classrooms at a lower cost and by
promoting local participation in that process.  A system  of periodic school
maintenance and repair was also to be introduced.
2.1.2.3    Promoting institutional development in the education sector, by
strengthening the planning, management and control of education expenditures so
as to ensure that the reduced unit costs could be sustained. This was to be
achieved by reallocating resources as necessary, and by taking the steps needed to
reinforce the Planning Directorate of the Ministry of Basic Education, the
Guidance and Fellowships Directorate of the Ministry of Higher Education and
Scientific Research, and the FJA training system of the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.1.3 The project consisted of several components:
2.1.3.1 Reduction of unit costs:
-     Restructuring of teacher training
-     Development, procurement and distribution of textbooks
-     Building and maintenance of primary schools
2.1.3.2  Institutional development:
-     Planning
-     Management of higher education
-     Management of the FJA training system
-     Management of the project
2.2   Points of aereement and recommendations at the Droiect negotiation stafe
In the course of the project negotiations between the Borrower and the Bank, the
Government gave assurances that the following conditions would be met:
Issue by December 31, 1986 of a decree upgrading the promotion
examinations open to primary-school teachers, making them more
selective.



Reorganization of the Teaching Materials Production Department of the
Burkina Pedagogical Institute, through creation by June 30, 1986 of an
Editing Division and a Production Division.
Formulation by June 30, 1986 of a directive (to be agreed upon with IDA)
regarding the level of government subsidies to private education, and
partial review by April 30, 1986 of the expenditures and financing needs of
the education sector, with a view to providing for either a reallocation of,
or an increase in, the budget resources devoted to primary education.
Establishment by June 30, 1986 of a National Commission (answerable to
the Ministry of Agriculture) to study ways and means of coordinating the
primary education system and the FJA training system. Examination of the
Commnission's conclusions by June 30, 1987.
Enforcement of a requirement that Burkina nationals who are beneficiaries
of training abroad funded from the proceeds of this Credit must return to
their jobs for at least three years.
Annual certified audit of the project accounts.
Forwarding to IDA of six-monthly progress reports throughout the project
implementation period, the first to be due on January 31, 1986.
2.3   Proiect modifications
2.3.1  Project content went through the following changes in the course of the
implementation period:
2.3.1.1    Introduction of a new component under which the Directorate of
Guidance and Fellowships of the Ministry of Higher Education shared the
resources initially allocated to it with that Ministry's Directorate of Studies and
Planning.
2.3.1.2    Frequent modifications -  recommended by the IDA supervision
missions - in the methods used to execute the school building and equipment
program, in view of the poor results with this component in the first years of the
project period.
2.3.1.3  Suspension of the FJA component in July 1992, pending completion of
both the evaluation report on the FJA training system and an assessment of
progress with the component between 1985 and 1992.



2.3.1.4  Suspension on the initial project closing date of the technical support (in
the form of the services of a project administrator and an architect) made available
to the Education Projects Bureau by the consulting firm WPW.
2.3.2 Numerous problems of the administrative and management type led to major
delays in execution of the project, which was finally completed over three years behind
schedule - after two postponements of the closing date.
2.3.3 The pace of project disbursements was slow until 1991, when it improved
considerably as a result of the Education Projects Bureau being granted a special
dispensation by the Government from compliance with procurement requirements.
2.3.4 Utilization of the proceeds of the Credit differed from one expenditure category to
another, varying between 10.77 percent execution in one case to 135.67 percent in
another. As of March 31, 1994, the average budget execution rate over all categories was
95.60 percent.
Two reallocations of Credit proceeds were negotiated over the 1992-1993 period,
and a third is to be anticipated at the time the project accounts are closed.
There was no action in two expenditure categories, although for different reasons:
(a)   Category 4 (Periodic maintenance and repair of primary schools in project
areas): At 55 percent, the national counterpart contribution was too high;
the Government never met it.
(b)   Category 7B (Salaries of teachers in project primary schools):  The
Government refused to cover this type of project cost.
2.4   General conclusions
2.4.1 Quantitatively speaking, and despite the Government's suspension of this operation
in 1987, project results have generally exceeded the goals set. There are exceptions,
however: the National Primary-Teacher Training College at Loumbila and the Directorate
of Guidance and Fellowships, two cases in which not all plans could be carried out, by
reason of:
(a)   The scale on which the needs of each component had to be formulated and
lack of the ability to assess them correctly on such a scale. The resulting
inaccuracies held up the procurement process.
(b)   The time-consuming nature of the procurement process and related
scheduling errors on the part of the Education Projects Bureau took their
toll.



(c)   Frequent failure on the part of suppliers to provide goods and services up
to specification.
However, major efforts were made in the field of training and in conducting
studies.
2.4.2 Qualitatively speaking, although project results have not yet been flilly evaluated,
there has clearly been a very significant improvement in education sector institutional
ability to carry out increasingly coherent sector development programs.
2.4.3 The project has helped expand primary education notably (the enrollment rate
having increased from 23.90 percent in 1985 to 31.87 percent in 1993). It has also
generated more thorough knowledge of the education system in general and the primary
education subsystem  in particular.  Finally, it has added to system  planning and
management capabilities.
2.4.4 The project school building program calls for special comment. Although it
achieved its quantitative goals, its initial design was faulty and there was significant
wastage of building materials. In the final analysis, the goal of cost reduction was not
achieved.
IV.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Physical achievements
4.1   Civil enEineerini
4.1.1  National Primary-School Teacher Training College. Loumbila (Ministry of Basic
Education)
Construction of 12 teachers' houses
Fencing of the 12 houses
Conversion of dormitories into classrooms for student-teacher practical
courses
4.1.2  Burkina Pedagogical Institute (Ministry of Basic Education)
-     Renovation of Institute premises
-     Repairs to and extension of library
-     Repairs to building housing editing/publishing division
-     Construction of building to house print shop
4.1.3 Directorate of Administration and Finance (Ministry of Basic Education)
-     Construction of central textbook warehouse



-     Renovation of textbook storage points at Bobo and Ouahigouya
4.1.4  Education Projects Bureau (Ministry of Basic Education)
-     Construction of an office building to be shared by the Bureau with the
Directorate of Studies and Planning (Ministry of Basic Education)
-     Construction and equipping of three regional Bureau branch offices
-     Development and fencing of building site
-     Development of two parking lots and other utility systems
4.2   Buildinfz and maintenance of primary schools
4.2.1  This program provides for:
low-cost construction and equipping of 450  classrooms in seven
disadvantaged areas of the country;
a pilot program to allow experimentation with alternative methods of
school construction;
financial support for communities through matching contributions to the
construction and equipping of school facilities.
4.2.2  As of March 31, 1994, the program calling for the construction and equipping of
450 classrooms, 450 teachers' houses, 150 canteens, and 150 double latrines in the seven
provinces of Tapoa, Gourma, Gnagna, Sanmatenga, Namentenga, Bam, and Yatenga had
yielded the following results: 414 classrooms, 381 teachers' houses, 138 canteens, 138
latrines.
On the date set for closure of the project accounts, works delivery formalities will
have been completed at all project work sites, except for a group of seven school
complexes (consisting of 21 classrooms, 21 teachers' houses, 7 canteens, and 7 school
latrines), which will be carried over to Education Project IV with IDA approval.
Since work in Yatenga province was ahead of schedule, an additional group of 10
school complexes was begun and completed, bringing the number of program classrooms
up to 480.
Even if all the hopes that existed at the outset of this operation have not been
fulfilled, it is nevertheless the case that the new strategy introduced on the
recommendation of IDA made the year 1993 one of the best periods of Education Project
III: as of March 31, 1994, the school building program execution rate had risen from 43
percent to 92 percent in the case of schools and from 16 percent to 85 percent in the case
of teachers' houses. In other words, over the period of 17 months from October 1992 the
project achieved the following progress rates: schools and associated facilities, 110.7
percent; teachers' houses and associated facilities, 396.9 percent.
These figures would have been significantly higher if:



the invitations to bid issued in October 1992 had not been annulled by IDA
without sufficient cause;
the project work sites had not consequently been faced with a major
disruption in building-material supplies;
payments to subcontractors had not been irregular.
4.2.3 The pilot building program allowed for the construction of 10 schools with three
classrooms each, with the expectation that this would lead to identification of new
methods and new strategies of school construction. The French architectural consulting
firm CRATERRE was commissioned to conduct the experiments and execute the
program, which was finally only half completed:
-     two buildings (at Yagma and Noongande) were constructed by the local
authorities with materials supplied by the Education Projects Bureau;
-     one building (at Zoetgomde) was constructed on the initiative of local
community groups;
-     one building (at Songa) was constructed with a focus on maximum cost
cutting and a high degree of community participation;
-     the teaching-practice school at the National Primary-School Teacher
Training College at Loumbila was also in this category.
The results obtained from this pilot operation were not meaningful.
4.2.4 Matching contributions were expected to make it possible to sustain school-
construction initiatives in villages whose communities had been responsible for most
school construction and equipping without government assistance.
There were two phases to implementation of this project component:
(a)   During the first phase, the procedure was to allocate funds in tranches to
be managed by local governments - a system that was quickly abandoned,
however, because that management left much to be desired.
(b)   During the second phase, the new procedure was to enter into contracts
with local community groups or Parents Associations, an alternative which
resulted in:
construction of 248 classrooms and 104 teachers' houses;
repair of 105 classrooms and two houses;
\   -  equipping of 182 classrooms with school furniture;
equipping of 990 schools with teaching materials.
The fact that this program gave such good results, despite the initial interruption
because of the poor performance of local governments in allocating funds, can be ascribed
to the flexible approach taken in implementing it.



4.2.5 If the results of this program are included, the project as a whole can be credited
with the construction of 662 classrooms, 485 teachers' houses, 138 canteens, and 138
latrines.
4.2.6 Each school complex that benefited under the project was to be equipped with a
well and school furniture. Out of a total of 150 wells sunk, 131 proved successful and 19
unsuccessful. All classrooms (450 plus those built via the pilot program) were equipped.
4.3   Epuipment, furniture and vehicles
No serious problems affected budget execution in this project expenditure
category. In general, the local competitive bidding process was used, and all goods
contracted for were actually delivered. The following reservations apply, however:
There were significant delays in deliveries.
Equipment received was sometimes of poor quality.
The needs -  particularly in connection with new inspections -  of the
following departments and agencies for goods of these types were not
adequately covered: National Primary-School Teacher Training College at
Loumbila, Directorate of Guidance and Fellowships (Ministry of Secondary
and Higher Education and Scientific Research), and Directorate of School
Equipment (Ministry of Basic Education and General Literacy).



VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1   This project enabled the education sector to:
(1)   increase enrollment capacity in the formal primary education subsector;
(2)   improve the quality of education;
(3)   upgrade the ability of government departments and agencies in the sector
to execute their current programs efficiently and effectively;
(4)   obtain a fuller and more accurate picture of the system, and to institute
well-coordinated plans and action programs.
6.2    However, these gains have yet to be consolidated by greater efficiency throughout
the system, especially as project results have been slow to have their full potential impact,
mainly because of:
(1)   The relative complexity of the project, implementation of which required
major participation by at least nine departments or agencies belonging to
three different ministries. In addition, the successive managers of the
operation had to meet high standards of stringency and transparency,
sometimes without the benefit of support from IDA or their own
supervisory authorities.
(2)   The lengthy nature of both the Government and IDA processes by which
decisions were taken on procurement of goods and services,
disbursements, and mobilization of counterpart funds.
(3)   A high project staff turnover rate between 1986 and 1993: six individuals
succeeded one another in the project director position.
(4)    Shortcomings, during the first four years of the project implementation
period, in ongoing technical assistance arrangements in the accounting and
construction fields. There was no transfer of know-how.
(5)   Poor management of coordination arrangements.
6.3    Despite advances attributable to the project in all areas of educational action,
sector management, capability remains seriously limited. It would be advisable to ensure
that the designers of any future project make allowances for this fact by:
(1)   framing a realistic implementation schedule;
(2)   resolving logistical difficulties, particularly those encountered in rural areas;
(3)   reviewing the implementation arrangements for construction programs,
ensuring that community responsibility is not over-emphasized and that
works are executed on a joint basis (en entreprise generale);



(4)   increasing the size of the initial disbursement so as to reduce payment
delays;
(5)   establishing conditions conducive to fast-paced execution of the project-
e.g. reliance on private consulting firms to prepare documentation and to
carry out some execution tasks, simplification of procurement procedures;
(6)   drawing up a procedures manual and providing project officials with
training in their particular fields of responsibility;
(7)   making IDA supervision strategy more cogent by ensuring that:
7.1   supervision missions are neither too close together nor too long;
7.2   mission recommendations and suggested policy measures are better
organized and ranked according to priority;
7.3   the contents of mission aide-memoires are better explained at wrap-up meetings.



MAP SECTION






M,4.-.  ._._   M ARLA
BURKINA FASO )
Q         NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                       r                                                                                         Cj E
eJ   CAPNITLF D'ETAT                                       ,3 . ,1Grm  Goronn                                                                                                        j   'VIE{ t)   IEI
PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                       _G HAW
CHEF LIEU DE PROVINCES                        ,                                                              -I                                                         -*
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                            Dlibo                     *Do
LIMITES DE PROVINCES
INTERNATIONAL BOUJNDARIES
LIMITES D'ETATS
0uohigouy          ,                                                       ''NO
Kongou        SA                                                                     AV
*.S TougaorR
Dr :JF>OI,   ( Yak.   :                                             "4
2' 0 
Nouno                                    PASSOPr                                                      Bogo      . 
w                                            .*    s            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Zm,wore   Z6#
@ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 2                                                   (KOSS'P ,                                                                         I.; o 7   '  i ,Bus    , 
" edougou                0 Rto    Koudo.gpu1    ,       ,     ,         rgho  '
/$, /¢' , ',O        I         _ON .    ,  ,F  -  Podo-N'Gour-na  , poga
.S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANIL                                            Konbissur; 0         3         "'c- .)E1FrN A)  ''  \Ct.pg
rt < , , , EAZE. A , 3 -x.N6 > d j. ( ;0U;'~~~~tT.A d~APOAz,w
.               ' .,,,,    , ~~~Mrngo  ;Tenkodogo  ) 
'Iu-SSE  o  ' fi   '"   ZfJJNilWSeOC'   .,  T g) k.   .                                       .
C .)
<'V                                                                                          EOI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0)LOCX;,
Bobo-Dioulosso ,..                         '
(/Orodoro                    ®,                                       3                Lteouo PA®<
-'CliPT    '    Diebougon                         ;
-4~' .k B0 G l<6 or    J                                                                                         OG
Bonforo                                                                  G H A N A
^                                            ~~~~~Goouo  %
The   boundaries,  colors,
I .                                                denoriiinations anid   any
other information shown
on   this  mnap    do    niot
imply,  on   the   part  of   -
I \ § n ue] loo ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~statuJs  of  any   territory, r
'_                      C..OTEKILOMtTERS                                                                                                                                                   or acceptanc   of suchfr
*,   ~           ~~~ Cb0T E D' I VOI RE                                                                                                                                                bourdais.v



I






IMAGING
PRe po rt No:   14464
Type: ICR



