Report No. PID9930
Project Name                     Thailand-Building Chiller Replacement Project
(Supplemental Project)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Pollution Control / Waste Management
Project ID                       THMT69028
Borrower(s)                      INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION - IFCT
Implementing Agency
Address THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION
OF THAILAND
1770 New Petchaburi Road, Bangkok 10320
Contact Person: Mr. Anothai Techamontrikul,
President
Tel: 253-7111; 253-9666
Fax: 253-9677
Email: secretar@ksc.th.com
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                January 23, 2001
Projected Board Date             April 16, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Energy Demand and the Economic Crisis The peak power demand for 1999
stood at 14,200, 000 kilowatts (kw), and the demand has remained about the
same level since the crisis. In 1997, the demand showed an increase of
about 9t when compared to 1996. The current electricity generating
capacity of the Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand (EGAT) is
14,686,898 kW, and the other generating sources add another 5,500,000 kw
to the grid. Energy conservation will reduce the need for additional
investments in capacity expansion, and for fossil fuel imports. Recent
increases in fuel price should further boost energy saving
activities.Energy Conservation Act (1992): In response to the rising
energy demand and the potential savings that can be realized from
demand-side management activities, the Government promulgated the Energy
Conservation Act. The Act established an Energy Conservation Fund (ECF).
The Fund receives contributions from various sources, including a small
surcharge from the oil tax. The Act and the ECF are administered by the
Energy Conservation Committee (CEC) chaired by the prime minister. The
Department of Energy Development and Promotion (DEDP) is responsible for
enforcement of the mandatory activities while the National Energy Policy
Office (NEPO) is responsible for funding of pilot activities, research and
development, and public relation programs. The Act also requires large
energy users, identified as controlled facilities, to hire energy
managers, conduct energy studies, and develop energy conservation plans.
Failure to comply invites financial penalties. In 1995, the Government
established the energy consumption standards for building air-conditioning
systems (centrifugal chillers) for both existing and new installations.
Depending on the cooling capacity, energy consumption of existing
centrifugal chillers shall not exceed 0.8-0.9 kW/TR, and 0.67-0.75 kW/TR
for new installations. Limited technical expertise, lack of technical
information on actual savings, difficulty in accessing ECF funding, lack



of capital investments, and the unwillingness of building owners to
invest in energy savings constraint the satisfactory implementation of
standards. ODS Phaseout Obligations: Under the MP, Article 5 countries,
including Thailand, are required to meet specific targets for ODS
phaseout5 and are eligible for funding from the Multilateral Fund (MLF).
Thailand, through the Department of Industrial Works (DIW), had
successfully implemented projects to eliminate the use of CFCs in the
manufacturing sectors and the complete phasing out of CFC in the domestic
refrigerator manufacturing industry was completed in January 1997. The
Government is targeting the commercial refrigerator manufacturing industry
next. The -remaining CFC use in Thailand are the end-users and servicing
sectors, including building chillers, mobile air-conditioners, and
industrial refrigeration systems. Phasing out CFCs demand in these
sectors is difficult as it is logistically more complicated than that in
the manufacturing sector. The Government is in the process of preparing a
national CFC phase-out strategy and an action plan to ensure full
compliance with the MP. As part of this strategy, the Government is
committed to encourage early retirement of CFC chillers. CFC Chiller
Replacement Program: As both CFC phaseout and energy conservation have
increasingly become major concerns, many building chiller manufacturers
have introduced design improvements. This resulted in some new non-CFC
models, that are 30-40w more energy efficient comparing to the pre-1993
CFC chillers, being installed. This interest on the part of the building
owners has prompted the government to establish a national program and to
seek World Bank assistance. Preliminary investigations concluded that most
CFC chillers were installed prior to 1993 and are of the centrifugal
type6, using CFC-11 or CFC-12 as refrigerant. Of the 1,400 CFC chillers
identified in 1999, about 1,060 units (76%) have capacity of 300-500 TR or
more and are being used in textile industries. A preliminary cash flow
analysis suggested that using a reinvestment strategy and a revolving fund
mechanism, financing requirement for replacing 444 (see footnote 1)
chillers over a 10-year period would be about US$ 90 million. Of this
amount about US$30 million is required as a start-up capital while the
remaining US$60 million can be financed by reinvesting repayments
collected from early replaced units. However, implementation of the
chiller replacement program is still technically and financially difficult
at present as demonstrated by the ECF experience. It is believed that the
existing old and inefficient chillers can be widely replaced with the new
energy efficient chillers if the three market barriers are fully removed.
When fully implemented, this program will have significantly contributed
to energy consumption reduction in the country and also enabled the
achievement of the CFC phase-out targets. Market Barriers: There are
three key market barriers to the early retirement of the old CFC chillers.
First is the high up-front investment cost of new chillers and limited
access to commercial credit, particularly after the financial crisis in
1997. Awareness of the domestic lenders regarding the potential market for
energy efficiency investments is also lacking. Second barrier is the
unfamiliarity with the new chiller technology in Thailand. Although the
high-efficiency non-CFC chiller technology has been accepted in developed
countries, it has not been widely recognized in developing countries.
There is a perceived technology risk that energy savings realized in
developed countries cannot be achieved in countries with a tropical
climate. Third barrier is limited technical capacity on chiller designs
and maintenance in the country. Many of the large builders are oversized
and the building owners are unwilling to invest in proper operation and
- 2 -



maintenance of the chiller systems. Technical expertise and practical
experience in design and servicing building chillers is still limited to
the large chiller suppliers and manufacturers. Further training in chiller
design, operation, and maintenance is needed in the country.      5 Phaseout
targets for the Article 5 country (annual consumption of Annex A less than
0.3 kg per capita) are: i) on July 1, 1999 to freeze at levels not
exceeding the annual average of 1995-97; ii) by January 1, 2005, to reduce
to less than 50t of the freeze level; iii) by January 1, 2007, to reduce
to less than 15t of the freeze level; and iv) finally by January 1, 2010,
to stop import all CFCs.
2. Objectives
The overarching objectives of the proposed project are to assist Thailand
to (i) improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in
the building chiller sector, and (ii) reduce consumption of ozone
depleting substances (ODS) as required under the Montreal Protocol on
Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP). Specifically, the project
will establish preferable conditions that facilitate early replacement of
low-energy efficiency chillers using chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) as
refrigerant with high-energy efficiency non-CFC chillers. This will be
achieved by demonstrating actual energy savings from replacing about 24
old CFC chillers. The Government will apply the lessons learned from this
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) to implement a larger program, which
will replace an additional 420 CFC chillers.Of the 1,500 CFC chillers
which are in use in Thailand, 1,400 were identified in 1999. By replacing
about 444 CFC chillers with an average capacity of 500 tons of
refrigeration (TR), the amount of CFC refrigerant recovered from the
replaced units will be enough to service the remaining CFC chillers until
the end of their useful lives.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
4. Description
Global Components
1. Replacement of 24 chillers
and establishment of a PMU (c)
2. Technical Assistance (financed by the ECF)
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT                        .26
IBRD
IDA
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY                          2.5
MONTREAL PROTOCOL INVESTMENT
FUND                              2.475
Total Project Cost                5.24
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
-3-



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Environmental Category: BThis project will directly
contribute to global environmental benefits. However, it is assigned a
Category B, because appropriate procedures for ensuring worker and
building occupant safety during installation and major building
renovations/retrofitting must be ensured. In line with the MLF
guidelines, the building owners will be required to properly manage the
recovered CFC refrigerant and to dismantle the old CFC chillers after its
replacement, according to the plans and procedures approved by DIW and the
Bank. Workers need to be given appropriate training in safe handling.
DIW will inspect and certify compliance with the equipment disposal
guidelines. The building owners will also be required to provide access to
their properties for such inspections, and share information on chiller
performance and experience with refrigerant management with IFCT, relevant
government agencies, the Bank, and the public. Close consultation among
these key stakeholders will be maintained throughout the project period.
Adoption of the chiller using HFC 134a (small GWP) as the refrigerant is
considered necessary at present stage due to the lack of a better
alternative. However, the project will explore all technology alternatives
available and support only those replacement options that promise the
least impact on global warming and that are technically feasible,
environmentally sound, and economically viable. The final selection of the
refrigerant type for each CFC chiller to be replaced will be assessed on a
case by case basis and ensure that the new replacement chillers will use
alternative refrigerant with low Global Warming Potential.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Manida Unkulvasapaul
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending January 26, 2001.
- 4 -



