                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                   Report No: 36264



                           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                          (TF-50007)

                                           ON TWO

                                     PROPOSED LOANS

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$2.475 MILLION FROM
                        THE MONTREAL PROTOCOL INVESTMENT FUND

                                            AND

                        SDR 2 MILLION (US$ 2.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                 FROM THE GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND

                                           TO THE

                  INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND (IFCT)

                                           FOR A

                          BUILDING CHILLER REPLACEMENT PROJECT



                                         May 22, 2006




Environment and Social Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                  (Exchange Rate Effective May 1, 2006)

                                       Currency Unit   = Baht
                                          38.33 Baht =    US$1.00

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                          October 1 ­ September 30

                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASHRAE American Society of Heating, Refrigeration         kW hr    Kilowatt hour
      and Air-Conditioning Engineers                      kW       Kilowatt
Btu    British thermal unit                               kW/hr    Kilowatt per hour
C      Carbon                                             khr/yr   Kilowatt hour per year
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                         kW/TR kilowatt per ton of refrigeration
CEC   Energy Conservation Committee                       LIL      Learning and Innovation Loan
CFC   Chlorofluorocarbons                                 MLF      Montreal Protocol Investment Fund
CO2   Carbon dioxide                                      MP       Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete
CRF   Chiller Replacement Fund                                       the Ozone Layer
DEDP   Department of Energy Development and               NEPO National Energy Policy Office
      Promotion                                           ODP      Ozone Depleting Potential
DIW   Department of Industrial Works                      ODS      Ozone Depleting Substances
DSM   Demand-Side Management                              OEPP     Office of Environmental Policy and Planning
ECF    Energy Conservation Fund                           OM       Operation Manual
EGAT  Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand        PMU      Project Management Unit
ESCO   Energy service company                             SA       Special Account
ExCom Executive Committee for the Multilateral            SOE      Statement of Expense
      Fund                                                t        Metric ton =1,000 kg
GEF   Global Environment Facility                         tC       Tons of carbon
GHG    Greenhouse gases                                   TEWI     Total Equivalent Warming Impacts
GWP   Global Warming Potential                            TR       Ton of refrigeration
IFCT  Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand
kg    Kilogram
ktC   Kiloton carbon
kgC  Kilogram carbon




                                  Vice President:      Jeffrey Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                        Country Manager/Director:      Ian Porter, EACTH
                          Sector Manager/Director:     Magda Lovei/Maria Teresa Serra
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Nat Pinnoi

                               KINGDOM OF THAILAND

                           Building Chiller Replacement Project


                                       CONTENTS

                                                                            Page No.

1. Project Data                                                                 1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry      2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                         4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                           6
6. Sustainability                                                               8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                8
8. Lessons Learned                                                              10
9. Partner Comments                                                             12
10. Additional Information                                                      17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                            18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                            19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                            21
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                            22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components            23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                               24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                           25
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                             26
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                           28

 Project ID: P069028                                                 Project Name: Building Chiller Replacement Project
 Team Leader: Nat Pinnoi                                             TL Unit: EASEN



 ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: June 27, 2006




1. Project Data
                  Name:     Building Chiller Replacement Project                 L/C/TF TF-50007
                                                                               Number:
   Country/Department:      THAILAND                                            Region: East Asia and Pacific Region
                            Other industry (100%)
        Sector/subsector:
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Pollution management and environmental health (P); Technology diffusion
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD:    06/30/2000                                  Effective:    10/25/2001             10/25/2001
     Appraisal:    05/25/2001                                      MTR:
     Approval:     06/21/2001                                   Closing:     09/30/2005             09/30/2005




    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          IFCT/THE INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND (IFCT)
                      Other Partners:


STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffrey S. Gutman                              Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Jayashankar Shivakumar
Sector Director:                Maria Teresa Serra                             Zafer Ecevit
Team Leader at ICR:             Nat Pinnoi                                     Patchamuthu Illangovan
ICR Primary Author:             Neeraj Prasad

2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:          S
                     Sustainability:        HL
   Institutional Development Impact:        H
                 Bank Performance:          S
            Borrower Performance:           S

                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No




                                                             1

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective was to assist Thailand to (i) improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas
emissions in the building chiller sector, and (ii) reduce consumption of ozone depleting substances (ODS)
consistent with its targets under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (MP).
Specifically, the project aimed to establish conditions to facilitate early replacement of energy-inefficient,
CFC-using chillers with 30 % more efficient non-CFC chillers, by demonstrating actual energy savings from
replacing about 24 old CFC chillers.

The project was also consistent with Global Environment Facility (GEF) Operational Program (OP) #5 which
aims to remove barriers to energy efficiency and energy conservation efforts. The project was designed as a
Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL), and an overall evaluation on the project was to be made three years
after project effectiveness; the Government would apply the lessons learned to implement a larger program
targeting replacement of an additional 420 CFC chillers. Together, these 444 chillers would account for about
30 % of the total number of Chillers operating in Thailand.

This demonstration effect was expected to lead to even more widespread use of energy efficient chillers in
the chiller market, leading to a significant reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) and use of
ODS. A successful pilot would demonstrate the economic viability and feasibility of the non-CFC chiller
technology, with the expectation that the government would follow this with a program that would cover a
much larger set of chiller users. This was consistent with the Government's other priorities in energy
conservation, which aimed to address barriers relating to unfamiliar technology, high upfront investment
costs for replacing chillers, and inadequate technical capacity to change and manage the new chillers.

3.2 Revised Objective:
After a one-year extension of the new non-CFC chillers commissioning date from September 30, 2002 to
September 30, 2003, 17 CFC chillers had been successfully replaced. More participants could not be
persuaded to join the conversion activities proposed by the project due to a number of factors including
changes in market conditions that rendered the project's terms and conditions unattractive. Eventually it was
decided to close the project ahead of schedule at the level achieved, without any restructuring.

3.3 Original Components:
Component 1: The project included an investment component that aimed to replace 24 building chillers. The
estimated costs were USD 4.97 million, financed by loans from the Multilateral Fund (MLF) and the GEF.

Component 2: The project included an Evaluation component that would allow an assessment of the pilot
program and the development of a follow-up program. This component was entirely financed by the
Government.

The total costs and sources of financing are indicated below.

            Component                   Estimated Costs            GEF fin.       MLF fin. (USD
                                           (USD M)                (USD M)         M)
1. Replacement of approximately 24             4.97                  2.50               2.47
chillers
 2.Evaluation of LIL project,
 development of follow-on program              0.26                  0.00                 -
 (financed by ECF)
 Total Project Costs                          5.235                  2.50               2.47
  External Financing Required                 4.975                  2.50               2.47



                                                        2

3.4 Revised Components:
There was no revision of the components of the project during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality of Entry is rated as "Satisfactory." This rating is based on the project's clearly defined outputs
and outcomes, which are consistent with the CAS goals of supporting the Government in protecting the
environment and in meeting its obligations under international environmental agreements, in this case the
Montreal Protocol (MP), and supporting the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change. The project
technical design was able to address the uncertainty of the potential energy savings from replacing the CFC
chiller with the non-CFC chiller.

A higher rating could not be justified since the project proved to be complex and administratively
burdensome as described in the following paragraphs.

The learning objective was justified but it required high levels of monitoring and supervision. The recourse to
two different sources of funds and the innovative use of TF resources for repayable loans led to a very
lengthy preparation period. Two loan agreements and two guarantee agreements had to be made for the total
financing of less than USD 5 million. The use of two trust funds, GEF and MLF, also complicated the project
implementation. For example, the Financial Intermediaries (FI) and enterprises had to separately report their
utilization of two funds, and the task team had to manage two budgets and report completion twice. Similar
learning objectives could have been incorporated into a simpler instrument, possibly even a technical
assistance project.

Noteworthy is that Part B of the project - a direct responsibility of Department of Industrial Works, DIW, and
a significant deliverable from the learning aspect- is not included in the Loan Agreements, and is merely
described in the Trust Fund Guarantee Agreements (Article III - Other Covenants).

In the emerging economic context of Thailand, a low interest loan instrument of this type from Trust Fund
resources did not provide sufficient incentives to the potential clients at the time of project implementation,
because the commercial interest rate was already quite low, following the after match of the 1997 Financial
Crisis. This is one of the factors the led to limited interest, and more than half the loan remained unutilized.

In spite of the project's robust technical design, the extensive procedural requirements for its implementation
may have contributed to it falling short of the project numerical target for non-CFC chiller installation.
Additionally, implementation experience suggests that a more cooling system oriented approach may have
been warranted in lieu of or in supplement to a chiller-based approach where only chiller was eligible to
receive financing form the project when in fact the performance of the chiller unit depends on many
complementary equipments and water conditions. This would have broadened the opportunity for utilizing
the financial resources of the project and possibly captured even greater energy efficiency outcomes. This
could have included, for example, more frequent use of variably speed drive technologies and system
optimization

Finally, it would have been useful if the PAD had recorded the overall time span in project preparation which
was partly caused by the Financial Crisis, and the resulting changes in the design and project implementation
partner. Chronologically, the Project Concept Document was brought forward in August 1998. It focused on
the GEF's Operational Program # 5 aiming at removing barriers to energy efficiency, with an overall
proposed outlay of USD 90 million covering a large set of chiller users, and a side benefit of ODS
consumption phase-out. The MLF component of this project was approved in November 1998, and the GEF
component was also submitted in the same time period, so that actual preparation of most of the project's
investment component and agreement on structure and participation must have been carried out well before
the PAD in May 2001, but no record of these developments were found in the project preparation files. The


                                                          3

figure of USD 90 million was eventually replaced by an envelope of USD 25 million. In effect, this project
was revived after the 1997 economic crisis, and in retrospect, it would have been useful to include the
description of the components and indicators that MP and GEF had approved.

Furthermore, the recorded expenditures did not fully reflect the costs of preparation and supervision of the
project. Available records confirmed only the Bank Budget provided for 2001 onwards, even though there
were at least three years of related field activities to be accounted for. Unfortunately, some project documents
during the early part of project preparation and implementation were stored at the warehouse in Bangkok
which was completely destroyed during the warehouse fire in 2005. Moreover, costs borne by the
Environment Department for their very active and hands-on support were also not reflected anywhere as
these were absorbed as part of MP program management overhead.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Outcome/Achievement of the Objective is rated "Satisfactory."

The project's objectives of demonstrating energy efficiency and enabling phase-out of ODS refrigerants did
not change over the project implementation, and continued to be in line with the national priorities. The
project helped convert seventeen chillers with non-CFC systems which led to energy savings superior to the
initial targets, enabling a very competitive return on the investment with lower average unit costs than
originally projected. The ODS Phase-out achievements were also met. The calculated annual reduction of
ODS supported by the project were not less than 14.45 tons, as targeted. All the CFC chillers replaced did
not have any post-completion failures. The average internal rate of return was calculated at 29.9 percent,
ranging from an astounding 50.3 % (Grand Hyatt) to 16.42 percent (Amarin Plaza Chiller No. 3). Although
the initially targeted number of chillers replacement could not be achieved, the demonstration effect
regarding energy savings and reduced consumption of ODS was fully met.

Due to the slow recovery of the financial crisis in 1997 and competing subsidy programs offered by the
government, the aggressive campaign by the Industrial Finance Corporation of Thailand ,IFCT, (IFCT is now
Thai Military Bank Public Co. Ltd., TMB, but the earlier acronym is retained for the purposes of this report.)
to recruit enterprises including 13 seminars in Bangkok and other cities attended by 340 owners representing
1,000 units of CFC chillers, did not result in achieving the physical target output of about 20-24 CFC chillers,
though the 17 CFC chillers represent a target achievement rate of about 71%. From those who were
technically qualified, 64 chillers in all were replaced, though only 29 "participated in the program" and only
19 agreed to accept financial support under the project for conversion. By June 2003, due to unsuccessful
final negotiation, the final number of participating CFC chillers dropped to 17 units. As noted later, a large
number of conversions were occurring outside the scope of the project, i.e. the CFC chillers were replaced
using the clients' own resources.

Both the evaluation of the installed chillers and the follow-up scheme prepared by DIW confirmed the
finding that the target energy savings were achieved as well as the reduction of ODS consumption. The
evaluation is based on four actual data records collected for the purpose, and reported energy data for the
remaining locations. The follow-up schemes are under the Government consideration.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: This component aimed at replacing 24 CFC-based chillers. This component is rated
"Satisfactory" based on the following:

     a) Although it is difficult to assess the contribution the project had towards the country's overarching
         goal of replacing the majority of CFC-based chillers by about 2010, the project clearly help


                                                          4

         demonstrate as the benefits of doing so. One could notice that the size of the CFC chiller
         replacement market in Thailand has been expanding from virtually non-existence before the project
         to approximately 100 units per year (amounting for 25% of the total new chiller installations) in
         2005. Until 2010, this rate of CFC chiller replacement would cover up to two-third of the remaining
         700-800 CFC chillers currently in operation in the country
    b) The project clearly demonstrated that it is possible to successfully replace CFC chillers with non-
         CFC chiller systems with remarkable outcome as follow:. This success has demonstrated significant
         lessons for the replication efforts.
         ·      The reported average annual energy saving rate was 902,970 kWhr/year, which is quite
                superior to the designed saving of 874,800 kWhr/year.
         ·      The average reported cost of replacement at USD 139,714 was much lower than the original
                design average of USD 207,290. Assuming the target size of CFC chillers at 500 refrigerant
                tons (RT), this suggests an actual cost per RT which is 34 percent lower than the designed cost
                per RT (USD 310 per RT compared to USD 415).
         ·      The overall estimated savings of THB 32.3 million per year (approx. USD 830,000) also
                suggests that the entire loan amount that was disbursed can be repaid in less than 3 years,
                making this a very profitable investment

As far as the ODS phase-out is concerned, a draft Project Completion Report was submitted to the Bank's
Environment Department in March 2005 as required by the MLF. The report covers all converted chillers,
accounting for a phase-out of 14.45 Tons of CFC-11 as per the PAD calculations (50 kg per unit per year for
17 years and 24 units, and no residual adjustment for HFC-123 use). It should be noted there was an
inconsistency in the 1998 MLF approved target of 13.2 ODP Tons of CFC and the PAD's target of 20.4 ODP
Tons. The MLF PCR prepared for the project reported the ODS phase-out target of 13.19 tons CFC.

Disposal of CFC at units remains an open question. Annex 13 of the PAD assumed that the CFC recovered
from old chillers would be inventoried, recycled and reused. Instead, more than 4.5 tons of contaminated
CFC is stored with various owners and is not seen as having economic value. There were logistical
difficulties for the recovery of CFC-11, which is a low pressure refrigerant, as also the issue of what to do
with recovered CFCs. It was also found that the recovered CFC was too contaminated to be reused without
re-purifying, and recycling which would be prohibitively expensive for such a small amount. Furthermore,
there is no CFC recycling facility in the country due to the high investment cost and insufficient demand. The
recycling and reuse of the recovered CFC at an operational level is an issue that is recognized by the
government and they are being addressed in the design of the follow-on project. The financing options of the
follow-on project are under the Government consideration.

Component 2: Consist of an assessment of the pilot program and the development of a follow-up program.
This component is also rated "Satisfactory" for the following reasons.

Based on interviews with DIW's consultant who is preparing this component, this component consists of two
parts:

    a) An evaluation of the CFC chillers replacement: This began one year after the last chiller was
         installed. It comprised of four actual case studies analyzing the actual data that were retrieved from
         additional data loggers. The findings confirmed that the target energy savings were achieved as well
         as the reduction of ODS consumption.

    b) The design of a financial scheme covering 400 more CFC chillers: This included a set of participant
         incentives including options such as Carbon finance (Kyoto Protocol, Clean Development
         Mechanism), a review of the financial subsidies, and regulatory and policy recommendation on the
         recovered and recycling CFCs. Consultation workshops with key stakeholders were organized.


                                                         5

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
A NPV/ERR analysis is not available in the PAD.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A Financial rate of return was not calculated for this LIL at appraisal. A preliminary cash flow analysis was
however conducted, with the analysis suggesting that the project was financially very viable: monthly sub-
loan repayments set at 95% of projected energy savings (i.e., at no extra cash flow requirement from owners)
were expected to enable full repayment of the loans within five years. The final six-monthly progress report
prepared for IFCT/TMB suggests that the projects have reported a much better average internal rate of return
of 29.9 percent.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Institutional Development Impact is rated "Highly Satisfactory ." Originally, the capacity and the
number of staff of the Implementation Unit at IFCT were quite limited. Among the few staff, there was no
engineer who would be needed to provide the technical input in appraising the sub-loans as well as
monitoring of the CFC chiller replacement process. Since, the inception of the project, IFCT has continued to
build the capacity of this implementation unit which could be considered as the leading unit in the banking
sector that is capable of handling complex renewable energy and other projects with global environment
benefits and multiple sources of financing such as Carbon finance. In addition to financing the replacement of
the 17 CFC chillers under the project, IFCT has built on the experience of this project to provide financing
for the replacement of about twenty other CFC chillers under the energy efficiency program supported by the
Ministry of Energy.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The East Asian Financial Crisis had significant impacts on the the project at three different levels: delayed
project start-up from 1998 to 2001; change of implementing agency from Electricity Generating Authority of
Thailand-EGAT to IFCT; and modified lending policy. Regarding the latter, following the Financial Crisis
the Bank of Thailand (BOT) prohibited all commercial banks to provide additional loans to any enterprises
with any amount outstanding non-performing loans. This seriously limited the pool of potential clients. In
addition, non-IFCT clients found it difficult to get loans from IFCT while the collateral remained with other
banks. Finally, the interest rates available on the market became extremely competitive to the point that the
difference between the rate offered by IFCT and the market rate were not as attractive.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
There was no policy driver for ensuring a transition to new chillers, from either the ODS or energy efficiency
perspective. There was no legislation and/or regulations requiring that chillers be replaced by the non-CFC
chillers. Although, DIW was able to work with the Excise Department to raise the excise tax on CFC
refrigerant, the impacts have been very limited. But the Ministry of Energy successfully offered several
financial subsidy schemes to promote energy efficiency where replacing the old CFC chiller with the new
energy efficient non-CFC chiller. These incentives were considered by the private sector more attractive than
the ones offered by the Project because of the interest rates were very low with longer repayment period and
because there were no requirements to dismantle the old CFC chiller and install a data logger to the new
chiller.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Between approval of funding and appraisal, the original borrower (EGAT) dropped out of the project. EGAT
was the identified implementing agency in the MLF project, but the PAD did not mention anything about it
initially expected role and the reasons why EGAT did not stay involve. The GEF documents and
correspondence (Bank Memos to CEO) provided some explanation: that the Government began privatizing


                                                         6

major State Owned Enterprises such as EGAT following the financial crisis, the Government guarantees for
GEF grants would be unlikely; therefore, IFCT was considered as an alternative. This process took quite
some time to complete.

The borrower's report and IFCT's letter of September 12, 2001 (before project effectiveness) provide
additional guidance on this.

1.    The project was designed for implementation through EGAT; IFCT expressed concerns that the Bank
      was using instruments (such as payment to the supplier only when the new non-CFC chiller is installed
      and successfully commissioned when a down payment is normally provided) which were not very
      consistent with private borrowing practices. IFCT felt that the Bank was unfamiliar with these matters
      in designing the project. Some of these concerns appear quite legitimate by themselves, but were
      difficult to understand in the chronological context: it had been identified as a financial intermediary as
      early as 1999, and this project was appraised as a Financial Intermediary operation in May 2000, but
      IFCT frequently refers to the absence of technical capacity, an inadequate fee structure, inflexible
      instruments, and the challenge of using Bank procedure with micro enterprises. The project
      negotiations did not indicate that these legitimate issues were resolved adequately.

2.    Initially it appeared that a zero percent interest rate was contemplated when EGAT was involved. The
      rate was subsequently raised to 4.5% as a management fee when IFCT stepped in. While still
      competitive compared to market rates of 7-8% (normally large enterprises in good standing can
      negotiate for a better rate), it did make the project less attractive, and created some confusion.
      Competition from EGAT, which was providing loans for the same purpose with fewer conditions
      added to the confusion.

3.    IFCT also cited the project schedule itself as a major challenge. All participating enterprises were to be
      identified and chillers commissioned within the first 12 months after effectiveness while the repayment
      was allowed over four years, and the loan was to be paid back within five years of project
      effectiveness. This schedule meant that enterprises had to be identified and locked in within the first
      three months after effectiveness (to allow for manufacturing, shipping and installation on a new non-
      CFC units over the remaining nine months), and there was no occasion to substitute/replace
      participants if some dropped out for whatever reasons. Furthermore, the number of viable enterprises
      just after the crisis was low. More time was allowed by the Bank by allowing an additional year, but
      this did not help to meet the target.

4.    It is necessary to examine whether the selection criteria for beneficiaries were too rigid to allow for
      adequate operation of a learning project. As examples, IFCT pointed to the rigid power consumption
      criteria differential between old and new chillers, inadequate clarity on capacity expansion, and the
      transfer of costs for monitoring equipment (data logger) and dismantling the old chillers (both essential
      to the project's success) to the project enterprises. It is also indicated that the design definitions did not
      account for possible inefficiently high baseline energy consumption (based on chiller design) that did
      not result in energy savings after conversion.

5.    The reluctance of suppliers to participate in a program with a complex set of requirements, namely,
      performance guarantee, detail proposal submission, and bank guarantee was cited. The lack of
      flexibility in project design was often cited: a requirement for several individual projects documents for
      owners of multiple chillers, complex project guarantee requirements, etc. As examples, several project
      owners have undertaken additional chiller conversions without attempting to use the project window.
      The only participating supplier (Trane) provided an assessment that the additional financial cost of
      participating in the project (buying and installing data loggers, reporting, destruction of old chillers)
      adds around 15 percent to project costs.


                                                          7

5.4 Costs and financing:
On November 11, 2004 the Government of Thailand requested the Bank to cancel the undisbursed balances
to the loans totaling USD 2,579,858.78, which amount was allocated as USD 1,303,805.71 to the GEF and
USD 1,276,053.07 to the MLF.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
A rating of "Highly Likely" is assigned to this aspect. The government's commitment to project objectives is
clear, and the evaluation component is focused on examining whether this will be replicated. The
Government is committed to phasing out of ODS, and it is well understood that there will not be ready
availability of CFCs beyond 2009. The financial attractiveness of the energy efficiency gains, as well as the
highly economical costs of chillers at levels lower than anticipated, provides the ideal environment and
incentive for replicating the benefits of the project. Additionally, the Ministry of Energy is providing
financial incentives in terms of low interest loans totaling USD 50 million to finance energy efficiency
activities including replacing old CFC chillers with new energy efficient non-CFC chillers.

It has been demonstrated that the non-CFC chiller replacement market which was virtually nonexistence
before the project has been created by replacing 17 CFC chillers. This market now is flourishing as the
private enterprises have been replacing their old CFC chillers with the new non-CFC and energy efficient
chillers without any subsidies from the government. As reported by one supplier, annually, more than 50 non-
CFC chillers are being installed by private fund replaceing the old CFC chillers.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Not applicable to the project. The challenge will be to thoroughly and properly disseminate the lessons.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
A rating of "satisfactory" is assigned to this assessment. It is important to record that the Bank's project was
essentially put together in spite of the 1997 East Asia Financial Crisis, and that the project was sustained in
spite of these delays, when it could easily have been cancelled and the funding returned. However, the
absence of adequate records makes it difficult to comment fully on preparation work associated with lending
(before the formal appraisal process). The first available preparation aide memoire was of an extended pre-
appraisal mission carried out in May and June 2000, and a single mission aide memoire was forwarded to
IFCT and DIW in April 2002 for three missions carried out between June 2001 and January 2002 (coinciding
with other missions in October, November and December (twice) 2001, and January 2002). It is not clear
why these records were thus grouped.

Technically the project was well-conceived, but it had overestimated the willingness of the participants to
come forward, in spite of the low interest rate that was meant to attract them. The financial attractiveness of
the offer was eroded with the rapidly falling interest rates from late 2001 onwards.

The project was implemented as a Financial Intermediary operation, and a Financial Management Evaluation
of IFCT was carried out under OP/BP 10.02 in April 2000. This involved a review of the credit analysis,
approval and monitoring procedures under IFCT's credit policies. IFCT's management of credit risk was
found to be prudent, and the FMS report confirmed that "IFCT's credit approval application and customer
risk analysis, and loan management and monitoring procedures are regarded as comprehensive and consistent
with the procedures prescribed as international standards." A project financial management manual was also
put together to guide implementation. However, at the time, no assessment was made of IFCT's capacity to


                                                         8

address environmental issues emerging from project implementation and technical/engineering issues of the
cooling system.

The use of two Trust Funds, normally reserved for grant operations, to provide loans remains difficult to
justify; in retrospect, either one would have been able to finance the entire loan and would have provided
adequate energy savings information.

Furthermore, full preparation costs need to be reflected. The recorded budgetary resources did not include the
costs incurred during 1997-98 to prepare the MLF/GEF proposals, and also to sustain the project idea through
2001. Even the lending budgets had been consistently under-utilized (or costs charged elsewhere).

7.2 Supervision:
The supervision budget also reflects the challenges of managing two budgets for a small, well-focused
project.


                             Thailand Building Chiller Replacement Chiller Project
                                             Bank Budget (USD )
                         GEF (P069027)             MLF (P069028)                     Total
                        Plan        Actual       Plan          Actual          Plan         Actual
           LEN
           FY-01     50,000.00     47,673.69    48,913.00     13,971.84       98,913.00     61,645.53
           FY-02     22,920.60     13,891.05    31,956.80      3,545.12       54,877.40     17,436.17
           FY-03            0.00    1,374.94    36,000.00     24,089.90       36,000.00     25,464.84
           SPN
           FY-03     20,000.00      9,814.65         0.00      9,382.74       20,000.00     19,197.39
           FY-04     20,000.00     17,153.27    15,000.00     16,693.27       35,000.00     33,846.54
           FY-05     20,000.00     16,005.48     6,000.00     18,113.32       26,000.00     34,118.80
           Total                                                            270,790.40     191,709.27



Overall budget costs of course demonstrate the highly economical use of Bangkok-based resources to
manage the project. Expenditure was highest in FY-05, a good part of it reflecting completion reporting costs.

Audits: Three audit reports were available on record for the years ending December 2002 and 2003. A
Financial Status Report was available for 2004, and the annual audit was received by June 30, 2005. The
audits were conducted by KPMG Bangkok, and did not record any discrepancies.

Supervision communications are sporadic, though PSR records were complete. There was no record of any
supervision missions until December 2003, by which time project implementation had effectively been
completed. There was a final BTO for June 2004 recommending early closure of the project.

Even though this project was supervised locally from Bangkok where IFCT and the team were in constant
communication to facilitate smooth project implementation and there seem to be no project implementation
shortcomings that could be blamed on supervision quality, however, the absence of detailed records makes it
difficult to record whether there was adequate supervision.

The first mission noted three main issues: some need to take appropriate safety steps in view of the changed
refrigerant, the somewhat higher than expected attrition rate of projects not qualifying, and the start of the
Government (assessment) component. By December 2003, the aide memoire records a note from a "previous

                                                        9

mission" to the effect that IFCT has already indicated its inability to recruit more than the 17 already engaged
beneficiaries because of the "changing economic situations and competition from more flexible programs
offered by Department of Alternative Energy Development and Efficiency, DEDE". At that stage, IFCT was
informed that, at a minimum, it needed to provide energy data from at least 7 more non-CFC chiller sites that
have carried out replacements without seeking project assistance.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated "Satisfactory" because the project outcomes on energy efficiency and
ODS phase-out, and the learning and innovation objective were achieved despite the shortfall of he number
of CFC chillers being replaced (17 out of the target of 20-24 chillers). The project implementation had
overcome many challenges including the adverse impact of the 1997 Financial Crisis, twice administration
burden of two sources of fund, complex technical requirements, and strong skepticism from the enterprises
on the projected energy savings.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
No rating can be provided. As mentioned earlier, adequate records of project preparation are not available to
assign a rating in this section.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
This is rated as "Satisfactory". The Government's key role in implementation performance is in ensuring an
appropriate regulatory framework is in place. An overall policy framework for ODS is in place, but issuance
of other policy instruments in the future for completing conversion activities would be critical, especially, the
management of recovered CFC. The government was actively participating in the project supervisions. The
government also ensured that technical requirements such as the dismantling of the old CFC chillers and the
destruction of the CFC compressors were complied with.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The project followed "accepted commercial practice" for procurement of chillers by private buyers. IFCT
informed the companies of the interested suppliers, and required them to select and propose a single supplier.
As it transpired, all the successful replacements were carried out by only one supplier (Trane); some
enterprises did choose other suppliers, but these projects were not carried through completion and were not
financed by IFCT. Another supplier interviewed for the ICR exercise indicated that it had been contacted by
IFCT in the early stages, but communications were lost as the project proceeded.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall rating is "Satisfactory".


8. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned are listed below.

Flexible Project Design Despite well thought through technical consideration, projects of this nature being
implemented in a very dynamic macroeconomic environment (e.g., economic recovery, falling interest rates,
and increase in private savings) should have a more flexible design to adjust to the implementation
environment. In addition, the project needed to have been able to remain competitive in the existing policy
framework: even during implementation, the Royal Thai Government supported initiatives which could be
said to be competing directly for the LIL's target group (such as EGAT's grant scheme and DEDE's
programs, both focused on chillers and providing financing on more competitive terms). This implies that
even for some LILs a mid-term review would have been a useful instrument to assess overall project
effectiveness.


                                                       10

Unified Funding Sources Two sources of fund (GEF and MLF) were mobilized to finance this project. The
added complexity of the administration of both funds was not adequately addressed at the designed stage
which led to additional complication in project implementation and monitoring. Therefore, a single funding
source or better blend funds should be considered when a follow on project is designed.

Provision of the Right Information to the Right Audience With active chiller replacement market, the
evidence overwhelmingly suggests that the barriers to CFC chiller replacement have been overcome to the
point that the private enterprises are able to finance the replacement using private fund, i.e., incentive is not
needed. The information on (i) proven energy savings; (ii) high rate of return to the investment (ROI) on CFC
chiller replacement; (iii) the reduced amount of CFC import quota; and (iv) the information on the continue
reduction of global CFC production should be disseminated by the government to the top management of
target enterprises that still have CFC chillers in operations to induce faster rate of replacement.

Clear Policy and Incentive Mechanism The project experience has shown that unclear policy and competing
financial subsidies could lead to the suboptimal outcome. With the proven high internal rate of return, the
government may not need to provide additional incentive to replace the remaining CFC chillers provided that
the private sector has the complete information and clear message form the government. It is crucial that the
government clearly declares its subsidy policy. Otherwise, the private sector will wait to get the best deal
from the government.

Refrigerant Management of the Recovered CFC With a growing replacement chiller market, higher volume
of the CFC would be recovered. However, the recover and recycle facility does not exist in Thailand.
Therefore, it is likely that the recovered CFC without properly recycled, would not be able to be recharged to
the remaining stock CFC chillers. DIW together with the chiller and refrigerant suppliers need to prepare a
refrigerant management strategy and action plan to cope with the recovered CFC as more CFC chillers are
being replaced.

Periodic Maintenance and Monitoring Periodic maintenance required by the project has resulted in low
downtime. In the hand of a competent operator, the computerized monitoring system installed together with
the new non-CFC chiller provide added benefit to the enterprise as the operator could spot any operational
irregularities and optimize the energy consumption according to the work environment. Therefore, the chiller
operators need periodic training and refreshing exercise to ensure that they will be able to optimize the use of
the new chillers. Furthermore, The project has facilitated learning by requiring that data logger be installed
with every new non-CFC chiller to keep track of the energy consumption data which have been used to
provide clear evidence of energy saving from the CFC chiller replacement. With about two year worth of
daily data, significant energy savings have been consistently proven. This has erased any doubts people had
about the new chiller performance.




                                                        11

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     12

13

14

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
A perception survey of building owners who participated in the project was carried out in 2005. Key findings
are summarized below:

    1. On average, all building owners agreed that the Building Chiller Replacement program was
        successful.
    2. When asked further on the performance of project implementation on specific issues, the following
        results emerged:
        a.     Although, the respondents agreed that the application and approval process was carried out on
               a timely basis, close attention should be provided to the information dissemination at the
               beginning of the project and legal contract between the owner and FI.
        b.     All respondents were satisfied with the performance of the new energy efficient non-CFC
               chiller units. Specifically, they agreed that returns on investment, energy savings, and
               reduction of CFC consumption meet or exceed the targets.


                                          Performance: Application and Approval Process


                5.0
                     Strongly Disagree




                4.0
                     Disagree




                3.0
                     Neutral

                                                                       Average = 2.2


                2.0
                     Agree




                1.0
                     Strongly Agree




                0.0
                       18.1 All necessary    18.2 The proposal was   18.3 The financial      18.4 The contract was   18.5 The whole process is
                       information for the   prepared on a timely  analysis was objectively drafted and negotiated on convenient and timely
                    application and approval         basis               carried out              a timely basis
                    process was provided on
                         a timely basis




        c.     Although on average, all respondents were reasonably satisfied with the operations and
               maintenance process, the supplier could improve the performance of the following activities:
               response to request from clients, training of the new chiller operators, utilization of data from
               data logger, and the quality of the new chiller units.




                                                                         15

                                      Performance: New Non-CFC Chiller


5.0
    Strongly Disagree




4.0
     Disagree




3.0
    Neutral




2.0                                                         Average = 1.7
    Agree




1.0
    Strongly Agree




0.0
    18.6 The return on the investment meets or  18.7 The energy savings meet or exceed     18.8 The reduction in CFC consumption
    exceeds target, please specify actual and    target, please specify actual and target  meets or exceeds target, please specify
                      target                                                                          actual and target




                Performance: Dismantle, Installation, and Maintenance Process


5.0
    Strongly Disagree




4.0
    Disagree




3.0
    Neutral                       Average = 2.5



2.0
    Agree




1.0
    Strongly Agree




0.0
    18.9 The recovered     18.10 The dismantle      18.11 The        18.12 The training by 18.13 The data from  18.14 The new non-
     CFC was properly        process did not   maintenance by the        the supplier is   the data logger is    CFC chiller never
           stored         disrupt the business supplier is carried on      adequate           being used to        breaks down
                                                  a timely basis                          properly maintain the
                                                                                               new chiller




                                                                16

10. Additional Information

Trane: the main challenges in implementing the project were as follows:

   1. Cumbersome documentation requirements: the overall procedures, contracting requirements (one per
        chiller instead of per owner) and performance guarantee reporting were a challenge. As an example,
        the contract required checks on chiller performance every two months, but chillers' performance also
        requires performance in specified ambient conditions, cooling equipment etc, which are note
        specified.

   2. Verification of chiller efficiency presents challenges. While this is essentially the responsibility of
        site owners, they expect the chiller supplier to take care of data and records. Cooperation of owners is
        essential: as reported, site visits have data problems which can relate to data loggers, or also to
        owner's operation and monitoring, proper installation, and to the specifications run by the operators
        (such as in-out temperatures that are different from design specifications). The specifications of flow
        meters are also an issue: Trane negotiated or recommended certain specifications when installing the
        chillers, which were considered adequate at the time; however, later reviews using other flow-meters
        (by EEC) provided different results. This suggests a need for standardizing measuring equipment in
        the successor program. Trane calculates that project requirements add about 15% to the costs of
        installation of chillers (data logger, other measuring equipment, dismantling and disposal of old
        chiller, verification visits, etc. This explains why Trane alone has successfully installed as many as
        50 other chillers a year during the implementation of the period. Some of these are of course of
        smaller specifications (250 Tons etc) but the statistic is significant.

Refrigerant recovery: is seen as a big challenge. 100% recovery of a low pressure refrigerant such as CFC-11
presents logistical difficulties, as also the issue of what to do with recovered CFCs. Most owners expect
Trane to take care of all or part of the problem, the CFC is too contaminated to reuse without re-purifying,
and recycling is too expensive.




                                                         17

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
No. Indicator/Matrix                            Appraisal Estimate    Actual
1.    ODS phased out (ODP metric tons)          20.4                  38.60
2.    Completion date                           04/15/2005            09/30/2005
3.    Total disbursements (USD million)         2.475 (MLF)           1.20 (MLF)
4.    No. of subprojects                        24                    17
5.    Cost-effectiveness (USD/Kg ODP)           310                   62



Disbursement Schedule (Actual Fiscal Year) in USD million:
Disbursements       FY01              FY02             FY03          FY04        FY05
Actual                                0.80 (GEF)       0.72 (MLF)    0.47 (MLF)
                                                       0.30 (GEF)    0.03 (GEF)



Disbursement Schedule (Cumulative) in USD million:
Disbursements       FY01              FY02             FY03          FY04        FY05
Appraisal           0.47 (MLF)        2.47 (MLF)
Estimate            0.50 (GEF)        2.50 (GEF)
Formal Revision
Actual                                0.80 (GEF)       0.72 (MLF)    1.20 (MLF)
                                                       1.17 (GEF)    1.20 (GEF)
Actual as %                           32%              29% (MLF)     48% (each)
Estimate                                               47 % (GEF)
Date of Final                         6/9/2002         08/20/2003    02/19/2004
Disbursement



Subprojects Approvals and Completions by Year:
  Subprojects             FY02              FY03             FY04        FY05     Total
Approved                   25                20               17
Physical                                                      17
Completion
Fin. Completion




                                                     18

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate   Appraisal
                         Component                             US$ million    US$ million
1. Replacement of approximately 24 chillers                       4.97               4.97  100
2. Evaluation of LIL project and development of the follow-on     0.26               0.26  100
program

Total Baseline Cost                                               5.23               5.23
                           Total Project Costs                    5.23               5.23
                   Total Financing Required                       5.23               5.23




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                 Procurement  Method1
  Expenditure Category            ICB               NCB         Other2          N.B.F.    Total Cost

1. Works                           0.00              0.00         0.00            0.00    0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)   (0.00)
2. Goods                           0.00              0.00         4.97            0.00    4.97
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (4.97)          (0.00)   (4.97)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00         0.00            0.26    0.26
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.26)   (0.26)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00         0.00            0.00    0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)   (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00         0.00            0.00    0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)   (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00              0.00         0.00            0.00    0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)          (0.00)   (0.00)
   Total                           0.00              0.00         4.97            0.26    5.23
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)       (4.97)          (0.26)   (5.23)




                                                         19

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                      Procurement    Method1
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB             Other2            N.B.F.      Total Cost

1. Works                               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00       0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                               0.00              0.00             4.97              0.00       4.97
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (4.97)             (0.00)     (4.97)
3. Services                            0.00              0.00             0.00              0.26       0.26
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.26)     (0.26)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00       0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00        0.00
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.00)             (0.00)     (0.00)
   Total                               0.00              0.00             4.97              0.26       5.23
                                      (0.00)             (0.00)          (4.97)             (0.26)     (5.23)

  1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
  2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through commercial practice.




                                                        20

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                       21

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:

 Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
                                        (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)
                                Count             Specialty                        Implementatio   Development
                    Month/Year                                                           n        Objective
                                                                                      Progress
 Identification/Preparation
               06/00                      5      Global Environmental                    S        S
                                                 Specialist, Procurement
                                                 Specialist, Fin. Mgt. Specialist,
                                                 Environmental Engineer, and
                                                 Technical Consultant

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/01                      5      Global Environmental                    S        S
                                                 Specialist, Procurement
                                                 Specialist, Fin. Mgt.
                                                 Specialist, Environmental
                                                 Engineer, and Technical
                                                 Consultant
 Supervision
               10/01 and 11/01             4     Environmental Engineer,                 S        S
                                                 Global Environmental
                                                 Specialist, and two technical
                                                 consultants
               06/02                       4     Environmental Engineer, Global          S        S
                                                 Environmental Specialist (MP),
                                                 Project Economist, Technical
                                                 Consultant
               12/02                       1     Environmental Economist                 S        S
               06/03                       1     Environmental Economist                 S        S
               12/03                       4     Environmental Economist,                S        S
                                                 Environmental Engineer, Global
                                                 Environmental Specialist (MP),
                                                 EAP MP Coordinator
               06/04                       1     Environmental Economist                 S        S




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle  Actual/Latest Estimate


                                     No. Staff weeks         US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   10            20
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        10            30
  Supervision                                  40            30
  ICR                                          10            25
  Total                                        70            105




                                                    22

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating

 Sector Policies                      SU
 Physical                             SU
 Financial                            SU
 Institutional Development            H
 Environmental                        SU

 Social




 Private sector development           SU




                                                        23

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                            Rating

Lending                                       S
Supervision                                   S
Overall                                       S


6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating

Preparation                                   S
Government implementation performance         S
Implementation agency performance             S
Overall                                       S




                                                        24

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Thailand: Building Chiller Replacement Project ­ Project Appraisal Document




                                                   25

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A perception survey of building owners who participated in the project was carried out in 2005. Key findings
are summarized below:

    1. On average, all building owners agreed that the Building Chiller Replacement program was
       successful.
    2. When asked further on the performance of project implementation on specific issues, the following
       results emerged:
       a.    Although, the respondents agreed that the application and approval process was carried out on
             a timely basis, close attention should be provided to the information dissemination at the
             beginning of the project and legal contract between the owner and FI.
       b.    All respondents were satisfied with the performance of the new energy efficient non-CFC
             chiller units. Specifically, they agreed that returns on investment, energy savings, and
             reduction of CFC consumption meet or exceed the targets.

                                         Performance: Application and Approval Process


               5.0
                   Strongly Disagree




               4.0
                   Disagree




               3.0
                   Neutral

                                                                      Average = 2.2


               2.0
                   Agree




               1.0
                   Strongly Agree




               0.0
                      18.1 All necessary    18.2 The proposal was   18.3 The financial      18.4 The contract was   18.5 The whole process is
                      information for the   prepared on a timely  analysis was objectively drafted and negotiated on convenient and timely
                   application and approval         basis               carried out              a timely basis
                   process was provided on
                        a timely basis




       c.    Although on average, all respondents were reasonably satisfied with the operations and
             maintenance process, the supplier could improve the performance of the following activities:
             response to request from clients, training of the new chiller operators, utilization of data from
             data logger, and the quality of the new chiller units.




                                                                        26

                                       Performance: New Non-CFC Chiller


5.0
     Strongly Disagree




4.0
     Disagree




3.0
     Neutral




2.0                                                         Average = 1.7
     Agree




1.0
     Strongly Agree




0.0
    18.6 The return on the investment meets or   18.7 The energy savings meet or exceed      18.8 The reduction in CFC consumption
     exceeds target, please specify actual and   target, please specify actual and target    meets or exceeds target, please specify
                      target                                                                            actual and target




                   Performance: Dismantle, Installation, and Maintenance Process


  5.0
       Strongly Disagree




  4.0
       Disagree




  3.0
       Neutral                       Average = 2.5



  2.0
       Agree




  1.0
       Strongly Agree




  0.0
        18.9 The recovered    18.10 The dismantle       18.11 The        18.12 The training by 18.13 The data from  18.14 The new non-
        CFC was properly       process did not    maintenance by the        the supplier is     the data logger is    CFC chiller never
              stored         disrupt the business supplier is carried on       adequate           being used to         breaks down
                                                      a timely basis                          properly maintain the
                                                                                                   new chiller




                                                                   27

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

Two Stakeholder workshops were organized. First, the one-day workshop entitled Innovative Financing for
Energy Efficiency and Sustainable Environment was co-hosted by IFCT, DIW, Energy Efficiency
Development Association (EEDA), and the World Bank on April 28, 2004. The objectives of the workshop
were to (i) share early lessons learned form the Building Chiller Replacement Project; (ii) raise interests of
the private sector in replacing CFC chillers; and (iii) present various financial options in developing energy
efficiency projects. H.E. Phinij Jarusombat, the Minister of Industry provided the opening remark.

The event was attended by over 200 technicians and senior managers from various organizations. The
representatives of the project beneficiaries, suppliers, DIW, and Ministry of Energy also participated in the
panel discussion on the lessons learned form the chiller project. About 80 percent of the participants were
either satisfy or highly satisfy with the knowledge and information received from the workshop. Forty
enterprises registered for additional consultation with IFCT regarding the financing options to replace CFC
chillers and other energy efficiency projects.

Second, the focused group discussion was organized by the Bank in cooperation with DIW and IFCT on June
10, 2005. About 20 representatives from the IFCT, DIW, and project beneficiaries, and UNEP (participated
as observers) participated in the discussion.

Summary of the key results from the two stakeholder workshops are listed below:

    (i)      High rate of return on investment (higher than the designed rate) leading to a short payback
             period were cited by the beneficiaries as the key benefit of the project;

    (ii)     Project technical requirements (type and age of the chiller, destruction of the CFC chiller
             compressor, data logger, and detail technical proposal), terms, and conditions (rate of interest,
             payback period requirement, and required collateral and performance guarantee) should be made
             more flexible and less cumbersome;

    (iii)    Responsive after-sales services and training of the chiller operators were needed to ensure
             uninterrupted operations of the new non-CFC chillers and full utilization of the data logger and
             the computerized control system. In addition, a more user friendly Management Information
             System should be developed in order to optimize the chiller performance;

    (iv)     Additional investment on the complementary equipments was needed to fully optimize the new
             chiller. However, only investment in replacing chiller was financed by the project. The
             beneficiaries needed to finance any additional investment themselves.

    (v)      Recovered CFC refrigerant needed to be properly handled to prevent any leakages into the
             atmosphere;

    (vi)     Clear Government policy on subsidizing energy efficiency projects was needed to allow the
             private sector to decide how and when the old CFC chillers would be replaced.




                                                       28

