Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
OTF LOAN NUMBER TF050007
Ozone Projects Trust Fund
Guarantee Agreement
(Building Chiller Replacement Project)
between
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
Dated October 25, 2001 
OTF LOAN NUMBER TF 050007
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 2001, between KINGDOM OF THAILAND (the Guarantor) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as Trustee 
of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund.
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and INDUSTRIAL FINANCE CORPORATION OF THAILAND (the 
Borrower), having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank 
to provide  financing for Part A of the Project; and
(B)
by the OTF Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in the amount of two 
million four hundred seventy-five thousand Dollars ($2,475,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the OTF Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the 
Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan 
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the OTF Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the 
Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in Section 1.01 of the OTF 
Loan Agreement (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions, the Preamble to this Agreement, the Preamble to and Section 
1.02 of the OTF Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee
Section 2.01. The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the GEF Trust Fund Loan Agreement, and, to this 
end, without limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the 
Ozone Projects Trust Fund Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally 
guarantees, as primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment 
of the principal of the OTF Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other 
obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in the OTF Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of Part A 
of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide 
the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to 
meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Guarantor shall carry out Part B of the Project through 
the Department of Industrial Works with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, ecological and environmental practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part B of the Project.
(b)
In particular, but without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall, through DIW:
(i)
establish a Steering Committee with representation from relevant 
agencies, including representatives from the Ministry of Industry, 
Ministry of Sciences, Technology and Environment, National Energy 
Policy Office, Ministry of Finance, and from the Electricity 
Generating Authority of Thailand, the Borrower and the private 
sector, to ensure the cooperation of all diverse stakeholders and 
coordination of activities under the Project;
(ii)
establish an independent evaluation team, with qualified experts 
and adequate resources, to evaluate the results of the pilot 
program of chiller replacement under Part A of the Project; 
disseminate the information collected from said pilot program; 
design and implement a public awareness program on energy 
conservation in large-size buildings and factories; design a 
large-scale chiller replacement program, including developing 
various financing strategies; and formulate recommendations for 
strengthening the coordination between all relevant agencies and 
the chiller replacement program, and enhancing the effectiveness 
of the Energy Conservation Fund; and
(iii)
provide to and review with the Bank all evaluation reports 
Page  3
prepared pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph (b).
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Finance of the 
Guarantor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.03 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Rama VI Road
Bangkok 10400
Thailand
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINANCE
82823 FISPOLO TH
662-273-9404
Bangkok
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(1-202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Bangkok, Thailand as of the day and year first above written.
KINGDOM OF THAILAND
By /s/ Somkid Jatusripitak
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Acting as Trustee of the Ozone Projects Trust Fund
By /s/ Ian C. Porter
Authorized Representative
Page  4
