RESTRICTED
FILE    C0PY                 Report No. P-654
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The- report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED WATER SUPPLY LOAN
TO THE
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'EXPLOITATION
ET DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX
WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
November 20, 1968



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEIDPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN FOR WATER SUPPIY
TO THE SOCIETE NATIONALE DIEXPIDITATION. ET
DE DISTRIBUTION DES EAUX (SONEDE)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$15 million to the Societe Nationale d'Exploitation et de
Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE), to assist in financing the expan-
sion and improvement of water supply and distribution systems in
Tunisia.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.       On March 29, 1966 the Government requested the Bank's
help to identify and prepare a project in the water supply sector.
With the assistance of consultants and of several Bank missions,
the Government prepared a long-term water supply development plan
and created a new independent agency, which has taken over the
existing government water supply services. The proposed project
represents the major portion of the investment to be carried out
in the water sector in 1968-1973. This is the first Bank loan to
Tunisia for water supply and the first Bank loan in any country
for a national water supply development program rather than indi-
vidual water systems.
3.       The project attracted the early interest of the Swedish
Government, which sent representatives to Tunisia with the appraisal
mission, participated in the negotiations for the loan, and
negotiated simultaneously a $5 million credit for the project, on
IDA terms.
4.       The negotiations took place in Washington on August 19-30,
1968. The Government of Tunisia was represented by Mr. Moncef
Belhadj Amor, Director of the Budget, and the Borrower, by
Mr. Taoufik Ben Ghanem, Director General of SONEDE; the Swedish
Government was represented by Messrs. Bengt Sandberg, Karl Willen end
Jan Orrenius of SIDA, and Mr. John Wingstrand, of the Swedish
Embassy in Washington.



-2-
Bank, IDA and IFC Operations
5.        The proposed loan would be the fifth Bank loan and would
increase the combined Bank and IDA lending to Tunisia to $72.9
million. Following is the summary statement of Bank loans and IDA
credits to Tunisia as of October 31, 1968:
Loan or
Credit                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Number    Year         Borrower           Purpose       Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
29      1962    Republic of Tunisia    Education        -    4.9        -
380      1964    Republic of Tunisia    Port Devel-     7.0    -         -
opment
4d9      1966    St6 Nat. d'Investis-   Dev. Finance    5.0    -        1.5
sement                  Co.
94      1966    Republic of Tunisia    Education        -   13.0       8.9
484      1967    Republic of Tunisia    Cooperative    12.0    -       10.2
Farms
99      1967    Republic of Tunisia    Cooperative      -    6.0       5.1
Farms
512      1967    St6 Nat. d'Invest.     Dev. Finance   10.0    -        9.4
Co.
Total (less cancellations)                   34.0  23.9
of which has been repaid to
Bank and others                                 .4
Total now outstanding                        33.6
Amount sold                      .9
of which has been repaid         .2             .7
Total now held by Bank and IDA                32.9  23.9      35.1
Total undisbursed                             21.1  14.0      35.1
6.        None of the loans and credits made to Tunisia poses un-
usual problems of execution. The fairly large amounts still undis-
bursed for education and cooperative farms reflect the nature of
the projects which require long design and organization lead times
before expenditure reaches its full pace.



7.      In May 1966, IFC made an investment of D 300,000 (about
$571,500) in Soci6t6 Natioinale dlInvestissement. In addition to
this, IFC has invested $1.5 million and lent $2.0 million to NPK-
Engrais, a phosphate fertilizer company.
8.      My report and recommendation on a $8.5 million Bank loan
for a Port project was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 14, 1968. The Bank is considering a $15-16 million loan
for railway rehabilitation and modernization that is expected to
be submitted to the Executive Directors early in 1969. The Bank
is executing agency for a current UNDP Transport Survey, which
might lead to further lending in the transport sector. The Bank
also chairs the Consultative Group for Tunisia.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED IDAN
9.      Borrower:              Societe Nationale d'Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux
Guarantor:             Republic of Tunisia
Amount:                The equivalent of $15 million in
various currencies
Purpose:               Expansion and improvement of the
main water supply and distribution
systems in Tunisia, and improve-
ment of the Borroweris organization
and operations
Amortization:          In 25 years including 5-1/2 years
period of grace, through semi-
annual installments beginning
March 1, 1974, and ending
September 1, 1993
Interest rate:         Six and one half (6-1/2%) per
cent per annum
Commitment charge:     3/4 of 1 percent per annum
Estimated return
on the proiect:        11 percent (see paragraph 13).



PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       A report entitled "Appraisal of National Water Supply
Project" (TO-666a) on the proposed project is attached.
11.       Water is very scarce throughout Tunisia.   Rainfall is
meager in most areas and the situation is made worse by the salin-
ization of surface waters as they flow towards the sea.   The salt-
content of most groundwater resources makes them unfit for human use
and difficult to use even for irrigation. Most freshwater sources
are found more than one hundred kilometers inlnid, in the mountains,
requiring expensive dams and long conduits tc 3erve the
population centers, which are mostly along the coast. SONEDE,
succeeding the Regie des Eaux, supplies water to 246 centers with a
total population of 2.2 million (48% of the total population of
Tunisia). The remaining 2.4 million live in scattered small villages
and farms, where their needs are met by shallow wells, irrigation
systems or public taps in the nearest town. The three largest systems
which supply 119 centers with a total population of 1.4 million, are
Tunis (population 850,000), Sahel (population 335,000) and Sfax (pop-
ulation 195,000).
12.       In 1966 the R6gie des Eaux, with the assistance of SOGETHA
(Soci6t6 Gdnerale d'Etudes et des Travaux Hydrauliques et Agricoles)
began studies designed to produce a comprehensive plan for improve-
ment of systems throughout the country. This plan was discussed with
the Bank, revised, and developed into a program for 1968-73. It has
three elements:
A. High priority works where preliminary studies have
been made and which generally have long construction
periods. These are included in the Bank-Swedish
project.
B. A group of works called the "Second Project", which
includes works not yet ready for appraisal and some
smaller projects. These works are scheduled to be
started in 1971, and SONEDE will seek a foreign
exchange loan in 1970 to finance them.
C. Minor works already in progress, renewals, and major
repairs covering the 1968-73 period, which are being
financed by SONEDE.



13.       The 1968-1973 program would meet the most important needs
of the sector during this period. Considering only the financial
benefits, the internal rate of return on the investments included
in this program would be about 11%. The next major expansion phase
of SONEDE is expected to be needed in the late 1970's in order to be
completed around 1982.
14.       As agreed with the Bank, the Tunisian Government set up on
August 1, 1968 an independent public agency, the Societ6 Nationale
d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux (SONEDE). SONEDE has a
large degree of financial and administrative autonomy, and it has
agreed to follow sound public utility policies. Its organization
and accounting system have been agreed with the Bank and the Swedish
Government. Substantial management and technical assistance, in the
form of consultants, will be available to SONEDE during the con-
struction period.
15.       The project is expected to be completed within 5 years.   It
consists of two parts:
A. Engineering and construction of projects for the
expansion and improvement of sources of supply
and distribution systems of:
(a)  the Tunis region
(b) the Sahel region
(c) the cities of Nabeul and Hammamet
B. Improvement of the Borrower's organization and operations.
16.       The total cost of the project is estimated at $33 million
including $17 million foreign exchange. It would be financed to the
extent of $15 million by the Bank loan, of $5 million by the Swedish
credit, and of $13 million equivalent by the Government of Tunisia
and SONEDE's own cash generation. In order to provide the necessary
revenues, SONEDE has agreed to immediately increase the water rate
from an average of 32 millimes/m3 to an average of 60 millimes/m3
(US i 43/1000 gal.) and maintain this level until 1971. Rates would
then be set at whatever level is necessary to produce a rate of
return on net fixed assets of at least 5% until 1973 and 6% there-
after.
17.       Contracts for construction and procurement of equipment
will be let in accordance with the Bank's procedures for inter-
national competitive bidding. Tunisian firms bidding in competition
with foreign firms would be entitled to a maximum of 15% price
protection..



- 6 -
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUITIENTS AND AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Soci6te'
Nationale d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and the Bank,
the draft Administration Letter between the Kingdom of Sweden and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee, provided for in
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
19.       These draft Agreements contain covenants normally included
in agreements for water supply projects and provisions reflecting
the fact that there is a co-lender with the Bank. The Loan Agreement
and Administration Letter provide, as in previous joint financing
operations with the Kingdom of Sweden, for concurrent but separate
disbursements by the Bank and the Kingdom of Sweden in the proportion
Bank 3: Sweden 1.
20.       Particular attention is drawn to the provisions of the
Guarantee Agreement requiring the Guarantor:   (i) to ensure that the
Borrower receives full payment, within 120 days of billing, of all
water charges incurred by all public authorities or agencies whether
national, regional or municipal (Section 3.06); (ii) to take all
necessary steps to acquire or enable the Borrower to acquire all land
required by the Borrower for the prompt construction of the facilities
included in the Project (Section 3.08); (iii) to ensure that import
licenses are issued for items to be financed in part or in whole from
the proceeds of the Loan within thirty days of application by the
Borrower or suppliers (Section 3.09); and (iv) to complete the con-
struction of facilities related to the Project and to transfer owner-
ship and responsibility for them to the Borrower (Section 3.10).
The Borrower would undertake not to incur, without the consent of the
Bank, debt with a maturity of a year or more, in excess of funds
required for the Project, unless its net revenues for the 12 months
prior to the incurrence of such debt cover at least 1.5 times its
maximum debt service for any succeeding fiscal year (Section 5.08 of
the Loan Agreement). Finally, the Borrower and the Guarantor would
agree to take the appropriate action required to ensure that the
Borrower's revenues are maintained at a level sufficient to cover all
the Borrower's operating and administrative expenses, including pro-
visions for maintenance and depreciation, and to produce a reasonable
rate of return on the Borrower's net fixed assets in operation (Section
5.09 of the Loan Agreement and Section 3.05 of the Guarantee Agreement).



-7 -
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       An economic report entitled "The Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Tunisia" (14A-3a) dated lMarch 19, 1968 was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on April 1, 1968. In recent dis-
cussions with the Tunisian Government, broad agreement has been
reached on the following economic policies: (1) curbing the growth
of current expenditures; (2) restricting the use of external medium-
term credit; (3) emphasizing productive projects in the investment
program; (4) improving the profitability of the public enterprises;
(5) encouraging private investment; (6) promoting exports and export-
oriented investments. The Government has expressed its intention to
act along these lines and in general has already taken appropriate
steps.
22.       In view of the fact that the ratio of debt service charges
to 1967 export earnings was 23% and that this ratio is likely to
remain o-.f the order of 20% over the coming few years, and in the
light of Tunisia's undertakings with respect to the above and its
past record of economic growth, Tunisia is considered as eligible
for a blend of IDA credits and Bank loans, subject to replenishment
of IDA's resources. This would also be in conformity with the con-
sensus reached in the May meeting of the Consultative Group for
Tunisia.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
23.       I am satisfied that the proposed Bank loan would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
2h.       I recommend that the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt
the following resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to the Societ6 Nationale d'Exploitation
et de Distribution des Eaux in an amount equivalent to
$15 000,000



-8-
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Socift6 Nationale
d'Exploitation et de Distribution des Eaux, to be guaranteed by the
Republic of Tunisia, in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifteen million United States dollars (Us$ 15,000,000), to mature
on or prior to September 1, 1993, to bear interest at the rate of
six and one-half percent (6-1/2%) per annum, and to be on such
other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accordance
with the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Loan Agreement
(Tunisia Water Supply Project) between the Bank and the Societe
Nationale dtExploitation et de Distribution des Eaux, s?ld the form of
Guarantee Agreement (Tunisia Water Supply Project) between the
Republic of Tunisia and the Bank, which have been presented to this
meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by S.R. Cope
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
November 20, 1968



