Docuit of
The World Bank
FOR OFFCLAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. P- 5740-CA  Type: (PM)                            RiloitNO. P-5740-CA
GIRADOT-BE! X34593 / J8119/ AFIAG
MEMORANDUMI AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVOPTENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CBEDIT
SDR 1-88 M. LLION
(US$25.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
- CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUJBLIC
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVEOPMN  PROJECT
APRIL 28, 1992
Tis document bas a restricted distibution and may be osed by recipierts ony In the performane of
their officdal duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -    CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.0       =    CFA 280
CFAF I million     =    US$ 3.448
SDR 1.0      =    US$ 1.365
US$1.0       =    SDR 0.732
FIALXA YE
January 1     -    December 31
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
ACADOP             Agence Centrafricaine pour le developpement de
l'Ouham-Pende (Rural Development Agency of Ouham-
Pende Prefecture).
ACDA               Agence Centrafricaine de d6veloppement agricole
(National Agricultural Development Agency).
CCCE               Caisse Centrale de Coop4ration Economique (French
Development Credit and Grant Development Agency)
DRDA               Direction  r4gionale  du  developpement  agricole
(Agricultural DMvelopment Regional Directorate)
ICRA               Institut Centrafricain  de recherche  agronomique
(National Agricultural Research Service)
MCD                Ministere do la Coopdration et du D6veloppement
(French Ministry for Cooperation and Development)
MDR                Ministbre du developpement rural (Rural Development
Ministry)
MTP                Ministire des Travaux Public (Public Works Ministry)
PRODEROM           Projet de d6veloppemnent rural de l'Ombelba M'poko
(Rural Development Agency of Ombella M'poko)
SDAD               Social Dimensions of Adjustment and Development
SOCADA             Societe Centrafricaine de developpement agricole
(Cotton enterprise and rural development agency)
SOCOCA             Societi Centrafricaine cotonniere (cotton company)
SPA                Special Program of Assistance to Africa
1/ The CFA Franc Is linked to the French Franc IFF) at a fixed parity of FF1 to CFAF 50.
The French Franc is currentiy floating.



FOR OFMCIAL USE ONLY
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PRQJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrower:                 Central African Republic
*                 l1ensficbry                Ministry of Rural Development (MOR)
Credit Amount:             SDR 18.8 million (US$ 25.8 million equiv.)
Terms:                     Standard IDA with 40 year maturity
Financina Pign:
US$'Million
IDA           25.8             55
SWISS           1.4            3
UNDP           3.6              8
MCD             2.2            5
CCCE           4.5             9
GERMANY         1.2            3
GOVERNMENT   8.2               17
TOTAL           .9
Rate gf Rgtun:             n.a.
Staff ADoraisal Report:    Report No. 1 0420-CA
MM: IBRD 19219
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF IDA TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.   I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on
a proposed Development Credit to the Central African Republic (CAR) for SDR 18.8
million, the equivalent of US$ 25.8 million, on standard IDA terms with a maturity of
40 years to help finance a project for the strengthening of the Rural Development
Ministry, the establishment of a National Agricultural Research Service and to support
the reform of rural development field services. The project would be co-financed by
France (US$ 6.7 million), UNDP (US$ 3.6 million), Switzerland (US$1.4 million),
Germany (US$1.2 million) and Government (US$8.2 million). In addition, IFAD is
contributing to the development of CAR's agricultural services through parallel
financing (SDR 8.45 million). Part I of the document discusses the CAR's development
problems and prospects, the key priorities of the reform program at the
macroeconomic and sector levels, and the Bank Group's assistance strategy. Part II
of the document describes the proposed credit.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
Background
2.   Economic Structure. The CAR is a landlocked country of 623,000 km2, with
a population estimated at 2.9 million in 1990. CAR's per-capita GNP in 1990 was
US$419. The primary sector, including agriculture, forestry, and fisheries is the
mainstay of the economy. It accounted for 40 percent of GDP in 1991 and is
estimated to provide employment for four-fifths of the active population. Mining,
manufacturing and utilities account for 16 percent while services represent 37 percent
of GDP. CAR's cash crop exports, which account for 40 percent of total exports, fell
by 21 percent in 1990 and are estimated to have fallen by 3 percent in 1991 as a
result of weak world prices. Diamond exports, which accounted for 48 percent of
total exports in 1990, are estimated at 42 percent of total exports in 1991. Wages for
skilled and unskilled labor are higher than those of its competitors; labor productivity
is low generally and particularly so in agriculture, the main source of growth, where
it has not improved over the past thirty years. Another constraining factor is CAR's
weak human capital base. Except for life expectancy at birth which, at 50 years is
about the average for Sub-Saharan Africa, the adult literacy rate (40 percent), the
primary school enrollment ratio (60 percent) and health indicators are all below average
for Sub-Saharan Africa.
3.   Pre-Adjustment Performance. The CAR economy suffered a severe deterioration
in the late 1970s and early 1980s mainly as a result of inappropriate govemment
policies and, to some extent, of exogenous shocks. Heavy government interference in
agricultural marketing and an ill-advised "agricultural reform" in 1970 led to a complete
halt of research and a rapid deterioration of extension services. Unsound and overly
ambitious public investment programs and rapidly increasing budget deficits, caused
by an oversized and inefficient civil service, nationalized enterprises, and short-term
expensive borrowing reinforced the economic decline. These domestic problems were



- 2 -
further exacerbated by falling commodity prices, a drought in 1983, and
disenchantment among donors which led to the isolation of the country.
4.   Against this background, the CAR govemment has, since 1982, been pursuing
a series of stabilization and structural adjustment programs aimed at restoring the basis
for medium term growth and development. Between 1982 and 1985, the IMF
supported a stabilization program with three stand-by arrangements. Since 1985 a
sustained effort at lifting the structural constraints to growth was initiated, and tha,
been supported by three structural adjustment credits, SAL 1(1986), SAL 11 (1988),
SAL III (1990), a Technical Assistance Project (TAII, approved i 1985 and
restructured to support SAL I in 1986), an Economic Management Project (EMP), in
1989, and investment credits. In 1987, the IMF provided a 12-month stand-by
arrangement and a first tranche of a three-year arrangement under the Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF); the second tranche was released in December 1988. The
last Policy Framework Paper (PFP) was approved by the Executive Boards of the Fund
and the Bank in May 1990 at which time the Fund approved the release of the third
tranche of the SAF. The African Development Bank, the EC, France and other bilateral
donors have also provided significant financial support to the CAR's adjustment's
effort. The CAR benefitted from substantial debt relief from the Paris Club creditors
In 1988 and 1990. France wrote off its official concessional debt to the CAR (US$
40 million) in 1990. The SAL ll targets for 1991 are presented in Table 1.
Performance Under the Structural Adiustment Program 1986-91.
5.   The major objective of the three SALs from 1986 to 1990 was to re-establish
sustained per-capita income growth. The strategy was based on: (i) promotion of
capacity building in key institutions; (ii) rehabilitation of the agriculture, infrastructure,
and education sectors; (iii) establishment of a more favorable climate for private
investment; and (iv) mobilization and improved utilization of donor funding through the
Special Program of Assistance to AfriCd (SPA), roundtables and sectoral donors
meetings. A central aim of the adjustment program was to restore competitiveness
by means of a shift in relative prices in favor of the export and import-substituting
sectors through a deflationary strategy aimed at lowering factor costs in relation to
extemal competitors. Such a shift would have provided incentives for increasing
output and investment in these sectors. Economic liberalization, public enterprise and
banking sectors reforms and the simplification of the regulatory environment were the
accompanying measures to reduce barriers to private sector activity.  While
contractionary policies have kept inflation low, they have not led to a reduction in
domestic costs sufficiently large to compensate for terms of trade shocks and the
appreciation of the French franc against the dollar. Overall performance under the
adjustment program has been mixed. The main results are summarized below:
6.   Economic Management. Macroeconomic management has proved problematic
due to extemal shocks, loss of competitiveness, weak capacity for economic
management and ensuing social tensions. The ratio of the fiscal deficit to GDP in
1991 (14 percent) was essentially the same as in 1986. The lack of improvement in
the fiscal situation was also the result of weak customs and tax administrations and
slippages in expenditure control. The current account improved from 18 percent of



GDP in 1986 to 15 percent in 1991 mainly as a result of falling imports (-17 percent
In current prices over the same period). Inflation, as measured by the CPt index, fell
and remained below 2 percent. However, investment bore the brunt of the idjustment
with a fall from 13 percent of GDP in 1986 to 9.6 2/ percent in 1991 and the terms
of trade deteriorated persistently over the period. After having fallen by 2.5 percent
in 1987, real GDP grew by over 2 percent in both 1988 and 1989. During 1990,
bowever, real GDP growth was negligible, due partly to the weak performance in
agriculture, particularly cash crops and diamonds. Except for 1986 and 1988 when
it grew by 1 and 1.6 percent respectively, real per capita income fell consistently over
the period This decline, combined with demands for greater participation in political
decision making, led to social tensions, which disrupted economic activity from the
fourth quarter of 1990 to the end of 1991.
7.   Public Sector Management. Budgetary policies focused on both the mobilization
of resources and expenditure control. Resource mobilization continues to be weak. To
improve tax collection, the government computerized the tax and customs administra-
tions, hired a pre-shipment inspection company and implemented the action plan
recommended by IDA and the IMF for increasing customs revenues. On expenditures,
the wage bill was contained through a combination of reductions in overstaffing (7
percent over 1986-1991), a hiring freeze, wage restraint, and strict application of the
ministries staffing plans. There was a modest wage increase in 1991 for the first time
since 1982. As a result, the wage bill, which fell from 62 percent of total govemment
revenues in 1986 to 55 percent in 1990, increased to 64 percent in 1991. This
increase is also due to the abnormally low level of government revenues in 1991 (10
percent of GDP against a target of 12.5 percent of GDP). CAR has now put in place
one of the most advanced civil service reform programs in Central and West Africa.
Impressive technical work has been done in the development of the computerized
management system within the civil service ministry. Indeed, for the firbt time ever,
data are available by ministry, department and division for overall staff as well as a
breakdown of the payroll by components. The Government is now able to track
personnel movements and the evolution of the wage bill, important tools which allow
it to manage on the basis of rational forward planning and budgeting. A new personnel
management policy has been endorsed by both the government and IDA. The policy
aims at creating a reliable personnel management system and the gradual
implementation of a job-based personnel management system and pay and promotion
policies based on merit.
8.   To ease the burden of the public enterprise sector on the budget, the
govemment reduced coffee and cotton export subsidies and created new commercially
run enterprises to replace the inefficient marketing boards. For the time being, both
companies will still be under public management. The cotton marketing enterprise will
be run with French technical assistance; the coffee marketing enterprise should
eventually be privatized. A flexible pricing system for coffee, which would have
allowed producer and exporter margins to move in line with fluctuations in world
market prices, has not yet been fully implemented.
21 The figure refers to realized public investment and excludes taxation of investment-
related imports.



-4 -
9.   The govemment is pursuing its program of public divetiture ad restructurir,Cg
nublic enterpri. It sub-contracted the management of the utilities (water, telephone
and electricity) to private companies and liquidated or privatized 17 enterprises out of
52 in the State's portfolio. Several of the remaining 35 are under restructuring or
performance contracts. To strengthen the autonomy of these enterprises, a law
establishing the institutional and legal framework gr,verning relations between the
public enterprises snd the State was enacted in September 1991. CAR's petroleum
pricirg policy encourages higher consumption of woodfuels (95 percent of household
consumption and 88 percent of total energy use). Petroleum taxation is the highest in
the region and the use of the cost-plus pricing policy by the mixed ownership
petroleum company does rot provide any inducement to reduce high procurement
costs. To avoid deforestation from the increasing demand for woodfuels and develop
an energy efficiency program, in 1991, IDA, together with the UNDP and the EC,
carried out an energy sector assessment study. As a result of this study, petroleum
procurement procedures were revised with IDA's support and an audit of the
petroleum company is now underway. The government is studying the remaining
recommendations of the report: (i) the abolition of the monopoly on import and
distribution of petroleum products by the petroleum company; and (ii) reform of the
petroleum pricing and taxation policies. Overall, the implementation of the public
enterprise sector restructuring program is progressing satisfactorily but the
privstization program is encountering difficulties due, in part, to the uncertain political
and economic environment which is affecting investors' confidence.
10.  Governance and Implementation Capacity. Government's weak implementation
capacity, particularly the lack of transparency and accountability in financial
management, has played a significant role in delaying the required policy changes and
prolonging the adjustment period. Program and project implementation suffered from
the bureautcracy's resistance to change and inadequate capacity. The FY91 public
investment review carried out by IDA identified this as an area where much remains
to be done.  In particula%, there is an urgent need to: (i) articulate coherent
macroeconomic and sector strategies; (ii) use the investment program as an economic
management instrument to ensure that these strategies are translated into programs
and projects; (iii) prepare a medium term expenditure plan to balance commitments
with resources and ensure that the recurrent cost implications of the investment
program are not ignored; (iv) disseminate information on main macroeconomic variables
and investment criteria to sectoral ministries; (v) set binding overall expenditures
ceilings and establish guidelines reflecting national priorities for the allocation of total
resources among broad categories of activities; (vi) coordinate donor activities and
channel external resources to priority areas; and (vii) improve technical assistance
management systems, which have so far failed to achieve any significant skill transfer.
11.  Incentis and Private Sector Dgveluurtent. The overall lack of competitiveness
of CAR (paragraph 5) remains a formidable barrier to a private sector take off, even
though a number of structural .eforms to improve the incentive framework have been
introduced. The regulatory framework for productive sectors (notably, food and
livestock sectors) has been streamlined. Legislation removing restrictions on real
estate transactions by foreigners has been enacted; trade and price regimes have been
liberalized with the exception of sugar, which is under consideration. Interest rates
ceilings were removed and the banking sector has been restructured. However, due
to the lack of competition ';ithin the banking system and the inability to recover



collateral for delinquent loans through the legal system, real interest rates on loans are
still very high while deposit rates are modest. This increases the cost of credit to a
private sector already suffering from the recession. The tariff and tax structures of
CAR have been enormously distorted and have severely limited its ability to raise
budgetary revenues. The system, common to UDEAC (the Central African CLstomS
Union), of which CAR is a member, is characterized by a Common External Tariff that
failed to function as such becauss of the proliferation of country specific import levies
and of restrictions on intra-Union trade. Moreover, cumulative tariff rates are
exceptionally high but are applied in a non-uniform way because of the ubiquitous and
ad-hoc use of exemptions. In December 1991, the UDEAC heads of States (including
CAR) have adopted a far reaching reform program for trade and indirect tax policy
which would reduce distortions in the incentives framework, create a level playing field
for all economic agents and improve CAR's ability to raise budgetary revenues. The
main elements of the reform are: (i) abolition of the -omplementary tax and reduction
of the common external tariff to three rates- 5 percent for essential products, 15
percent for raw materials and equipment, and 70 percent for all other imported
commodities. The latter rate will be progressively reduced to 35 percent by all
countries in simultaneous phases over a five year period to allow time for import-
substituting industries to restructure and adjust to the new environment of reduced
protection; (ii) introduction of a preferential tariff for intra-Union trade; (iii) replacement
of the present cumbersome indirect taxation by a generalized sales tax, the rates and
application of which would be determined on a country specific basis, and which
would evolve into a VAT in the future; (iv) introduction of excise duties on a regionally
determined list of products; and (vi elimination of most categories of custom duty
exemptions. In addition to the loss of competitiveness, the absence of strong private
sector institutions and an independent judiciary system continued to play an important
role in the lack of private sector supply response.
12.  Recent Developments. The political turmoil of the past two years slowed down
implementation of the adjustment program and lowered economic performance
resulting in a fiscal imbalance which helped de-rail a proposed IMF ESAF program. IDA
is delaying the disbursement of the final tranche of its third adjustment operation
(initially scheduled for June 1991) and bilateral donors have significantly reduced their
support. As a result, important domestic and external financial imbalances re-appeared
(the 1991 stock of arrears stood at 9 percent of GDP). In view of its poor fiscal
performance, in September 1991, the gover ient took emergency measures through
a supplementary finance law to address the financial crisis. In November 1991, the
govemment reached an agreement with the IMF and IDA on a draft 1992 budget
which, if implemented, could lead to a first-year ESAF arrangement in late 1992. The
draft budget was approved by the National Assembly in February, 1992 paving the
way for its implementation assuming that the political stalemate is resolved and no
serious disruption to economic activity occurs during the run-up to the presidential
elections, currently scheduled for November 1992.
13.  Table 1 shows CAR's performance over 1986-91 and prospects for 1992. The
projections are IDA's estimates of the most likely outcome, under continued internal
adjustment in an uncertain external environment, but with moderate improvement in
the terms of trade. A detailed economic indicators table is in Annex.



-6-
Table 1. Central African Republic: Key Macrosconomic Indigtors M%)
Ay2rgsa  Actual    SAL II1  Proiections
1/                tam
1986-90  1991      1991   1992
GDP Growth Rate          0.7 2/   0.2      3.1    1.0
Consumer Price ;ndex    -1.7      2.0      0.1    1.9
Current Aoount/GDP 3/    -17.4    -15.2    -16.1  -15.1
Exports of GNFS         -4.3    -12.3      5.5    1.1
Imports of GNFS         -3.8    -13.6      2.4    1.5
Gross Investment/GDP    11.2     11.6      12.7    8.4
Govt. Revenues/GDP 4/   12.0     10.2      12.5   11.8
Govt. Expenditures/GDP  25.2    24.8       22.6   20.5
Fiscal balance/GDP 4/  -13.2    -14.4    -10.0   -8.9
11 period averages
2/ compound growth rate
3/ Excluding public transfers.
4/ Excluding grants.
Growth Prosoects and Medium Term Economic Outlook
14.   Central Develooment Issues. CAR has abundant land for its small population,
the climate is favorable and the soils adequate. The country is rich in forest, wildlife
and mineral resources. Its potential is therefore good. On farm private investment in
foodcrops, agro-forestry, export crops and livestock, private investment in light
transformation activities (wood and agro-processing) and tourism are all possible
sources of future growth. Yet, despite this potential, the significant level of external
assistance and the progress made to date in creating a favorable enabling environment,
CAR still faces several development constraints. These include: (i) unsound macroeco-
nomic policies resulting in unsustainable fiscal and external positions; and (ii) loss of
competitiveness and related lack of private sector investment and growth. The latter
is due also to the uncertain political environment and failure to enforce property rights
combined with unduly burdensome employment regulations, a costly tax structure and
a thin financial system; (iii) inadequate support services and infrastructure; (iv) a weak
human capital base, the result of neglect and inadequate investments in health and
education; and (v) weak institutional capacity, in part a consequence of the failure of
the technical assistance to build local capacity.
15.   Economic Management. CAR's economy remains heavily dependent on cash
crops, diamonds and foreign assistance. Growth prospects for the medium term are
limited under the present policies and will depend to a great extent on a significant
improvement in the terms of trade to restore competitiveness. The continued weak
revenue performance in early 1992 indicates i.!hat the earlier hopes of an economic



- 7 -
recovery following the resumption of normal economic activities did not materialize.
Furthermore, the cuts in government spernding are going to have a contractionary
effect on the rest of the economy. The small indu3trial sectot will most probably
continue its decline. Public transfers which account for an important share of CAR's
financing needs (74 percent in 1991), fell by 5 percent in 1991 and is not expected
to increase significantly in 1 992. As a result, salary arrears (two months ) will remain
and CAR will continue to experience payments difficulties for its external debt.
Scheduled debt service payments for 1991 which stood at 23 percent of exports of
goods and services are still high in view of CAR's continued financial difficulties.
Actual debt service payments to exports were 1.4 percent only.
16.  On the fiscal front, the package of revenue and expenditure measures would
yield a fiscal deficit (on a commitment basis) of 9 percent of GDP in 1992 (down from
14 percent in 1991) and provide for a primary fiscal surplus. The expenditure
measures aim at a reduction in the wage bill by the equivalent of one percent of GDP
through: (i) a solidarity tax on high salaries; and {ii) a combination of a cut in
dependency allowance and the elimination of the family supplement allowance which
was skewed in favor of high salaries. The revenue measures are based on the early
implementation of the UDEAC-wide reform program (paragraph 1 1). These measures
are expected to increase tax revenues by 20 percent in 1992. An IMF staff mission
has just completed the first quarter review of the above program and concluded that
the fiscal program was worthy of support. Quarterly indicative targets were
established for budgetary revenues snd for total and current expenditure. These
targets will be monitored during the next joint IDA-IMF mission scheduled for July
1992. Discussions are currently underway with the govemment on a medium-term
structural adjustment program that could form the basis of a PFP later this year.
17. Public Sector Management. To improve public sector management, the
govemment has agreed to: (i) maintain an accounting system that supports
expenditure control and eliminate extra-budgetary expenditures; (iiJ manage budgetary
appropriations and expenditures on a strictly yearly basis and maintain an annual audit
system that reinforces expenditure control; liii) improve its record of domestic arrears
and the mechanisms for monitoring and settling them; (liv) establish a more transparent
relationship with the petroleum import and distribution company; (v) implement the
recommendations of the FY91 public investment review regarding: (a) the
strengthening of the role of the Ministry of Plan in policy analysis; (b) introduction of
medium-term expenditure planning and budgeting and an investment programming
system that takes account of implementation capacity and recurrent costs; and (c)
creation of a strong aid coordination capacity, so that govemment, not donors,
determines development priorities; and (vi) implementation of the UDEAC-wide reform
program for trade and indirect taxation.
18.  Debt and Aid Flows. CAR is heavily dependent on concesslonal extemal
assistance. The public investment program is 90 percent extemally financed while
donors finance a large part of the current expenditure budgets of health and education.
Despite pest Paris Club debt.relief and the French debt forgiveness, CAR continues to
experience difficulties in servicing its debt (paragraph 15). In 1991, the stock of
external and internal arrears increased to US$ 120 million equivalent, of which US$ 64
million are external arrears. The 1992 financing gap is now estimated at USS 101
million, which is axpe..ted to be covered by a rescheduling of bilateral debt and



-8-
exceptional donor ass'¶tazze. Under the program agreed with IDA and the IMF, the
government committbd itself to clear all external arrears and reduce by one half
domestic arrears. CAR will therefore need further debt relief on Trinidad terms and
increased development assistance to sustain investment for human resource
development and infrastructure.
19.  Human Resource Development. The CAR human resource base has been
neglected. Fiscal restraint, misguided sector strategies and poor donor coordination
have led to serious weaknesses in the health, education, training and labor market
systems. The previous structural adjustment programs have begun to correct this
situation, in part by reducing the share of wages in total budgetary expenditures. IDA
has also sought to ensure that non-wage recurrent expenditure on priority programs
in health and education be increased by 10 percent annually. In education, a strategy
has been agreed upon with IDA to increase the primary enrillment ratio, improve the
quality and efficiency of the primary education system and strengthen management
of the sector. An action plan is being implemented under the on-going Education
Rehabilitation and Development Project. Progress is slow due to the presert fiscal
constraint and government's inability to reduce the overall allocation for higher
education scholarships. Government's health sector golicy has hitherto been skewed
in favor of curative services in urban centers to the detriment of preventive health care
and provision of rural health services.
20.  Poverty Alleviation. Poverty is pervasive in CAR, data on the poor are patchy,
and insufficient government attention has been focused on poverty alleviation. Despite
self sufficiency in food producticn, the deterioration in overall welfare of the population
is evidenced by the five consecutive years of stagnating economic growth, shrinkage
of the modern sector and a general deterioration in the quality of social services. The
matemal mortality rate of 8 per 1,000 live births, while falling, remains high and the
infant mortality rate (142 per 1,000 live births) is higher than the average for Sub-
Saharan Africa. Available evidence suggests that the poor are located in rural areas,
engaged in agricultural activities, or in the urban informal sector in petty trading. Rural
incomes remain considerably below the national average as productivity in agriculture
is comparatively low. Moreover, poverty is more widespread in rural areas that do not
have access to roads, markets and services and are not located near large development
projects. The burden of poverty is unevenly spread. Women are particularly
disadvantaged. They shoulder more of the workload, are less educated, and have less
access to remunerative activities. The govemment agrees that measures to evaluate
how its economic policies affect poverty need to be built into its macro-economic and
sectoral policies. To this end, through the FY91 Social Dimensions of Adjustment and
Development Project (SDAD), the govemment is developing its capacity to collect and
analyze relevant data. Included under this project are household surveys which will
clarify the dimensions of poverty in CAR and identify groups for targeted interventions.
21.  Women in Development. The status and roles of women in CAR remain
severely constrained. As identified in a FY92 WID assessment carried out by IDA, one
of the factors adversely affecting women's general welfare is the low level of access
to education (female illiteracy stands at 71 percent compared to 52 percent for men)
and health and agricultural extension services. In addition, a number of constraints,
such as lack of access to formal credit and to new technologies, affect women's
productivity and economic opportunities in various sectors.  Recognizing the



importance of women for economic development and increased welfare, the
govarnment adopted a National Policy for the Promotion of Women (NPPW) in 1989.
This document stresses incorporating women's concerns into sectoral policies and
strategies and calls for specific actions to enhance the status and role of women in
development. While the NPPW provides an exc31ent starting point for integrating
women into national development efforts, much remains to be done before action
programs can be launched to effectively promote this goal. The WID component of
the SDAD project is designed to help implement the NPPW through: (i) Institutional
strengthening to build capacity to formulate policies In support of Integrating women's
concerns Into economic and social development; (ii) preparation of a family code and
the review of legal texts to alleviate some of the burden caused by customary
practices and cultural behavior towards women; and (iii) an action plan to improve
fema;e educatior, and literacy.
22.  Environmental PE=a&. CAR is endowed with forestry reserves covering
some 3.5 million hectares, or 5.5 percent of the country's total area, and some of the
continent's most abundant and diversified wildlife. The tropical rain forest of the
southwest is considered one of the richest in Africa, with a high density of valuable
redwood species. Despite the low extraction rate, CAR faces the long-term risk of
deforestation. Moreover, poaching, in part originating from southem Sudan, has been
particularly destructive of wi.d-life in the savanna zone. The govemment with support
from IDA and the EC, has undertaken a program to reinforce CAR's capacity to protect
and manage its forest and wildlife resources on a sustainable basis, through: (i)
Improvements in the legislative framework and fiscalAincentive system for the forestry
and wildlife sector; {ii) strengthening capacity to effectively implement field controls
and promote environmental protection; and (iii) development of improved agro-forestry
systems in the forest zone, and support to the protection and management of a dense
forest reserve. In parallel, the government has prepared a status report on the environ-
ment and is seeking external financing to prepare the National Environmental Action
Plan. 'ine plan will formulate a national development strategy for the forestry and
wildlife sector and broaden the strategy to address the impact of the other sectors on
the environment.
Bank AssistaInce Strategy and Lending Program
23.  The Comoosition of Past Bank Lendina. As of March 31, 1992,25 IDA Credits
had been approved to CAR, totalling US$377.8 million equivalent. In the past four
years, IDA's assistance has been shared among adjustment lending, including three
stuctural adjustment credits, a cotton sector adjustment operation, and lending for
investment in, and rehabilitation of, the transport, education, energy, and agricultural
sectors as well as a credit for the management of natural resources. Two technical
assistance projects in support of economic management were also approved (table 2).



-10-
Table 2: Lendina Proaran FY87?91
% shm of
Acfiustnm Og__ggns                   Board Date    Amount US8   tote] ondina
SAL I                                09/09/86           30.0        10.8
Cotton Sector Adjustnent             07/07/87           15.0         6.4
SAL 11                               00/09/88           40.0        14.4
SAL In                               06/21/90           45.0        16.2
Energy                               01/10/89           18.0         8.5
Environmnent
Nurl Resource Management             05/22/90           19.0         6.8
Trasport Sector                      04/24190           82.0        22.3
Humnan Resources
Educaftion Rehab. & Development      12/16187           18.0         8.5
Socia Dikeneions of                  08/20191           0.5          2.3
Adjust & Dovelp.
Publc      blti asamn
Economic Management                  12113/88           13.2         4.8
Pr[vatj Sector Develonment
Enterprise Rehab & Development       05/30/91           11.3         4.0
TOt                                                   278.0        100.0
24.  Pro!ect implementation Issues. Project implementation has been constrained
by three major fact.-rs: govemment's weak implementation capacity, deficiencies in
procurement and tne worsening macroeconomic environment with its negative impact
on the availability of budgetary resources for local counterpart financing. Externally-
financed projects continue to experience slow implementation because of weak
institutional capacity in the sectors receiving assistance. Projects are implemented in
an environment where management and administrative skills are rudimentary. The
problem of building up technical capacity is compounded by the low level of salaries
for technical staff and their consequent high turnover. Procirement practices are
inconsistent and delays occur as IDA insists on the application of agreed standards.
The shortages of counterpart funds seriously affect project implementation, particularly
in agriculture and education. The financial crisis affecting CAR over the past two years
has only made this problem worse.
25.  In view of these problems, IDA has taken several actions to improve portfolio
performance. Strengthening of economic management and overhaul of the budgetary
process are being vigorously pursued under the IDA-financed Economic Management
Project (EMP). In December 1991, IDA carried out a mid-term review of the EMP to
reorient the project's objectives towards greater emphasis on capacity building. The
lessons of project experience, including the administrative burden imposed by more
complex projects, are being Incorporated into the design of new operations. The
project proposed In this Memorandum, for example, integrates the project management



- 11 -
unit within the regular structure of the Ministry of Rural Development. To help
strengthen procurement at the sectoral level, the country team is organizing a
procurement seminar in the CAR in June 1992. IDA will take this opportunity to insist
on full and timely compliance with audit requirements and regular financial reporting
of govemment entities in furtherance of transparency and accountability. In addition.
IDA has helped the Govemment prepare new legislation for petroleum procurement and
will train staff of the Ministry of Energy in bid evaluation. An IDA country
imdementamion review is scheduled for June 1992 to identify and resolve further
generic and systemic issues which tend to reduce project Implementation performance.
Finally, IDA is intensifying project supervision ith heavy Involvement of the resident
mission to detect implementation problems before they jeopardize the attainmant of
project goals.
26.  Country Lending Strategy and Qbiectives. Based on the continuing challenges
of the key development issues, IDA's future assistance for CAR will focus on: (i) the
need to restote comMtitiveLness by means of a strategy based on growth; (ii) the
introduction of measures to induce and sustain arowth led by private investment; (iii)
the need to adopt a long-term strategy for caaacitv building for public sector
management (revenue mobilization, investment programming, budget preparation and
expenditure accounting and auditing); (iv) the development of human resources with a
view to strengthening the human capital base and reducingoverty and (v) protection
of the environment.
27.  Proposed Lendina Program.  There is as yet no agreed medium-term
macroeconomic framework, as PFP discussions between IDA, the IMF and the
government are at an early stage. In the absence of an operational PFP and a medium-
term economic program, it is not possible to establish targets for medium-term growth.
Given the current level of uncertainty, the mixed performance under the adjustment
program and the present unsustainable fiscal situation, IDA's country assistance
strategy will adhere to a base case program. If the country performance improves
substantially, a high case lending program will be put in place.
28.  The Base Case Program. The strategy will be underlined by a core lending
program for FY 1993-95 totalling US$ 30 million (US$ 10 million a year) to support
on a selsctive basis, projects in: (i) human resource development (emphasizing health
and WID aspects); (ii) livestock development and wildlife management; and Oiii) urban
infrastructure. No adjustment lending is anticipated under this scenario.
29.  Trigger to the High Case Lending Program. The high case program would be
triggered by the adoption of a medium-term macroeconomic framework (MTF) that
would restore competitiveness and lead to sustained growth in per capita income while
keeping the fiscal and current account deficits at a sustainable level. IDA would
support this effort with additional lending. The MTF should also include measures to
complement the restoration of international competitiveness, amongst which: (i)
strengthening the budgetary system; (ii) privatization of the coffee marketing and
liberalization of coffee and cotton prices; (iii) abolition of the remaining state monopoly
on petroleum import and distribution; (iv) implementation of the UDEAC trade reform
program (paragraph 11); (v) deregulation of the labor market; (vi) completion of the
reform of the public enterprise sector; and (vii) deepening of the financial system.



- 12-
30.  The High Case Lending Program. In addition to the core lending program, the
high case lending program would include a SAL, additional investment projects and
possibly increasing the size and scope of the projects retained in the core lending
program. This could bring total lending to about USS 140 million over FY1993-95.
The SAL would include policy change and institutional reform in support of the MTF
(paragraph 29). Additional investment lending could include: (i) a rural Jnterprise
develonment and exoort crop diversification project; to rehabilitate coffee plantations
and diversify crops in the coffee zone; (ii) follow uo to the EMP proiect to implement
the changes to the legal framework and continue capacity building through the
implementation of the personnel management policy; and (iii) a fourth bducatign
grgoct1 to help government pursue investment in human resource development.
31.  Economic Management. To implement the above strategy over the next three
years, IDA's Economic and Sector Work (ESW) program will focus on public sector
management (paragraph 17). In addition, IDA will assist government, through the
EMP, in implementing the FY91 public investment review recommendations on
investment programming and monitoring as well as the strengthening of the role of the
Ministry of Plan in policy analysis (paragraph 10).
32.  Governance and Canacitv Buildina. IDA will seek to strengthen govemment's
capacity in public sector management. Enhanced effectiveness and greater efficiency
in public sector management requires improved administrative systems, managerial
skills, and the capacity of public institutions to adjust to the shift of emphasis to
market economics, elements that at present are lacking. IDA will therefore advocate
the need to adopt a long term strategy for capacity building and institutional
development based on the recently adopted civil service personnel management policy.
This includes the gradual implementation of a job-based personnel management system
and pay and promotion policies based on merit. The ESW pogroam will help formulate
a credible long term vision of how development can follow and build on the necessary
continuation of the adjustment effort. A follow-up EMP is included in the high case
lending program to help the government implement the institutional changes.
33.  Privte Sector Pevelooment and IFC's Role. The promotion of growth and
improvement in living standards will depend critically on generating a supply response
from the private sector. IDA will prepare a reform program linked to enhancing
competitiveness, including a review of the CAR labor market (its structure, functioning,
labor force quality and productivity factors). Now that CAR is a member of IFC (it
joined in April 1991), a joint Bank-IFC orivate sector assessment (PSA) will be
proposed for FY 93. The PSA will provide the basis for the formulation of our
assistance strategy by identifying priority policy reforms and other actions critical to
pRivate sector development. In addition, a key aspect of IDA's assistance for private
sector development will be the strengthening of private sector institutions and selected
govemance areas such as the protection of property rights, the timely resolution of
disputes through assistance for legal and judiciary reforms, and improved capacity of
legal institutions.
34. Human Resource Develooment. Enhanced labor productivity is critical to the
achievement of the strategy's growth objective. IDA's strategy for human resource
development would seek to increase access to, and the quality of, basic social
services. The Education Rehabilitation and Develogment Project, approved in 1987,



-13 -
seeks to raise enrollment in primary education, including increasing sharply the
participation rate of females, and to improve the quality of education through in-service
teacher training, the provision of textbooks, and the strengthening of school
inspectorates. The project also supports the improvement of sector management in
the areas of investment programming and budgeting, preparation of the recurrent
budget and scholarships. France, Egypt and the United States are the major providers
of foreign technical personnel for secondary and higher education. Working in concert
with other donors, IDA will help the govemment eliminate the bias against rural areas
and primary education especially. In health, IDA will urge the govemment to adopt and
implement a comprehensive policy for the sector. This would imply the application of
norms and standards for health delivery along with appropriate resource allocations,
the training of staff, increased support for rural infrastructure and participation of
communities In both the management and financing of services. IDA will lend its
support to the govemment via a primary health care project if and when such a
strategy is adopted.
35.  Pey= Alleiation. IDA's strategy for poverty alleviation is two-fold: l, to
restore growth, so that employment and incomes will rise and poverty can
consequently be reduced; and, second. to integrate development of a sound human
resource base fully into Govemment's medium and long-term program of economic and
social development. IDA will propose that, in the short-term, such a strategy aim at
protecting public expenditures for essential services in health and education, while
ensuring more efficient use of the available resources. Progress will be monitored
through bi-annual Public Exoenditure Reviews (PERs). In addition, the government,
through the SDAD project, is developing, its capacity to collect and analyze relevant
data. Based on these data and subsequent analyses, IDA will help the Government
improve policies to reduce Roverty and, where possible, integrate these concerns into
IDA's program. Moreover, the implementation of the project proposed in this
Memorandum will help reduce rural poverty. improve nutrition, reinforce food security
and enhance the role of women farmers.
36.  Women in Development. The most effective wayto improve the role and status
of women is through a mainstreaming approach. Based on the FY92 report on gender
issues in the Central African Republic, IDA's strategy to enhance women's
participation in development will focus on four overall development objectives: (i)
strengthening of the institutional and policy framework to promote women; (ii)
improvement of the government data base; (iii) investment for better access to health
and education; and (iv) expansion of income-eaming opportunities for women in rural
as well as urban areas. To achieve these objectives, IDA's strategy should, in the
short-term, support objectives (i) and (iv) above; and in the long-term, support the
integration of gender specific issues in macroeconomic and sectoral policies and
projects. IDA has already started implementing the strategy through the FY91
Enterprise Rehabilitation and Development (ERDP) and the SDAD projects.
37.  EnvironmentalProtection. To ensure that environmental issues are incorporated
into sectoral strategies, IDA will help government mobilize external funding for its
Environmental Action Plan. IDA will also help the Govemment mobilize extemal
funding to meet the incremental costs of preventing further deterioration of the
environment. Priority will be given to increase the number of forest-guards and game-
rangers. Forestry permit legislation is being revised with assistance being provided



-14-
under the FY90 Natural Resource Management Project to make the legislation
consistent with the recently promulgated Forestry Code giving more responsibility to
timber companies for the protection of the forest in their respective concessions.
Assistance is also needed to implement the strategy embodied in the new forestry
code, which calls for involving the local population in the protection of the
environment. In addition, the Agricultural Services Development Project proposed in
this Memorandum will contribute directly to environmental protection by developing
and transferring technology for sustainable increases in productivity, and by promoting
tree planting programs for soil Improvement and erosion control. A livestock
development and wildlife management project is included in the core lending program.
Aid Coordination and Relations with the IMF
38.  The Central African Republic receives assistance from a large number of donors
who provide both investment and policy-based support in the form of credits and
grants. IDA has taken the lead in mobilizing donors' support to CAR, notably by co-
chairing Round Tables, the latest of which in Geneva in 1991 to mobilize extraordinary
balance of payments support. Although aid coordination has greatly improved in
recent years, mucn remains to be done to ensure that assistance is not donor-driven
but addresses the country's priority development needs. IDA will pursue its lead role,
within the SPA, to mobilize additional support to CAR. The level of support
forthcoming will accord with the Govemment's own commitment to reform efforts.
39.  IDA is seeking to build consensus amona donors to refocus and better manage
their technical assistance and give priority to capacity building and the removal of
implementation bottlenecks. In this context, the aim is to shift donor support from
financing projects to financing a "tinle- slice" of sectoral or subsectoral programs as
was done under the FY90 IDA transport sector operation. Recent agreements to hold
sectoral consultations with donors are steps in the right direction. Donors' meetings
on infrastructure take place each year before the finalization of the three-year rolling
investment plan. A donor consultation took place in January 1992 on the energy
sector. The support, under the project proposed in this Memorandum, for a new
agricultural strategy which aims at a consistent framework nationwide for the delivery
of rural development services constitutes a further step. Moreover, IDA's public
investment review has been shared with donors. IDA will organize a meeting with
govemment and donors to follow up on the study's recommendations, especially those
relating to the provision of technical assistance and the transfer of skills.
40.  IDA and the IMF have worked in close collaboration in the preparation and
design of the past strategy. IDA is also actively involved in the current discussions on
the possibility of an IMF program ot assistance to the Central African Republic In FY93.
A joint IDA-IMF staff mission agreed with the govemment on the draft 1992 budget
in November 1991. A joint mission is scheduled for July to conduct the article IV
consultation discussions and negotiate an ESAF arrangement if the 1992 program is
on track.
Summary Assessment
41.  While the Govemment has progressed in its restructuring of the economy, it has
found it increasingly difficult to pursue further fiscal restraint to meet the shortfall in



-15-
revenues in the face of an unsustainable deflationary internal adjustment, strikes in late
1990 and 1991, and continuing pressures for more political openness. IDA withheld
disbursement of the final tranche of its adjustment operation (initially scheduled for
June 1991) pending the establishment of an agreed medium-term macroeconomic
framework. To promote and sustain growth and macroeconomic stability, attention
should be focused on working toward removing the long-term development
constraints. The first priority is the need to restore competitiveness essential for a
private sector supply response. The second is the need for the Government to build on
the gains from the adjustment program to strengthen its implementation capacity. The
third is the need for the govemment to address human resources development, poverty
alleviation, and the protection of the environment as means to ensuring the
sustainability of the development process. In conclusion, IDA's strategy seeks to be
flexible and responsive to the evolving needs of the CAR. It is designed to support
activities essential for long-term development under the present policies. It will
respond quickly through an increase in the size of the lending program to support
improvements in performance.
PART 1I. THE PROJECT
Recent Trend in Government Sectoral Policies
42.  Starting in 1988, the MDR carried out an important program of sector studies
in an attempt to reorient the country's agricultural strategy. As a follow up to this
work, in mid-1 989, Govemment invited the Donor Community to a UNDP-sponsored,
Bank-led roundtable in Bangui, at which the issue of organising and funding agricultural
support services was debated at length. At this meeting, a consensus emerged on the
need to strengthen research and extension, on the basis of a production system
approach, as it is more likely to produce innovations adapted to the CAR farmer
context then those generated by a narrower approach geared at the promotion of
specific crops. At the same time, the meeting identified the need to organise
producers for crop marketing and input distribution, to develop small enterprises for
agro-processing and rural services, and to promote rural savings and credit
associations. Finally, it was acknowledged that rural infrastructure was a vital element
of the rural development strategy, to facilitate trade to and from rural areas and
improve living conditions in these areas. To do all of the above while keeping
Government support services light and low cost, meeting participants emphasised the
need to rely on producer groups as channels for the delivery of input and services to
farmers. The proposed strategy is thus fundamentally new in many respects, and its
Implementation will require new service organizations and new skills and attitudes from
the staff.
43.  To implement the new strategy, in 1989 Government embarked on a process
of institutional reforms which was supported by the Bank through SAL 2 and 3 and
through one sector adjustment program (Credit 1836-CA). First, in that year, MDR
completed a major reorganization with the lay-off of about a third of its personnel, and
a clearer definition of the mandates of each service. Its role was limited to central
planning and coordination, while implementation of all development actions and the
supply of all farm support services were to be the sole responsibility of autonomous



-16-
agencies under the umbrella of the Ministry. At the same time, a decision was taken
to consolidate all research activities under the umbtella of a National Agricultural
Research Institute (ICRA), yet to be established. In parallel a decision was also taken
to restructure the organizations in charge of implementing rural development programs
and projects, in order to eliminate duplication of activities, create more flexible, less
cumbersome services, and harmonize extension methods around a system based
approach; the aim being to replace the existing framework made up of project funded
agencies of various size and functions and to create in each main region a single multi-
disciplinary rural development service (Regional Directorates or DRDAs) backed up by
common technical support services at central level (National Agricultural Development
Agency or ACDA).
44.  Proit.Q b1nibem. The proposed project is the main vehicle to implement the
above sectoral strategy and rural development approach, with the objective of
improving rural producers productivity, incomes and living standards through the
promotion of agricultural and artisanal activities, and the development of collective
rural infrastructure. A special effort will be made to reach two disadvantaged groups,
the youths and the women who are discriminated against by local traditions. A
secondary objective of the project is to lower the public sector cost of providing rural
support services.
45.  Proec Descrion. In pursuit of the above objectives, the project will put in
place new service organistons. This will be achieved by completing the institutonal
reforms initiated under prior adjustment operations. Thus, the project will support the
establishment and operations of ICRA and ACDA, including two DRDAs in the cotton
area savanna: the North-West and Center-East DRDAs, both of which will grow out of
the rural development part of the existing SOCADA (until recently a cotton ginning
company which had rural development responsibilities in the cotton area savanna) and
ACADOP (another development agency whose area of intervention overlapped with
SOCADA's). The remainder of SOCADA, namely its industiasl and commercial part,
has been tumed into a cotton ginning and marketing enterprise (SOCOCA) run along
commercial lines. A third DRDA is being established under a parallel IFAD-funded
project In the foodcrop area savanna (Center-West DRDA) by taking over the staff and
infrastructure of yet another agency (PRODEROM) and redeploying them over a larger
area. The restructuring of SOCADA involving the lay-off of about 200 staff, the
elimination of duplication between SOCADA and ACADOP, and the redeployment of
PRODEROM personnel will all contribute to lower the cost of providing services to rural
people. Preparation of the legal statutes for the new entities as well as preliminary
restructuring are financed under a PPF (P-539-CA).
46. Through ACDA and its DRDAs, the project will promote the new participatory
approach to rural development. The design of village development programs will be
the direct product of a collaborative effort between technical staff and the local people,
instead of the more usual identification of development constraints and their solution
through socio-economic surveys and feasibility studies carried out by outsiders.
Program Implementation will rely on the initiatives, whether individual or collective, of
the local people, thereby better responding to actual constraints and needs, supporting
a greater number of people at lower cost, and above all promoting autonomous and
self-sustainable development by rural communities and Individuals. To be responsive
to actual villagers demands, the project will provide a wide range of services, including:



- 17 -
tchnology development and transfer (research, extension, animal traction, agro-
forestry); transport, processing, and marketing; the development of commercial and
artisanal activities (e.g. tradeirs, blacksmiths, carpenters); tracks and other rural
infrastructure (e.g. village stores, water points); credit for on-farm and off-farm
investments; and a simple land registration program. The project will not always
directly provide all the required inputs and services. It will set up a framework for
assessing villagers' needs and in some cases will merely act as vehicle to facilitate
their access to relevant specialized institutions (whether public, private or NGO).
47.  To achieve the above shift in strategy, the project will directly support all key
Govemment agencies, including the umbrella Ministry. Support will go to:
5i)   Rural Development Ministry, to strengthen its capacity in sector
management and planning (US$ 1.9 million);
5ii)  ICRA, including rehabilitation of existing research facilities that will be
regrouped under its umbrella, formal and on-the job training of research
personnel, and funding of major research programmes corresponding to
four of the basic farming systems identified in the CAR (US$9.4 million);
(iii) ACDA, including technical assistance for on-the job staff training,
vehicles, facilities and operating funds. Over the project period, this
support will go as a matter of priority to:
(a)   ACDA Headquarter, located in Bangui, comprising central
financial services, marketing and training support units,
and teams of highly mobile senior technicians and foreign
experts (US$6.7 million);
(b)  the North-West and Center-East Regional Directorates,
comprising support services and specialists housed at
regional HO and a network of field development agents
throughout the region responsible for agricultural
extension and community development work (US$9.9
million).
(c)   a large training program organized by ACDA for its staff,
farmers and rural youth (boys and giris) at training centers
to be rehabilitated (US$2.0 million).
ffv)  Credit Unit, including technical assistance provided by an NGO,
equipment and operating funds, plus a line of credit for financial
assistance to farmers, traders and communities (US$3.5 million).
(v)   A rural infrastructure program, consisting mainly of rural roads managed
by the Ministry of Public Works (MTP) and ACDA (US$11.1 million).
(vi)  Project Coordination and Administration, located at the Rural
Development Ministry (US$1.7 million).



- 18 -
The balance of project cost (see Schedule' A) is accounted for by the Project
Preparation  Facility  (US$  0.7  million).    Project financing, and
procurement/disbursements arrangements are in Schedule A and B respectively. The
timetable of key processing events is in Schedule C.
48.  Credit under the NGO component would finance up to 75% of sub-ptoject cost
(90% in the case of youths). Financial charges, which would include interest, risk
premium, and fees for administrative services would be positive and range between
1-4% monthly for up to 48 months (60 months in the case of youths). Most sub-loans
would be expected to be below 24 months, however.
Project Im11Ieme=tign
49.  The Ministry of Rural Development will have overall responsibility for
implementation of the project which will be executed partly by agencies under its
umbrella, ICRA for research and ACDA for rural development field services and
training; and partly by other entities, MTP for primary rural roads and an NGO for the
credit component. The NGO will be selected in accordance with IDA procedures for
the selection of consultants. A Project Financial Coordinator located at the MDR will
be provided under technical assistance during the entire period of the project.
Proiect Sustainability
50.  Sustainability has been an important consideration in the design of the project.
After a period of relatively intensive support from the field service during the planning
and initial implementation phase of village development activities, villagers'groups
would progressively take charge of their own development, allowing intensive support
to move to other villages. Hence the substantial reduction in the ratio of field staff to
village population (from 5 per thousand to 2 per thousand). This approach keeps
recurrent costs at a modest level, at US$ 3.7 million annually, of which US$ 1.9
million would be externally financed. While these core development expenditures
should eventually become part of the nationally funded budget, Government is not
expected to be able to finance them on its own by the end of the project. Even though
adjustment is on-going to improve public sector finance, the Govemment recurrent
budget is expected to require external assistance over the medium term.
Lessons of Past Lending
51.  Previous rural development projects were somewhat top-down in character, and
were geared to disseminating standardized technical messages in pursuit of broad
economic goals e.g. raising the output of a major export crop or improving food self-
sufficiency, while the approach tended to lose sight of the physical and socio-economic
context of farms. Technical staff were not expected to gain an understanding of
people circumstances, and had no tradition of working in close collaboration with
them. As a result, projects did not necessarily respond to actual farmers needs or fit
their particular circumstances. Their design too often underestimated the breadth of
constraints which farmers face, both on-farm and off-farm, which go well beyond
agronomic problems on one crop le.g. conflicting labor demand between export and
subsistence crops, transport bottlenecks, processing constraints, limited access to



.19 -
inputs and markets etc.) and the fact that the relative impact of constraints vary from
village to village.
52.  Past development interventions have brought to light the need w adopt more
flexible rural development approaches, responsive to farmers particular circumstances
and specific local conditions. This calls for a redirection of project design and
methods, in the form of multifasceted interventions at village level, rather than
integrated rural development project at regional level (Project Area RDP) or single
component projects of a national scope (National Extension Projects). The Government
recently formulated agricultural strategy, and the proposed project reflect this new
understanding of the country's rural development needs.
Rationale for IDA involvement
53.  The proposed project is a logical follow up to IDA prior involvement in the
sector. Through previous adjustmnent operations and as lead agency of the 1989
Donor Roundtable on agriculture, IDA has been instrumental in the reformulation of the
country rural development strategy and institutional policies. The project would
translate the agreed sector strategy and institutional policies into actions at national,
regional and field level. The institutional framework supported by the project has been
the object of extensive consultations with major donors, and it is Government intention
that all future donor-funded operations in the sector would fit within the same
framework.
Agreed Actions
54.  The following are conditions of effectiveness: a firm has been h;ed to set up
project accounts and management information systems, and the Project Financial
Coordinator has been appointed; ICRA and ACDA have been established and are ready
to start operations, and staff selection for both entities has been completed; and the
number of MDR Regional Delegates has been reduced from 16 to 8. Adoption by
Govemment of a Rural Roads Masterplan acceptable to IDA is a aisbursement
condition for the rural road subcomponent. At negotiations, assurances were ot,tained
on the following main conditions: agreement on a timetable to extend the scope of the
new field service with the establishment of two more DRDAs no later than June 30,
1995; only suitably qualified personnel (technician level and above) will be recruited
in the new service; ACDA headquarter annual recurrent budget will not exceed 30%
of the budget of DRDAs North-West and Center-East combined; MDR will enter into
an agreement, satisfactory to IDA, with a suitable NGO regarding the terms and
conditions and the mechanisms for the credit; the project implementing agencies
*          (MDR, ICRA, ACDA, MTP and NGO) will submit no later than October 31 of each year
a work program and budget acceptable to IDA.
Environmental Aspects
55.  The project would have a beneficial impact on the environment. It would
support the development and extension of technologies for sustainable increases in
productivity (improved fallows, better crop rotations, closer integration of crop and
livestock). An expansion in areas cultivated by farmers adopting animal traction will
lead to an expansion of the area under cultivation, but this would not be at the



- 20-
expense of reduced fertility or increased erosion in view of the husbandry practices
involved. Tree plantings for soil improvement and erosion control will bo actively
promoted by the agro-forestry specialists of the field service.
Program Obtjctive Cateaories
56.  The project is in direct support of Govemment antipoverty strategy by providing
essential services to very poor people whose incomes are in the range of US$ 105 to
US$195 per capita. Furthermore, the project design provides for the particular needs
of two disadvantaged groups among them: the youths and the women.
PLraitt Ba9ea
57.  Project benefits are of two orders. First the building of stronger better
coordinated agricultural institutions which will operate at a lower cost than the sum
total of the fragmented, sometimes overlapping donor-funded interventions that
prevailed so far. The annual recurrent cost of the new service will be about 60% of
the old one. Second, improvements in the livelihood of rural people whose quality of
life and productive output are to be raised by project actions designed to increase
agricultural productivity and creating artisanal employment opportunities. Since
women provide the majority of farm labor for crop maintenance and processing, the
successful extension of labor saving technologies would be of particular benefit to
women. Throubh community participation efforts, villages would become increasingly
more efficient at managing their own affairs. The schooled rural youths are expected
to gain responsability and social status as a result. Other equally significant benefits
are expected to arise from the emergence of numerous, varied trading and artisanal
activities which will stimulate exchanges at the local level and monetize further the
rural economy.
Bika
58.  The major risks of the project relate to the ability of technical staff to appreciate
and implement the new rural development approach. Considerable on-the-job training
is therefore provided for. Another major source of uncertainty is marketing which is
a key factor currently limiting production. Through its marketing support unit, the
project places emphasis on actions designed to ease marketing constraints and to
identify new market opportunities, both on the domestic and export markets.



-21 -
Recommendatign
59.  1 am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 28, 1992



dtod1uot Z
ohalile A: Estimted Costs ad Finamoln Pl
Peo let CGst Sw_rv
*...... FCAF NiItton ....... ....... US$Nttn um ....   IForeis TotSl
Leal       an   hOnk       LIEL  Forefan  1hO
* Rura owt. Ninlatry       167.6  311.4   479.30       0.60     1.11    1.71       65.04     4.00
* Natinlt Reerch Int.    1154.98 1259.42  2414.40      4.12     4.50    8.62       52.16     20.16
-ACOA Meuiorters           32.77 1316.29  1699.06      13.      4.70    6.07       77.67     14.19
D 0M* North V.st           682.67  577.33  1260.00     2.4      2.06    4.50      45.82      10.52
* OA Center ant            682.67  57.33  126.00       2.44     2.06    4.50      45.82      10.52
- Traning                   M9.13  220.53   509.67     1.03     0.79    1.82      43.2       4.26
Rural Infrstrusture       876.02 19M4.51  2830.53    3.13     6.98   10.11       69.05     23.64
* Credit                   355.03  503.87   858.90     1.27     1.80    3.07       58.6      7.17
Projet CoordInatian        52.06  401.69   4S.75      0.19     1.43    1.62      88.3       3.79
-  PAdv                      0.00  210.00   210.00     0.00     0.75    0.75      100.00     1.75
Totl  ELM COST            4642.88   32.71 11975.60    16.68   26.19   42.77        61.2     100.0
phyut ContlnencIes         70.00  171.53   241.52    0.25     0.61    0.86       71.02      2.02
Price Contlnenwses        354.0T  547.51   901.58    1.26     1.96    3.22       60.73      7.53
l  5..........................1........................ . . . . .   ...... .  
To"l PRT8 cons1Z°   01751187                           81      23.76    46.89 



FSM    8fzg gtgE kg Q"Msmx        £E         u      Za
(us* mIltlion)
Rural Devetpmunt               1.9        -      -          -         -       -        1.9
Ratfonal Research trt.         3.9   3.1    1.8   0.6            -            -        9.4
ACA Headquarters               3.2    0.7    1.8   0.9                       0.1       6.7
MA North-Vet                   1.3    2.0     -     -      1.2        -      0.5       5.0
nuA Center-Enst                1.8   2.0      -    0.5      -         -      0.6       4.9
Training                       1.8   0.2      -     -                         -        2.0
luratl infrastructure          7.9             -    -       -        3.       -       11.1
Credit                         2.1   0.1            -       -        1.3      -        3.5
Restructurirg & Coord.         1.2   0.1      -    0.2      -                0.2       1.7
Project P.eparatfon Fae.       0.7        -      -  -            -            -        0.7
Total                MA      #       A    L 3-6     J       j       I         W
FPnancIn. Ptln W ItS of Exaditues
sUsS Nttion)
Disbur_nt ewtgorv              J     GoS  I U NDE   NM              MM      Ad      I2al
Civil Works                 8.8     -      -     -               3.2      0.2    12.2
Eqilpemnt                   0.7     -         -           -               0.3     1.0
Vdiicles                    0.6     -      .    0.1     0.1       -       0.?    1.5
Tecfetal Assistance         3.7           3.2   1.9    0.7                        9.5
Training Courses            0.3     -     0.4    -       -        -        -      0.7
Innestmnt Fund              1.5     -                            1.3              2.8
SMaries                            8.2                                            8.2
Operating Costs             9.5     -      -    0.2     0.4       -       0.2    10.3
Project Preparation Fee.    ki    i3r                                     a i  r      *



Ucd.dule St -ProcureMen Nethed and DisburseMentd
m9l       La        Other       iToaL
Civil earks                              .         -          .              -
Bultdfnp  ~      ~        *        1.0         -1.0
kuildiC) , (0.8)     C-)          (0.8)
Rural Roads                      3.6        2.6        4.6           10.8
(3.6)     (2.6)      CIA)          (M.6)
V Illa t orks                           *              0.4            0.4
C-)       C-)       (0.4)         (0.4)
Vehicles & Eqipdments 
Vehicles                          1.3       0.2                       1.5
(0.6)     (0.2)                    (0.8)
Equipment                       0.2        0.4        0.4            1.0
(0.2)     (0.2)      (0.1)         (0.5)
Tehnical Assistance & Training                              10.2           10.2
-        (4.0)         C4.0)
Ieswetment Fund (Loans)                                      2 -  1.8      2.8
-    -         t~~~.S)       Ol.S)
Operating Costs                                             tO -  03       10.53
Siub-tot t                      1       44)  (8) " 6.(9'.)      39.5)
(4.4)     (3.8)     (16.9)        (25.1)
PPF                                      -0.7                               0.7
(0.7)         (0.7)
Total Project                5.1        4.2       29.4          38.7
(of chich IDA-Ffnnced)      (4.4)      (3.8)     (17.6)        (25.8)
catecorv S )~~~AMK                                S Ftnc 
Cfvil Works                                                           100l
a) Rurat Road                         4,730
b) Building                             510
¢) Tracks and Village Level
Works                              110
d) Oestmpinh                            110
Vehfcles & Equipment                        80o                       1002
Technical Assistance                      2,260                       100l
Trafning                                    180                      100l
Loan8 for Rural Inwestmnts                  950                      1002
Operting costs                            5,900                       100l
Project Preparation Facility                550                       1002
Unatlocated                              _27
Total                   A
Estimated Dfshusrunt  of IDA Credit:
FT                          1993   1994   1993   1996   1997   1998   1999
A4'l                         42.    4.0    4       4.2    4.2    4.3    2.1
cwaalatiwe                    2.5    6.5   11.0   15.2  19.4  23.7  25.8



Schedule 
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Adiftural Services Devel. 'mentProlect
Timetable of Key Processina Events
(a)    CAR Agriculture Sector Donor Roundtable                      June 1989
(b)   Project Preparation                               Sept. 1989 - Sept. 1990
(c)    Preappraisal                                             November 1990
(d)   Apprisal- 3]                                      May 1991 and July 1991
(a)   Negotiations                                               February 1992
(f)    Board Presentation                                            May 1992
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness                                 Sept. 1992
(h)   Relevant PCRs and PPARs                Cotton Area Rural Development Project
(Credit 1376-CA)
Appraisal was Interrupted by a public sector stnke
1V Key staff responsible for project preparation and appraisal are:
Mrs. Isabelle Girardot-Berg, Senior Agricultural Economist, and Mr. Max Bordes, Agriculturist.



Run Time: 04/27/92 at 13.25.06
Statts of Bank Group Operations In CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
PF08R2S - Sumrary Statement Of Loans and IDA Credits
(LOA data as of 3/30/92 - HIS data as of 04/25/92)
..... .......................... ............................................................_
Amo.urt in USS million
(less cancellations)
Loan or       Fiscal                                                                                    Undis-  Closing
Credit No.      Year  Borrower                         Purpose                      Gank         IDA     bursed   Cate
.. .  ...........  ......  .........  ...........                                   ....         ..... .......... .... ..... . ..... ..... ...
Credits
16 Credits(s) closed                                                                           172.94
C16810-CAR     1986    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        NATL. LIVESTOCK                         11.90        .59  06/30/92
C18630-CAR     1988    CENTRAL AFAtCAN REPUBLtC        EDUCATION III                           18.00       9.59  12/31/94
C19710-CAR     1989    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        ECOw PGT                                13.20       7.65  12/31/94
C19780-CAR     1989    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        ENERGY                                  18.00       4.73  06/30194
C21260-CAR     1990    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        TRANSPORT SECTOR                        62.00      52.25  12/31/96
C21380-CAR     1990    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        NAT RESIRCES MST                        19.00      13.69  06/30/97
C21620-CAR(S) 1990    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC         SAL III                                 45.00      16.39  12/31/92(R)
C22540-CAR     1991    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        ENT REHAB & DEVELOP                     11.30      12.84  12/31/98
C22750-CAR     1991    CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC        SDA                                      6.50       6.98  12/31/96
TOTAL mmber Credits       9                                                                     204.90     124.71
TOTAL***                                                                      377.84
of iPIhch repaid                                                              2.81
TOTAL hold by Bank & IDA                                                      375.03
Amunt sold
of shich repid
TOTAL undisbursed                                                                         124.74
Notes:
lNot yet effective
M* Not yet signed
T otal Approved, Repaeymnts, wnd Outstanding balance represent both active awd inactive Loaws ard Credits.
(R) indicates formally revised Closing Date.
(S) indicates SALJSECAL Loans and Credits.
The get Approved and Sank Repats are historical value, all others are mrket value.
The Signing, Effective, and Closing dates are based   on th  Loan Department off lcal data wd are not taken
from th Task Budget file.



Central African tepubfnc
- Base Case Scenario -
Mafn Ecomnmc Indicators
Baed on Constant Prices and
Exchange Rates                                actual                                   eat.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... ..... .... ........ .....  ....... .... ....... .... ...... .... .........   ....     ...
1966     1987     1983     1969     199      1991     192
GOP 6roth Rate                            5.2X    -2.S%     2.9%     2.6X     0.7X      0.2S     ;.:O
oY Growth Rate                           3.7X    -2.6X     4.2%     1.2%    -0.5%     0.7%      1.1%
0T/Cap.  routh Rote (US$)                 t.OX   -5.0%      1.6X    -1.4%    -3.0%    -1.9X    -1.6"
Priv. Cons./rCpfta Growth Rate           -0.4%    -1.9%     2.2%    -3.3%    -0.8%    -5.2%      2.SX
Based on Current Prices and
Excag Rates
Debt Service (milLions US0) 1/           33.3     38.9     54.8    48.1      44.4    43.0    51.3
Debt ServIce/KU                          176X    19.5%    27.6X    22.4%    20.7%    23.3%    25.7%
Debt Service/DP                           3.4X     3.7%     5.0%     4.5X     3.4%      3.3%     3.8%
Debt ServIce /ovt. Revenue               28.7%    35.3%    40.5%    36.6X    32.9%    31.SX   33.2X
Gross Iwmestment/0DP                     12.2%    12.5%    10.6"    10.3%    10.2%    11.6"      8.4%
Daiestfc Savings/UDP                     -1.7X    -2.3%    -1.5%    -0.5%    -3.9%      0.3%    -2.8%
Natfonal SavIngs/UDP                      S.6X     8.0%    13.0%     9.7%     4.1%      7.4%     2.1%
Publtc Savtns/GDP                         2.5%     3.8%     8.1%     5.0%     4.0%      1.0%     1.8%
PubLfo Ivestant/UDP                       9.7%   1O.5%      8.6"     7.9%     8.4%     9.4%    6.2%
Private SavIngs/DP                        3.1%     4.2X     4.9X     4.7%     0.0%      6.4%     0.3%
Private investment/40P                    2.4%     2.0%     1.9%     2.4%     1.7%      2.1%     2.1%
Ratio: Pub./Prfv. Investumnt              4.0      5.5      4.7      3.5      5.0       4.9      3.3
Govent Revenues/6DP  3e/                 11.7%    12.1%    12.4%    11.4%    12.1%    10.2%    11.6X
Govenmnt Reverw s/UDP  3b/               16.4%    19.2%    22.2%    19.6X    18.2%    16.7%    16.4%
Govt. Expditures/UP                      25.5%    27.1%    26.1%    23.3%    24.2%    24.6X    20.5%
Budget Current Balance/GDP 3b/           -0.4%    -1.8X    -1.1%    -2.0X    -1.5%    -3.0%    0.1%
Fiscal Deficit(-)/GDP  3a/              -13.8%   -15.0%   -13.7%  -1t.9%   -12.1%   -14.4%    -8.9%
Exports UFS Growth fRte                 -11.4"    -7.7%    -6.2%    12.0X    -6.5%   -12.3%      1.1%
(Constant prf en)
Export8        nfS/ tDP                 18.7X   18.8%    17.8%    19.8X    16.3%    14.3X    14.3X
Imports 6NfS Growth Rate                  5.7X    -8.7%    -5.1%    -5.1%     4.5%   -13.7%      1.5%
(Constant prf am)
Imports      CsFt/eDP                   34.6X    33.7%    29.9%    3O.6      30.3%    25.6X   25.5%
Curr. Account (olli. USS)               -84.9   U47.5      27.0    -6.3    -79.4    -54.1    -85.3
Curr. AcC. (mill. US)  2/              -182.4   -198.3  -183.1   -159.2  -238.4   -194.9  -204.8
Current AccounGt/DP                      -8.6X    -4.5%     2.4%    -o."     -6.1%    -4.2%   -6.3X
Current Account/GP 2/                   -18.4X   -19.0%   -16.6%   -14.8%   .18.3%   -15.2%   -15.1%
1/  Includfng INF and after French debt forgiveness from 1989 on.
2/ Excludfng ps*tie transfers.
3a/ Before grants.
3b/ Including grants.
Source: Officatl Goverruent statisties, and Staff estimates and projections.



IBRD 1921W
NtGERCh-d                                                                                                                                 --                                 CENTRAL  AFRICAN  REPUBLIC
cw~ ~ UANN                                                                                                                               AGRO-ECOLOGICAL ZONES
NIGERIA   I  k~~~~                                                                                                               V 7oSUDANZONES AGRO-ECOLOGIQUES
RANCHING ZONE
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZONE D EIEVAGF
CENTRAL 
j ~           I                    rfsnut_< SAVVANNAZN
AFRICAN  IREUBLIC                                               H D                                                                                                          AVN
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                                           SAFAN D,S SE
XL                                                                                E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                          LIVESTOC
I'  I  -                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOBACCO
.'CONGO                                         e'lGANDA                                                                                                       )TASAC
SUDAN
FLEWVES                             4
PRI BOVINCE.PBEFECTURE CAPITALS
CAPITAUX DES PROVINCES-PREFECTURES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
PSNTERES INEERNAtiONALES
C"ER    ON                                                                                K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IILOMETERS
B        BE        10E      ESO       20E        250      SO0
0              55lBEB250
MILES
ONG ~ ~ ~          ~           ~           ~           ~          ~           ~ ~ ~                          -------
16'                                  20'                                                                       24'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~24



