Document of
THE WORLD BANK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19556
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
June 30, 1999
Rural Development 2
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 283 (appraisal)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 286 (1993)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 553 (1994)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 495 (1995)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 511(1996)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 578 (1997)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 592 (1998)
US$1.00 =     CFAF 599 (Jan - Apr 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
BORROWER'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Director    Serge Michailof
Sector Manager     Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Task Manager     Jean Delion



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACADOP                      Agence Centrafricaine pour le Developpement de
l 'Ouham Pende (Rural Development Agency of Ouham
Pende)
ACDA                        Agence Centrafricaine pour le DiveloppementAgricole
(National Agricultural Development Agency)
ADECAF                      Agence de Developpement de la Cafliculture (Coffee
Development Agency)
ANDE                        Agence Nationale de Developpement de l 'Elevage
(National Livestock Development Agency)
CAR                          Central African Republic
CAISTAB                      Caisse de Stabilisation et de Perequation des Produits
Agricoles (Stabilization Board)
CCCE                         Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (French
Central Economic Cooperation Agency)
CFD                          Caisse Fran aise de Developpement (French
Development Agency)
CENTRAPALM                   Centrafricaine des Palmiers a Huile (Oil Palm
Development Agency)
CNRA                         Conseil National de la Recherche Agronomique
(National Agricultural Research Council)
DGAAA                       Direction Generale de I 'Appui Administratif et Agricole
(General Direction of Administrative and Agricultural
Services)
DGPES                       Direction Generale de la Planifi cation, des Etudes et du
Suivi (General Direction of Planning, Studies and
Monitoring)
DRDA                        Direction Regionale du Developpement Agricole
(Agricultural Development Regional Directorate)
FNEC                        Federation Nationale des Eleveurs Centrafricains
(National Federation of Livestock Herders)
HQ                          Headquarters
HUSACA                       Huilerie Savonnerie Centrafricaine (Centrafrican Oil
and Soap factory)
ICRA                        Institut Centrafricain de Recherche Agronomique
(National Agricultural Research Institute)
MCD                         Ministere de la Cooperation et du Developpement
(French Ministry for Cooperation and Development)
MDT                          Multidisciplinary Team
MDR                          Ministere du Developpement Rural (Ministry of Rural
Development)
M & E                        Monitoring and Evaluation
MTP                          Ministere des Travaux Publics (Ministry of Public
Works)
NGO                          Non-Governmental Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfonnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ORSTOM                      Office pour la Recherche Scientifique et Technique
d'Outre Mer (French Research Organization for
Overseas Countries
PRODEROM                   Projet de Developpement Rural de l 'Ombella M'poko
(Rural Development Agency of Ombella M'poko)
SCAT                       Societe Centrafricaine des Tabacs (Tobacco
Development Agency)
SOCOCA                     Societd Cotonniere Centrafricaine (Centrafrican Cotton
Company)
SOCADA                     Societd Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole
(Cotton Enterprise and Rural Development Agency)
SOGESCA                    Societe de Gestion de Sucrerie Centrafricaine (Sugar
Company)
TSP                         Transport Sector Project
UDR                         Unite de Developpement Rural (Rural Development
Unit)
VITA                        Volunteers in Technical Assistance



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1.    PREFACE ............................................................................                 I
2.   EVALUATION SU MARY ........................................................................... II
A.        INTRODUCTION ...........................................................................     II
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................................................... 11
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS ...................................................................... 11
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................     ...................................................... iii
Bank and borrower performance ........................................................................  iii
Project Outcome ........................................................................ iii
D. SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABILITY, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
.................................................................................................................................................................. .IV
Project Sustainability and Future Operations .......................................... .............................. iv
Lessons for future projects in the sector ......................... ............................................... iv
3. PART I - PROJECT IMLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                            .1
A. INTRODUCTION                                               .I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS                                         .1
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks                                 .2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                         .2
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT                                    .4
Factors not controllable by the Borrower                              .4
Factors controllable by the Borrower                                 .4
Factors controllable by the Implementing Agency Control                        .4
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                           .4
Project costs.5
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK                                            .5
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER                                            .5
H. PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT                                           .6
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                             .6
J. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED                                            .6
4. PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES                                             .8
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS                                        .8
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS                                      .9
TABLE 3: PROJECT TimETABLE .10
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS .10
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .11
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .11
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .12
TABLE 8 A: PROJECT COSTS .12
TABLE 8 B: PROJECT FINANCING .13
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS .13
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS                    ..14



TABLE I1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT ................................................. 1 9
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .................................................                                    19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................                                      20
5.   APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE .....................................................                                             21
6.    APPENDIX  B: BORROWER  CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE ICR  ...............................................  28
7.   APPENDIX C: MAPS .....................................................                                                    38
IBRD Map No. 30214



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
1. PREFACE
1.1   This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Services
Development Project in Central African Republic for which a credit in the amount of SDR 18.8
million (US$25.8 million equivalent) was approved on May 19, 1992 and made effective on August
11, 1993.
1.2   The project faced many difficulties: it started slowly, it was operational in 1995, then project
activities were interrupted by civil unrest in 1996-97, and by an IDA suspension in 1997-98. Since
October 1996, IDA could not supervise the project, due to insecurity in the country.
1.3   SDR6.1 million of the credit amount were canceled on December 23, 1998, leaving SDR 1.7
to pay for project arrears. The Credit was closed on February 28, 1999, 10 months before the original
closing date on December 31, 1999. The remaining portion of the credit is expected to be fully
disbursed, and the last disbursement is expected to take place in June 1999. Co-financing for the
project was provided a Switzerland and by France.
1.4   The ICR was prepared by Yao Pokou, Agricultural Services Specialist, Jean Pierre Okalla,
Financial Specialist and Guy-Joseph Malembeti, Project Officer, who visited the Central African
Republic to carry out a completion mission from March 11 to 24, 1999. The ICR was consolidated
by Rosemary Cubagee and Jean Delion. The ICR is based on material in the project file and by field
visits. The borrower contributed to the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project and by
commenting on the draft ICR.






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
2. EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
2.1    The project was identified in June 1989 during a donor's roundtable meeting. Project
preparation started in September 1990 and project appraisal was conducted in May 1992. The project
was initially to be co-financed by the United Nations Development Programs (UINDP), GTZ
Germany, French Ministry for Cooperation and Development (MCD), Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (French-FAC) and Switzerland. However, shortly after project start, in late 1993,
UNDP and GTZ Germany withdrew their financing, due to an increase in social tenses.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.2    The original project objectives were to strengthen the institutional capacity of the Borrower,
to improve the productivity, income and living standards of producers in rural areas and to promote
autonomous and self-sustainable development of rural communities. The project components were:
(i) institutional support to the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR); (ii) institutional and
operational support to agricultural research through a National Agricultural Research Institute
(ICRA); (iii) institutional and operational support to agricultural extension through an Agricultural
Development Agency (ACDA); (iv) improvement of Rural Infrastructure essentially rural roads; and
(v) provision of rural credit services.
C. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
2.3    Project activities have in general been limited. The project started slowly after effectiveness
and was adversely affected by civil unrest, in 1996 and 1997 and by an IDA suspension from April
1997 to August 1998. Project activities did not resume after the suspension was lifted and, in
December 1998 the decision was taken to close the project on February 28, 1999.
2.4    As a result of these shortcomings, the activities envisioned under the project were only partly
implemented. The project achieved limited results in most components:
- Institutional support to the MDR: the project achieved the rehabilitation of 35 MDR offices.
- Agricultural research: the project supported the creation of a new National Agricultural
Research Institute (ICRA), which is now well established and continues its operations
without the project.



iii
- Rural development: the project supported the creation of a new National Agricultural
Development Agency (ACDA), which will continue some of its operations with assistance
from other donors.
- Rural inJfrastructure: the project constructed or rehabilitated 975 km of main rural roads,
345 km of rural tracks, 105 km of primary rural roads and 82 bridges.
- Rural credit: the project did not implement this component as the implementing agency (an
international NGO) left the country shortly after project start.
2.5   The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$46.9 million. It was to be financed by
IDA US$25.8; UNDP US$3.6 million, France (MCD) US$2.2 million, France (FAC; CCCE) US$4.5
million, Swiss US$1.4 million, GTZ-Germany US$1.2 million and Government US$8.2 million.
Main expenses were expected for operating costs (SDR 5.9 million), rural roads (SDR 4.7 million)
and technical assistance (SDR 2.3 million).
2.6   The actual project costs supported by foreign assistance were US$17.6 million (IDA,
US$17.1 million and Switzerland US$0.5 million). IDA funds were mainly used for operating costs
(US$10.0 million), rural roads (US$7.4 million) and technical assistance (US$2.6 million). The
Swiss fund was used to support project preparation and project start. France provided technical
assistance and direct support to village but no figures were available on this contribution. The
Government provided most of its planned contribution, mainly salaries of civil servants involved, but
no figure was available on this contribution.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
2.7   The project was considerably affected by the socio-economic context in 1996 and 1997 and
by IDA suspension in 1997 and 1998. The project also suffered from a lack of capacity in the
executing agencies, mainly on procurement and financial management. The project suffered from a
lack of technical assistance, as two donors withdrew their support to the project, due to the
deteriorating socio-economic conditions.
Bank and borrower performance
2.8   The Bank performance in project identification was satisfactory: it addressed the need for
new research and extension institutions and made provisions for rural infrastructure and rural credit.
The Bank performance in project preparation and appraisal was less satisfactory; it underestimated
the lack of local capacities for the many tasks that were envisaged. It did not set up measurable
indicators to monitor activities and to measure project impact. The Bank performance on project
implementation was unsatisfactory as the project supervision was mainly relying on one isolated staff
in the resident mission from 1992 to 1996, when the project was in activity.
2.9   The Borrower performance in project preparation was unsatisfactory, as it overestimated its
capacity to implement this complex project. The borrower performance in project implementation
was unsatisfactory, as the project started very slowly, it faced management problems and it did not
implement many of the planned activities, even before the civil unrest in 1996.
Project Outcome
2.10   The general outcome of the project is unsatisfactory. The project achievements were mainly:
(i) the creation of a new research institution, ICRA and support to its operations; (ii) the creation of a



iv
new rural development agency, ACDA, and support to its operations (iii) the construction and
maintenance of rural roads. ICRA, the research agency is now well established. ACDA, the new
rural development agency, still needs to be consolidated. But these results are very limited compared
with the initial project's objectives.
D. SUMMARY OF SUSTAINABILITY, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS
LEARNED
Project Sustainability and Future Operations
2.11   The general project sustainability is unlikely. ACDA's sustainability will depend on the
Government's financial commitment to this institution. The sustainability of the Farmers Groups will
depend on the viability of their economic activities and on some additional support from NGOs or
other development projects. The sustainability of ICRA is partly established, based upon many
service contracts with local and regional institutions, but is still not guaranteed.
2.12   ICRA has planned the following future operations: (i) it will grant more autonomy to the
Research Centers in their financial and technical management; (ii) it will take part in a study assisted
by FAO on agriculture research strategy to plan its future activities; (iii) it will continue to diversify
its activities with donors and with regional institutions.
2.13   ACDA has planned the following future operations: (i) giving more autonomy to the
regional agencies; (ii) using more NGO services; and (iii) reducing its number of staff and its
operational costs, mainly at the central level. ACDA's future operations will depend on external
support.
Lessons for future projects in the sector
2.14   The following lessons were learned:
(a)  Agricultural services projects such as this one are relatively complex, they are hard to
implement, mainly when they are executed by central agencies at the national level;
(b)  Such projects might need some phasing. For example: it may be better to start with
institutional changes, capacity building, then operations and contracting of works;
(c)  Such projects need more precise monitoring and evaluation tools, with precise indicators and
ways to collect them. There was a lack of quantified indicators and a lack of proper
monitoring and evaluation tools. As a result, the impact of activities in extension and
research is very hard to evaluate;
(d)  This project raises questions on how to supervise a project in a country plagued with civil
unrest, when the supervision missions cannot go in the field. The last supervision mission
took place in 1996 and it could not go in the field;
(e)  This project raises question on IDA's responsibility for operational costs during suspension
should be more clearly stated, as is not always clearly understood by the Borrower.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PAIA)
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
3. PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
3.1    Agriculture is one of the key economic sectors for growth in the Central African Republic
(CAR). In 1988, the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) had conducted a study in an attempt to
reorient the country's agricultural strategy. Following this study, the MDR organized an agriculture
sector roundtable sponsored by UNDP. The participants to this round table agreed on the following
strategy: (i) to strengthen research and extension based on a farming system approach, rather than on
specific crops; (ii) to organize producers for crop marketing and input distribution, to develop small
enterprises for agro-processing and rural services, and to promote rural savings and credit
association; and (iii) to develop rural infrastructure, to facilitate trade to and from rural areas and to
improve living condition in these areas. This project was to implement this strategy, its preparation
started in September 1990 and it was appraised in May 1992.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
3.2    The primary objectives of the project were to strengthen the institutional capability of the
Borrower, to improve the productivity, income and living standards of producers in rural areas and to
promote autonomous and self-sustainable development of rural communities. There was no
quantitative indicator except for rural infrastructure. The project components were: Institutional
Support to the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR); Agricultural Research; Rural Development
Field Service; Rural Infrastructure; and Rural Credit. The detailed objectives by component were:
3.3   Institutional Support to the Ministry of Rural Development. This component was for (i)
programming and monitoring of public investments and expenditures; (ii) carrying out and
supervision of sector studies and analyses; (iii) rehabilitation of MDR office buildings and facilities;
and (iv) strengthening of MDR's technical and operational capability.
3.4    Agricultural Research: This component was for (i) establishment of a new  research
institution and provision of operational support (ii) formulation of a research policy and monitoring
of its implementation; (iii) strengthening of ICRA's technical capability; (iv) carrying out and
monitoring of the execution of priority programs; (v) production and dissemination of improved
seeds.



2
3.5    Rural Development Field Service: This component was for (i) establishment of a new
extension agency and support to its operations; (ii) promotion of village groups and associations; (iii)
identification of new activities and support to community development program; (iv) identification of
factors constraining production, and assistance to alleviate them; and (v) training of ACDA staff,
villagers and young farmers.
3.6    Rural Infrastructure: This component aimed for (i) rehabilitation and maintenance of
about 1,400 km of secondary and tertiary rural roads; (ii) construction of about 2,200 km of tracks to
transport crops by ox-cart; (iii) carrying out of community infrastructure and land improvement
works; and (iv) rehabilitation and maintenance of about 500 km of primary rural roads.
3.7    Rural Credit:  This component was for (i) granting of loans to farmers and smalt
entrepreneurs for productive investment; and (ii) promotion of village associations aimed at
mobilizing savings and granting loans.
Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
3.8    The project objectives were appropriate, and relevant to the needs of the agricultural sector,
the Government's sector strategy and the Bank's country assistance strategy at that time. The major
risks identified during the preparation of the project were the willingness of communities to invest in
crop and livestock production, and the degree to which technical staff would appreciate and
implement the new approach. The project was mainly affected by social tensions, which were not
mentioned.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.9   Project objectives were only partly achieved due to slow start, civil unrest and suspension.
The slow start was due to delays in staffing and purchase of equipment. The civil unrest took place
in 1996 and early 1997. IDA suspended all its operations in the country from April 1997 to August
1998. As a result of these shortcomings, only part of the activities envisioned under the project were
implemented. The achievements per component are as follows:
3.10   On institutional support to MDR, the project completed the rehabilitation of the MDR
office building and offices. On the whole, 35 offices and 13 residential buildings were rehabilitated
in the MDR. Two studies were carried by MDR: (i) agricultural systems in savanna and forest zone;
and (ii) an agricultural strategy review.
3.11   On Agricultural Research, the project supported the creation of the National Agricultural
Research Service (ICRA) at the central and regional level, in 1993 and supported its operations. The
project helped ICRA to consolidate existing research stations, building and rehabilitating of offices,
small dams and irrigation networks in the research stations. As a result, ICRA was able to launch
first research programs and to establish relations with outside research organizations.
3.12   The project strengthened ICRA's technical capability:  Training programs were partly
executed: In 1994, an orientation workshop on job description for field staff and a seminar on
procurement were carried out; in 1995 ICRA staff were trained on the farming system approach.
Some staff also took part in regional technical workshops and in management training sessions in
France.



3
3.13  ICRA conducted priority research programs, based on annual programs negotiated each year
with the project coordinating committee. An emphasis was put on selection and production of
improved seeds. As a result seed production has improved particularly for cotton, and food crops.
ICRA produced and disseminated seeds of new varieties of onion, which were widely adopted by the
farmers. On the whole, ICRA produced about 600,000 kg of improved seeds of different products in
1996 and 900,000 kg in 1998.
3.14   On Rural Development Field Services, the project supported the creation of ACDA and the
operations of its central unit and two regional agencies, in the Northwest and in the Central-East. In
parallel, an IFAD project also supported the operations of a third regional agency, as initially
planned.
3.15   On promotion of Small Farmers' Groups (SFGs), the project achieved some results. Support
was provided to the SFGs by Non-Governmental Organization (NGOs), funded by France (FAC) and
Germany (GTZ). The SFGs developed relations with ACDA's field staff. The number of SFGs
increased from 800 in 1994 to 1050 in 1996 in a total of 2,800 villages. During this same period, FG
membership increased to 142,000, including 30,000 women.
3.16   On agricultural extension, the project achieved limited results: In 1995 and 1996, ACDA
conducted demonstrations on 30 agriculture and livestock extension themes (14 on food crops, 8 on
cotton, 7 on animal traction and 1 on agro-forestry). The 1996 annual ACDA report indicates that the
agency reached 44,000 farmers, that year, representing 35% of the rural families in the project areas.
The same report indicates adoption rates of 57% on cotton and 30% on food crops and increases of
100 to 160% on productivity of cotton, maize, rainfed rice and peanuts.
3.17   On animal traction, the project achieved negligible results, mainly because the rural credit
component was not implemented and farmers could not buy the necessary equipment. ACDA only
promoted the use of animal traction and trained contact groups on this theme. It contributed in
organizing 80 groups of animal traction.
3.18   On marketing of agricultural products, the project achieved limited results. ACDA used the
radio and newspapers in the local languages to disseminate information about marketing. The project
monitored prices in 27 markets and broadcast them on a rural radio program, it registered 138 private
traders of agricultural products, it organized 17 marketing groups and it helped them to find markets
and to negotiate with traders. As a result, the markets are more active, as the operators quickly react
to the radio broadcasts. However, these achievements are limited to a few markets and they need to
be consolidated through a continuing support in the coming years.
3.19   On training, the project achieved limited results. The project supported the following training
for ACDA staff: (i) an orientation workshop for field staff and a procurement workshop for
management staff; (ii) a regional technical workshop, a management workshop in France, and a
technical workshop on the farming system approach. ACDA also provided training to farmers. 187
group members took part in study tours. No data is available on the impact of the above training.
3.20   On Rural Infrastructure, the project achievements were: (i) Rehabilitation of a total of 975
km rural roads, against an initial objective of 1,400 km; (ii) maintenance of 345 km of tracks, against
an initial objective of 2,200 km; (iii) rehabilitation of 105 km of primary rural roads, against an
objective of 5OOkms; and (iv) construction of 82 bridges.



4
3.21   On Rural Credit: the project did not achieve any result, as this component was not
implemented. On December 22, 1995, the Government requested IDA to cancel this component, as
the NGO initially identified to implement this component had left the country.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
3.22   The project was mainly affected by civil unrest in 1996 and 1997 and by an IDA suspension
from April 1997 to August 1998. It also suffered from a lack of capacity in the executing agencies
and from a lack of experience of procurement and financial management. This lack of experience
was not compensated by enough external technical assistance, as two donors withdrew their support
to the project, due to the deteriorating socio-economic conditions shortly after project start.
Factors not controllable by the Borrower
3.23   The major factor, beyond the Government control was the socio-economic context, and its
consequences on civil unrest.
Factors controllable by the Borrower
3.24   The major factors under Government control were: (i) delay in payment of IDA arrears,
resulting in 15 months IDA suspension; (ii) lack of control of project management and project
monitoring and evaluation; (iii) appointment of low level staff in the financial management unit of the
project; (iv) high turnover of staff involved in the project implementation.
Factors controllable by the Implementing Agency Control
3.25   The major factors under the implementing agency control were (i) slow project start; (ii)
weaknesses in financial management; (iii) lack of compliance with IDA rules regarding procurement,
as some contracts were amended without IDA approval.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
3.26   Project sustainability is unlikely, except for ICRA.
3.27  ICRA 's sustainability is likely, because (i) it has well trained research staffs; (ii) financially, it
was able to continue it's operation during IDA 's suspension; (iii) it was able to generate income in
its improved seeds program (iv) it diversified its sources of funds by entering into contracts with
various institutions: (a) Inter Africa Resource and Agricultural Research program; (b) Geographical
Information System for the Environment (SIG); (c) Central Regional Research Center for Banana
Plantation; and (d) a Research Program of Savanna and Central Africa (PRASAC). These in the long
run could strengthen ICRA's management and operations.
3.28   ACDA 's sustainability is uncertain. Its operating costs are too high and the government does
not have enough resource to support them all. Still, the agricultural development strategy prepared in
1998 aims at strengthening the ACDA regional extension units, with reduced costs. Donors such as
UNDP, the E.U., IFAD and France might contract the services of these regional units, as part of
specific rural development programs.
3.29   The sustainability of village groups and Small Farmer Groups is likely, but it will rely on the
cohesiveness in each group and of the economic return of its activities. The seeds multiplication



5
groups are engaged in significant income generating activities and they are likely to continue their
activities in cooperation with ICRA. But most groups are still fragile. They are likely to need further
support. The E.U. and UNDP are likely to continue to continue to support them, through NGOs.
Project costs
3.30   The total project cost estimated at appraisal was US$46.9 million. It was to be financed by
IDA US$25.8; UNDP US$3.6 million; France (MCD) US$2.2 million; France (FAC; CCCE) US$4.5
million; Swiss Trust Fund US$1.4 million; GTZ-Germany US$1.2 million; and Government US$8.2
million.
3.31   At closing, the actual project costs were US$17.6 million, of which IDA, US$17.1 million^-
and Switzerland, US$0.5 million. The Swiss Trust Fund was used to support project preparation and
project start. France provided technical assistance and direct support to village organizers (MCD and
FAC; CCCE) but no figure was available for this contributions. The Government provided most of
its planned contribution, mainly by paying salaries, but no figure was available.
F. PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK
3.32   The Bank performance in project identification was satisfactory. However its performance in
project preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory, as the project was too complex and too
ambitious. The Bank performance in implementation was unsatisfactory. The project supervision
was essentially conducted by a field staff who was overwhelmed with too many operational tasks.
The supervision missions addressed the main issues and pointed out weaknesses on technical and
financial issues, but due to the insecurity, it was difficult to apply these recommendations. The Mid-
term review was not conducted.
3.33   The Bank performance on pro-activity regarding project closing is satisfactory. After one
year of suspension, an ICR mission in March 1998, with the objective to close this project. The
mission found major contentious issues on road construction contracts and the Legal Counsel
recommended postponement of the project closure to clarify the issue. The Borrower appointed an
inspection team to clarify this situation. The team confirmed in August 1998 that the project did not
follow IDA rules. At this time IDA had lifted its suspension in the country and the borrower wanted
to resume project activities. After negotiations with the government, an agreement was reached in
December 1998 to close the project on February 28, 1999.
G. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
3.34   Borrower performance in project identification was satisfactory. However its performance
on project preparation was unsatisfactory. Procurement was unsatisfactory, as contract amendments
were signed without IDA approval.
3.35   Financial management was also unsatisfactory: the audit reports were late. The 1996 audit
report mentions the following problems: (i) the project accounts did not meet the general accounting
standard (ii) there was no inventory on fixed assets; (iii) the accounts from activity centers were often
incomplete and (iv) cash management was bad due to accumulation of arrears from one financial
period to other. No major problem was reported on the management of the special account on IDA
funds.



6
HR PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
3.36   The assessment of project impact is unsatisfactory. The project did not implement the
following activities: (i) on institutional development, the programming and monitoring of public
investment and expenditures in the rural sector was not completed and the strengthening of MDR's
technical operation and capability was not implemented; (ii) on agricultural research, the project did
not formulate a comprehensive agricultural research policy; and (iii) on rural credit the component
was not implemented at all.
3.37   The appraisal report was envisaging that the project would have an impact on (i) institutional
benefits; (ii) socio-economic benefits; (iii) agricultural production benefits; and (iv) environmental
benefits.
3.38   The institutional benefits were limited, the project had a positive institutional impact in the
case of ICRA, and it had a less positive in the case of ACDA as the institution was too centralized
and its operations were expensive. The socio-economic benefits were not quantified: it seems that
SFGs generated income and that some communities benefited from improved roads. But these
benefits are not precisely evaluated and they seem to be limited as compared with the initial
objectives. The agricultural production benefits were not clearly established; the M&E reports
indicate an increase on productivity and production of some crops but this increase could not be
precisely measured and attributed to adoption of improved technology. The environmental benefits
were not established: the project provided advice and conducted demonstrations in agro-forestry but,
again, it did not provide indicators to measure its impact.
L. FUTURE OPERATIONS
3.39  ICRA submitted an operational plan for the two coming years. It provides details on the
contracts already signed with partner institutions. On the basis of this report, it seems that ICRA will
be able to expand its activities along many specific contract services. ICRA's operation plan also
includes the following activities: (i) ICRA plans to prepare an agriculture research strategy, with
FAO; (ii) it plans to conduct a study on agricultural zones, using tele-detection and geographic
information systems, with FAC; (iii) it will grant more financial and technical autonomy to its
Research Centers: for example, ICRA's Livestock Research department will work closely with the
National Livestock Development Agency (ANDE); an (iv) it will continue to diversify its funding, by
signing research contracts with the European Union, the African Development Bank, bilateral donors
and regional research institutions.
3.40   ACDA also submitted an operational plan for the two coming years.  Following the
conclusions of an agricultural policy review conducted in 1998, ACDA plans to reduce drastically the
size of the central services and to grant financial and technical autonomy to its regional agencies.
ACDA's future operations will rely a lot on additional external support. The SFGs are likely to play
an increased role in extension and research through better links with ACDA and ICRA. The E.U. and
other donors are likely to continue their support to these SFGs.
J. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
3.41   While it is recognized that extension and research services are crucial to agricultural
development, projects such as PAIA are poorly efficient when executed by centralized technical



7
ministries. They could be executed by more decentralized, autonomous agencies. This is what is
planned for future ACDA's operations.
3.42   Such projects might need some phasing. For example, (i) Phase 1, institutional set-up; (ii)
Phase 2, capacity building, training of technical and managerial staff; (iii) Phase 3, research and
extension operations, contracting of rehabilitation works.
3.43   Such projects need more precise monitoring and evaluation indicators. The staff appraisal
report of this project  did not include enough process and performance indicators.  During
implementation, project reporting was not based on precise indicators. Some indicators were
introduced in 1997 but the project was no more in activity.
3.44   This project raises questions on how to supervise a project in a country plagued with civil
unrest, when the supervision missions cannot go in the field. The last supervision mission took place
in 1996 and it could not go in the field.
3.45   IDA's responsibility for operational costs during suspension should be more clearly stated, as
is not always clearly understood by the Borrower. In this project, the suspension telex was clearly
indicating a very limiting number of expenses covered during suspension. But the borrower asked
the executing agencies to keep the staff at work. When the suspension was lifted, the Bank agreed,
exceptionally, to cover the operational costs during the suspension period. IDA's position should be
stated more clearly in similar situations.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
4. PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objective          Substantial        Partial         Negligible       Not applicable
Macro Policies                                        0  
Sector Policies                      a                a                lx 
Financial Objectives                   l             [x                E 
Institutional Development            Il              I3               ,                   L 
Physical Objectives                   0              [3J                0                  0
Poverty Reduction                                                                         E 0  l 0
Gender Issues                        El                I               [x                 LI
Other Social Objectives                l              0                                     l 0
Environmental Objectives                              Ex                                  El
Public Sector Management              a               0                 x                 E
Private Sector Development             l              El               lx                 El
Other (specify)                       a                 l              E
B. Project Sustainability               Likely                   Unlikely                   Uncertain
El                                                   El a



9
Highly
C. Bank Performance                        satisfactory           Satisfactory                  Deficient
Identification                        [l                                                       D
Preparation Assistance                 a]                        1 
Appraisal                                i                         l                         [
Supervision                                                      [ ] 
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                           satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Preparation                                      Cl               Li
Implementation                                   L                Li
Covenant Compliance                              mi                D              [
Operation (if applicable)                        ni                0              [
Highrly                                               Highly-
E. Assessment of Outcome                    sfacrv    Satisfactory       Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
Li    0i                           EL
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
________________________________    growing  areas.
SAL 11 CR1836-CA                     To set the basis for positive real  June 9, 1988  Closed
growth, while containing financial             May 30, 1990
deficits within sustainable limits
National Livestock Project CR1681-CA   To develop a viable and sustainable   April 16, 1986 Closed
Institutional framework for the                June 30, 1992
livestock sub-sector
Following Operations
tone                              IN/A                                N/A          N/A                 l



10
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                          June 1989                 June 1989
Preparation                              September 1989-90        September 1989-90
Pre-appraisal                           November 1990             November 1990
Appraisal                               May 1991                  May 1992
Negotiations                             February 1992            March 1992
Board presentation                      November 1992             May 11, 1992
Signing                                                           June, 1992
Effectiveness                            September 1992           August 11, 1993
Project completion                      December 31, 1999         December 31, 1998
Credit closing                          December, 31, 1999        December31, 1999
Table 4: Loan Disbursements
(US$ million) (*)
Appraisal Estimate                     2.5       4.0        4.5         4.2         4.2        4.3        2.1
Cumulative                             2.5       6.5        11.0        15.2       19.4        23.7       25.8
Actual - Annual                         0        2.8        3.1         6.8         3.0        0.2        1.2
Actual - Cumulative                     0         2.8        5.9        12.7       15.7        15.9       17.1
Actual - Cumulative as% of estimate    0%        43%        53%         83%        80%         67%       66%
Date of Final Disbursement          Expected to be June 30, 1999
(*) As per April 30, 1999



11
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Institutional Supportt   D
*     Rehabilitation of MDR buildings                     NS           1994.       9
.     Acquisition of MDR equipment                        N/S          1993        49,456,382 CFA
II. Agricultural Research
*     Creation of ICRA                                     1992        4/20/93
*     Creation of three research departments              1992         7/2/93
. Total seed production during project life               600,000 kg   Project end   1,022,378 kg
.     Technical themes for which training was provided by  N/S         N/A          18
researchers
a     Number of new research themes transferred to extension    N/S    Project end  9
III. Rural Development Field Services
r   Creation of ACDA                                      1992         4/20/93     N/A
*  Number of extension workers that visited farmers       N/S          Project end   100
*    Number of farmers contacted by extension workers     N/S          Project end  43,935 in 1996
*    Number of demonstration plots per year               N/S          Project end  2,350 in 1996
* .   Number of women farmers that participated           N/S          Project end  7,900 in 1996
*     Number of producers that have adopted the themes    N/S          Project end   18,330 in 1996
.    Number of farmers equipped in animal traction        N/S          By end of   7,500 in 1996 (not
project     equipped by the
project)
IV. Rural infrastructure
*     Rehabilitation/maintenance of secondary and tertiary rural  1,400km  Project end  906 km of main
roads                                                                             rural roads
rehabilitated
*     Construction of rural tracks by villagers           2,200 km     Project end  345 km of rural
tracks maintained
.     Rehabilitation/maintenance of primary rural roads   500 km       Project end   105 km
rehabilitated
.  Land clearance for cultivation                         N/S          Project end   11 ha cleared
.  Rehabilitation/maintenance of bridges                  N/S          Project end  82bridges
constructed
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No specific key indicators for project operation were provided in the SAR



12
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Agricultural systems    Agricultural systems in     Completed.            Useful to ACDA to set-up
Approach in Savannah &   Savannah & Forest Zones.                         systems approach
Forest Zones
Sector studies by MDR   Supervision of sector studies   1 study completed  The study provided orientation
and analyses.               under separate funds   for post project operations and
in 1998.2           request for donors support
TABLE 8 A: PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million) (*)
I         Civil Worksl
I.a        Rural roads                                6.4             6.63.
I b        Buildings                                  0.8                            0.6
l.c        Tracks & village level works               0.1             0.0             0
l .d       Destumping  -_0.1                                          0.0             0
2         Vehicles                                    1.1             2.6             1.7
3         Technical Assistance                        3.2             2.3             1.4
4         Training                                    0.3             0.8             0.4
5         Goods and Services                          1.4             1.4             0
6         Operating Costs                             8.1             8.9             8.6
7         Refunding of project preparation advance    0.8             0.7            0.7
8         Unallocated                                 3.7             1.4            0.0
Total                                      25.8           25.8            17.1
(*) As per April 30, 1999
Financed under IFAD.
2   Completed with assistance from FAO.



13
Table 8 B: Project Financing
(US$ million) (*)
IDA _ ...._                      N/A          N/A         25.8    | 10.9           6.2         17.1
Government                       N/A         N/A          8.2         N/A         N/A         N/A 
UNDP (**)                        N/A         N/A          3.6          0           0           0
France MCD/CFD                   N/A         N/A          2.2          0           0           0
Germany (**)                     N/A         N/A          1.2          0           0           0
France (FAC; CCCE)               N/A         N/A          4.5         N/A         N/A         N/A
Switzerland                      N/A         N/A          1.4          0          0.5          0.5
Tota|   N/A                                  N/A         46.9        10.9         6.7         17.6
(*) as per May 6, 1999
Remark: both UNDP and Germany withdrew their financing.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
The SAR did not calculate the Economic Rate of Return (EER) rather it provided indicators on farm models. The
project was not able to provide updated figures on these farm models.



14
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
3.01       5         CP                               The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the The project was slow to start, The Borrower ddn
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to   provide staff with adequate experience and capaciy on
l                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~this end, shall carry out the Project under the overall  supervision of works
coordination of MDR, and close in co-optation between MDR
and MTP for the purposes of Part D (2) of the Project, with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate agricultural, financial and administrative and rural
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the project.
3.02       5         CP                               Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement The project management unit did not respect IDA rules,
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the mainly on procurement.
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.03       5         CP                               Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section  The appointment of the Financial Coordinator was not
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that ICRA  transparent
shall carry out Part B and ACDA shall carry out Parts C and D
(1) of the Project in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, agricultural and rural engineering practices under
the supervision of their respective qualified and experienced
management, assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers. To this effect the Borrower shall, amongst others,
ensure that:
(a) key positions at ICRA (including those of General
Director and Department Directors) and ACDA
(including those of General Director, Financial Director
and the two Regional Directors) will be staffed at all
times by staff whose experience and qualifications are
acceptable to the Association;
(b) MDR will retain for the duration of the Project in the
position of Financial Coordinator an expert whose
experience and qualifications are acceptable to the
Association.
3.04       5         CD                               Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section  Work programs and budgets were submitted late.
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure, for the
purposes of Parts A and D (2) of the Project, the annual
submission no later than October 3 t of each calendar year of a
work program and budget acceptable to the Association.



15
3.05       5         CD                              Wthout limitation upon any of its obligations under Section  Work programns and budgets were submitted lt
l                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.01 of this Agreement, the.Borrower shall, for the purposes
of Part B of the Project, ensure the annual submission no later
than October 31 of a work program and budget for ICRA that
-is acceptable to the Association.
3.06       5         CD                              Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of
Parts C and D (I) of the project.
(a)     ensure the annual submission no later than October Work programs and budgets were submitted late
31 of a work program and budget for ACDA
acceptable to the Association;
(b)     ensure that ACDA headquarters recurrent      The establishment of the DRDA was done a year ahead
expenditures will not exceed 30% of those of  of schedule.
DRDAs North-West and Center-East combined;
(c)     transfer to DRDAs' pilot activities currently being  Done
carried out in the North-Western and Center-Eastern
regions no later than June 30, 1993;
(d)     ensure that among the present SOCADA and     Done
ACADOP extension staff only those who are most
experienced and qualified (i.e. technician level and
above) may be recruited for ACDA; and
(e)     establish the South West and Center South DRDAs  Done
no later than June 30, 1995.
3.07       5         NC       6/30/95                Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section  The Rural Credit component regarding this section was
30.1 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purpose of canceled because the NGO that was commissioned to
Part E of the Project, establish and maintain a fund in CFAF  execute this had left the country.
(the Credit Fund) in an account in a commercial bank in the
Central African Republic on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. The proceeds of the Credit disbursed
under Part E of the Project shall be paid into this account.
The Credit Fund shall be managed by an NGO (the Credit
NGO) selected by the Borrower in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association. The Credit NGO
shall manage the Credit Fund in accordance with a
management agreement (the NGO Agreement) acceptable to
the Association that shall, inter alia, include the following:
(a) all funds accruing to the Credit Fund as a result of
repayment of loans or payment of interest on loans shall
be reused for the same purposes of making loans in



16
accordance with this Agreement;
(b)- an administration fee to be received by the Credit NGO
in consideration for the services provided under the NGO
Agreement;
(c) the terms and conditions on which the Credit NGO shall
make loan shall be consistent with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d) decisions on loan shall be taken solely by the Credit
NGO;
(e) the resources to be made available by the Borrower to the
Credit NGO to facilitate the implementation of Part E of
the Project; and
(f) a requirement for the Credit NGO to keep separate
records and accounts regarding the implementation of
Part E of the Project and to have these records and
accounts audited annually, in accordance, mutatis
mutandis, with the provisions of Section 4.01 (a) and (b)
of this Agreement.
3.08       5         NC        6/30/95    6/30/97     The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term  Mid-term review was postponed by one year due to
review of the Project no later than September 30, 1995. This delayed in start of project. It was later canceled due to
review will, inter alia, assess the following:        the civil unrest.
(a) progress made in the implementation of the Project with
a view to targets set in the annual work programs of
ICRA and ACDA;
(b) problems encountered in executing each part of the
Project;
(c) effectiveness of the new extension and community
development services;
(d) involvement of the beneficiaries in Project
implementation;
(e) impact of the new rural development approach on the
beneficiaries;
(f) efficiency and effectiveness of the credit scheme,
including the rate of credit recovery and loans
repayment;
(g) performance of MDR, ICRA, ACDA, the Credit NGO
and the experts employed for the execution of the
Project; and
(h) the number and quality of investment undertaken at the
village level.



17
14.01       2        CP              __1.                        The Borrower shall:                             DWeakness in the financial management, contracting |
l                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(a)  maintain or cause to be maintained records and  didn't always follow Bank rules.
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditure in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof, including MDR, ICRA and
ACDA.
(b)     The Borrower shall:
(i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of the Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
2.       or all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
reflecting such expenditure;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the
last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out
of the Special Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditure;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such



18
records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a separate
opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
with the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                  10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds           11. ='Sector or cross-sector budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                    allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12. = Sector or cross-sector policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. =Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
I  Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



19
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT
---
OD 10.60
Accounting, Financial Reporting,
and Auditing                       Complied with partially
OD 12.20
Special Accounts                   Complied with partially
OP 12.30
Statement of Expenditure           Complied with
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
. Week              US$             Weeks            US$
Preparation to Appraisal      N/A              N/A             97.8            193.5
Appraisal                     N/A              NIA             70.2            152.0
Board-Effectivenes s          N/A              N/A             10.1             2 5.9
Supervision                   41.7             N/A             100.8           232.0
Completion                    10.3             N/A             13.7             22.7
Total                        52.00             N/A             292.6           626.1
Source: Financial and Cost Application as of 3/11/1999 (FACT).



20
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Through Appraisal   4/92     N/A       N/A    N/A            N/A          N/A         N/A         N/A
Appraisal through    5/92    N/A       N/A    N/A            N/A          N/A         N/A         N/A
Board approval
Board approval      5/92     N/A       N/A    N/A            N/A          N/A                     N/A
through effectiveness
Supervision 1       2/12/94   2        16      AGRO          Yes          N/A         N/A         Limited
Managerial
experience to
implement
I_______                                    ___________             project.
Supervision 2       12/19/94  1        4       AGRO          Yes          N/A         N/A
Supervision 3       2/13/95   1        2       AGRO          Yes          N/A         N/A         Limited
Managerial
experience to
implement
project.
Supervision 4       6/15/95   1        16      AES           Yes          S           S           Political, and
monitoring issues.
Supervision 5       8/5/95    4        10      AGRO, FS      Yes          N/A         N/A         Political, and
monitoring issues.
Supervision 6       11/13/95  2        6       AGRO, FS      Yes          N/A         N/A         Political, and
monitoring issues.
Supervision 7       5/2/96    2        16      AGRO, FS      Yes          S           S           Implementation
performance has
_______ _  _improved.
Supervision 8       8/5/96    3        10      SAE, PA,      No           US          US          Mismanagement.
I____________AGES
Completion (first    5/11/98   4       12      RDS,          Yes          US          US          Contract
ICR mission)                                   AGSS,FS, PS                                        amendments
without IDA's
l _________________   ________                               ___________   __________   __________  approval.
Completion (Second  11/1998   1        N/A    TTL, FS        Yes          US          US          Government
ICR mission)                                                                                      agreed to close
the project by
February 28,
1999 and cancel
part of the credit
Key to Status
Performance Rating        Specialized Staff
I = Problem Free         AES = Agricultural Extension Specialist
HS = Highly Satisfactory  SAE= Senior Agricultural Economist
2= Moderate Problems     PA= Procurement/Audit
3= Major Problems        AGRO = Agronomist
S= Satisfactory          RDS = Rural Development Specialist
US= Unsatisfactory       AGSS = Agricultural Services Specialist
N/A. Not available/or     FS = Financial Specialist
supervision was conducted by
Resident Mission Staff.
PS = Procurement Specialist
TTL = Task Team Leader



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
5. APPENDIX A: AIDE MEMOIRE
RCA- Projet d'Appui aux Institutions Agricoles (PAIA)- Cr. 2368 -CA3
Mission d'Achevement du Projet (11-24 mai 1998)
Aide-Memoire
I      Introduction
1.    Une mission de la Banque Mondiale a sejourne en Republique Centrafricaine, du 11 au 24
mai 1998. L'objet de la mission dtait de preparer le rapport d'achevement du Projet d'Appui aux
Institutions Agricoles (PAIA). Elle etait composee de MM.Y. Pokou, J.P. Okalla (consultant) et G.-J.
Malembeti. La mission a eu a discuter avec les principaux Bailleurs de Fonds co-financiers
representes en RCA y compris les ONG, en particulier ceux participant au fmancement dudit projet.
La mission a tenu des seances de travail avec les responsables des differentes agences d'execution du
projet, presidees par le Coordinateur national du PAIA. La mission a aussi eu a travailler avec les
Responsables du Projet de Developpement des Savanes Vivrieres (PDSV) pour evaluer les progres
realises depuis la revue mi-parcours de Novembre 1997. Les responsables du projet ont beneficie de
conseils de la mission dans le cadre de la preparation de leur propre rapport d'evaluation. Le present
Aide-memoire rapporte les constats et principales conclusions de la mission qui ont ete discutees avec
les responsables du projet avant sa presentation au Ministre de l'Agriculture et de l'Elevage et au
Ministre Chargd de la Reforme Economique, du Plan et de la Cooperation Internationale. La mission
remercie toutes les personnes rencontrees pour leur disponibilite et leur contribution a sa reussite.
PROJET D'APPUI AUX INSTITUTIONS AGRICOLES (PAIA)
II.    Resumi des conclusions de la mission defin d'execution du Projet
3   The aide memoire is too long and should be summarized.



22
A.    Rappel des objectifs du projet
2.     Le projet visait fondamentalement A accroitre la productivite agricole et ce faisant A
augmenter les revenus des producteurs ruraux et a ameliorer la competitivite des produits
centrafricains vis-A-vis des marches exterieurs. Le projet constituait une premiere phase d'un
programme d'investissement A long terme visant A developper les connaissances techniques agricoles
et A mettre en place des systemes performants pour le transfert de nouvelles technologies.
3.     Les objectifs directs consistaient A:
(a)    renforcer la capacite technique de conception du Ministere du developpement rural qui ne
devrait plus avoir de responsabilites directement operationnelles;
(b)    assurer une meilleure coordination de la recherche et de la vulgarisation au niveau central, au
travers de structures mieux adaptees que l'administration;
(c)    restructurer les services r6gionaux de vulgarisation et d'animation;
(d)    consolider ou completer les reformes institutionnelles par des actions techniques visant A la
sedentarisation de I'agriculture, la protection de l'environnement, l'amelioration de la
productivite du travail et de la terre ainsi que l'amenagement rural;
(e)    apporter un appui a certains groupes cibles defavorises tels que ceux des jeunes sans emplois
et des femmes.
4.     A cette fin le projet se proposait de supporter pendant une periode de 5 ans:
(a)    la reorganisation et l'amelioration de la capacite technique et conceptuelle du MDR, en
matiere de planification, de suivi des actions de developpement et de regime foncier;
(b)    la creation d'un Institut national de recherche agronomique (ICRA) et d'une Agence nationale
de developpement agricole (ACDA);
(c)    la restructuration et l'amelioration des services regionaux de vulgarisation et d'animation;
(d)    I'appui aux actions d'accompagnement (intrants, equipement, amenagement rural);
(e)    la mise en place de programmes speciaux d'aide A l'investissement rural au profit de groupes
cibles defavorises (femmes, jeunes sans emplois, artisans ruraux).
B.     Contexte d'execution du Projet
S.     Le Projet a et execute dans des conditions particulierement perturb6es par les troubles
socio-politiques qu'a connus la Republique Centrafricaine depuis 1993, annee de la mise en auvre du
PAIA. D'autre part I'Assistance technique, prevue pour appuyer le projet au demarrage et former le
personnel, a ete mise en place de maniere incomplete, notamment a la suite du retrait du financement
du PNUD. Par ailleurs la coordination financiere a connu des difficultes dans la mattrise des
procedures d'appels d'offres et de decaissements de la Banque; I'Assistance Technique mise en place
pour renforcer cette composante ne s'est pas averee tres performante. Les moyens de travail ont ete
acquis et mis en place assez tardivement et de maniere irreguliere. Un certain nombre de dossiers
litigieux subsistent entre le projet et des entreprises. Tout ceci a eu comme consequences: (i) la mise
en place tardive des services de terrain et l'execution irreguliere et partielle des programmes
d'activites; (ii) le suivi et l'appui insuffisants aux services de terrain par les responsables nationaux;
(iii) la supervision irreguliere du projet par la Banque, surtout depuis mi-1996; (iv) la degradation et
la perte de certains biens du projet; et (v) la suspension du projet depuis Avril 1997 suite au non
remboursement des arri6res de dettes. Malgre ces conditions difficiles, les differentes composantes



23
ont pu etre mises en place et quelques activites ont pu etre menees. Les premiers resultats
commencent a etre perceptibles sur le terrain.
6.    Resume des activites. Presente au Conseil d'Administration de la Banque le 19 mai 1992, le
PAIA n'a ete effectif qu'en novembre 1993. Pratiquement l'annee 1993 a ete consacr6e a la phase de
mise en place de I'ACDA et l'ICRA qui ont e  cr6ees en avril 1993; l'organisation de la structure du
projet, le recrutement du personnel et ]'acquisition des equipements de travail se sont acheves en
juillet 1994 pour ce qui concerne l'ACDA. Les activites de terrain ont effectivement commence a se
mettre en place A partir de la campagne 1994/95, pour ce qui est de la recherche, I'appui aux
organisations des producteurs et la vulgarisation. La revue A mi-parcours du projet prevue pour
novembre 1997 n'a pas pu avoir.
C.    Resultats et impact par Composante
Gestion Administrative et Financiere du Projet
7.    Performance de la Coordination Financiere. Dans le but d'assurer une gestion efficace
du projet, une coordination financiere a ete mise en place avec pour principaux objectifs de:
(a)    appuyer et superviser les unites de gestion des differentes composantes du projet (ACDA,
ICRA;
(b)    assurer la coordination financiere et la consolidation des diffdrentes sources de financement;
assurer la formation du personnel des composantes en matiere de gestion et fournir une
assistance pour l'elaboration et le contr6le budgetaire.
8.    L a mission a constate que la Coordination Financiere n'a pas et a la hauteur de sa tache et
n'a donc pas pu satisfaire les attentes. Cette defaillance a eu pour consequences:
(a)    I'absence d'une comptabilit6 analytique permettant d'apprehender les cofits des activites par
composante et par zone d'intervention;
(b)    une utilisation du Don Suisse non conforme A l'accord de projet et une gestion non
transparente du compte dont la comptabilite n'est pas tenue et 1ensemble des pieces
comptables n'a pas e  fourni a la mission;
(c)    un appui insuffisant aux unites de gestion des composantes ayant conduit celles-ci A recourir
a des consultants externes pour diverses assistances et conseils en matiere de gestion;
(d)    un mauvais suivi du compte special et une excessive lenteur dans l'elaboration des DRF
ayant entraine en partie de frequents problemes de tresorerie et I'accumulation des impay6s;
(e)   la non maitrise par les composantes des procedures de passation et de contr6le de l'ex6cution
des marches;
(f)   le d6passement de 26 % du budget de la coordination financiere.
9.    Situation des impayes. Les impayes s'elevent A un montant total de 1.679.772.692 CFA
repartis comme suit: (i) foumisseurs, 905.552.551 CFA dont 550.076.981 relatifs A des avenants aux
contrats de pistes rurales n'ayant pas donne lieu A une non objection; (a) salaires, 604.676.273 CFA;
indemnites de licenciement, 169.349.868 CFA. Ce dossier des impayes sera traite plus detail dans le
Rapport du Consultant financier.
10.   Gestion du Don Suisse. En l'absence d'une comptabilite des operations du Don Suisse ainsi
que des pieces justificatives y aff6rentes, la mission n'a pas pu connaitre le montant exact de sa



24
contribution A 1'ex6cution du projet ni lutilisation qui en a e  faite. La mission recommande que la
coordination financiere puisse presenter dans les meilleurs delais un etat detaille justifiant l'utilisation
des fonds recus de la Suisse.
Riforme Institutionnelle
11.   Les objectifs vises dans cette composante ont ete atteints. L'Institut Centrafricain de la
Recherche Agronomique cree en avril 1992 s'est structure au niveau central et a etabli des Stations
Regionales de Recherche sur le terrain. Un cadre de collaboration a ete mis en place entre I'ACDA et
l'ICRA dans le but de favoriser le partenariat avec les producteurs. L'Agence Centrafricaine de
developpement Agricole a ete etablie en avril 1993 et deux Directions Regionales (Nord-Ouest et
Centre-Est ) ont ete mises en place, avec le personnel et les moyens de travail necessaires A leur
fonctionnement.
Appui technique et financier
12.   Appui au NIDR. Le Comite de Pilotage, presidd par le MDR n'avait pu se reunir que trois
fois, avant la cr6ation de la Coordination du PAIA et la designation d'un Coordinateur en aout 1996.
Des moyens de travail ont etd mis A la disposition du Ministere et le bureau du Ministere a ete
rehabilite. Les deux etudes prevues concemant respectivement le Regime foncier et l'informatisation
des depenses publiques n'ont pas ete realisees, bien que des Termes de reference aient ete initi6s au
demarrage du projet. En dehors des investissements physiques, le projet n'a par consequent pas
permis le renforcement de la capacite technique et conceptuelle du MDR.
13.   L'Institut Centrafricain de la Recherche Agronomique (ICRA) s'est organise en 4
departements dont un Departement d'Appui a la recherche et trois Departements correspondant
respectivement aux trois systemes agraires prdvalant en RCA, A savoir le systeme des Savanes, le
systeme des forets et le Systeme agro-pastoral.  Avec la realisation d'importants travaux de
construction et de rehabilitation de bAtiments et d'infrastructures de recherche (retenue d'eau, reseau
d'irrigation, parcelles de recherche), l'on peut estimer que le projet avait atteint son objectif de
renforcer la capacite operationnelle de l'ICRA, avant la degradation de certains biens et l'occupation
des locaux du siege par l'armee, a la suite des mutineries.
14.   Par ailleurs les chercheurs ont benkficie de formations interne et externe, en particulier sur
la demarche recherche systeme.  Ces formations ont et  rdalisees avec I'appui de centres
Intemationaux de Recherche et d'un assistant technique foumi par la Cooperation frangaise dont le
role a ete fort apprecie. Malgre ce renforcement de sa capacite en recherche en milieu reel, I'ICRA a
surtout eu tendance A poursuivre, avec plus ou moins de succes, les anciens et ambitieux de
programmes de recherche, herites des anciennes structures, et qui etaient principalement axes sur les
filieres de produits (coton, cafe, etc.), alors que ces programmes devraient etre tournes en priorite sur
la recherche-developpement. D'autre part les actions de formulation et d'exdcution de la politique de
recherche agronomique nationale n'ont reellement pas d6marre sur le terrain.
15.   L'activite la plus reussie de l'ICRA est la production de semences ameliorees de cultures
vivrieres et de coton. La filiere semences coton a particulierement bien fonctionne parce que le
dispositif de gestion de la SOCOCA est relativement mieux organise. La production et la
consommation de semences sont en evolution croissante depuis 1994. Cette filiere semenciere est en
passe de devenir financierement autonomes, avec des chiffres d'affaires qui se sont eleves A plus de
34 millions CFA en 1997/98. Mais pour que cette activite soit viable A long terme, l'ICRA devra



25
ameliorer la qualite des semences et foumir des semences de vari6t6s et especes repondant aux
besoins des producteurs.
16.   ACDA/Services Centraux. Le siege de J'ACDA a ete operationnel avec, comme prevu a
l'dvaluation, seulement 7% du personnel op6rationnel du projet et 30% des couts de la composante
ACDA. Les services centraux ont ete mis en place avec une definition claire des taches; le personnel
des services de terrain ainsi que les moyens de travail ont ete mis en place. Un processus de
programmation participative et ascendante des activites a e  mis en cruvre et des indicateurs de
performance ont e  definis et mis en place.
17.   ACDA/Directions Regionales de Developpement Agricole. Deux Directions Regionales
du Developpement Agricole du Nord -Ouest, du Centre-Est ont et creees et organisees en 4 services,
mais elles ne sont pas financierement autonomes par rapport a 1'ACDA. Des Comites R6gionaux
d'Orientation se sont tenus chaque campagne agricole depuis 1994, avec la participation des
exploitants, des chercheurs et des agents de vulgarisation et d'appui aux organisations des
producteurs, ainsi que d'autres intervenants 6conomiques. Mais ils n'ont pas permis de proposer de
nouveaux themes repondant effectivement aux contraintes de production locales. Par ailleurs l'appui
technique et logistique que la Direction Nationale de l'ACDA devrait apporter a ces services de
terrain ne s'est pas avere tres intense ni efficace.
18.   Promotion de groupements et d'associations villageoises. De nombreux groupements ont
8t organises et encadres par 2 ONG (AFVP, CREF) et la GTZ, sous la maltrise d'ouvrage de
l'ACDA. Ainsi le nombre groupements est pass6 de 800 en 1994 a 1050 en 1996, rdpartis dans 2.800
villages, dont 34% disposent de reglement interieur, I'effectif des adherents a plus que triple, avec
142.000 membres dont 30.000 femmes. En vue de s'organiser dans le futur en une federation
nationale, 6 associations de groupements villageois se sont deja constituees.  On note un
accroissement du nombre de groupements et des effectifs ainsi qu'une augmentation spectaculaire de
leurs ressources, I'avoir moyen dans les caisses etant passe de 17.000 Francs en 1994 a 159.000
Francs en 1997, en partie du fait de la reduction des cas de detournement de fonds et d'un debut de
democratisation des groupements. Mais il se pose des problemes de coordination des activites entre
le personnel d'animation et celui de vulgarisation. Par ailleurs les approches differentes suivant les
partenaires de I'ACDA en charge de l'animation. Pour ce qui concerne l'appui a la commercialisation
des produits, 27 marches urbains et ruraux ont ete identifies et suivis. Le systeme de releve et de
publication, a la radio Rurale et dans les colonnes du journal en langue nationale "Bt AFRICA
SANGO", des prix pratiques sur les marches a permis une amelioration sensible de l'ecoulement des
produits vivriers. Dans ce cadre plus de 17 groupements de commercialisation des produits ont et
constitues, et de 138 operateurs economiques ont ete enregistres. Ces acquis restent cependant tres
fragiles et meriteraient d'8tre consolides avec le maintien de l'encadrement assur6 par les ONG et la
GTZ.
19.   Programmes de vulgarisation et de developpement communautaire. Le service de
vulgarisation a e  structure et son personnel, a ete forme au plan theorique a utiliser les outils de
vulgarisation rapprochee. Les programmes de formations internes et extemes n'ont pas pu &re
execut6s de maniere r6guliere. Le personnel technique a ete cependant initid, au plan theorique, a
l'approche d'enqu&e-diagnostic participative. Le service de vulgarisation n'a en fait ete operationnel
que pendant deux campagnes (1995 et 1996) et de facon plus ou moins discontinue. L'unite de
Suivi-Evaluation a cependant rapporte les realisations suivantes: (i) en 1997, 44.000 agriculteurs et
eleveurs ont ete touchds soit 13% des actifs agricoles et 35% des m6nages; (ii) en 1996, pour
l'ensemble des themes, les taux d'adoption sont de 57% pour le coton et de 30% pour les vivriers; (iii)



26
des cas de producteurs ayant adopte les technologies vulgarisees qui ont enregistre une augmentation
des rendements de leurs cultures (coton, mais, riz pluvial, arachide), de 773 kglha en 1995 a 1.256
kg/ha en 1996 (162%). En 1995, I'augmentation de la production du coton a et attribue A 17% A
I'application de themes amelioree vulgarises par I'ACDA. Par ailleurs la SOCOCA reconnait que la
presence de I'ACDA a permis une amnelioration de la qualite du coton. L'appui aux exploitants en
matiere de traction animale a contribue a l'acceleration de l'equipement des producteurs: plus de
18.700 ha (37% des superficies coton) ont ete cultiv6s A la traction animale, avec environ 5.600 paires
de bcoufs et 6.000 charrues en 1995; des exploitants ont ete organises 80 Organisations de base des
Exploitants en Culture Attelee (OBECA). Malgre ces quelques realisations et l'enthousiasme suscite
au demarrage du projet son impact reste tres limite sur le terrain les programmes de formation et de
sui4du personnel n'ayant pas pu etre correctement executes mais aussi du fait de la suppression de la
ligne du credit rural.
20.   Formation du personnel de PACDA, des villageois et des jeunes. Les programmes de
formation en faveur du personnel et des villageois n'ont pas pu etre executes, y compris des
formations a l'ext6rieur et l'organisation de voyages inter-groupements. Des demonstrations ont
cependant ete realisees dans les champs et les troupeaux (4.200 en 1996), avec les exploitants
organises en groupes de contact (2.440 en 1997), mais elles n'ont pas et regulierement suivies ni
exploitees de maniere a ddboucher sur des adoptions massives. Par ailleurs les actions specifiques en
direction des femmes et des jeunes n'ont pas ete suffisamment developpees.
21.   Infrastructures rurales. Les realisations ont et6 de la maniere suivante:
R6habilitation des batiments dont 2 bAtiments et 21 bureaux pour I'ACDA en 1994, 2 batiments 14
bureaux et 3 logements dans la DRDA-CE (Bambari) en 1996, 5 batiments 10 logements A Bangui en
1995-1996.
Les travaux au niveau de Bangui ont e  r6alises en entreprises suivant des consultations
partiellement ouvertes et transparentes, mais certains dossiers techniques sont imprecis et incomplets.
Au niveau de Bambari les travaux ont ete realises sur base d'un marche de gre A gr a l' entreprise
pour un montant superieur A 50 millions FCFA sans aucune base objective de choix et, sous le
controle du bureau "Atelier A3 " selectionne aussi par la methode de gre A gre.
Concernant les travaux communautaires et chemins vicinaux, 11 hectares ont ete dessouch6s au treuil
"Monkley" en 1994, 105 Km de chemins vicinaux ouverts dans la DRDA-NO en 1995 en regie. II
faut aussi noter qu'aucun manuel technique sous forme de guide pouvant aider a l'entretien et
viabilisation de ses ouvrages n'a pu etre elabore pour assurer la conduite de ses travaux pouvant
garantir leur perennit6 et il n'y a eu aucune 6valuation de l'impact.
Rehabilitation des Pistes Rurales
- 414 Km a l'entreprise par Appel d'Offres ouvert mais le bureau local "Cossocim" qui avait ete
charge des etudes et du contr6le relatif A ces travaux a fait preuve de beaucoup de carences dans la
fourniture de ses prestations ayant entrame des travaux supplementaires A plus de 40% sans avis de
"Non Objection" officielle de VIDA sur les montants initiaux de contrats d'entreprises privees de
travaux.



27
- 561 Km a rentreprise realises sur fonds propres, suite A une consultation de gre A gre sans dossiers
techniques requis ; il a ete aussi realise a l'entreprise 282 Km et la difference en regie pour un cout de
55 millions FCFA sur base d'aucun dossier technique elabore au prealable;
- 345 Km entretenus manuellement sans guide, apres un gre A gre avec la SOCOCA pour environ 88
millions FCFA et sans dossiers Techniques;
- 82 ponts rdalises partiellement en partie en regie A hauteur de 10 millions FCFA et la majorite sous
forme d'un contrat de gr6 A gre avec la SOCOCA sur base d'aucun dossier technique.
22.    Credit rural: Ce volet a 6te supprime A la demande du Gouvernement des le demarrage du
projet suite A des difficultes dans la s6lection de l'operateur qui devrait 8tre charge de lVex6cuter.
D.    Conclusions et suggestions
23.   Apres un demarrage assez difficile, le projet s'est finalement implante courant 1994. 11 avait
suscite beaucoup d'espoir et d'enthousiasme chez le personnel et les producteurs du fait de l'approche
innovatrice utilisee et surtout au vu des premiers resultats, en particulier sur la production du coton.
Mais l'ex6cution du PAIA a ete particulierement perturb6e par les troubles socio-politique ainsi que
de frdquentes suspensions de decaissement. La derniere suspension qui remonte a avril 1997 a
finalement occasionne la ddcision de la cl6ture anticipee du projet.
24.   La mission estime que:  (a) le projet a atteint ses objectifs en termes de reforme
institutionnelle, avec 1'etablissement de IIACDA et de IIICRA; (b) 1'essentiel des investissements
physiques prevus a et6 realis6, m8me si un certain nombre d'ouvrages et de biens ont ete degrad6s ou
ravis au projet, A la suite des troubles socio-politiques, dont les bureaux des sieges de PACDA et de
IIICRA ainsi que des vehicules; (c) en termes d'appui institutionnel, I'impact est plut6t faible, la
capacite technique du MAE n'ayant pas ete renforc6e; (d) en dehors de quelques resultats enregistres
en matiere d'animation et de vulgarisation, les objectifs de developpement sont loin d'avoir et
atteints, et ce pour les raisons majeures suivantes: (i) I'assistance technique a ete insuffisante et
parfois peu performante, (ii) les programmes de formation n'ont pas pu 8tre executes en totalite tant a
l'ACDA, A PICRA qu'au niveau du Ministere, (iii) les activites de terrain nWont pas ete executees ni
suivies r6gulierement, (iv) la Coordination Financiere a particulierement manque d'efficacite et m8me
de transparence dans le cadre de la foumiture reguliere des moyens de travail aux differentes agences
d'ex6cution du projet, (v) la suppression du volet credit rural. Malgre cette contre performance du
projet, un certain nombre de suggestions peuvent 8tre faites sur la base des enseignements tires de
son execution, dans le but de consolider des acquis et d'orienter les operations futures. II s'agit de:
(a)    concernant le credit rural, opter pour un systeme de credit mutualiste en lieu et place d'une
ligne de credit sur financement exterieur, en s'inspirant de Vexp6rience d'op6ration pilote en
cours dans le cadre du PDSV finance par le FIDA;
(b)    diversifier ses sources de financement de PICRA, dans le cadre de programmes
internationaux et sous-regionaux de recherche, et de protocoles de sous-traitance avec des
projets de developpement, la filiere semenciere devrait constituer un appoint de ressources
pour les services de terrain, ainsi que la formation du chef de service administratif et
financier et du comptable budgetaire recemment mis en place.
Bangui, le 22 mai 1998



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2368-CA)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
6. APPENDIX B: BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE
ICR 4
INTRODUCTION
This document combines summaries of all four components of the Agricultural Services
Development Project (Projet d'Appui aux Institutions Agricoles - PAIA), which were consolidated
by the National Coordination bureau (Coordination Nationale.)
The first part of the document describes the project's context and overall objectives, as well as
the constraints that hindered the proper implementation of its various components.
For each component, there is a summary of activities, specific constraints and future plans.
Finally, there is a general conclusion on project implementation and on the outlook based on
results obtained and internal and well as external constraints.
The second part consists of documents containing fairly detailed report summaries,
accompanied by annexes for components associated with the Agence Centrafricaine de
Developpement Agricole (ACDA) and the Institut Centrafricain de Recherche Agronomique (ICRA);
and summary tables of financial statements, staffing and physical assets of the component involving
support to the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Finance.
The reports were written following a long period of suspension of all Credit disbursements.
A - INTRODUCTION
The Agricultural Services Development Project (PAIA, by its French acronym), for which the
Credit Agreement was signed in June 1992, became effective in August 1993 and operational in early
1994, once the Government had fulfilled the required conditions.
4 Government contribution is too long and should summarized.



29
The PAIA's overall objective was the strengthening of institutional capacity to implement the
new sectoral strategy and the new flexible rural development approach, given the particularities of the
farmers' situation and the local context.
The project was designed to continue institutional reforms undertaken under previous
adjustment operations and to provide technical and financial support to institutions that had emerged
from the reform effort.
The first crop year, launched at the same time as the devaluation of the CFAF, went normally,
but the second was accompanied by three rebellions in the country, although these did not have a
significant impact on field activities. The third crop year was hit by the Bank's suspension of
disbursements for non-payment of debt by the Government. One result of this suspension was ther
cancellation of supervision missions and of the Bank's mid-term review of the Project.
Originally designed with a variety of financing sources, the Project thereafter functioned with
only IFAD funds in an initial amount of 18,800,000 SDRs, and with the Swiss Grant of 1,960,11 8FS.
The result was the virtual absence of the agreed-upon amount of technical assistance.
Despite the above-mentioned problems, however, the attached reports of the various project
components indicate that some project objectives were achieved. Others are either in progress or are
being delayed for lack of resources following the disbursement suspension at the beginning of the
first year of full development, at which time the undisbursed credit balance (as of December 21,
1996) was 8,300,000 SDRs.
B - ICRA
1) - FIRST PHASE
1 - INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The primary objective of this phase was to create an institutional framework as well as
management and monitoring entities staffed with qualified personnel.
2 - MAIN TASKS
I - MANDATE - This component's objective was to coordinate the various sectoral research
activities within the country and to represent the country vis-a-vis the outside
world.
The component's main task was to regionalize agricultural research on the basis of the country's
agroecological zones and farmers' needs.
2 - RESULTS
An institute was created in 1993; personnel was hired; structures were regionalized; technical
messages were put in place on the basis of a systems approach to the study of the farming
environment which was developed for the new program.



30
H - SECOND PHASE
I - MANDATE: This was the operational phase, and involved the implementation and continuation of
programs in all areas: field activities, training, infrastructures, etc.
2 - RESULTS
Financial and material resources were put in place in 1994. New agreed-upon programs were
implemented and those dating from the previous structure (SOCADA) were continued.
Headquarters infrastructures were totally rehabilitated and the buildings of certain research stations
were partially renovated. (Of the 6 planned renovations, 3 occurred, of which two were complete-
renovations.)
Technical assistance was provided under FAC financing.
A training plan for research technicians failed to become operational due to the absence of the
technical assistance that was to be provided by UNDP. On the other hand, 5 researchers are being
trained under FAC financing and 87 agents have been trained with funds from scholarships and sub-
regional donors.
Regarding coordination, work contracts have been established with externally-financed projects and
programs (PDSV, PAPAAV, ANDE, etc.).
Five support missions were financed by PAIA for training in the new approach.
ICRA is now integrated into the international research networks and has financial and technical
support (banana and maize research, etc.), and cooperative contracts with international research
organizations (e.g., CORAF-ICRISAT) have been signed.
Semi-autonomous seed services are in place and the quality and quantity of the seed has been
confirmed.
Farners have received plant stock and training in technical procedures.
A study of agricultural product processing has been carried out.
Additional financing has become available due to the sale of seed, contributions from international
research networks and certain requests for services, etc.
III) TIIRD PHASE
This phase involved the implementation of work programs, the consolidation of achievements
and the search for other sources of financing.
IV) FUTURE PLANS
- as regards strategy, a study of the Master Plan for National Research is planned;



31
- there will be a move towards more decentralized and autonomous management once the
managerial staff has been trained and self-monitoring mechanisms have been put in place;
- objectives not achieved under the project (rehabilitation, training, etc.) will continue to be pursued;
- studies of the overexploitation of periurban areas and of the livestock subsector will be carried out;
The Department of Technology will be made operational once financing for the plantain banana
network has been obtained from IFAD;
- sub-regional consultation will continue on research programs of common interest;
- work contracts will be revised so as to retain only motivated research staff within programs that
have been redefined on the basis of available financing.
C - ACDA
I- INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
The Agence Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole (ACDA) created in 1993 and three
Regional Directorates for Agricultural Development (DRDA) are now operational (one under IFAD
financing). A Managing Committee was created at the level of theDirection Gdnerale, and Regional
Orientation Committees (CROs) were created at the level of the DRDAs.
All central and regional managers have been appointed. The Central Technical Directorates
work almost exclusively with the General Agricultural Directorates of the Centre-Est.
PAIA. (?) (translator's note: this word was off by itself in the text and it is not clear how it is to be
integrated with the surrounding sentences.)
and
North West (DRDA-CE/DRDA-NO) are financed by the... (?) text missing?
The General Agricultural Directorates of Sud-Ouest and Centre-Est were not set up due to the
country's socio-economic situation.
II - MANDATE
ACDA's mandate is to apply the new, flexible extension method designed to lead to
innovations suited to the local context, with a view to sustainable rural development.
This new mandate is to be carried out by ACDA's extension, animal traction,
monitoring/evaluation, outreach, infrastructures and training units.
After the restructuring that followed the May 1996 supervision mission, the following
outreach mechanisms were designed: extension, agro-forestry and animal traction,
outreach/marketing and credit for equipment and infrastructures; training and monitoring/evaluation.



32
III - SPECIFIC CONSTRAINTS
- Training program dispensed by technical assistance: result was unsatisfactory (2 technical assistants
provided out of 5 planned), and the training shortfall was made up by a local firm;
- There were sporadic delays in provision of resources due to the absence of decentralized and
autonomous management within Regional Agricultural Development Directorates (DRDAs);
- The mechanism for covering recurrent costs was not applied;
- No results of the training for CTPs were documented since it did not take place;
- Bank supervision missions took place at irregular intervals;
- The former manager of the agricultural component at the Resident Mission did not follow
procedures, and this had consequences for rural road rehabilitation contracts;
- There were problems involving social benefits for contractual staff;
- The systems approach is still practically not used in the outreach programs of certain projects,
which still prefer the production stream approach (e.g., for cotton).
IV - RESULTS
1- EXTENSION/A GROFORESTRY/ANIMIL TRACTION COMPONENT
a) Results
- extension activities increased the rate of coverage of agricultural workers from 5% in 1995 to 13%
in 1997, or 15% of households in 1995 as against 35 % in 1997 -1;
- the work strategy made it possible to disseminate about 30 technical messages at the rate of 2 or 3
demonstrations per contact group (42% of the messages dealt with food crops, 26% with cotton,
21% with animal traction and 1% with agro-forestry);
- farmers' rate of attendance at extension workers' visits averages 37% per visit, with an average
attendance rate of 19% for women;
- the adoption rate for technical messages is 57% for cotton and 30% for food crops;
- Technical results have translated into yield increases of over 30% for associated crops
(groundnut/maize) and over 60% for cotton in 1997 compared with the cropping season preceding
the PAR.
These results are the combined result of a good mastery of the participatory approach
methodology by certain extension agents and the ease of assimilation and application of the messages
by certain farmers.



33
b) Future programs
- intensification, diversification and extension of the methodology; acceleration of
livestock/agriculture integration; outreach with a view to increasing the acceptability and the rate of
acceptance of the main messages by women and young people.
- an information campaign geared to encouraging farmers to settle on suitable land.
2 -TRAINING COMPONENT
a) Results
The training of managers and agents is geared first of all to the new approach, the mastery of
innovations and their transfer to farmer groups. As of late 1996, 883 man-days of training had been
dispensed to managers trained at the start of the project, and an average of 189 man-days per year to
higher level technicians. Six village-level technical advisors (CTVs) had been trained in two-week
sessions, and four study/exchange trips involving 187 farmers/artisans had taken place.
Finally, linkages were reinforced through the APRTs.
b) Future plans
- a training program dealing with specifically identified priority technical messages will be initiated
for young rural people and women;
- training achievements will be solidified 1;
- regular training will be assured in accordance with agreed-upon programs;
-the Monitoring/Evaluation Unit will set up a post-training monitoring/evaluation system.
3 - EQUIPMENTAND INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
a) Results
- Roads and rural tracks
The financing for roads under the PAIA concerns only the Centre-Est region. Thus, 414 km
(of 500 km) of roads were rehabilitated in 1996, 279 km of roads were maintained with mechanical
equipment in 1995, 345 km of rural tracks received manual maintenance in 1994 and 82 bridges were
built in 1994 and 1995.
- Buildings
Four buildings with 35 offices were rehabilitated in 1994 and 1996, and eight residential
buildings were rehabilitated in 1995 and 1996.



34
- Community works and local paths
A brush-clearing machine was made available to some farmers to clear out 11 ha and to open
up 105 km of local tracks.
b) Future Plans
Given the problems encountered, rural infrastructure works will henceforth be implemented by
private contractors or by village groups (Groupements Villageois) within the Regional Directorate for
Agricultural Development in Nord-Ouest (DRDA-NO) in places were this activity did not receive
PAIA financing.
4 -O UTREA CH/MARKETING/CREDIT COMPONENT
4.1 - OUTREACH
The outreach component is sub-contracted to other projects and NGOs under various types of
financing (FAC, GTZ, CREF, etc.).
The harmonization and monitoring of ACDA is accomplished through a Steering Committee
that meets annually.
a) Results
- 2 protocols (out of 3) signed with the main contractors;
- 1,040 groups counted in 1996;
- 114 members, on average, per village group, of which 18% are women;
- average balance of cash on hand went from 17,000 F in 1994 to 159,000 F in 1997;
- 13% of women are members of villages groups and bureaus;
10% are members of ....... (sentence incomplete);
- 54 community/village groups and regional federations have emerged.
b) Future plans
- continue outreach to encourage democratic management of village groups;
- establish the legal framework for village groups;
- increase the percentage of females and young people among the members of the village groups.
4.2 -. MARKETING
a) Results



35
- 27 markets monitored and 138 price surveys carried out;
- 138 posted values developed and publicized via radio broadcasts, and some positive results
obtained (1 contract signed for 6.5 tons of maize for 1,040,000 F.)
b) Future plans
- continued outreach to spur the emergence of marketing groups;
- maintenance of previous accomplishments.
4.3 - RURAL CREDIT
This sub-component is non-operational despite strong demand from farmers.
Since agricultural revenues have increased, farmers groups should be made aware of the
possibility of setting up savings accounts through a credit union.
D - SUPPORT TO THEMIISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK
a) RESULTS/ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Under this component, the Ministry received the following benefits:
- expansion of the building where all central services are now located (for ease of
communication) and the equipping of some restrooms;
- provision of needed equipment to General Directorates: vehicles for field travel,
photocopiers, fax machines and cellular telephones;
- maintenance and fuel supplies for vehicles purchased out of IDA proceeds and financing of
per diem costs for travel within zones covered by the PAIA;
- provision of office supplies and consumables -1;
- a single training program (DGPES) and partial financing of the pre-training mission.
b) CONSTRAINTS
- relatively little interest paid to this component in comparison to the others (ACDA-ICRA) by
World Bank supervision missions;
- failure by the Coordination Financiere to transmit for non-objection certain dossiers (relative to the
DGAAARH - Direction Generale de l'Appui AdministratifAgricole et des Ressources Humaines)-
1) despite the fact that preliminary approval had been obtained from the Task Manager during the
August 1996 supervision mission.
- theft of some materiel during the rebellions, etc.



36
c) FUTURE PLANS
Support to the Ministry will need to continue along the following lines:
-training in the areas of design, monitoring/evaluation and management of planned and yet-to-be
implemented activities -1;
- financing of studies on land tenure and the Ministry's entire corpus of legal texts;
- continued support to the Ministry and its operations through the provision of (amortized) working
assets, until the Treasury gradually assumes total control over these items -1;
- provision of technical assistants to strengthen the capacity to implement the mandate assigned to the
central services. Steps have been take to approach UNDP in this connection; - 1;
- computerization of services in charge of personnel management and public finance.
E - FINANCIAL COORDINATION
The performance of the Financial Coordinator should be subject to an evaluation in accordance
with statutory rules. Terms of reference were submitted in October 1996 to the Bank and approved
with some amendments, but the evaluation did not take place following the third rebellion in the
country and the suspension of disbursements.
Since the supervision mission in May 1996, new developments include the [Financial
Coordinator's] participation in the meetings of the Steering Committee and in those of the Regional
Orientation Committees.
The report of the Financial Coordination service consists only of summary tables of financial
statements. The Assistant Financial Coordinator's only training was in the form of three seminars
organized by the World Bank in Abidjan and Dakar.
CONCLUSION
The Agricultural Services Support Project (Projet d'Appui aux Institutions Agricoles (PAIA)
emerged from a long process of reflection in the context of the first Structural Adjustment Program
(PAS 1).
After various institutional restructuring efforts in the area of rural development, the PAIA was
put in place to support the new entities that had emerged from the Sectoral Adjustment Program for
the cotton sector (PASA-A).
Three years after the introduction of PAIA financing, technical results are satisfactory overall
as far as the various components' objectives are concerned, despite external constraints that were
unfavorable to the normal conduct of project activities.



37
Regarding administration and management, the former [project] manager at the World Bank
Resident Mission as well as the Financial Coordinator failed to master procurement procedures, and
this created some difficulties for the managers of certain project components.
Personnel management at the field level was not carried out in accordance with the legal
arrangements prevailing in the country, for lack of explicit instructions concerning benefits at the
time of project start-up, although procedures were adhered to as far as the staff of the Financial
Coordination service were concerned. As for financial management, internal mechanisms were
lacking, and the training of accounting and management personnel was not carried out by the
Financial Coordinator or by the technical assistants. This will not make it any easier to implement
decentralization programs for the targeted structures.
The PAIA also failed, during this phase of its implementation, to deal with the thorny problem
of recurrent costs, which was brought up only in meetings of the Monitoring Committee after the
nomination of the Financial Coordinator.
With the sudden cessation of PAIA financing, these provisions should have been called on, if
indeed recurrent costs were one of the conditionalities initially associated with the Credit Agreement.
The situation is more serious for ACDA (Agence Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole).
Because the management of the Swiss Grant account totally escaped the scrutiny of audit
missions, the situation is alarming and merits examination by specialized governmental
services with a view to producing a specific report on this account.
Until the Agricultural Master Plan under preparation is adopted, it is extremely urgent that the
programs of the interim phase be set up in cooperation with potential financing partners in order to
avoid compromising progress already made and losing farmers' confidence, and to ensure the
sustainability of the new systems approach that has been resisted by some, but which has proved its
worth.
If an interim program based on proposed plans is not envisaged, the sudden interruption of
project financing will have an impact on progress already made and will undoubtedly provoke some
social unrest given [the Project's] importance at the nationwide level.
A Bank mission should be dispatched after discussion of this report in order to help us finalize
interim phase programs and help search for financing prior to the implementation of the Agricultural
Master plan which is currently under study.






IEED 30214
NIGER       /0
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETA AFRICAN REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                                           __A__           j,,lT ETlIA
T. rN,Ol               CENTRES POLYVALENTS DE RECHERCHE                      AER  'IDA FINANCED)
SU DAN                        A(, I           U    I     K     L     S     R    I     E                                                                            RESEACH CSTTION                                    DRDA - C.E AVEC SIEGE A
AG RICULTURA L   SERVICES                                                              STATIONS DE RECHERCHE                               B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMBARI (FINANCEMENT IDA)
NIGEIIA                                                                                                                                                                                                      [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  M  XEIMNA  SPOT,  ~~DRDA- N.O  WITH CENTER AT
NIGERIA                 L.)tV~~~~~~~~LL)I-'IVXtNI                                                                                                          POINTS DAPPUIS EXPERIMENTAUX                         PAOUA (ISA FINANCED) IINTXD'PPUS EPERMENAUXA.6    6AINACED
J -  r                          BASE VILLAGES                                      D~~~~~~~~~~~RDA -N,O,AVEC SIEGEA     l-
'NTRAL    K                            ,        LOCATION   OF  RESEARCH  CENTERS                                                               7'I\                          *     VILLAGES DE BASES                                J   PAOUA PFINANCEMENT IDA)
AFRICAN REPU3LCAND  ACDA   ZO                                                  E                          r                     /E   FTEADAA  Aru                                                                           DD    CC
ARUICAI  EETUU~~~ C    -  ~~"~'                                                                            V/A   K  A  G  A             I       *      CENTER OP THE ACSA AT EANGUI 'VA  KDGEASA-C'AL.                WI,HICENTERERAT
CAMIEROON                                                                                               ZO ESf                                  '(SEGE DE LUACDA A BANGUI                                                                                      DAOE(IA FINANCED)
--   ~~~~~~~~~~                                                  I  --'    ''-                                                A      O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RDA CENTERS          DA-C.O. AVEC SIEGE A
C  H    A                                  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~SIES SEAYALOKE (FINANCEMENT FISA)
DEMOCRATIC REPULBIC         GAAD                                                                                                       I
GAEOS  (COIXO  OF CONGO  F  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M                                               1                          '2             HXoA,                                                                             PRIMARY ROADS
>~~~    75  I.'                7                 '-             ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 7     K.           *~~~~~~~~~( C                                                                     ROUTES PEINCIPALES~~~~~~~~ROTE PINIPLE
AlMIZ  I   I         )    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ '-.                                .~~~-AMN  ~Uf, (AN-R-                                                                                                  SECONDARY ROADS
(IRACAG                                8AM INGU~~~~~~~~~  (BANGQI~~~~~AN            (C*~~~r           Ooe,                                                                            ROUTES SECONDAIRES
NAI~~~~~~~  NdHIH  (   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER ROADS
*  '-'                                                   *.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N ~~~~~~~AUITRES ROUTES
T. N Di...-                                                                              O~~~~~Wedd.-   RIVERS
)  \                                 P~~~~~~~~~~LEUVEX
H   A   UTE                                                                    *      SECTOR/DISTRICT HEADOUARTERS
~~~~'T ~~~~~~~CHEFS=LIEUU DES SECTEURS/REGIONS
)  'ji               eendo  ~~~              edO                   A                                                                                                         2                           @       PROVINCE/PREFECTURE CAPITALS
j    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,                           RnieiCAPITALES DSE PROVINCES/PREFECTURES
-~~~~~~~~  OWO      C                                                                                                  I                                              - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE/PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
A          r  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   n/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~KOT TO                                                                                        'N.                              LIMITES DSE PROVINCES/PREFECTERES
4v   I                                           IN   U  ~ '..(IINTERNATIONAL BOENDARIES
/   ~~~~~~~ UH~~~~~~~~~ M    "                           ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ee    C                                                                                        P~~~~~~~~~~~RONTIEREX INTERNATIONALES
P~ND1E  -                                                                                                                                      6no1    o  oc  1T.OA  Nono~-~           A T           '
B- 
1_ 7. Y.-do~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Rd
Re LeA RB          7'                                                                                                                      Gohoen~~~~~~~~~B f 
CAMEROON    K~~~~~n0A <~                                                                                K...                                                 IK-
<Nnkn~~~~Gd                                                                                               K      T
HAU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                              H KAnro9
I             A                                        '7 ANoRne(ID   iocd
6~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.DvlpetPoetZn    oo
CAMEROON                                                                                                                                                                                                       6K6.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AX  X X     I        IX      XX IOMTR
N.    7//kA
CA HAB.D.I.   -  Pq.t .-- -IB.    (ID  F-0d
CONGO   (                                                   ConSO                                   /'                                                 TUe nn~~~~~~~DE OC ATC   E UB IC OFCO GOySbPnr.  pounet-    f K--g. ,g .I-qB.  of tEe Wono d  APAV(FD
1\                                                                                                                                                        d.  K....q.,   pp-h-- t 6  1.  .... dR PAPAAV  (FED]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ntAnoponn  pl,OIhpOIOTkWOId OnGrApOn
ndRg-t o h. lg.lktot, of -ny erto..ry-r -ny -nd-nnnel o
MAY 1 999



