Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2368 CA
(Agricultural Services Development Project)
between
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 1, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2368 CA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1992, between CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to receive from UNDP a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an 
amount equivalent to US$3.6 million to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP;
(C)
the Borrower intends to receive from MCD a grant (the MCD Grant) in an 
amount equivalent to US$2.2 million to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the MCD Grant Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and MCD;
(D)
the Borrower intends to receive from CCCE a grant (the CCCE Grant) in an 
amount equivalent to US$4.5 million to assist in financing part of the Project on the 
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Grant Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(E)
the Borrower intends to receive from the Federal Republic of Germany 
through GTZ a grant (the German Grant) in an amount equivalent to US$1.2 million to 
assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the German Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and Germany;
(F)
by agreement dated March 21, 1992 (the Swiss Grant Agreement), 
Switzerland has agreed to make a grant (the Swiss Grant) to the Borrower in an amount 
of Swiss Francs 1,960,478 to assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Swiss Grant Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and Switzerland;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ACADOP" means Agence Centrafricaine de Developpement de Ouham Pende;
 
(b)
"ACDA" means l'Agence Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole;
 
(c)
"CCCE" means Caisse Centrale de Cooperation; 
 
(d)
"CFAF" the currency of the Borrower;
 
(e)
"CNRA" means le Conseil National de la Recherche Agronomique;
 
(f)
"Credit Fund" means the fund set up for the purpose of Part E of the 
Project;
(g)
"Credit NGO" means the NGO that will administer the Credit Fund;
 
(h)
"DRDA" means Agricultural Development Regional Directorate;
 
(i)
"GTZ" means Gesellschaft fcr Technische Zusammenarbeit; 
 
(j)
"ICRA" means l'Institut Centrafricaine de Recherche Agronomique;
 
(k)
"MDC" means Ministcre Francais de la Cooperation au Developpement;
 
(l)
"MDR" means the Ministcre du Developpement Rural of the Borrower;
 
(m)
"MTP" means the Ministcre de Travaux Publics referred to in Section 3.07 
of this Agreement;
(n)
"NGO Agreement" means the agreement between the Borrower and the Credit 
NGO regarding the administration of the Credit Fund;
(o)
"SOCADA" means the Societe Centrafricaine de Developpement Agricole;
 
Page  3
(p)
"UNDP" means United Nations Development Programme;
 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advances" means the project preparation advances 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of letters dated 
October 26, 1988 and October 31, 1988, as well as December 27, 1989 and January 12, 
1990 between the Borrower and the Association; and
(r)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to eighteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
18,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advances withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amounts of the Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon 
be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1,
commencing September 1, 2002 and ending March 1, 2032. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 1, 2012 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms 
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association 
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the 
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with 
the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall 
not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project under the
overall coordination of MDR, and close in cooperation between MDR and MTP for the 
purposes of Part D (2) of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate agricultural, financial and administrative and rural 
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure that ICRA shall carry out Part B and ACDA 
shall carry out Parts C and D (1) of the Project in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, agricultural and rural engineering practices under the 
supervision of their respective qualified and experienced
management, assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. To this effect the 
Borrower shall, amongst others, ensure that:
(a)
key positions at ICRA (including those of General Director and Department 
Directors) and ACDA (including those of General Director, Financial Director and the 
Page  5
two Regional Directors)
will be staffed at all times by staff whose experience and qualifications are 
acceptable to the Association;
(b)
MDR will retain for the duration of the Project in the position of 
Financial Coordinator an expert whose experience and qualifications are acceptable to 
the Association.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall ensure, for the purposes of Parts A and D (2) of 
the Project, the annual submission no later than October 31 of each calendar year of a 
work program and budget acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.05. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, 
ensure the annual submission no later than October 31 of a work program and budget for 
ICRA that is acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.06. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts C and D (1) of the 
Project:
(a)
ensure the annual submission no later than October 31 of a work program 
and budget for ACDA acceptable to the Association;
(b)
ensure that ACDA headquarters recurrent expenditures will not exceed 30% 
of those of DRDAs North-West and Center-East combined;
(c)
transfer to DRDAs' pilot activities currently being carried out in the 
North-Western and Center-Eastern regions no later than June 30, 1993;
(d)
ensure that among the present SOCADA and ACADOP extension staff only 
those who are most experienced and qualified (i.e. technician level and above) may be 
recruited for ACDA; and
(e)
establish the South West and Center South DRDAs no later than June 30, 
1995.
Section 3.07. Without limitation upon any of its obligations under Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of Part E of the Project, 
establish and maintain a  fund in CFAF (the Credit Fund) in an account in a commercial 
bank in the Central African Republic on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. The proceeds of the Credit disbursed under Part E of the Project shall be 
paid into this account. The Credit Fund shall be managed by an NGO (the Credit NGO) 
selected by the Borrower in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association. 
The Credit NGO shall manage the Credit Fund in accordance with a management agreement 
(the NGO Agreement) acceptable to the Association that shall, inter alia, include the 
following:
(a)
all funds accruing to the Credit Fund as a result of repayment of loans 
or payment of interest on loans shall be reused for the same purposes of making loans 
in accordance with this
Agreement;
(b)
an administration fee to be received by the Credit NGO in consideration 
for the services provided under the NGO Agreement; 
(c)
the terms and conditions on which the Credit NGO shall make loans shall 
be consistent with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(d)
decisions on loans shall be taken solely by the Credit NGO;
 
(e)
the resources to be made available by the Borrower to the Credit NGO to 
facilitate the implementation of Part E of the Project; and
(f)
a requirement for the Credit NGO to keep separate records and accounts 
regarding the implementation of Part E of the Project and to have these records and 
Page  6
accounts audited annually, in
accordance, mutatis mutandis, with the provisions of Section 4.01 (a) and (b) of this 
Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower and the Association shall carry out a mid-term review 
of the Project no later than September 30, 1995. This review will, inter alia, assess 
the following:
(a)
progress made in the implementation of the Project with a view to targets 
set in the annual work programs of ICRA and ACDA;
(b)
problems encountered in executing each part of the Project;
 
(c)
effectiveness of the new extension and community development services;
 
(d)
involvement of the beneficiaries in Project implementation;
 
(e)
impact of the new rural development approach on the beneficiaries;
 
(f)
efficiency and effectiveness of the credit scheme, including the rate of 
credit recovery and loans repayment;
(g)
performance of MDR, ICRA, ACDA, the Credit NGO and the experts employed 
for the execution of the Project; and
(h)
the number and quality of investments undertaken at the village level.
 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including MDR, ICRA and 
ACDA.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than four months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
Page  7
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01 Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution, disestablishment or suspension of the activities of 
ICRA, ACDA or the Credit NGO, or shall in any other way through its acts or omissions 
have adversely affected the ability of any of these institutions to fully carry out 
their responsibilities under the Project.
(b)
The Borrower or the Credit NGO shall have failed to fulfill any of their 
obligations under the NGO Agreement.
(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to 
withdraw the proceeds of the UNDP Grant, the MCD Grant, the 
CCCE Grant, the 
German Grant or the Swiss Grant, made to the Borrower 
for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled 
or terminated in whole or in 
part, pursuant to the terms of 
the UNDP Grant Agreement, the MCD Grant 
Agreement, the CCCE 
Grant Agreement, the German Grant Agreement or the Swiss 
Grant 
Agreement.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation 
or termination is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of 
its obligations under such agreement; 
and (B) adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
Reduction of the number of MDR Regional Delegates from 16 to 8;
 
(b)
ICRA and ACDA have been established and are ready to start their 
operations;
Page  8
(c)
Staff selection for both ICRA and ACDA has been completed;
 
(d)
Appointment of the Financial Coordinator whose experience and 
qualifications are acceptable to the Association; and
(e)
A firm has been hired to establish adequate accounting and management 
information systems.
Section 6.02. The date 90 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for economy and planning 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy and Planning
P.O. Box 609
Bangui
Central African Republic
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIPLAN
5208 RC
 
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Jean Pierre Sahahong-Kombet
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the proceeds of the credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category.
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works:                               100%
     (a) Rural Roads           4,730,000
     (b) Buildings               510,000
     (c) Tracks and              110,000
         Village
         Level Works
     (d) Destumping              110,000
(2)  Vehicles and                800,000        100%
     Equipment
(3)  Technical                 2,260,000        100%
     Assistance
(4)  Training                    180,000        100%
(5)  Goods and Services          950,000        100%
     financed under
     Part E of the Project
(6)   Operating Costs          5,900,000        100%
(7)   Refunding of               550,000        Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(8)   Unallocated              2,700,000
                              __________
           TOTAL              18,800,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purpose of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means expenditures 
for building maintenance, vehicles and equipment, maintenance and repair, allowances 
for travel related to the
Project, gasoline for vehicles financed under the Project, incremental salaries for 
contractual staff recruited for the purposes of this Project and office supplies.
3.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for such expenditures and under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
4.
Notwithstanding, the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Page  10
Agreement; and
(b)
payments made in respect of Category 1 (a) unless the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Borrower has adopted a Rural Roads 
Master Plan acceptable to the Association.
Schedule 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to strengthen the institutional capability of 
the Borrower, improve the productivity, income and living standards of producers in 
rural areas and to
promote autonomous and self sustainable development of rural communities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modification 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree from time to time to achieve 
such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Support to MDR
 
1.
Programming and monitoring of public investments and expenditures in the rural 
sector;
2.
Carrying out and supervision of sectoral studies and analyses;
 
3.
Rehabilitation of MDR office buildings and facilities; and
 
4.
Strengthening of MDR's technical and operational capability.
 
Part B:
Agricultural Research
 
1.
Establishment of ICRA and provision of the required operational support;
 
2.
Formulation of a comprehensive agronomical research policy and monitoring of its 
implementation;
3.
Strengthening of ICRA's technical capability including provision of on the job 
and overseas training;
4.
Carrying out and monitoring of the execution of priority research programs 
focussed on agricultural and agro-pastoral systems of production;
5.
Production and dissemination of improved seeds.
 
Part C:
Rural Development Field Services
 
1.
Establishment of ACDA and provision of the required operational support, 
including for the North-West and, the Center-East DRDAS; and establishment and 
rehabilitation of training centers;
2.
Promotion of village groups and associations and monitoring their participation 
in the formulation and carrying out of rural development programs and activities;
3.
Identification of activities with great potential for incremental production; 
formulation of rural extension and community development programs and execution of 
said programs;
4.
Identification of factors that constrain production in rural areas and provision 
of technical assistance and materials to alleviate the impact of said factors namely 
wth respect to
processing and marketing activities, use of modern inputs, equipment, animal traction, 
craftsmanship and training; and
5.
Training for ACDA staff, villagers and young farmers in subject matters related 
to the Project.
Page  11
Part D:
Rural Infrastructure
 
1.
(a)
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 1,400 km of feeder roads;
 
(b)
construction and maintenance of about 2,200 km of tracks; and
 
(c)
carrying out of community infrastructure and land improvement works at 
the village level.
2.
Rehabilitation and maintenance of about 500 km of primary roads.
 
Part E:
Rural Credit
 
1.
Granting of loans to farmers and small entrepreneurs for productive investments 
in rural areas; and
2.
Promotion of village associations aimed at mobilizing savings and granting loans 
in rural areas.
*   *   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equipment shall be grouped 
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or more.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Rehabilitation of existing buildings, may be procured under contracts awarded on 
the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the
Association.
2.
Construction of rural roads may be carried out by force account by existing road 
construction units up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,400,000. Contracts for 
construction of rural roads, estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 up to an aggregate 
amount equivalent to $2.6 million may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory 
to the Association.
3.
Vehicles up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.
Procurement of equipment and furniture the estimated cost of which is less than 
the equivalent of $100,000, but more than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract may 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $400,000 be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Association.
5.
Small purchases estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may up to 
an aggregate amount equivalent of $100,000 to be procured under contracts awarded on 
Page  12
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such 
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract 
required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association 
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such 
contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
(d)
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of Part A, the 
Borrower shall ensure that any preshipment inspection required prior to the import of 
goods procured under said contract shall be applied only in respect of the quality and 
quantity stated in said contract.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants, (including the Credit NGO referred to in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement) whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment 
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis 
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World 
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$700,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
Page  13
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
Page  14
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Part A:
Eligibility for Loans under Part E of the Project
 
Only farmers and small entrepreneurs from villages covered by the two DRDAs 
supported under the Project shall be eligible for loans to be granted under Part E of 
the Project.
Activities to be financed with the proceeds of these loans shall contribute to 
increasing agricultural and rural enterprises output. They are limited to the 
following activities and any other activity that may have been approved by the 
Association:
1.
Acquisition of production, processing and transport equipment, agricultural 
inputs and destumping works;
2.
Acquisition of breeding stock and draft oxen;
3.
Acquisition of materials and tools for village craftsmen (e.g. blacksmiths, 
carpenters, cabinet makers and bricklayers);
4.
Construction of storage facilities and shops; and 
 
5.
Acquisition of stocks, for shops and drug stores, and purchase of crops.
 
Part B:
Terms and Conditions of Loans under Part E of the Project
 
Loans made to farmers and small-entrepreneurs shall, inter alia, include the 
following conditions:
1.
A fixed interest rate of 1% to 4% per month is to be charged depending on the 
duration and the purpose of the loan; the adequacy of this rate shall be reviewed with 
the Association by October 31 of each calendar year.
2.
The aggregate amount of loans granted to any recipient and not yet repaid shall 
not exceed at any time an amount equivalent to $9,000;
3.
A personal contribution equivalent to at least 25% of the total cost of the 
proposed investment shall be required from each loan recipient; this contribution may 
be made in cash or in kind;
4.
Repayment periods of up to four years and an acceptablecollateral satisfactory 
to the Credit NGO to ensure the repayment of the loan principal and accrued interest;
5.
Release of all such information as the Borrower, the Association or the Credit 
NGO shall reasonably request regarding the loan and the goods and services financed 
with the proceeds of the
loan; and
Page  15
6.
Loans granted to young farmers and small-entrepreneurs that have successfully 
completed the training referred to under Part C.5 of the Project shall be granted on 
the following terms:
(a)
a personal contribution from each recipient equivalent to at least 10% of 
the total cost of the investment to be undertaken; this contribution shall be made 
only in cash;
(b)
a fixed interest at a rate not exceeding 2% per month; and
 
(c)
repayment periods of up to 5 years including a grace period of at least 6 
months.
