RESTRICTED
ILE        COPY                  Report No.P-613
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATION
PROJECT
June 12, 1968



REPORT AND RECOIvkEDATION OF THE PRESID ENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUflEA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $7 million to the
Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia and the Ad-
ministration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea have asked the
Bank for a loan of $7 million to expand and improve the telecommunica-
tion facilities in the Territory. The proposed loan would finance
part of a long-term expansion program and will be used for the purchase
of equipment, consultants services and interest during construction.
This would be the first lending by the Bank Group in the Territory.
Since the Territory is eligible for assistance by virtue of Australia's
membership, the guarantee of the Commonwealth of Australia is required.
3.        In 1963, the Australian Government asked the Bank to assist
the development of the Territory by sending a general survey mission.
The mission completed its report in 1964, making a number of recommenda-
tions in the field of transport, agriculture, power and others. In 1966,
the Australian Government specifically requested the Bank Group to con-
sider a program of lending to the Territory, in response to which an
economic mission visited the area in March 1967. The project which is
presently under consideration, and the others to follow, stem from the
findings of these two missions.
4.        In 1966, the President of the Bank informed the Commonwealth
Government that the Territory was considered eligible for assistance,
but that any Bank Group financing should be additional to and not in
place of assistance to the Territory by Australia, which the Bank
expected would be continued. In fact, Australia's contribution to
the Territory's budget is increasing. As this project is revenue
earning, and would not impose a burden on the Te4rritory's budget,
I am recommending a Bank loan in this case. The loan will be
guaranteed by Australia. The Bank made seven loans to Australia
between 1950 and 1962, all of which are fully disbursed. The sum-
mary position of these loans as of May 31, 1968 was as follows:
Amount (US$ million)
Total (less cancellation)               417.7
of which has been repaid to
the Bank and others                   221.1
Total now outstanding                   196.6
Amount sold                 218.5
of which has been repaid    203.3      15.2
Total now held by Bank                  181.4
Total undisbursed                        -0-



5.       Negotiations were conducted in Washington from May 22 to June 3.
The Government of the Commonwealth of Australia, the Guarantor, was
represented by Mr. Gordon Low, Financial Minister of the Australian
Embassy and Mr. A.C.C. Menzies, Senior Assistant Secretary Advising,
Attorney General's Department. The Administration of the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea, which is the Borrower, was represented by Mr. W.
Carter, Director of Posts and Telegraphs, and Mr. K. Detto, Investigating
Officer of the Treasury Department.
6.       Within the next few months, subject to IDA replenishment, I
expect to present to the Executive Directors an IDA credit of about
$6.5 million for an agricultural development project. The Bank has
agreed to act as Executing Agency for a comprehensive survey of trans-
portation in the Territory, financed by the UNDP, which is now under way.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
7.       Borrower:                 The Administration of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea.
Guarantor:                Commonwealth of Australia.
Amount:                   The equivalent in various currencies
of $7 million.
Purpose:                  To finance part of the foreign exchange
cost of the four-year investment program
for the expansion and improvement of
telecommunication facilities in the
Territory.
Amortization:             Twenty years, including a five-year
grace period, payable in 31 semi-annual
instalments beginning November 15, 1973
and ending November 15, 1988.
Interest Rate:            64 percent per annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.       A report entitled "Appraisal of the Telecommunication Project -
Territory of Papua and New Guinea Department of Posts and Telegraphs"
(TO-627) is attached.
9.       An economic mission visited the Territory in March 1967 to
review the economic situation and identify possible projects for Bank
Group financing. The mission regarded an improvement in telecommunica-
tions as being essential to the efficient administration of the Territory
and the further development of its small but rapidly growing market econ-
omy. The Department's investment program had been inadequate to keep up



-  3  -
with the essential demands for new connections, and its long distance
network, which had become hopelessly overloaded, had reached the stage
where large expenditures were needed to overhaul the system. The pro-
posed project is intended to overcome these deficiencies at a rate within
the Department's capabilities. The benefits to be derived from the pro-
ject will be substantial since physical communication within the Terri-
tory is extremely difficult because of rugged terrain, scattered islands,
and great distances between centers of economic activity. The delays and
unreliability of the present long-distance telecommunication network
limit its use to fulfilling only the most urgent requirements. Aidequate
telecommunication links will be essential for further development in the
various fields of economic activity in the Territory.
10.       The four-year expansion program of the Department of Posts and
Telegraphs, beginning mid-1968 and ending mid-1972, includes the expansion
of the local telephone exchange service by 10,000 lines of automatic tele-
phone exchange equipment at 35 existing or new exchanges and provides for
the necessary increase in associated subscribers plant, telephones and
radio outstations. The most important part of the project and the main
area of financing is the substantial replacement of the long-distance toll
and telegraph network with one of several times the present capacity. This
consists of establishing on the main island of the Territory a microwave
backbone route with a basic capacity of 300 channels, equipped with speech
and telegraph channels, linking Port Moresby, Lae, Madang, Goroka and Mount
Hagen, with appropriate spur links to other centers and offshore islands.
11.       The total requirements of the program period 1969-72 of US$16
million including the necessary increase in working capital, would be
financed about 43% by the proposed Bank loan, about 26% from internal
cash generation, and the remaining 31% through Government advances.
12.       All contracts for goods and services to be fLnanced under
the loan would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding. Out of the total investment in the program of US$16 million,
about US$9 million would be procured from sources outside the Territory.
Of this latter amount, it is estimated that at least US$3 million and
possibly more will be procured from Australia. However, as in other
cases of Bank Group financing in dependent territories, it is proposed
to regard goods and services procured from Australia as being eligible
for financing under the loan, notwithstanding the fact that Australian
dollars are the "local currency" of the Territory.
13.       The Department of Posts and Telegraphs is well organized and
operated efficiently. However, because of the difficult physical con-
ditions in the Territory and the small scale of current operations,
operating costs are high, the long distance service is of poor quality
and the telecommunications section of the Department is worked at a
loss. Forthcoming improvements in the system and proposed tariff
increases should improve the financial position and enable the Depart-
ment to earn a return of 8 percent on its investment after the project
is completed.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
:1t.      The draft Lean Agrczement between the Bank ind the Administratiut'
of the Territory, tbhe draft 2aarantee AgriaertJ bt'wemn the Iomrz.vA.t4;



of Australia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for under
Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distrib-
uted to the Executive Directors separately.
15.       The Loan Agreement would conform to the customary form for loans
of this type when the Borrower is a Government department. It sets a rate
of return of 8 percent as an objective of the Borrower which it would pro-
pose to achieve as soon as practicable after the completion of the project
through an increase of rates and charges. One such increase to agreed
levels is made a condition of effectiveness of the loan.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
16.       A report "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Territory
of Papua and New Guinea"., in two volumes (AS-129b) was circulated to the
Executive Directors on August 31, 1967. Attached is a memorandum updating
that report and giving a general picture of the current economic position.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
17.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the require-
ments of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
18.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Administration of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea in an amount equivalent to US$7,000,000 to be
guaranteed by Commonwealth of Australia
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to the Administration of the
Territory of Papua and New Guinea to be guaranteed by the Common-
wealth of Australia, in an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million United States dollars (US$7,000,000), to mature
on and prior to November 15, 1988, to bear interest at the rate
of six and one-fourth percent (6½%) per annum, and to be upon
such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially in
accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Loan Agreement (Papua and New Guinea Telecommunication Project)
between the Bank and the Administration of the Territory of Papua
and New Guinea, and the form of Guarantee Agreement (Papua and
New Guinea Telecommunication Project) between the Commonwealth
of Australia and the Bank, which have been presented to this
meeting.i
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
'Ta,hington  D.C.                              by J. Burke Knapp
T--Si l2~, C;'r9



