DR4-) bf    -rwK6 6AY
RESTRICTED
Report No.  TO-627a
- This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
June 10, 1968
Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =     A$0. 898
A$1                =      US$1. 113
A$1,000,000        =      US$1,113,000
Fiscal Year
July 1 to June 30



APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                       i-u
1.   INTRODUCTION                                                   1
2.   THE POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT                            1
Staffing                                                     2
Postal Services                                              2
3.   EXISTING FACILITIES                                            3
4.   THE PROJECT                                                    4
Local Service                                                4
Long-distance Service                                        4
Cost of Program                                              5
Procurement and Disbursement                                 7
5.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT                                   7
Demand for Telecommunication Services                        7
Local Service                                              8
Long-distance Service                                      9
Relation between proposed program and projected demand      10
Alternative ways of providing proposed services             11
6.   TARIFFS                                                       12
7.   ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT                                            13
8.   PAST PERFORMANCE AND PRESENT FINANCIAL POSITION               14
Past Performance                                            14
Present Financial Position                                  15
9.   FINANCING PLAN                                                16
10.   ESTIMATED FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL PROSPECTS    17
Estimated Future Operating Results                          17
Financial Prospects                                         17
11.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                               18
This report is based on the findings of Messrs. R.L.C. Grant and
N. De Sirkar, who visited the Territory in October 1967 to appraise
the operations and proposed program of the Posts and Telegraphs
Deaprtment.



List of Annexes
1.   Distribution of Responsibilities for Telecommunication Services
2.   Organization Chart
3.   Summary of Existing and Programmed Exchange Equipment Provision
4.   Telecommunication Transmission Practices
5.   Capital Program
6.   Telephone Subscribers Development
7.   Telephone and Telegraph Charges
8.   Consolidated Income Statement 1964/65 to 1966/67 of the
Department of Posts and Telegraphs
9.   Income Statement for Telecommunication Services
10.   Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets for Telecommunication Services
11.   Forecast Sources and Application of Funds for Telecommunication
Services
NAP
Territory of Papua and New Guinea Showing Proposed Radio
Trunk and Telegraph Circuits



APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NhlW GUINEA
SUMMARY
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a four-year telecommunication
program to be carried out by the Posts and Telegraphs Department (Department)
of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea from mid-1968 to mid-1972.   The
program includes the expansion and improvement of the local and long-
distance telephone and telegraph services in the Territory to meet an
established demand and to raise the standards of the service to a level
adequate to facilitate Government administration and to meet, in particular,
the needs of expanding trade and commerce.
ii.       The total cost of the program is estimated to be US$15.4 million
of which US$9.6 million will be foreign exchange.   The proposed Bank loan
of US$7.0 million would cover the foreign exchange cost of part of the
program to be procured after international competitive bidding and
interest on the Bank loan payable during the construction period.
iii.      The Borrower would be the Administration of the Territory which
functions under the Papua and New Guinea Act 1949-63 of the Commonwealth
of Australia and which would make the loan funds available to the Department.
The Department has no power to borrow.   The loan would be guaranteed by
the Commonwealth of Australia.
iv.       The program is technically sound, the estimated costs are
reasonable, and the Department is capable of carrying out the work and
of operating the system.   The principal items are:
(a) the installation of 10,000 lines of automatic switching
equipment at 35 existing and new telephone exchanges;
(b) the extension of the outside plant and subscribers
installations associated with the above;
(c) additions to the radio outstation service which serves
settlers in remote localities;
(d) substantial replacement of the high frequency radio long-
distance network by modern microwave and very high
frequency equipment.
v.        The Department is well managed and operated.
vi.       The present financial position of the Department is weak but
considerable improvement is expected to result from a tariff increase in
1968 and a better balanced operation on account of the program.   Financial
forecasts show a satisfactory position by the end of the program.   It
is estimated that during the program earnings will contribute 26% of
the total capital requirement, 43% would come from the proposed loan and
the remaining 31% from Government.   This financing plan is acceptable.



- ii -
vii.      The program is suitable for a proposed Bank loan of
US$7 million, for a period of 20 years, including a grace period of
five years on the basis of the assurances listed in paragraph 11.03
obtained during negotiations.



APPRAISAL OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Administration of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea
has asked the Bank for a loan to cover part of the foreign exchange
component needed to carry out a 4-year program to expand and improve the
local and long-distance telephone services in the Territory.   The total
cost of the 4-year construction program which will be completed mid-1972
is estimated to be US$15.4 million, of which US$6.3 million will be met
out of the proposed Bank loan, representing about 66% of the foreign
exchange requirement.   The requested loan would also cover most of the
interest payable to the Bank during construction of the program.
1.02      The Borrower will be the Administration of the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea which is established in accordance with the Papua
and New Guinea Act 1949-63 of the Commonwealth of Australia.   The
Department is a Government department operating under the jurisdiction of
the Administrator of the Territory in accordance with an ordinance of
the Act and has no legal power to borrow in its own right.   The loan
will be guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia.
2.   THE POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
2.01      The Department is responsible for the provision of postal and
telecommunication services within the Territory but this report deals
in detail only with telecommunications.   The Department's activities
cover local and long-distance telephone and telegraph services within
Papua and New Guinea.   It also provides terminal facilities for an
extensive network of privately owned radio stations at locations outside
the range of normal line connections to exchanges.   There are connections
at four points within the Territory to circuits of the Overseas
Telecommunications Commission of Australia (OTC) which has statutory
responsibility for telecommunication services outside the Territory.
The functional relationship between the Department and other departments
in the Territory and in the Commonwealth of Australia is shown in APnex 1.
2.02      The chief executive officer of the Department is the Director,
who is responsible to the Administration of the Territory.   The day-to-
day operations of the Department are controlled by two assistant
directors and lower echelons in a well conceived functional organization
which is shown in Annex 2.   The organization, based at Port Moresby, is
patterned on that of the Australian Post Office (APO) from which most
of the senior officers of the Department are recruited.
2.03      Despite the difficult communication environment described in
later sections of this report and the smaIl scale of operations the
Department is operated efficiently.   Operating costs, which are high in
comparison to present revenues, do not thus reflect any inefficiency
of operations.   In order to improve the Department's earning position it
was, therefore, decided to increase tariffs early in the period of con-
struction of the project.



-2-
Staffing
2.o4      At the time of appraisal, the total staff of the Department
numbered 932, consisting of 367 expatriates, almost exclusively Australian
and 565 indigenes. Of the total staff, 70% is employed in telecornmuni-
cations.   Daring the past five years indigenous staff has increased by
169, while expatriate staff has increased by 58.    The number of staff
employed is reasonable in relation to the work performed.
2.05      The Department maintains a Training College with residential
facilities which caters for the training of personnel for the whole of
the Department's operations throughout Papua and New Guinea.    The
College has a staff of eleven expatriate instructors and the average
number of students in training is 85.    The courses provided cover all
aspects of telecommunication and postal activities at the operative
levels.   In the past, the Department has experienced difficulty in
recruiting an adequate number of suitable students for training, due to
the limited availability of educated indigenes.    Education Department
forecasts indicate that this position shouLd improve during the next
five years.   In spite of the recruiting difficulty, good results have
been achieved in training those available.    The APO offers facilities
for the higher specialist training of locally recruited technicians and
traffic officers.   The Department plans to offer scholarships for
advanced academic study in Australia to indigenous professional engineering
recruits when suitable students become available.
2.06      The APO as well as supplying the core of experienced personnel
for the Department assists with specialist advice and training, and makes
available the results of technical research and development which its
larger scale of operations is able to support.
2.07      Although the proposed expansion program represents a relatively
large increase in the Department's facilities, a comparable staff increase
will not be necessary because of gains from the increased scale of
operation and from automatization.   The training program which is
designed to expand the existing force at approximately the past rate is
assessed to be adequate.
Postal Services
2.08      The postal and telecommunication services operate together in
the one department on a satisfactory basis and separate accounts are
maintained.   Although postal services usually are operated at substantial
deficits, this is not the case in Papua and New Guinea where they
operate at a profit.   This is achieved through philatelic profits and
because mail is distributed only to Post Office boxes and no house deliveries
are made.   Savings are made by sharing buildings and staff, particularly
in smaller localities and no reason can be seen to separate the services,
provided that the present practice of maintaining separate accounts is
continued.



- 3 -
3.   EXISTING FACILITIES
3.01      The local telephone service in the main centers of population
is based upon the use of a mixture of step-by-step and crossbar auto-
matic exchange equipment.   The first automatic equipment commissioned
in 1956 was step-by-step equipment of British origin.  MNre recently
exchanges have been installed using crossbar equipment manufactured in
Australia.   This corresponds with APO practice.   Equipment installation
is carried out by construction teams supplied by the manufacturer.   At
Port Ioresby the exchange equipment is overloaded, but action is under
way to expand the main exchange and install a new crossbar exchange at
the suburb of Boroko.   Maintenance of the automatic switching equipment
in the Territory is reasonable.   Fault clearing procedures still rely
heavily on expatriates, although indigenous staff is receiving training
in this work.
3.02      The Department operates a total of 28 automatic and manual
telephone exchanges, having a total of 7,100 subscribers.   At the time
of appraisal, about three quarters of these were connected to automatic
switching equipment mainly centered in the larger towns.   In addition,
progress has recently been made in converting some of the smaller rural
exchanges to automatic, resulting in a reduction in operating costs by
the elimination of operating staff.
3.03      Existing outside telephone exchange plant consisting of cables,
open wire and telephone instruments is maintained in good condition.   In
accordance with standard APO practices cables are largely buried and on
the routes of major cables in the towns underground pipe systems with
spare capacity for further cable additions have been laid.
3.04      Outlying telephone subscribers who are beyond the service
area of telephone exchanges are served by high frequency (HF) radio
or very high frequency (VHF) radio service.   Fifteen centers provide
connection for subscribers who mostly own and maintain their own out-
station equipment.   The Department, however, provides and maintains
radio equipment for some of the subscribers who are served by the VHF
services and for Government establishments.
3.o5      In the long-distance system, the Department has not been able
to achieve standards comparable with the rest of its service.   This is
because of the rugged terrain and the scattered islands of the Territory
in which few roads and no railway links exist between centers of population.
In consequence, the normal pattern of establishing pole line routes to
carry telephone and telegraph circuits was not possible and HF radio was
the only means of developing the long-distance service.   The HF radio
pybtems used in this early stage of development suffer from poor quality
due to atmospheric interference, fading, and interference from stations
on adjacent frequencies.   In addition these circuits do not have the
capability to act as bearers for further derived channels, the conventional
way of economic expansion.   The consequent lack of circuits and the
poor quality of the service have suppressed the normal build up of long-
distance traffic by a large factor.



3.06      The telegraph service uses mainly Morse signaling operated over
HF radio circuits;  some teleprinters are in use on the main routes.   At
present telex is available to subscribers in Port Moresby only, and the
switching is performed manually.   Telegraph traffic is fairly heavy due
to the unsatisfactory nature of the long-distance telephone service but,
operating expenses are high due to the large number of messages which
have to be retransmitted manually at intermediate points.
4.   THE PROJECT
4.01      The project consists of the Department's four-year expansion
program commencing mid-1968 and terminating mid-1972.   The program is
designed to reduce arrears in demand at a rate within the technical and
physical capability of the staff that can be provided and at the least
cost.   It includes the expansion of local telephone exchange service by
10,000 lines of automatic telephone exchange equipment at 35 existing or
new exchanges, and provides for the necessary increase in associated
subscribers plant, telephones, and radio outstations.   The most important
part of the project is the substantial replacement of the long-distance
toll and telegraph network with one of several times the present capacity
and with the potential for future expansion.
Local Service
4.02      The year-by-year equipment installation program for local tele-
phone service is tabulated in Annex 3.   Extensions at the larger step-by-
step and crossbar exchanges will account for half of the new equipment;
the balance will be used for the establishment of six smaller new auto-
matic exchanges and for the conversion of 14 small manual exchanges to
automatic operation.   The expansion of outside plant and the installation
of telephones follow sound practices and will take place in the areas of
new commercial and residential construction.
4.03      The program includes additional radio outstations for sub-
scribers who are beyond the range of conventional telephone connections.
In accordance with international agreement, single sideband equipment
will be used for extensions in this field to conserve frequencies.
Long-distance Service
4.04      This is the main area proposed for Bank financing.   As shown
in the overprint of the map attached to this report it consists of estab-
lishing on the mainland a microwave backbone route with a basic capacity
of 300 channels linking Port Mbresby, Lae, Madang, Goroka, and Mt. Hagen,
equipped with speech and telegraph channels to cover immediate needs.
Nine hilltop repeater stations are required, three of which will be
without road access.   From some of the stations, VHF spur links of 10 or
24 channels will serve five smaller terminal stations and a further
10-channel VHF system is proposed to link Rabaul in New Britain with
Kavieng in New Ireland.   Two HF links of single sideband equipment
having eight channels will be provided to link Rabaul and Lae and a further
seven HF links having one to four channels will be provided on minor



- 5 -
routes where the smaller traffic requirements or length of path make this
appropriate.   This HF equipment will utilize recent developments in
this field which partly overcome the weaknesses of earlier HF equipment
currently in use in the Territory.   Annex 4 summarizes current practices
in long-distance communications.
4.05      It has been apparent for some years that development of the
long-distance netwtork would involve the establishment of broadband bearer
circuits in the microwave and VHF parts of the radio frequency spectrum.
This requires the siting of repeater stations to give clear line of
sight paths; physical difficulties of access and power supply at some of
the more remote repeater station sites on key routes have deferred the
taking of this step earlier.   The technical development that has gone
into microwave systems recently has now made possible equipment of such
reliability and modest power requirements that it is within the capability
of helicopters to lift the equipment necessary to install, maintain and
refuel these stations at otherwise inaccessible sites.   The primary
power will be from storage batteries of large capacity, charged by wind-
driven generators and using propane heated thermocouple electric generators
or diesel sets as a back-up for long periods of calm.
4.06      In 1966 A.W.A. (Australia) Ltd. were contracted to make path
propagation tests over one of the more difficult sections of tha route,
and to make a system performance evaluation to confirm the feasibility of
the proposal.   Two temporary stations were set up by helicopter and
records of signal strengths and performance over a period of two weeks
were obtained.   The tests demonstrated the practicability of operating
a 300-channel system over the proposed route, and will provide a basis
of design when tenders are invited.
4.07      As a further feature of its expansion, to minimize operating
costs, it is also the Department's objective to progressively introduce
national subscriber dialing of calls as interurban links are brought up
to the necessary standards, and by the end of the project 80% of al
subscribers will have access to this class of equipment.
4.08      The international circuits administered by OTC will be extended
from the Seacom cable terminal at Madang to the national switching center
at Lae using leased circuits over the proposed microwave system.
4.o9      The increased capacity of the interurban and international
routes will enable the telegraph system to expand to fully meet the
demand. The necessary telegraph channelling equipment is included in
the plans and estimates for the long-distance routes, and the Department
plans to increase the number of teleprinters in its own network as well
as those of telex subscribers.
Cost of the Program
4.1o      The estimated cost of the four-year program is detailed in
Annex 5 and summarized below:



-6 -
Foreign Exchange Cost
Bank            Other Local Cost   Total
_hn thousdnds of Australian dollars
Local Exchange Service
Switching equipment               -                862     354      1,216
Outside plant and telephones     942               951   2,113      4.,oo6
Radio outstations                466               288     268      1,022
Long Distance
Switching equipment               -                 60      44        104
Radio bearers                  3,o54)
Channelling equipment            525)              358   1,213      5,554
Power equipment                  404)
Telegraph and telex               -                220      28        248
Transport, tools and
mechanical aids                 -                210      -         210
Consultants                      270                -       -         270
Buildings                         -                 -    1n220      1,220
TOTALS        5,661             2,949   5,240     13,850
Millions of US$
equivalent                   6.3                3.3    5.8       15.4
Interest during
construction                   .7
Proposed Bank loan              7.0
Estimates are based on costing data compiled recently in the Territory
from the actual costs of telecommunication works and contingency allowances
of 10% have been provided in individual estimates.
4.11      The form of the Department's request for Bank financing is
influenced by its own policies in procurement.   It has adopted a policy
of standardization in line with APO practices and purchases much of its
supplies in conjunction with orders placed in Australia by that organi-
zation.   In respect of switching equipment and teleprinters this reduces
engineering effort and simplifies the training and interchange of staff
and the procurement of parts.   This policy is sound and the Department
wishes to continue it.   In respect of cables and other outside plant the
reason for bulk purchases through the APO was to obtain benefits of large
scale orders.   However the Department can well purchase part of its
requirements of this class of material in accordance with Bank requirements.



- 7 -
4.12      Exploratory tenders for a complete microwave system were invited
in 1965 but on account of the difficulties of access to repeater sites,
the tenders received were inflated by a high contingency margin.   On the
recommendation of Preece, Cardew & Rider, the Department's consultants,
who were asked to consider the tenders, only the contract to carry out the
propagation tests mentioned in paragraph 4.o6 was entered into.   For
the proposed project, the Department will use to the maximum extent its
local experience to erect the buildings, masts and aerials at mountain tops
as this was the field where contractors allowed large contingencies to
cover the difficulties with which they were not familiar.   The contracts
to be let will cover only the supply, installation and commissioning of
the radio bearer and channelling equipment.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.13      All goods and services to be financed under the proposed Bank
loan will be obtained on the basis of international competitive tenders.
The principal items are long-distance equipment for which tendering
documents will be prepared by the engineering consultants.   The Department
also proposes to purchase by international tender part of its cable and
pipe requirements, telephone sets and some of the radio equipment required
for the service to remote outstations.
4.14      The basis of disbursements would be the cost of imported
equipment and services only.   Expenditure prior to the date of the loan
would not be eligible for reimbursement and if savings are made any
excess loan funds would be available for cancellation.
5.   JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
5.01      The justification for the project may be considered under three
main headings:
(a) what is the projected demand for telecommunications in
the Territory and what contribution to economic growth
would be made by meeting that demand?
(b) is the. proposed investment program properly related
to the projected demand in respect of growth and quality
of facilities proposed?
(c)  is the proposed program the least cost method of
providing the services proposed?
Demand for telecommunication services
5.02      In analyzing the demand for telecommunication services in the
Territory two specific areas of operation have to be considered: (a) the
demand for connection to local telephone networks and (b) the demand for
the use of long-distance connections between individual exchanges and for



- 8 -
the improvements of their quality.   Although closely interrelated these
are discussed separately in this section.
Local Service
5.03      The overall telephone density of o.58 telephones per hundred of
population leaves scope for a considerable future growth, but a large
proportion of the indigenous population is at such an early stage of
development, living in isolated groups and having no common language, that
it will be some years before any real demand can be expected from this
quarter and before any significant economic purpose would be served by
provision of telephone facilities.   A few local cooperative societies
have advanced to the stage where a telephone is a business necessity but
indigenous population living in the towns is largely served by public
coin telephones.   The present subscribers and waiting applicants mainly
consist of the Territory's administrative structure, commercial and
industrial firms, and Australians who fill key positions in these sectors.
5.o4      As shown in Annex 6 the recorded demand (subscribers plus
waiting applicants) increased from 4,700 in mid-1962 to 8,680 in mid-1967
which corresponds to an annual growth rate of 13% for the five years.
During this time the Department built up the network from 4,150 sub-
scribers to 7,100 subscribers, increasing its installation capabilities
from about 300 subscribers per annum prior to 1962 to about 1,000 sub-
scribers in 1967.   In spite of this the waiting list increased from 550
in 1962 to over 1,600 in 1967 which is an increase from 12% to 19% of the
total demand.   Although the length of waiting period may have discouraged
some potential applicants for service, -from other considerations the
Department concludes that the present list offers a realistic measure
of unsatisfied demand.
5.05      The increase in demand has been comparable with the increase
in real GNP (12.9% average 19604 to 1965/6) and with the increase in
the volume of assistance which the Territory has received from Australia
(12.4% average increase 1961/2 to 1965/6 in grants to Administration
budget), an important factor in the Territory's economic development.
The Department assumes that these trends will continue at least in the
immediate future and has forecast the demand for service on this basis.
In addition the Department maintains area by area forecasts based on
specific studies of local developments and these are reviewed'periodically
in the light of new information to give a basis for specific technical
planning.
5.o6      For the immediate future, the Department's objective is to
increase its rate of connecting new applicants to 1,500 per annum which
will result in a reasonable reduction of waiting lists during the program.
This takes account of such limitations as the availability of trained
staff and represents a sound compromise between the ideals of readily
available service and of adequate returns from installed plant and
equipment.   The program would result in a growth rate of 16% per annum
in connected subscribers over the period.



-9-
Long-distance Service
5.07      In the long-distance field, for which the major portion (74%) of
Bank finance is being requested, 40% of the traffic is Government business
and the balance is mainly commercial.    The present service falls short
in both the quality and the number of channels on existing routes.    The
indication of a demand for more channels is usually the record of delays
or queuing time in providing connections.    In Papua and New Guinea the
delays are so long, several hours being normal and in excess of one day
not uncommon, that the system is not fulfilling its role of providing
fast communication for those activities which require this for efficiency.
Under these circumstances potential traffic can only be assessed by
comparison with the known position in similar communities where adequate
circuits are available.    Studies along these lines have been made by the
Department, by an APO planning group which was asked to prepare a
National Development Plan in 1964, and in respect of overseas traffic by
OTC, with reasonable concurrence of results.
5.o8      The APO study concluded that with adequate circuits the average
calling rate per subscriber into the trunk system would quickly increase
three to five times and that the ten links existing in 1964 in the
Territory needed to be replaced by 70 to 90 to meet requirements at that
time, and by about 120 to handle potential traffic in 1968.    The
Department's proposed program provides for 189 speech circuits by the
end of the program in 1972 which takes into account the presently esti-
mated growth in connected subscribers; it is also partly determined by
the fact that equipment is supplied in standard sizes providing packages
of specific channel capacity (see Annex 5).    As explained in more
detail in paragraph 5.11, the critical decisions to be taken at this
stage are those relating to the choice of basic systems rather than those
concerning the number of circuits to be established initially.
5.09      One recent indication of the need for the additional long-
distance circuits proposed is available in the experience of OTC with
overseas traffic from the Territory.    During 1967 the new British
Commonwealth "Seacom" telephone cable between Australia and South East
Asia was brought into service via Madang in New Guinea.    This gives
overseas connections of the highest quality with all major countries, but
only Madang can benefit until the internal long-distance links in the
Territory are improved.    OTC had assessed that a five-to-six-fold
increase in overseas traffic presently carried by HF radio would result
from this improvement in service once the internal links with Madang
were adequate to play their part.    So far overseas traffic from Madang
has increased much more than that, i.e. by about 20 times.    The fact
that so much additional traffic has been generated from Madang alone is
an indication of the suppressed demand for telephone services in the
Territory.   It can also partly be ascribed to the absence of adequate
internal long-distance service which causes the subscribers in Madang
to use the Seacom cable to Australia in preference to calling within the
Territory.   It is expected that the traffic pattern for Madang and the
Seacom cable will normalize once the internal long-distance routes are
established.   The internal long-distance system of the Territory in its



- 10 -
present inadequacy is the remaining weak link between the local exchange
networks which are of a good technical standard and between the rest of
the telephoned world which can now be reached through the new high
grade overseas circuits of OTC.   The proposed Bank project will rectify
this situation.
5.10      The proposed loan, by helping to meet the demand summarized
above would make an important contribution to the Territory's economic
development.   As pointed out in paragraph 5.07, the long-distance
traffic is almost wholly governmental and commercial.   The importance of
meeting this demand may be better appreciated if it is realized that this
is a country with a very rugged terrain where it is difficult or impossible
to provide low cost surface transportation and slides may make roads
impassable for several days.   Telecommunication plays here an important
role in case of emergencies, for administration purposes and indirectly
for the movement of persons and goods.   There has to be heavy reliance
on air transportation which is costly and is frequently interrupted by
weather conditions.   In such circumstances it is particularly important
to make the most efficient use of available transportation facilities;
and a good telecommunication netvwork can contribute towards this by making
it possible to assemble quickly the information needed to program trans-
portation.   The Territory's economic development depends mainly on the
production and export sale of primary products, such as copra, cocoa,
coffee, timber.   The effectiveness of the production and marketing
efforts of producers and the most economic employment of their resources
are dependent upon their receipt of up-to-date market information, their
contacts with purchasers, their ability to coordinate closely with the
transport sector to minimize the deterioration of crops held up in
unfavorable climatic conditions, and quick access to sources of spare
parts and expert assistance in the event of machinery breakdowns.
Particularly in view of the physical isolation of producing units and
areas, communication facilities are critically important.   The delays and
lack of reliability of the present long-distance network limit its use
in this respect.   In addition to assisting the Territory's production
and export growth, a better telecommunications netwiork would also help
in improving the efficiency of government.   Finally it should be noted
that the proposed program, while large in relation to the Department's
present assets, is likely to absorb less than 2% of total gross invest-
ment in the Territory during 1968-1972.
Relation between proposed program and projected demand
5.11      The size of the proposed long-distance program is determined
by three factors:
(a) the assessed long-term demand;
(b) the assessed immediate or short-term demand;
(c) the standards of quality to be adopted.



- 11 -
Discussing these factors in more detail:
(a)  the assessed long-term requirements determine the basic
type and ultimate capacity of the system to be embarked
upon.   In the case of the microwave backbone system, the
potential 300-channel system selected would be more
expensive by about 5%, than one of 120-channel capacity;
but high replacement costs would be incurred on sections
of the smaller system in 2-3 years to cope with long-
distance traffic growth;
(b) the immediate demand determines the quantity of channelling
equipment to be purchased under the project.    As explained
under paragraph 5.07, there is a measure of uncertainty in
this, but as this channelling equlipment is initially a small
part of the total system cost (e.g. in the case of the above
microwave system, 10% of the cost of the bearer), and as
further channels can be added as required at approximately
the same unit cost, this decision is not a critical one in
relation to the cost of the overall program.   With
operational experience of the system in its new form,
reasonably close forecasting of demand will be possible
in ordering for future augmentation;
(c)  objective standards of customer quality and international
corab-ility -are recommuended from time to time by specialist
committees of experts from the staffs of member countries
of the International Telecommunication Union, the International
Telegraph and Telephone Consultative Committee (CCITT), and
the International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR).    These
standards are widely followed and manufacturers concentrate
development and production of equipment on designs which
comply with them.   Price as well as operational advantages
are therefore to be gained by specifying equipment to CCITT
or CCIR standards.   This is the case withl the equipment
which will be obtained under the proposed loan.
Alternative ways of providing proposed services
5.12      All the links replace existing circuits of some description
and thus the decisions to be taken concern the precise radio link -
microwave, VHF, or HF - which is considered to be appropriate to supply
the needed number of circuits at an acceptable level of quality.    In
addition to the need to replace circuits to improve quantity and quality,
the existing HF links providing circuits to the smaller offshore islands
must be replaced by 1970 to meet the Department's obligations under ITU
recommendations to eliminate conventional transmission in the point to
point services in favor of single sideband suppressed carrier working
(see Annex 5).   This is to increase the number of channels which can
operate in the available frequency spectrum and to reduce interference
between adjacent transmissions.



- 12 -
5.13      Engineering alternatives such as submarine cable connections,
overland cable and pole lines have been considered in place of the pro-
posed radio links.   The distances involved to connect offshore islands
and the relatively small circuit requirements ruled out the submarine
cable alternatives while the high cost which would be incurred as a resuit
of the inaccessible terrain eliminated the overland alternatives.
5.14      In summary, it can be stated that the demand for telecommuni-
cation services in the Territory arises out of production, manufacturing,
transportation and other essential economic and administrative activities.
The proposed facilities are designed to meet this demand with a view to
minimum satisfactory qualitative and quantitative standards.   The program
represents the least cost solution to meet this demand.
6.   TARIFFS
6.01      Domestic telephone and telegraph tariffs are fixed by regulations
issued by the Administrator of the Territory.   Charges for a variety of
telecommunication facilities, such as telegraphic equipment rental,
private telegraph channels and telex charges are fixed by the Director of
the Department.
6.02      The present domestic tariffs, which were introduced November 1,
1964, do not meet operating cost, and it was agreed during negotiations
that the tariff for local telephones and telegraphs and connection
charges will be increased not later than October 30, 1968 and that
long distance charges will be increased in fiscal 1969-1970.   A copy of
the existing and proposed basic telephone and telegraph tariff schedules
is shown in Annex 7.   The average increase in local telephone tariff
will be about 24%, in telegraph tariff about 20% and long distance
tariff about 33%.
6.03      At present the Department retains 10% of the revenuie received
froik international calls. However, when high-grade circuits are
provided to distribute these calls effectively throughout the Territory
it should be possible for the Department to negotiate with the OTC for
a larger share of revenue, perhaps as much as double the present pro-
portion.   This and other rentals received from the OTC for lease of
circuits between Madang and Lae, the main toll switching center of the
Territory, would improve the revenue situation materially.   These
probable increases have not however been considered in the financial
forecasts since the benefit would not materialise before the end of the
program.
6.o4      The forecasts of revenues in this report are based on the
proposed new tariffs and assume, in addition, that the Administration
would, as tentatively planned now, further increase toll charges by
another 20% July 1, 1971 when substantial improvements in the quality
of service would permit it.   Based on the tariff increases assumed, and
the more economic operation which would result from the larger volume of
business made possible by the proposed program, the financial performance



- 13 -
of the Department would improve gradually over the next few years and
reach a satisfactory level in fiscal year 1973, the first year following
completion of the program.   It was agreed during negotiations that:
(a) the proposed new tariff schedule, as described in Annex 7
will be made effective and will not be amended without
consultation with the Bank;
(b) tariffs will be adjusted so as to maintain revenues which
would result in a return of not less than 8% on the average
net fixed assets in operation as soon as practicable after
completion of the Project;
(c) to assure that required level of earning is reached the
tariff situation will be reviewed prior to July 1, 1971
in consultation with. the Bahk.
7.   ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
7.01      The Post and Telegraph Department of the Territory operates
under a Government grant system of accounting.    All expenditures are met
from the annual legislature appropriation and all cash receipts from
operations are paid into the Territory Revenue Fund.    The system based
on cash receipts and expenditures does not yield the cost of service data
which are necessary for efficient management nor does it provide information
for financial evaluation of the business.   It is also too inflexible,
due to detailed legislative control of the expenditure, for normal
business operation.
7.02      In order to overcome some of the shortcomings, the Department
has maintained since 1962 in addition to the Territory cash accounts, a
set of commercial accounts which discloses its revenues, operating
expenses and depreciation charges on a commercial basis.    Accrued
liability as employer for superannuation, rental of premises occupied by
the Department, subsidy on housing and other current liabilities and
assets are computed and taken into account.    A consolidated balance bheet
is drawn for the Department as a whole; separate balance sheets for
the telecommunication service were prepared for the purpose of the
appraisal.   The set of commercial accounts available constitutes an
improvement over the cash accounting followed exclusively in the past,
inasmuch as it presents a fairly correct picture of the business.    As
long as cash accounting is maintained, however, the commercial accounting
remains essentially notional because performance will still be judged on
the basis of cash concepts.
7.03      The Australian Post Office, which at present, also maintains
two sets of accounts, one under the appropriation system and the other
under the commercial system will, it is understood, maintain only one
account under the commercial system from July 1, 1968.   During negotiations
it was agreed that the Department will adopt a commercial system of
accounting starting as soon as possible and not later than July 1, 1969.



- 14 -
Under the proposed system the Department should be allowed, following
Australian analogy, to retain its trading surplus for the purposes of
capital expansion; the advances from the Treasury would be treated as
equity on which dividend would be payable or as long term debts with
commercial terms.   The financial forecasts have been prepared on this
basis.
7.04      The Accounts Department is well organized and staffed with
qualified accountants.   The Treasury Accounts are audited by the Auditor
General, Commonwealth of Australia, but the comrnercial accounts are not
audited in the absence of legal requirement.    The Auditor General's
organization in the Territory would be capable of carrying out commercial
audit and would be prepared to do it upon the formal request by the
Treasurer of the Territory.   Agreement to this effect was obtained
during negotiations to be effective for the audit of 1968/69 commercial
account.
8.   PAST PERFORMANCE AND PRESENT FINANCIAL POSITION
Past Performance
8.01      Consolidated income statements for the last three fiscal years
ending June 30, 1967 are shown in Annex 8 in order to give an idea of the
relevant size of operations of the postal and telecommunication services.
They also indicate on a notional basis that the telecommmunication section
of the Department was operating at a loss while the postal services were
making small profits.
8.02      Separate income statements for the telecommunication section of
the Department covering the past three years are presented in Annex 9 and
are summarized below:
Fiscal year ending June 30                   1965     1966    1967
Total revenues                             1,012   1,252   1,580
Operating cost:
Cperation and maintenance               1,286    1,470   1,812
Depreciation                              318      409     487
Total operating cost                      1,604   1,879    2,299
Net loss from operations                    (592)   (627)   (719)
8.03      This apparent unfavorable financial situation is due to a number
of operational and financial reasons.   Telecommunication services in the
Territory are costly and the volume of traffic is small.    The Department
operates in an unusually rugged country which makes installations
comparatively expensive.   The exchange centers are located long distances
apart and toll connections are inadequate.    The exchanges are very small
averaging about 250 subscribers per exchange at the moment.



- 15 -
8. o      Tariffs are low when compared to cost of service, and the past
earnings record of the telecommunication service is poor.    The grant
system of accounts is partly to blame for this condition.    This system
does not consider certain components of cost such as depreciation, it
thus makes the picture look more favorable on a cash basis and obscures the
need for higher tariff.   The poor earnings shown in the books are partly
also due to a practice fairly common under the grant system which tends to
encourage inclusion of capital cost in maintenance because grants for
maintenance are easier to obtain than for capital expenditure.    In the
fiscal year 1966 for example, replacement expenditures of A$170,000 were
included under operating cost.   When commercial accounts were prepared
depreciation was charged at an average rate of more than 6% of gross
fixed assets in operation, which is high compared to more usual rate of
4% to 5%.   This higher depreciation also had the effect of depressing
net income and returns.   If the maintenance costs and depreciation
charges had been kept on a more normal basis the results for the last
three years would have been somewhat better but still less than satis-
factory.
Present Financial Position
8.05      Balance sheets of telecommunications section as at June 30, 1965
through 1967 are shown in Annex 10.    A summary of the balance sheet as at
June 30, 1967 follows:
Assets                                                in millions of A$
Telecommunication fixed assets in operation                8.9
Less:  depreciation reserve                                2.0
Net fixed assets in operation               6.9
Current assets                                             1.8
Total Assets                                 8.7
Liabilities
Government equity                                          8.3
Current liabilities                                        o.4
Total Liabilities                            8.7
The book value of assets is based on historical cost and as there was no
significant inflation or devaluation of the currency, asset values are
generally realistic.   The current assets include inventories and accounts
receivables.   The inventories (A$1.6 million) are comparatively high due
to the distance from foreign sources of supply and the need to maintain
scattered inventories around the country.    Accounts receivables are small
because billing and collection are prompt, with consumers being billed
quarterly on a staggered basis.   No cash balances are included under
current assets since the Department does not have control over its own
cash funds.



- 16 -
8.o6      All capital expenditures were financed by budget appropriations
'which are shown in the pro forma balance sheets for telecommunication
(after deducting the operating deficits of past years) as notional equity
capital of the Government.   During negotiations an understanding was
reached that all past Government advances of a capital nature would be
considered Government equity.   The current liabilities consist of a small
item accounts payable and of the employer's liability for superannuation.
It should be emphasized again that only after the introduction of
commercial accounting would the various items included in the balance
sheet attain their full significance.
9.   FINANCING PLAN
9.01      A forecast of sources and application of funds for the seven
fiscal years 1968 to 1974 is given in Anmex 11.   The forecast covers the
operations of telecommunication services only and does not consider the
postal services.   It should be remembered that like all other financial
forecasts in this report it is at present notional and will become
meaningful only when the commitments in paragraph 7.03 have been met
which will permit the Department to retain its trading surplus and to
treat the Government advances as equity or loan capital.
9.02      Financial requirements for the four years 1969 to 1972 during
which the program would be executed, and the forecast financing sources
can be summarized as follows:
Financial Requirements                            in thousands of A$
Construction expenditure                              13,850
Provision for working capital                            696
Total requirements                       14,546        100%
14buld be met from:
Internal cash generation                               4,671
Less:  debt service                                      858
Net internal cash generation                           3,813       26.2%
Proposed Bank loan                                     6,289       h3,.2%
Government advances                                    4,444       30.6%
Total Sources                            14,546      100.0%
The total requirements of the period of A$145. million, including the
necessary increase in working capital, would be financed about 26% from
internal cash generation (after debt service), about 43% by the proposed
Bank loan and the remaining 31% through Government advances.   These
advances have been assumed to be in the form of equity and an understanding
to this effect was reached during negotiations.   The proposed Bank loan
of US$7.0 million is assumed to be for a term of 20 years, including a
grace period of 5 years, and to carry a 6-1/4% interest rate.   Further



- 17 -
loans have been assumed in the two years following the Bank program to
finance future expansion on comparable terms.
9.03      Despite the sizeable requirement for equity contributions from
the Government, this financing plan is acceptable on the basis of a
Government assurance to contribute all funds required over and above the
Bank loan to complete the Project.    A further increase in tariffs to
produce a higher share of financing from telecommunication operations would
not seem appropriate at this point; the estimated financial improvements
during the construction period of the Project clearly characterize the
cash shortage over the coming years as a temporary problem which should
not be solved through further tariff manipulations.    With all major
financing sources reasonably assured the proposed financing plan can be
considered as satisfactory.
10.   ESTIMATED FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS AND FINANCIAL PROSPECTS
Estimated Future Operating Results
10.01     Forecast income statements of the telecommunication services
for the seven fiscal years ending June 30, 1974 are shown in Annex 9.
These statements clearly show a steady improvement.    The proposed program
will remove some of the reasons of unfavorable financial results in the
past.   The average number of telephones per exchange will increase from
250 to more than 350.   The toll connections between different centers
will be greatly improved.    Quality of service will also improve.   These
changes will result in a higher volume of traffic.    Total revenues from
the various services will triple from A$2 nillion in fiscal year 1968 to
A$6 million in 1974 due to the assumed growth in business and to the
tariff increases mentioned in paragraph 6.02.    Operational and main-
tenance costs were calculated in detail on the basis of staff requirements,
an increased efficiency of operations in future years and maintenance
cost properly chargeable to operations.    The provisions for depreciation
were calculated at a rate of about 6% following the same pattern as in the
past.   This rate of depreciation appears high and should be reviewed during
the execution of the program, at the latest during the tariff review in
1971 (see paragraph 6.o4 c).    On the basis of these assumptions the
telecommunication operations of the Department would improve from a net
operating loss of A$526,o00 in fiscal year 1968 to a net income of
A$2,031,000 in 1974.   During the last year of the program in fiscal 1972
a rate of return of 6.7% is projected with further improvements to 8.6%
and 10.9% in the two following years.    It has been assumed that the
Department will be in a position to pay a dividend at 6% on the Government
equity from fiscal 1973.   On the basis of the commitments obtained
during negotiations (see paragraph 6,o4) this situation is acceptable.
Financial Prospects
10.02     Forecast balance sheets for the telecommunication services as
of June 30, 1968 through 1974 are shown in Annex 10.    Fixed assets in
operation will increase from A$8.1 million in fiscal 1967 to A$20.7 million



- 18 -
at the end of the proposed program and to A$26.6 million by June 30, 1974
which is an increase of more than 200%.    Starting with fiscal year 1970
the balance sheets include an item cash, under current assets and show
a separate surplus account; this is under the assumption that commercial
accounting would be introduced in this year (see paragraph 7.03).    No
further increases in Government contributions are projected after the
completion of the program and it is assumed that the Department will be
able to meet its capital requirements from its own resources and by
borrowing on commercial terms.    The ratio of long-term debt to equity
will reach 35/65 at the end of the forecast period.    This situation is
satisfactory.
11.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
11.01     The telecommunication program submitted for Bank financing is
technically sound and well designed to meet the eseential needs of the
Territory of Papua and New Guinea.   The Posts and Telegraphs Department
of the Territory is well organized and its operations are efficient.
Estimates of costs are reasonable and procurement procedures satisfactory.
11.02     The Department's financial position is weak at present, but is
expected to improve in the future on the basis of proposed tariff increases.
The arrangements for financing the program are satisfactory and the
Department will be able to meet a reasonable proportion of the financial
requirements during the execution of the program from its own funds.
11.03     The Program is suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.0 million with
a term of twenty years including a grace period of five years.    During
negotiations assurances were obtained on the following:
(a) the Administration will increase the local telephone and
telegraph tariffs (not later than October 31, 1968) and
long-distance tariffs not later than June 30, 1970 as
detailed in their proposal (paragraph 6.o4 (a) );
(b) the Administration will not change the new tariffs
without consultation with the Bank during the execution
of the Program (paragraph 6.o4 (a) );
(c) after completion of the Program the Administration will
maintain tariffs so as to maintain a return of 8% on
the average net fixed assets in operation.    The adequacy
of the existing tariffs to meet this objective will be
thoroughly reviewied in 1971, the year prior to the
completion of the Program (paragraph 6.oh (b) and (c));
(d) the Department will change over to full commercial system
of accounting not later than July 1, 1969 (paragraph 7.03);



- 19 -
(e)  the commercial accounts of the Department will be properly
audited starting with the pro forma accounts for fiscal
year 1968/69 (paragraph 7.04);
(f)  the past and forecast advances by the Governaent to the
Department for capital expenditure on telecommunications
will be treated as Government equity (paragraphs 8.06
and 9.02).
june 10, 1968



ANNEX 1
DISTRIBUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES FOR TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES
IN THE TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
TERRITORY                                   G-I                                     COMMONWEALTH
| DEPARTMENTS |                          | FUNCTIONS |                             |   ENTITIES
Telephone Services
1.  Local Telephones
2.  Internal Long-Distance Telephone
Circuits
3.  International Telephone Circuits
to Australia and Overseas
Department of                                                              The Overseas
Posts and Telegraphs    _                                                - Telecommunications
Commission (Australia)
Telegraph Service
1.  Telegraph equipment, telex and
leased teleprinters
2.  Internal circuits
3.  International telegraph circuits <
4.  Telegrams:
(a)  Internal
(b)  International
(c)  Overseas shipping
(d)  Coastal shipping
Communication Services to Civil Aviation
Department of
1.  Communication with aircraft              Civil kviation
2. Aeronautical telegrams:
(a)  Internal
(b)  To Australia & Overseas
Broadcasting Services
Australian Broadcasting
1.  Programs of a national or                 Commission
regional nature:
(a)  Programs
(b)  Provision and maintenance           Australian Post Office
of technical equipment
Department of                2.  Programs of purely local or
Information and     _            district nature:
Extension Services               (a)  Provision & maintenance
of technical equipment
(b)  Programs
Notes: Lines and arrows indicate Department
or Entity performing the given function.
"Internal", means within the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea.



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
ORGANIZATION CHART
|    DIRECTOR           l
|  ASSISTANT DIRECTOR        ll                                                          ASSISTANT DIRECTOR       
|(ENGINEERING)             |.                                                    |(PERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION)|
SECTIONAL ENGINEER      |        SECTIONAL ENGINEER              SECTIONAL ENGINEER                      SUPERINTENDENT                   SUPERINTENDENT
(PLANNING)                   (GENERAL WORKS)             (INSTALLATION AND SERVICES)                 (ADMINISTRATION)                  (OPERATIONS)
ENGINEER (RADIO)               ENGiNEER (SWITCHING)              ENGINEER (RADIO)
PLANNING                       MAINTENANCE                   MAJOR CONSTRUCTION                      ACCOUNTANT              _PMAL SER
MINOR CONSTRUCTION
ENGINEER (SWITCHING)           ENGINEER (OUTSIDE PLANT)          ENGINEER (SWITCHING)                                                        MANAGER
PLANNING                         PLANNING                    MAJOR CONSTRUCTION                   PERSONNEL OFFICER                (TELECOMMUNICATIONS
MAINTENANCE                       SERVICESSEVC)
CONSTRtUCTION
ENGINEER (RADIO)                                               .
MAINTENANCE                                                            PRINCIPAL                       CONTROLLER
MINOR CONSTRUCTION                                                        ( TRAININGI                   (POSTAL SYSTEMS I
0   CHIEF DRAFTSMAN  l         0      COSTING OFFICER     l     X      IRADICONTROLLER
(RADIO INSPECTIONS)
z
z
November, 1967                                                                                                                                                      I BRDO- 3614, %*



ANNEX3
TUMJtlZ O' ?APUA AND NIW Gflm
DR-ANEXU 0F POSTS AC TRansU
SIJW4AY OF EXTSTINr AND pNRON.AJOqD TELEFtIOE EXCHANGE EQUIPMENT PROVISX0N
~S`!AN:IE            EXISTING TYPE OF EQAIPP4ENT              CAPACITY                   PPOPOXED I'NSTALLATI')NS                             CAAIYNOTE,S
June, 1968     1968/69        1969t7o       1970t71       1971jt72              June, 1972
P1ST MYOSSA         Stronger Step-by-Step NPO Pre 2000 type        Boo           b00                                         100                 1,600 1/
Ut             IN~~~~~L -ri-ssono AJiM 102 Crossbar         3,000         1,000                         1,000                               5,000 1/
))o fiS           trooger Step-by-Step NPO Pre 2000 type        Soo           400                                                             1,200 1/
hY'.ANA             OI-'L Aurax Step-by-Step                       100                                                                             100 l/
30IaNI              5TL Tiuno Step-by-Step                          50            50                                                               100 1/
AA0ANG              LM Sr,icsson ARF 102 Crossbar                  800                           200                                             1,000 1'
LAn.                Stronger Step-by-Step SF0 Pre 2000 type      1,000           boo                           boo                               1,800 l/
RABAUL              St,roner Step-ny-Step BPO Pre 2000 type      1,000            boo                                        400                 1,800
TJ)LLkP             LMi Ericsson ARK $21 Crossbar                  100                                         100                                 200
KOKOPO              n.TL Nurax Step-by-Step                        100                                                        50                   150
WD,nAK              CB Nion Multiple Manual.                        400                          600 2/                                            6oo 1i       LM Ericsson ARF 102 Cros.sbar
ORiS               X;TL Boran Sten-by-Step                        100                           50                                                150 l/
~ {&AA             EN. ?-hobnge                                    -             50                                                                50          ETI. oR-e  Ee--by-Step
0ORN 0i31 a         C  Hon Multiple Monual                         boo                                        a00 2/                              Boo I/        LM Ericsso  AS? 102 Crossbar
PIA?L               New ..a.bange                                   -             50                                          50                   100 l/       ETL Raran SteP-by-Step
M,AGAMIINA          Inc :onbange                                    -            100                                         100                   200 1/       ETL Aurax Step-by-Step
SIPUSA              CB ine Multiple Manual                         boo                                         BoO 2/                              800 1/       IM Ericsson ASP 102 Crossbor
SUMASAI             CB Nun Multiple Manual                         100                          100 2/                                             100          ETL Moran Step-by-Step
ALOTAS              Now- Eunbange                                   -            100            100 2/                      100                    200          ETL Aurax Stepo-by-Step
5A5 izOO           .CA Non Multiple Manual                         200                          200 2/                                             200          ETL Aur- Step-by-Step
WAU                 LM Ericsson ANN 521 Crossbar                   200                                                                             2001l/
8UCLOLO             IA. Ericsso.n ARK $21 Cross.bar                100                                                                            100 l
EMzYi        ~~~~Magoeto ManUal                               60                                                      100 2/                 100          ETL Aura Stop-by-,Stop
l'iIce- Multiple Manoel                       200                                                      200 2,                200          ETL borax Step-by-Step
?IPO'ltTTA    ~~Magneto Manual                      -         100                                                       200) 2/,              200 1/       LX .ricoocn ASS 521 Crcoe,bur
M~A NTS             baicobenge                                      -            100                                         200 2/                200          ETL Sara, Step-by-Step
S151010             CA Non Nulltiple Manual                         50                                                                              50
iLJSSOCS'J          Nugoo~to Manuel                                100                                                       155 2/                150          ETL borax Step-by-Step
NAIAT,'IAIAA        Poneto Mauoal                                   30                                                                              30
P1                Magneto Manual                                  30            30                                         bI                    100
-  U.          Mc~~~~.-gno.to Ma.nual                         100                                                       100 2/                100 1/       LA Erace-c  ARK 521 Crorobar
A;            Magneto Manual                                 100                                                       200 2/                200 I/       LX Ariseono ANN 521 Croebar
MA !,,ANtY.         Mag-eto Manul                                  100                                                       200 2/                200 I/       LM Ericsson ARK 521 Cross,bar
* 1>5         S~~~~lea Lucboo1e                                                             50                                                50 I/        ATl Nurax Step-ny-Step
I          Pew Loebonr~.h..e                                                                          100                                 100          Magneto Manual
Cr2 lAPI       tow~Ne  tucnange                                                                           30                                   30          Magneto Monua1
K              Ira xnohange                                                                                              30                    30          Magoeto Manual
-.':     cii        Tgne to Munual                                 100                                                      150 2/                 150 1/       LX Ericsson iAK 521 Cronubar
Mgoen- Manual                                   30                                                                              30
AtM-Ax        ~~~~Now SEbehnge                                                                                           30                    30          MgeoManoo
:K I ILA           Hew Lunbong~e                                   -30                                                                            30          Magneto Manual
AUJTOMATIC TOTAL           8,150                                                                          18,000
AINSUIAL TOTAL             2,500                                                                             bI0
I/  Tb-ne lines tetaling lb,650 will bare access
to .Lsuborib-r 1og-oietannc dialing by 1972.
2/ Conocroion to astosatic working.
Awn 1968



ANNEX 4
Page 1
TELECOMMUNICATION TRANSTi,SION PRACTICES
1.        Speech of the quality acceptable for a telephone conversation
uses frequencies in the range of 500 c/s to 3,500 c/s. However trans-
mission media, such as an open wire line, a wire in a cable or a radio
transmission can pass electric signals having a much wider range of
frequencies than this. By a technique known as ',carrier working" or
I'multiplexing"t, a number of telephone conversations can be changed into
successively higher bands of the spectrum and fitted into one such trans-
mission to use this otherwise idle capacity.
2
2.        When this is done the original medium is called a l"bearer"', the
individual conversations, "channels". One speech channel can be similarly
subdivided into several telegraph channels which, because of the on/off
nature of telegraph working, need each use only a fraction of the speech
channel.
3.        Techniques of this sort are used over distances in excess of
10 to 20 miles at which range the cost and complications of the necessary
equipment become less than those of providing additional "'bearers" of
one sort or another.
4.        Speech channels are conventionally spaced at 4,000 cycle intervals,
stacked in multiples of 12, called "groups".  Five groups (60 channels)
are stacked to make up a I"supergroup". Bearers accommodate various
numbers of channel groups or supergroups according to their nature,
those of larger capacity being loosely called "broad band bearers".
When a bearer is first established, only some groups or supergroups are
likely to be needed initially. The balance would then be equipped with
channelling equipment only when increasing demand necessitated it.
5.        Groups or supergroups of channels can be transferred from one
type of bearer to another "in bulk", and in large networks this is done
to meet operational situations such as a bearer failure on one route.
To the 60-channel supergroup it is immaterial whether it is routed onto
a coaxial cable or into a microwave radio system.
6.        Open wire lines can only carry 2 groups on one pair or 3 groups
on two or more pairs because at higher frequenceis the line begins to
radiate and becomes a long-wave radio station, and there is also inter-
ference between adjacent pairs.
7.        Coaxial cables, in which the wire is supported inside a tube,
can carry a large number of channels. Amplifiers or "repeaters" are
required along the cable and the closeness of these determines the
capacity. Twelve mile repeater spacing giving 960 channels is a widely
used design.
8.        Submarine coaxial cables need a solid insulating material be-
tween the wire and the tube to resist the pressures which reach some tons
per square inch in the depths of the ocean. This insulation increases
transmission loss and limits the number of channels which can be used.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Valve amplifiers are spaced at 20 to 30 mile intervals along submarine
cables; the power to operate them is supplied on the same central wire
that carries the conversations in both directions.    The longest of these
systems provides 128 speech channels for 4,000 miles between shore
terminals; several others are of comparable sophistication.
9.        With radio systems the frequency of the bearer is the major
factor in setting the capacity; it is also the major factor in determin-
ing what type of a path can be negotiated.    High frequency (HF) radio
signals travel by reflection from the ionisphere which allows them to
cover great distances but they are subject to interference of various
sorts.   By a process called "single sideband transmission" an HF signal
can be divided in half, and each half can carry two speech channels on
the above frequency division method.    This fourfold gain is very worth-
while where HF has to be used to bridge long distances and very recent
developments have resulted in HF equipment with a better ability to
override atmospheric interference.   Bearers in high frequency bands have
greater traffic capacity.   Very high frequency (VHF) radio signals
travel in almost line of sight paths, can carry up to 48 channels
although 5, 10, 24 are more generally used sizes.    Super high frequency
(SHF) or "microwave" radio signals require clear line of sight paths.
The extreme shortness of these waves makes it possible to use parabolic
metal reflectors of a physically practicable size to focus them into
narrow beams between stations; this reduces radiated power requirements,
and interference between systems.   Terrestial repeater stations are
needed at 30 to 50 mile intervals, and channel capacities of 120, 300,
600, 900 are available depending on the actual microwave band selected.
The use of earth satellites as repeater sites opens almost unlimited
possibilities.
10.       These developments spring from the invention of the vacuum tube
about 50 years ago.   Since then many refinements in technique have
been discovered, and today the vacuum tube itself has almost disappeared
from the equipment in favor of "solid state" devices - transistors.    All
components have been miniatured and perfected.    Compact and reliable
units of modest power consumption are now available for tasks that a
few years ago seemed too complicated to be practicable.
June 7, 1968



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS
CAPITAL PROGRAM
(in thousands of Australian $)
1968/1969                 1969/1970                1970/1971                 1971/1972          Total 4-year program           TOTAL
Forei:gn Eschange         Foreign Exchange         Foreign Exchange          Foreign Exchange          Foreign Exchange
Banki, Ot       Local      a       ter   Local     Bank     Other  Local     sank    Other   Local     sant    Ozner   Local
1. LCCAL EXCHANGES
Switching Equipment        -     255     110         -     100      56         -     307    150         _     200      38         _     862     354          1,216
Subscribers'
Apparatus                  -      82      19         -      93      23        50      56      27       50      67       33      100     298     102            500
Cables & Pipes           151     180     406       200     259     471       250      89    535        241    125     599       842     653   2,011          3,506
2.  TELEGRAPH AND
TELEX                      -      40       4         -      50      6          -     60       6         -      70      12         -     220.     28            248
3. RADIO OUTSTATICNS          94      62      46       124      49     64       124      75      74       124     102      84       466     288     268          1,022
4. LONG-DISTANCE
Trunk Switching            -       -       -         -      20     12          -      40      32        -       -       -         -      60      44            104
Radio and Channel-
ing                      523      56     273     1,199      69     293     1,314     125     421      947     108     226     3,983     358   1,213          5,554
5. TOOLS, TRANSPORT.
AND MECHANICAL AIDS        -      33       -         -      54       -         -      60       -         _     63       -         -     210       -            210
6. CCNSULTANTS                60       -       -       100       -       -        60       -       -       50       -       -       270       -       -            270
7. BUILDINGS                   -       -     300         -       -     300         -       -     320         -      -     300         -       -   1,220          1,220
TOTALS                   828     708   1,158     1,623     694   1,225     1,798     812   1,565     1,412     735   1,292    5,661    2,949  5,240          13,850
Equivalent US$
(in thousands)               922     788   1,289     1,806    772   1,363     2,001     904   1,742     1,571     818   1,438     6,300   3,282   5,832         15,41il
June, 1968                                                             -



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA: TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS
DEVELOPMENT
(THOUSANDS OF SUBSCRIBERS)
20                      I                                                              20
18                                                                                     18
16                                                                                     16
14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1,6
14                                                      13, q  Sp14
PROPOSED TOTAL SWITCHING CAPACITY
12                                                                                     12
10                                                                                     10
T OTAL DEMAND            .9' o5  ,,
(LINES CONNECTED PLUS WAITING APPLI8ANTS)u,-
6                                                                                     6
- - ~__,,,r----   LINES CONNECTED      -PERIOD OF PROGRAM
4                                                                                     4
0S   1    1      1      1      1      1      1      1      1     ,~~~~~~~~I  II   I,  ,1O
1962   1963  1964    1965  1966    1967   1968  1969   1970    1971   1972   1973
ACTUAL            3S PROJECTED                                           z
(R)IBRD-3620  X
a)



ANNEX 7
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
Department of Posts and Telegraphs
Telephone and Telegraph Charges
To be        To be
Effective    Effective
before       before
Annual Rental for Metered Services         Present      31/1O/68      30/6/70
Connected to exchanges serving:
up to 2000 subscribers                  A$16         A$27
over 2000 subscribers                   A$24         A$40
Unit Fee Rate for a "Local" Call            5 cents     6 cents
Annual charges for Unmetered Exclusive
Telephone Services
Connected to exchanges serving:
up to 100 subscribers - private         A$36.25      A$36.25
- business        A$68.25      A$68.25
over 100 and up to 2000 - private       A$36.25      A$54.00
- business      A$68.25      A$90.00
"Local" calls on these services.
are free of charge
Service Connection Fee for New Line         A$30         A$50
Ordinary Telegram Charges
(for delivery within Papua and New Guinea)
Not exceeding 10 words                  33 cents     40 cents
Each additional word                    3-1/3 cents   h cents
Urgent Telegram Charges
(for delivery within Papua and New Guinea)
Not exceeding 10 words                  66 cents     80 cents
Each additional word                   6-2/3 cents    8 cents
Lo'gDstance Charges
Intra-zone calls                          30 cents                  40 cents
Call to adjoining zone                    60 cents                  80 cents
Call to other than adjoining zone         90 cents                 120 cents
June 7, 1968



ANNEX 8
TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
DEPARTMENT OF POSTS & TELEGRAPHS
Consolidated Income Statement
(Expressed in thousands of Australian dollars)
1964/5    1965/6    1966/7
REVENUE
Postal                                      1,053     1,357     1,523
Telecomas                                   1,012    1,252     1,580
Miscellaneous                                  27       35        54
2,092     2,644     3,157
EXPENSES
OPERATION & MALINTENANCE
Postal                                        962    1,155     1,343
Telecoms                                    1,286    1,470     1,812
Miscellaneous                                  52       62        73
Total  Operating Costs                      2,300     2,687     3,228
DEPRECIATION
Postal                                                             6
Telecoms                                      318      409       487
Miscellaneous                                   2        3         5
Total  Depreciation                           323       416      498
TOTAL WORKING EXPENSES
Postal                                        965    1,159     1,349
Telecom                                     1,6o4    1,879     2,299
Miscellaneous                                  54       66        78
Total                                       2,623    3,l1o4    3,726
NET INCOME FR)           S
Postal                                         88      198       174
Telecoms                                     (592)     (627)     (719)
Miscellaneous                                 (27)      (31)     2 ?4)
Total Net Income                             (531)     (46o)     (569)
June 7., 1968



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
Department of Posts and Telegraphs
Telecommunication Expansion Project
Income Statement for Telecommunication Services
(Expressed in thousands of Australian dollars)
ACTUAL                                                                             FORECAST
Fiscal Year Ending June 30           1965          1966          1967                   1968          1969          1970            1971           1972            1973           1974
Revenues
Telephone                             497           651            865                 1,038         1,351          1,678          1,966           2,372          2,739          3,172
Long Distance Telephone               195           257           325                   432            510           671             969          1,277           1,608          2,028
Telegraph and Telex                   320           344            390                   510           633            631            956           1,098          1,207          1,298
TOTAL REVENUES 1/                   1,012         1.252          1,580                 1,980         2,494          3,180          3,891          .4.747         5,554          6,498
Operating Coats
Operation and Maintenance           1,286         1,470         1,812                 1,973          2,154         2,328           2,491          2,668           2,848          3,041
Depreciation                          318           409           487                   533            585           707             869          1,081           1,251          1.426
TOTAL OPERATIWC COSTS               1,604         1,879          2,299                2.506          2,739         3,035           3,360          3,749           4,099          4.467
Net incom.e from Operation           (592)         (627)         (719)                  (526)         (245)          145             531            998           1,455          2,031
Interest Expenses                                                                                       80            141            246            391             432            494
Dividend Payents                                                                                                                                                    800             800
Unallocated Surplus (Deficit)        (592)         (627)          (719)                (526)          (325)             4            285            607             223            737
Average Net Fixed Assets in Use                                                                      7,519           9,710        12,416          14,886         16,908          18,582
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets
in Use                                                                                                               1.5            4.3            6.7             8.6           10.9
1/ The charges for local telephones and telegraphs would be increased by about 24% not later than
October 31, 1968, and toll charges would be increased by about 33% by June 30, 1970, and
again by about 20% from July 1, 1971. (paragraph 6.0o4)
NCTE: The Department is expected to change aver to coercial aystem of accounting
from the beginning of fiscal year 1970 (paragraPh 7.03)
June, 1968



TERRITORY OF PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
Department of Posts and Telegraphs
Telecommunication Expansion Project
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets for Telecommunication Services
(Expressed in thousands of Australian dollars)
ACTUAL                                                            FORECAST
June 30                                 1965        1966        1967                 1968         1969        1970        1971        1972        1973         1974
Assets
Telecommunication Assets in Oper-
ation                                6,445       6,726       8,113                9,090       11,150      14,150      17,707       20,687      23,880      26,563
Less Depreciation Reserve              1,204       1,560       2,003                2,511        2,691       3,189       3,835       4,788        5,964       7,315
Net Telecommunication Asset in
Operation                            5,241       5,166       6,110                6,579        8,459      10,961      13,872      15,899       17,916      19,248
Work in Progress                                     948         816                 1,010       1,239       1,572       1,967       2,298        1,530       1,272
Current Assets
Cash                                                                                                           100         100         100          162         228
Inventory                             1,164        1,246       1,575                1,694       1,816        1,936       2,053       2,170       2,290        2,382
Debtors and Accrued Revenue              208         227         216                  318          364         415         471         532         598          669
Total Current Assets                   1,372       1,473       1,791                2,012        2,180       2,451       2,624       2,802        3,050       3,279
TCTAL ASSETS                           6,613       7,587       8,717                9,601       11,878      14.984      18,463       20,999      22,496      23,799
Liabilities
Government Equity                      6,333       7,247       8,342                9,203      lo,548       11,862      12,989      13,322       13,322      13,32Z
Accumulated Surplus                                                                                              4         289         896        1,119       1,856
Total Equities                         6,333       7,247       8,342                 9,203      l0,548      11,866      13,278      lh,218       14,441      15,178
Long Term Borrowings
Proposed Bank Loan                                                                                908        2,672       4,716       6,289        6,289       6,030
Possible Future Borrowings                                                                                                                       1,250        2,050
Total Long Term Borrowings                                                                         908       2,672       4,716       6,289        7,539       8,080
Current Liabilities
Superannuation                           258         300         335                  346          365         384         402         420          438         456
Sundry Creditors                         22           40          40                   52           57          62          67          72           78          85
Total Current Liabilities                280         340         375                  398          422         446         469         492          516         541
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      6,613       7,587       8,717                 9,601      11,878      l4,984      18,463       20,999      22,496      23,799
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                                                8/92        18/82       26/74        31/69       34/66       35/65
NOlE: The Department is expected to changeover to commercial system of accounting
from the beginning of fiscal year 1970 (paragraph 7.03)
June, 1968



TERRITORY OF PAPIJA AND NEW GUINEA
Department of Posts and Telegraphs
Telecommunication Expansion Project
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds for Telecommunication Service
(Expressed in thousands of Australian dollars)
Fiscal year ending June 30             1968             1969            1970             1971             1972            Total             1973             1974
1569-1972
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation:
Net Income from Operation              (526)            (2145)           165               531             998            1,429            1,455            2,031
Depreciation                            533.             585             707               869           1,081            3.242            1,251            1,426
Total Internal Cash Generation            7              340             852            1,400            2,079            4,671            2,706            3,457
Government Advances                   1,387            1,670           1,314            1,127              333            4,444
Proposed Bank Loan                                       908           1,764            2,o44           1,573             6,289
Future Borrowings                                                                                                                          1.250              800
TOTAL SOURCES OF FUNDS                1.394            2,918           3,930            4,571            3,985           15,404            3.956            4.257
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditure              1,196            2,694            3,542           4,175            3,439           13,850            2,500            2,500
Debt Service:
Interestst
Interest on Proposed Bank Loan 60                         80             141              246              391                               393              393
Interest on Further Borrowings 61                                                                                                             39              101
Total Interest                                            80             141              246              391                               432             494
Amortization of Bank Loan                                                                                                                                     259
Total Debt Service                                        80             141              246              391              858              432              753
Dividend on Goverrment Equity 6%                                                                                                             800              800
Increase in Working Capital
Net Receivable                          102               46              51               56               61                                66               71
InventOry                               119              122             120              117              117                               120               92
Increase in Current Liabilities         (23)             (24)            (24)             (23)             (23)                              (24)             (25)
Increase in Cash Balances                                                100                                                                  62               66
Total Increase in Working Capital       198              144             247              150              155              696              224              204
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNrDS           1.394            2,918            3,930           4.571            3.985           15.404            3.956            4,257
Interest Coverage                                                       1.0              2.2              2.6                               3.41             4.1
Debt Service Coverage                                   4.3             6.o              5.7              5.3                               6.3              4.6
June, 1968



PAPUA & NEW GUINEA
PROPOSED RADIO       TRUNK    &  TELEGRAPH      CIRCUITS            o   Exchanges
PROGRAMMED 1968-1972                           a   Repeater stations
Mussou 1.                      Microwave trunk circuits
Menus 1.                                                 VHF trunk circuits
LORENGAUs---- liF trunk circuits
             N24                                 Channrovided
__     ~~~~New Honovrr                 12-0  Baecpciy
VANIMO                                                  __KVINV                     ~       6   Telegraph channels
2                                                    _/
iaytid (O   2_ WEWAK(inc U orSml                      4i              10
MAPRIK0 oD.Posso                                                 _            NAATANAI
!        ~~~~~Hcyfil S   Q'_44                                                      /0(
|  \ ANGORAM                                        KEREVAT  KOKOPO
! N E W      GUIN\A,                                                             , 
ru|     ._ Mt KequX C9 e   XoN~ADANG  Ln                           t 
O;                                                 IIT.H4,%1 180@ , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~--  /  C Ss
8                                   SOHANO~- 
g         M E hDI t             >             F INSC H H AFEN  N e W B                            X     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  4 'B  a
1 NE        GU      EA P                                                - - <     Mt Thmunot
ji                              12                                                                     co -
X r  5\  ,+'  POPONDETTA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ' 
Ji             Q A  R,---_   __  4_    CMT. H4                      -2                                  0  i
ME                        Mt (incl    I          a o4                                         K - 4
~~  449. -~~ --  P~INSCHHAFEN  N,w 3S'                                -
P    A     P   U     A                                           AOULOL
WAU  t. Kai,,di~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~153)4
KEREMASM TAPIN
Ki,r,ino Is.
52 POPONDETTA     DENWolk1
3j10 ,  50
OGERloi
POR    MIL
/         t~~~~~~inct B.uoko 8  WILA -=OU
/  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~yA LOTAU 
)      0     5~ ~ ~~~~~0 I00  150  200                                  Rossel 
AUSTRALIA         ?                                                                         Tcqutcl|MILES
NOVEMBER 1967                                                                                              IBRD-2167









PAPUA AND NEW GUINEA
Current Economic Situation
1.        Developments in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea during
the past year have not changed in any pgnificant way the account given
in the economic report of August 1967.-i That report was prepared by
a mission which visited the Territory in March 1967 in order to examine
the condition and prospects of the economy and the priorities for financ-
ing by the Bank group. The mission, which was the first regular Bank
mission to the Territory, was able to base its recommendations on the
work of a general survey mission, organized by the Bank, which spent
some mont4s in Papua and New Guinea in 1963-64 and published its report
in 161
2.        The present memorandum summarizes recent events and gives a
brief account of the current situation. Revised data on the Territory,
based on information provided at the Bank's request by the authorities
in Canberra and Port Moresby, are attached.
Political Situation
3.        Despite the progress made in recent years, the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea is still at a very early stage of development. For
some time to come, the Territory will have to rely to a considerable
degree on external administrators and external finance however rapid
the progress towards self-government. In its role as UN trustee for
New Guinea and as the colonial power for Papua, Australia is preparing
the Territory for internal self-government and eventually for political
independence. It is Australials declared policy that the people of the
Territory are free to terminate their Territory status whenever they
wish; the pace and nature of changes must accord with the wishes of the
majority of the populace.
4.        Elections for the Territory's House of Assembly were held early
in 1968 as a further step towards internal self-government. With 60-70%
of the population of voting age participating, the elections, the second
in the Territory's history, were considered a success. 61 out of the 69
directly elected members and 3 out of the 15 indirectly elected regional
representatives are indigenes. In addition, 10 Australian public servants
will serve in the House as appointed members. In a move to bring indigenes
into responsible positions in the Administration, indigenous parliamentarians
will be nominated by the new House, in consultation with the Administrator,
to a number of Ministerial and junior Ministerial positions. Seven Minis-
terial members, who will also be members of the Administrator's Executive
1/ Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Territory of Papua and
New Guinea, (No. AS-129b) in two volumes, dated August 9 and 25, 1967.
2/ The Economic Development of the Territory of Papua and New Guinea,
The Johns Hopkins Press, 1965.



Council, the Territory's main decision-making body, will together with
the Australian departmental heads be responsible for departmental policy
and for representing their departments in the House. For departments
not represented in the House, Assistant Ministerial members will be
appointed to enable elected members to familiarize themselves with
ministerial duties by working with the Australian departmental head.
The Australian Commonwealth Government, through the Administrator and
the Minister for External Territories, will continue to retain final
responsibility for the Territory.
Economic Growth, Income, and Prices
5.        The Territory's economy is still primitive, apart from the
monetized sector which comprises mainly government operations, export-
oriented agriculture, and services and is run virtually by expatriates.
This sector grew at a real rate of around 13% a year during FYs 1960/61 -
1965/66 (July 1 - June 30) mainly owing to a significant rise in govern-
ment expenditures and exports, and now accounts for over half of total
national product. However, the base is still small and some of the growth
also reflects the steady incursion of the monetized sector into the sub-
sistence economy. Although national accounts estimates are not yet avail-
able for the past two years, it is unlikely that the tempo of the monetized
sector's growth has slowed down. Temporary setbacks in exports were probably
compensated by stepped-up government operations and increased private invest-
ment.
6.        Recent income figures are also not available.  The last economic
report estimated the indigenes' per capita income for 1965/66 at about
US$100, including income derived from the subsistence sector which still
supplies the majority of the indigenes with the basic necessities of life.
The average per capita income of the expatriates, who receive attractive
salaries and fringe benefits, was assumed at around US$4,000 a year.
7.        Prices in the monetized sector closely reflect price movements
in Australia. Retail prices paid by non-indigenous households for pre-
dominantly imported goods have lately been increasing by over 3% a year.
Population and Labor Force
8.        Assuming a 3.2% annual growth the Territory's indigenous
population increased to 2.22 million in 1967. The Territory's development
also attracted more expatriates whose number rose by 10% to 38,000. The
labor force employed in the monetized economy totalled about 155,000, of
which 133,000 were indigenes. Thus, only about 20% of the estimated indi-
genous labor force is working full-time in the monetized sector. However,
indigenous unemployment is of no real consequence, although underemployment
is probably extensive in the subsistence sector. The Administration is
watching the manpower situation closely.



-3-
Public Finance
9.        Economic development in the Territory is essentially determined
by the scale of public spending, which in FY 1965/66 was equal to almost
70% of the monetized sector's GNP. The Administration's budget for
1967/68 foresees a 15% increase in current expenditures and a 23% rise
in capital outlays, mainly on housing construction, education, agriculture,
and forestry as well as other public works. Although internal revenues
are to be raised by 27%, the budget continues to be heavily in deficit.
In the 1967/68 budget, total internal revenues cover only 57% of current
expenditures and the overall budget deficit is expected to rise to A$85
million from A$68 million in 1965/66 and A$76 million in 1966/i067.
10.       As in the past, most of the deficit will be covered by the
annual Australian grant to the budget increasing to A$77.6 million in
1967/68. Although slightly_declining in relation to total expenditures,
Australia's budget subsidy will still cover 57% of the Territory Adminis-
tration's outlays. In addition, various Australian Commonwealth depart-
ments give direct assistance to the Territory. Total Australian financial
assistance, all of it grant aid, amounted to the equivalent of US$43 per
head of the indigenous population in FY 1966/67. Taxation is light; tax
and customs receipts account for only around 60% of total internal revenues.
The indigenes' contribution to current revenues of the Administration is
still very low, probably less than 10% of the total; the balance is received
from expatriate private households and enterprises. Public internal borrow-
ing is naturally limited, but has increased to A$8 million in FY 1967/68.
Foreign Trade
11.       The Territory's chronically negative trade balance deteriorated
in FY 1966/67, owing to a 15% rise in imports with exports as a whole
recovering only slowly from the stagnation in FY 1965/66. The trade gap
was A$73 million and only 42% of imports were covered by exports. The
rapid rise in imports in recent years is directly related to the accelera-
tion in the efforts to develop the Territory, since no capital goods and
few other production materials are available in the Territory, they have
to be imported. In addition, consumer goods imports kept on rising with
the growing expatriate community and the increasing indigenous demand for
imported consumption goods. The trade gap is, in fact, almost identical
with the Australian grant to the Territory's budget, showing that Australian
budget assistance practically finances the Territory's import surplus.
Attempts by the Administration to promote import substitution and especially
reduce imports of basic consumption goods have so far not been succesful.
12.       Exports, on the other hand, after substantial gains in the early
1960's, stagnated in FY 1965/66 when coconut oil exports declined and cocoa
production was seriously affected by diseases. In 1966/67 cocoa exports
rebounded noticeably and exports of coffee, rapidly becoming a major foreign
exchange earner, made further gains. Other promising new export products
included timber, plywood, and veneer sheets. However, total exports (ex-
cluding re-exports) increased by only h.5% because of a 2.5% drop in earnings



- 4 -
from copra exports, the Territory's main export product. Their share in
total exports shrank to 30% from 4o% in 1965/66. This decline was the
result both of a 15% cut in domestic production, due to bad weather,
and a low in world market prices which may also have caused exporters to
delay sales in anticipation of price recovery. Trade results for the
first 10 months of FY 1967/68 show a significant improvement mainly due
to the recent recovery in world demand for copra plus the continuous
expansion of exports of other major items like coffee and cocoa.
13.       Australia has remained the Territory's main trade partner
supplying 56% of total imports in FY 1966/67 and purchasing 47% of the
exports. Exports to the U.K. continued to decline with the U.S., Japan,
and the Federal Republic of Germany becoming more important. On the import
side Japan has successfully invaded the market, especially supplying durable
consumer goods.
Development Planning
14.      The Administration is presently drafting its first comprehensive
development program for the Territory covering the period through FY 1971/72.
The draft, which has undergone several revisions during the past 18 months,
is expected to be completed later this year. For the planning exercise,
Australia has been employing the services of an experienced development
programmer, especially to review the planning administration and to advise
on the integration of the sectoral programs.
Sectoral Developments:
Agriculture:
15.      After the recent setbacks, the outlook for major crops in the
Territory is in general autftoi6us. Conditions in 1968 have become favor-
able to coconut and copra praduction. Around 125,000 tons of copra are
expected to be produced this year, some of the production increase coming
from some 800,000 newly maturing palms. World prices are presently good
again, but a slight dowsnward movement is expected.
16.      Cocoa production during the first quarter of 1968 was heavier
than that of any similar period in the past. Several factors contributed
to the increase including new planting coming to maturity, drier seasonal
conditions, and some improvement in cocoa trees previously hit badly by
"dieback", although the disease is still not yet under effective control.
17.      Coffee production is well in excess of last year (around 19,000
tons). The effects on the Territory of the new International Coffee
Agreement are now being considered by the Australian Government.
18.      Rubber production, however, continues to stagnate and the
future seems bleak. Recent slight improvement in rubber prices, though
giving some relief, was not sufficient to ameliorate the producers' cost
position significantly. The full effect of high yielding clones coming
into production is still not certain.



- 5 -
19.      Cattle population has increased somewhat faster in FY 1966/67
than in the previous years, but development in the livestock sector
continues to lag considerably behind the recommendation of both previous
Bank missions.
Forestry
20.      The Territory's forests are currently and potentially one of
its richest assets. On 6.6 million acres surveyed up to June 1966,
marketable timber in the log form is estimated at about 20.6 billion
super feet. The Administration, when issuing permits for timber cuts,
now encourages maximum processing in the Territory.
Mining
21.      Mineral exploration in the Territory is more encouraging since
the discovery of copper deposits on Bougainville Island. Reserves are
now estimated at 200 million tons of low-grade copper-gold ore (0.6%
copper, and 0.50 dwt per ton gold). Also petroleum exploration along
the shores of the Territory has been stepped up considerably.
Manufacturing
22.      Manufacturing continues to be a rather minor sector in the
economy. Recent industrial statistics are not available.
Power
23.      Total generating capacity was increased to 21.8 MW in mid-1967
from 18.7 MW a year before.  53% of total power produced in FY 1966/67
was diesel generated, the rest came from hydro-plants. Energy require-
ments are now forecast to increase by 18.5% p.a. for the period 1966-73.
Transportation
24.      In preparation of the UNDP Transport Survey on the Territory,
the Administration commissioned consultants to carry out a shipping and
port study, including an examination of the existing shipping services,
port facilities, and methods of cargo handling, and to make recommendations
in modernization. The report will be used as background information by
the UNDP Survey Team. Also a comprehensive road survey and inventory has
recently been completed in preparation for t1B UNDP survey covering over
7,000 miles of roads and over 1,400 bridges. Work on the Transport Survey
is to start this month.
Education
25.      The Administration puts increasing emphasis on secondary and
vocational education; 15,000 students are presently enrolled in such
schools. At the same time the growth rate in enrolment on the primary
level is slowing down.   Higher education made further progress.  There
are now around 650 indigenes enrdled at the University of Papua and New
Guinea and the other colleges.



- 6-
Papua and New Guinea Development Bank
26.          Another A$2.5 million was appropriated in the 1967/68 Territory
budget, supplementing the A$1.0 million allocated to the Bank in the
1966/67 budget. The Bank began operations in July 1967. By Febrnary
1968, its loan commitments totalled A$2.4 million: 68% of the
amount was allocated to industrial projects, 7% to agriculture,and the
balance for commercial loans.
Creditworthiness for Bank Loans
27. On grounds of poverty and inability to service external
debts in the foreseeable future, the Territory on its own is certainly
not: creditworthy for Bank loans.  However , Bank lending for suitable
projects is acceptable provided that Australia, which would have to make
available the foreign exchange needed to service the loans, agrees to
guarantee the loans. In order not to add to the burden carried by
the Territory's budget, Bank loans should be made for revenue-prodbcing
projects only.
Australia as Guarantor
28. Australia's economy recovered fast in FY 1966/67 after tem-
porary stagnation in business activity resulting from a lull in agri-
cultural output and from tight money policies introduced in 1965 to stop
the drain on reserves. Stimulated by record crops, particularly wheat,
in FY 1966/67 and supported by an 11 percent rise in Gommonwealth
Government outlays, especially for defense, real GNP increased by
almost 6% in FY 1966/67 while prices rose by 3%. GNP per capita now
stands at around US$2,160 equivalent. During FY 1967/68, overall
expansion continued with steadily rising private consumption and
another 11% increase in budget expenditures. Investment was sluggish
in mid-1967, partr because of the temporary drop in foreign capital
inflow, but now appears to be rising at a fairly strong rate. For
the current fiscal year the Government forecasts a 5-6% growth.  Although
this rate may not be reached due to the severe drought in late 1967
and early 1968 that reduced crop production by over 20%, the present
economic expansion shows no signs of weakening. However, recent sub-
stantial wage boosts may accelerate price increases and reduce
Australia's competitive position, particularly in agriculture.



-7-
29.          Due to a 12 percent rise in exports, especially large
wheat sales, Australia achieved a US$107 million trade Surplus in
FY 1966/67 as against a US$220 million deficit in FY 1965/66. The
improvement on current account, however, was not enough to offset the sharp
decline in net capital inflow to US$594 million in FY 1966/67 from
a record US$1,149 million in FY 1965/66. During the second half of
calendar 1967, the trade balance was negative again, partly due to
large defense imports. However, the overall balance was favorable
since capital inflow started to rise rapidly again.    Despite
that, Australia's reserves (in dollar terms) fell by over US$100
million in fall 1967 reflecting the writedown of reserves following
the devaluation of sterling. Preliminary figures for the January-
March period of 1968 indicate that Australia has recorded a very high
net capital inflow of US$428 million, more than three times the inflow
level in the corresponding quarter of 1967, and FY 1967/68 promises
to become an all-time record year for capital imports. The high capi-
tal inflow offset the further deterioration in the trade balance during
the same period, caused by a decline in agricultural exports, rapidly
rising imports, and the traditionally high invisible payments. Gross
gold and foreign "exchange reserves at the end of March 1968 amounted
to UStl,470 million or the equivalent of 5 months' imports in 1967.
30.          -he Australian Government estimates that the long-term effect
of sterling devaluation, which was not followed by similar Australian
action, will be small. A smaller rise in total export earnings will be
offset by savings in the cost of imports. Recently proclaimed British
and US curbs on capital outflow, may affect negatively Australia's
capital supply in the future. But enormous discoveries of readily
exploitable mineral wealth have, in recent years, broadened sub-
stantially Australia's economic position and offer great attractions
for foreign investors.
Creditworthiness
31.          Even if future capital inflow from the US and from Great
Britain were to decline somewhat, Australia would remain a strong
guarantor for loans from the Bank. Australia's foreign exchange reserves are
satisfactorily high and her debt service ratio was around 8% of mer-
chandise export earnings in 1967.
Asia Department
June 12, 1968



TERRITCRY OF PAPUA AND NIN WU IEA
(FY - July 1 - June 30)
Area:                                                               178,260 sq. mT.il
Population:
1966 Census of which:                                              2,184,986
non-Indigenous                                                     34,669
Rate of growth (1967)                                              3.2%
Population density (per sq. mile)                                  12
Political Status:                          The Trust Territory of New Guinea
and the Australian Territory of
Papua are administered by
Australia as an administrative
unit known as the Territory of
Papua and New Guinea.
Gross National Product:
(1965-66)
Monetized Sector                                                   $A190.0 mgllion
Subsistence Sector (estimate)                                      $A172.0 million
Total                                                            $A362.0 million
Real rate of growth (GNP at factor cost,
monetized sector):
Average 1960/61 - 1965/66                                        12.9%
1965/66                                                          13.2%
Per Capita GNP (rough estimate)
Indigenes                                                        US$100
Expatriates                                                      ust4,000
Gross National Product (Monetized sector), at
factor cost (1965/66)                                               $A160.1 millicn
of which: Agriculture, livestock, forestry
and fisheries                                                     35.8%
Mining and quarrying                                               1.0%
Manufacturing and construction                                    14.3%
Transport and communication                                        7.8%
Trade                                                             12.8%
Other Services                                                    28.3%
Percent of GNP at current market prices (monetizedl.
sector:)                  -_1965/66                            196o/6_-1965/66
ssros investment                                       45.7        33.2
Gross national savings                                  3.3        -1.1
Import surplus of goods and services                   42.4        34.3
;.overnment current revenues from local resources      17.3        15.1



- 2   -
Resources gap as percent of investment:             1965/66   196o/6'-1965/66
92.8         106.6
Money and credit ($A thousand):                               Annual Compound
Major trading banks                                          Rate of Change
Dec; 1967     1960/61-1966/67
Trading banks deposits                                            12.7%
Loans and advances                              17,745            19.l9
Government Finance ($A million):
Actual       Actual           B130tA Estimate
Territorial Administrationi.         1965/66      1966/67          1967/68
Internal Revenues                    32.9         39.7             50.4
(Taxes and Customs Duties)         (22.9)       (29.9)           (30.0)
(Total System)                     ( 2.5)       ( 3.2)           ( 4.0)
(Public Utilities)                 ( 0.6)      ( 0.6)            ( 0.8)
(Other)                            ( 6.9)      ( 6.0)            (15.5)
Current Expenditures                 68.7         77.6             89.2
Public Savings                      -35.8        -37.9            -38.8
Capital Expenditures                 32.4         38.1             46.8
Total Expenditures                  101.1        115.7            136.0
Overall Deficit                      68.2         76.0             85.6
Financing:
Internal Borrowing                   6.2         6.2               8.0
Australian Grant                    62.0         69.8             77.6
(Grant as % of total
Expenditures)                     (61.3)       (60.3)            (57.1)
Direct Expenditure of Commonwealth
Departments and instrumentalities     28.1         36.3             31.8
Local Government Councils
Revenues                              1.4          n.a.             n.a.
Expenditures                          1.5          n.a.             n.a.
Foreign Trade (customs prices million of A$)
July-April
1965/66      1966/67           1966/67 1967/76
Exports f.o.b.                       49.83      73.Oh              142.72  58.10
Ir,ports f.o.b.                    109.08       126.00            104.21 123.93
Trade gap                           59.25        72.96            61.49 65.83
Imports covered by exports (%)       45.7         42.1             41.0   46.88
Commodity concentration of exports               T9              Average
(copra and copra products, coffee,              1966/67        1962/63-1966/67
cocoa, rubber)                                   71.3           73.2%



- 3 -
Australian economic assistance (UA million):
Annual Compound
1967/68        Rate  of Change
1966/67       (est.)        1961/62-1966/67
Grant to Administration budget       69.8          77.6             15.0%
Direct expenditures by Commonwealth  3-4.0        14.0              11.8%
Departments (excl. military expenditure).
Public External Debt:                 nil
1/ Excluding net transfer between Departments.



