Report No. 738a-UV                                                                           FILE  COpy
Appraisal of a
Rural Roads Project
Upper Volta
June 6, 1975
Westem Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Currency Eauivalents
Currency Unit      =  CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =  CFAF 225
CFAF 1 million     =  US$4,44.44
Fiscal Year:
January 1 - December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric                        British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)               =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)          =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2) =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      =   2,204 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AAW      - Autorite pour l'Am4nagement des Vall'es des Voltas
BCEoM    - Bureau Central d'Etudes pour lea Equipenents d'Outre-MIr
DPW      - Directorate of Public Works
DEF      - Drought Relief Fund
FAC      - Fonds d'Aide et de Coope'ration
FED      - Fonds Europeen de Diveloppement
HER      - Service de 1'Hydraulique et de 1'Equipement Rural
MYW      - Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Development
ORD      - Organisme Regional de Developpement
ORSTOM   - Office de Recherches Scientifiques et Techniques d'Outre-lAr
RDF      - Rural Development Fund
RMWA     - Regional Mission in Western Africa
SERS     - Service d'Ehtretien des Routes Secondaires
UNDP     - United Nations Development Programe
UNIDO    - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID    - United States Agency for International Development



UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page.No
SUMMARY ..........................................              - iii
1.   INTRODUCTION ........       .............................1
2.   BACKGROUND .........        ..............................      2
A.   The Economy ........        .........................     2
B.  Agriculture .................                              2
-    General Features .         ......................   2
-    Roads and Agricultural Development   .....           3
-    The Marketing System ...................             5
C.   Roads        ............................                 5
-    The Network ......        ......................    5
-  Road Transport Industry.                               6
-  Highway Administration.                                6
-    Financing Highway Maintenance.                       7
-    The Road Construction Industry                      8
3.   THE PROJECT ........        ..............................      9
A.   Description  ...............................              9
-    Improvement and Maintenance of Rural
Roads ..............................          9
-    Technical Assistance to MPW .10
-  Equipment Purchase .10
-    Evaluation Study of Rural Road
Construction .11
B.   Cost Estimates ..............................            11
C.   Execution .......        ............................    12
D.   Procurement .................................            13
E.   Financing and Disbursements ....         .............   13
4.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..............................             14
5.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....        ........    16
This report has been prepared by Messrs. C. Delapierre (Engineer/Economist,
RMWA), and R. Gusten (Economist, RMWA) following an appraisal mission in
December 1974.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES
1.   Highway Network
2.   Design Standards
3.   Maintenance Program and Improvement Program
4.   Length of Rural Roads to be Improved and Maintained
5.   Highway Equipment Purchased under Previous Projects
6.   Equipment to be Purchased under Proposed Project
7.   Project Costs
8.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Agriculture
2.   Migration
3.   Bank Group Operations in the Highway Sector
4.   Guidelines for Selection of Rural Roads to be Improved in the
Second and Third Years of the Project
5.   Technical Assistance tc DPW - Job Description
6.   Evaluation Study of IDA-financed Rural Roads -
Outline Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
7.   Details of Economic Evaluation
ORGANIZATION CHART
MAP  -    Upper Volta-Rural Roads Project - IBRD 11504



UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Upper Volta's economic development depends on agriculture which
provides a livelihood for more than 90% of the population. Crop production
(cereals, cotton, groundnuts) and cattle-raising will remain for a long time
the principal economic activities in the country, despite the many physical
constraints to these pursuits. Agricultural development is however affected
by the maldistribution of population in relation to natural resources. More
than 60% of the country's inhabitants live on about one-third of the land in
a region with poor or mediocre soils and insufficient rainfall, while regions
in the west and south which have greater agricultural potential are less
populated, because of poor access and disease hazards in the river valleys.
Large areas of these regions will eventually become accessible and fit for
settlement as a consequence of the ongoing campaign for the eradication of
onchocerciasis (river-blindness). Agricultural policy emphasizes rural
development programs, settlement schemes, and selected irrigation projects
in the valleys of the Volta Rivers and other areas in the west and southwest.
ii.       Substantial investments in rural transport systems are required to
promote effective agricultural and rural development. The Government has
recognized this during the last five years, and the rural road system has
been improved considerably with the support of various foreign agencies,
mainly the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC), the Fonds Europeen de
Developpement (FED), and the Association. However, no Government agency
has so far been equipped to ensure proper development and adequate mainte-
nance of the improved roads. For the future, this task will be carried out
by a special Department of Rural Roads (Service d'Entretien des Routes
Secondaires, SERS) created in January 1975 within the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport, and Urban Development (MPW).
iii.      The objective of the proposed project is essentially to staff and
equip SERS, to develop low-cost roads in regions with significant agricultural
and rural development programs, and to preserve, through proper maintenance,
the important investments recently made in the rural road sector. The project
consists of: (a) a three-year program for improvement and subsequent maintenance
of about 1,200 km of rural roads, and maintenance of about 2,100 km of existing
rural roads; (b) technical assistance and procurement of equipment for SERS;
and (c) an evaluation study of the effectiveness of road components included
in agricultural projects financed by the Association over the past five years.
iv.       Of the 1,200 km of roads to be improved, only about 250 km have
been identified; the remaining roads will be selected by SERS during project
implementation on the basis of criteria agreed between the Government and the
Association. The list of roads to be improved during each fiscal year will be



- ii -
submitted to the Association for its approval four months before the scheduled
start of works to be implemented under that year's program. An Interminis-
terial Technical Committee will be consulted during the selection process to
ensure that road improvement works are directed to meeting the requirements
of social and economic development in particular agricultural areas. The
2,100 km of existing rural roads to be maintained are spread over various
parts of the country, but are primarily located in agricultural development
areas in the West Volta and Bougouriba regions.
v.        Project costs are estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent (net of
taxes), with foreign costs of US$6.6 million (78%); taxes are estimated at
US$1.7 million equivalent. The proposed Credit of US$7.5 million would
finance the entire foreign cost and US$0.9 million equivalent of the local
costs of the project. The Government's contribution would be US$1 million
equivalent, or about 12% of total project cost net of taxes.
vi.       Physical implementation of the project is expected to start in mid-
1976. The project will be executed by SERS' own forces, with some support
provided by contractors and community self-help programs. Equipment, mater-
ials, spare parts, and supplies amounting to about US$4.2 million will be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Items which could not be bulked into packages costing
US$40,000 equivalent or less, and which would not be sufficient to attract the
interest of foreign bidders, could be purchased through local suppliers in accordance
with Government competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Association; the
total amount of such purchases would however not exceed US$250,000 equivalent.
Manufactured items in this category are available from local representatives
of international suppliers, service is adequate, and prices are competitive.
Contracts for selected minor works (mainly drainage and crossing structures)
and haulage of materials, will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally following procedures acceptable to the Association. A
small part of project costs (about US$0.7 million) will be for staff salaries
and direct operating costs.  Consultants for technical assistance and for the
evaluation study will be retained in agreement with, and under terms of
reference and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
vii.      Funds from the proposed Credit will be disbursed as follows:
(i) 100% of c.i.f. costs of equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies;
(ii) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services and technical
assistance; (iii) 50% of expenditures (net of taxes) for direct operating
costs for improvement and maintenance works by SERS' forces; and (iv) 80% of
total costs (net of taxes) of works by contractors. Disbursements for direct
operating costs will be made against claims submitted by DPW and supported
by relevant documents. The accounting system to be followed and controls to
be established for assessing the direct operating costs of departmental works
have been defined and agreed with the Government.
viii.     The economic justification of the project rests on two complemen-
tary factors: favorable conditions for road construction, and low traffic



- iii -
volumes and corresponding high unit transport costs. The combined effect
of these factors implies that relatively small expenditures on the improve-
ment and maintenance of rural roads can be expected to have a significant
impact on transport conditions, and in turn, on agricultural production.
Quantifiable project benefits include: (i) direct benefits resulting from
savings in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) indirect joint-product benefits
related to increased agricultural production. Institution-building is of
primary importance, and the component included in the proposed project will
have benefits reaching well beyond the immediate scope of this project.
ix.       The economic return on the maintenance component of the project,
based on vehicle operating cost savings alone, is conservatively estimated to
range between 10-18%. No return can be calculated for the improvement works
since only a few of the project roads have been identified so far; however,
the guidelines for road selection (para. iv above) stipulate that all roads
for improvement will have to yield an economic return of at least 10%, and
it is expected that most of the roads will yield a return substantially above
this minimum level.
x.        The proposed project is suitable for a Credit to the Republic of
Upper Volta in the amount of US$7.5 million on standard IDA terms.






UPPER VOLTA
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL ROADS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Over the last five years, the Government of Upper Volta has made
considerable efforts to improve the country's rural road network. To date,
however, no Government agency has had the financial, technical, or organiza-
tional means to plan, construct, and maintain these roads systematically; as
a consequence, there was a danger that the improved network would soon re-
lapse into its previous poor state. The Government and the Association
explored various possibilities for remedial action, and concluded that the
best solution for implementing the above tasks would be to set up within the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport, and Urban Development (MPW) a Department
of Rural Roads (Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires - SERS). SERS was
formally established in January 1975, and the proposed project has been formu-
lated on the basis of making effective use of this agency.
1.02      The project would be the second financed by the Association in the
transport sector of Upper Volta. The First Highway Project (Credit 316-UV,
US$2.8 million, 1972) consisted essentially of construction of the Koundougou-
Solenzo road in the West Volta cotton area; work on this road is now completed.
The amount of the Credit had to be increased in 1973 to US$4.15 million to
meet higher project costs than originally estimated. In addition to the
abovementioned project which was exclusively for highways, four agricultural
and rural development-type projects financed by the Association over the past
five years have included programs of rural road improvement (para. 2.09).
Also, the rural road network has been further improved with the support of
various foreign agencies, mainly the Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC) and
the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID).
1.03      The rural roads project now proposed is designed to consolidate
achievements of the previous programs, and to develop the institutional
framework necessary for the future growth and maintenance of the rural net-
work needed to support continued agricultural development. Road improvements
under the proposed project are directed to ongoing or planned agricultural
development programs, with a regional bias towards the West Volta, Banfora,
and the White Volta areas, the frontiers of agricultural development in the
country. The project consists of: (a) a three-year program for improvement
and subsequent maintenance of about 1,200 km of rural roads, and maintenance
of about 2,100 km of existing rural roads; (b) technical assistance and
procurement of equipment for SERS; and (c) an evaluation study of the effec-
tiveness of road components included in agricultural projects financed by the
Association over the past five years.
1.04      Project costs are estimated at US$8.5 million equivalent (net of
taxes), with foreign costs of US$6.6 million (78%); taxes are estimated at



US$1.7 million equivalent. The proposed Credit of US$7.5 million would
finance the entire foreign cost and US$0.9 million equivalent of the local
costs of the project. The Government's contribution would be US$1 million
equivalent, or about 12% of total project cost net of taxes.
1.05      The proposed project is based on a study financed by FAC and carried
out by consultants BCEOM (France) in 1972, and on additional preparation work
done by the Bank's Regional Mission in Western Africa (RMWA). This report is
based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. C.
Delapierre (Engineer/Economist, RMWA) and R. Gusten (Economist, RMWA) which
visited Upper Volta in December 1974.
2. BACKGROUND
A.   The Economy
2.01      Upper Volta is a landlocked country in the Sahel region of Africa.
It has an area of about 274,000 kmh, and a population of 5.6 million growing
at about 2% p.a. The productive population is about 2 million, of whom nearly
90% are engaged in crop production, and about 6% in cattle-raising.
2.02      With a per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) estimated in 1972
at about US$70, Upper Volta is one of the world's poorest nations. GDP at
market prices in 1972 was estimated at CFAF 95 billion (US$370 million at
the 1972 exchange rate). The contribution of the primary sector to GDP was
about 40%, of which 24% came from crop production and about 16% from livestock,
hunting, fishing, and forestry activities. Very little data are available on
the growth rate of GDP, but it appears to have increased at about 3.0 - 3.5%
p.a. during the sixties. GDP has stagnated since 1970, and may even have
declined as a consequence of the persistent drought which has afflicted Upper
Volta and neighboring countries in the Sahel.
B.   Agriculture
General Features
2.03      Agricultural development in Upper Volta is limited by a number of
serious constraints, the most important of which are:
(i)  the long distance to the sea (Ouagadougou-Abidjan - 1,150 km)
which increases the cost of imports and reduces the earnings
from exports;
(ii)  sparse rainfall ranging from 1,000 - 1,300 mm in the south to
only 500 - 800 mm in the north;
(iii)  generally poor soils, except in the south and west; and



- 3 -
(iv) the prevalence of debilitating diseases, in particular bilharzia
and onchocerciasis (river-blindness), which affect large segments
of the population.
2.04      About 80% of total agricultural output in the country consists of
cereals.  On the Mossi plateau in the northern and central regions, production
consists mainly of food crops such as sorghum, millet, and groundnuts, most
for home consumption.  Ecological conditions are harsh on the plateau, and
low and irregular rainfall combined with relatively high population pressure
result in over-exploitation and erosion of the already poor soils. Agricul-
tural production is more diversified and market-oriented in the west and
southwest regions where rainfall is higher and soils more fertile. In these
areas, cotton is grown as a cash crop, and much of the grain production
(sorghum, millet, maize, and rice) is sold to the few cities and to grain-
deficit areas in the north. Only about 15% of total cereal production is
marketed; however, the volume amounts to about 100,000 tons p.a., making it
by far the most important commodity flow on the rural road system. (Details
on the agricultural sector are given in Annex 1).
2.05      In 1970, 1972, and 1973, the droughts caused a 15 - 25% decline in
agricultural production below normal levels, but partial recoveries took place
in 1971 and 1974. The most serious losses occurred in the northern and
central regions where production of millet and sorghum dropped sharply,
necessitating exceptionally high food imports. One effect of the drought was
that it accentuated the existing disparities in production and income levels
between regions; as a consequence, emigration from the Mossi regions to the
coastal countries and to the West Volta area has increased over the last four
years (see Annex 2 on migration patterns).
2.06      Livestock is one of the country's main resources, and the principal
single source of export earnings. Development of the livestock sector is
hampered by overstocking and consequent overgrazing in the north, and since
the drought, the growing competition with crop producers for available land
has become more acute. This is especially evident in certain areas in the
west where herdsmen have moved in search of food and water.
Roads and Agricultural D eve_Lpment
2.07      In addition to the constraints imposed by nature, one of the primary
factors inhibiting agricultural production is the poor condition of rural roads
(due primarily to inadequate maintenance), and in many cases the complete
absence of any such facilities; this is particularly true for areas of new
settlement. Road transport costs are high (ranging from CFAF 18 or US48 per
ton-km on good gravel roads, to more than twice this figure on rural tracks),
and tend to discourage traders from going to remote areas to collect produce;
as a result, farmers tend to limit their production to subsistence requirements
(para. 2.12). Also, the high distribution costs in rural areas for agricultural
inputs and consumer goods further shifts the terms of trade against agricultural



-4-
producers. The poor quality of rural roads, many of which are impassable in
the rainy season, also prevents the regular and timely supply of improved
seed and fertilizer; it is also an important reason for the low proportion
of food production marketed, even with increased demand resulting from rising
food deficits in the few major towns and outlying areas on the Mossi plateau
and the Sahel zone.
2.08      Traffic on the rural network rarely exceeds 10--15 vehicles per
day (vpd) 1/, except on a few roads near Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, and
possibly in the center of agricultural project areas. Traffic consists
mainly of various commodity-carrying vehicles (pick-ups and small trucks)
which account for more than 70% of the total against only 50% for these
categories on the trunk road system. No firm data are available on the actual
impact of improved rural roads on agricultural production, settlement densities,
cropping patterns etc.; as a result, there is not much to guide the selection
and evaluation of future rural road improvement projects. On the other hand,
some random information collected under the RDF/DRF projects (para. 2.09
below) indicates that even minor road improvements have a substantial stimu-
lating impact on transport.
2.09      Investments in rural road improvements have been essential elements
in all major agricultural and rural development projects financed by the
Association over the last few years:
-    the West Volta Cotton Project (Credit 225-UV, US$6.2 million,
1971) included about 820 km of rural roads;
-    The Rural Development Fund (RDF) project (Credit 317-WV, US$2.2
million, 1972) and the Drought Relief Fund (DRF) project (Credit
422-UV, US$2.0 million, 1973) allocated about 25% of total in-
vestments for improvement of about 270 km of rural roads;
-    The Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project (Credit 496--UV,
US$8.0 million, 1974) provides for improvement of about 660 km
of rural roads.
Details of the above projects and the status of their implementation are
given in Annex 3.
2.10      In addition to these investments, FAC has financed construction of
about 450 km of gravel roads, and FED and USAID are making continuing contri-
butions to improvement of the rural road network. However, none of these
programs provides for maintenance of the improved roads, and the proposed
project is helping to build up the institution necessary to assure adequate
upkeep of the network.
1/   A representative figure for miost of the rural network would be 5-10 vpd,
with up to 10-15 vpd in the peak season, and as few as 1-2 vpd, if any
at all, during the rains (June-September).



-5-
The Marketing System
2.11      Agricultural production falls into two main categories -- crops
grown for export, mainly cotton and groundnuts, and those grown for domestic
consumption, mainly cereals. In the case of export commodities, producer
prices, exporter margins, etc. are officially set by the Caisse de Stabili-
sation des Prix des Produits (CSPP), and these products are now mainly
marketed by private traders who are licensed by CSPP, and who sell to exporters.
The impact that may be expected from road improvement in this case is there-
fore limited, in the short run, to savings in transport costs.
2.12      With respect to the marketing of cereals, the situation is different,
and road improvement would have a much wider and more immediate impact. Al-
though there is an official organization (Office National des Cereales -
OFNACER) charged with marketing functions, its activities are limited to dis-
tributing food donated by external'assistance for drought relief, as well as
regular food imports. Minimum producer prices for cereals are set by the
Ministry of Finance prior to the marketing season, but except for this restric-
tion, products are sold freely.  Private traders predominate, and competition
prevails in the most accessible areas. The pattern is different in areas which
are less accessible because of poor road conditions; in such cases, transport
unreliability and high costs tend to discourage traders from collecting produce,
particularly cereals, and producers are in turn less inclined to generate mar-
ketable surpluses. Those traders who do enter these areas and collect produce
are likely to derive high profit margins, due to the lack of competition. In
these circumstances, road improvement should not only increase producer
prices commensurate with the reduction of transport costs to the markets,
but should also result in increased numbers of traders entering the market
and thus obtaining still higher prices. It is difficult to estimate accu-
rately the impact these higher prices will have on production; however, only
about 10-20% of the farmers' cereal production is currently transported from
surplus areas for sale in grain-deficit and urban areas where cereal short-
ages are met by imports. There is therefore substantial scope to increase
demand and thereby stimulate production, and it is expected that the higher
producer prices resulting from improved transportation will generate substan-
tial production increases. More specific information on this subject is
expected from the evaluation study to be implemented under the proposed
project (para. 3.08).
C.   Roads
The Network
2.13      For administrative purposes, the road system is divided into two
categories: classified (about 8,700 km) which are grouped into national,
departmental, and regional roads; and unclassified (about 7,800 km) which
consist only of tracks (Table 1). Functionally, the system is divided into
trunk roads and rural roads. The network of rural roads covered in the
proposed project consists of classified departmental and regional roads, as
well as tracks (see Map).



- 6 -
2.14      The network of trunk roads (about 4,450 km, of which 575 km paved)
radiates from the capital city Ouagadougou and the main commercial center
Bobo-Dioulasso, and is generally adequate for current needs. The majority
of the unpaved roads are gravel-surfaced and are considered to be of all-
weather standard, but sections are often closed to heavy vehicles for short
periods after major rains. The rural roads are essentially dry-weather
facilities which become impassable during the rains; a large number of these
roads have deteriorated over the past decade due to lack of proper maintenance.
Road Transport_Industry
2.15      The road transport industry is highly fragmented, consisting of one
large fleet operator and many very small firms or owner-operators. The in-
dustry is supervised by the Transport Division of the Ministry of Public
Works, Transport, and Urban Development (MPW), but there are at present no
significant barriers to entry or other regulations inhibiting growth. The
bulk of goods traffic in the country is carried by an estimated 8,100 heavy
vehicles; on rural roads, small vehicles continue to account for much of the
commercial traffic. About 80% of truck shipments are in the hands of five
freight forwarding firms. The existing capacity of the trucking industry
appears adequate.
Highway Administration
2.16      Within MPW, the Directorate of Public Works (DPW) is responsible
for the planning, design, construction, and maintenance of roads and bridges.
DPW is divided into four divisions for planning and design of new works;
maintenance of national roads; equipment and mechanical workshops; and the
newly established division for rural roads (SERS). DPW also operates a
technical training school in Ouagadougou (Centre de Formation des Techniciens
des Travaux Publics) for foremen, mechanics, and operators.
2.17      DPW's maintenance division which is responsible for national roads
has been supported over the past several years by about US$5 million worth of
highway equipment provided by FAC which covers most of its needs. Maintenance
of rural roads is the responsibility of local authorities, but they have had
neither the funds, equipment, nor personnel necessary to undertake the work
required. Responsibility for these roads has now been taken over by SERS
(established in January 1975).
2.18     'SERS has four sections for administration, studies, construction
and improvement, and maintenance ('see Organization Chart). The Studies Sec-
tion will work, in cooperation with the Bureau of Planning and Programming to
be created within DPW, on the establishment of priorities of rural road con-
struction and planning of annual programs (para. 3.11). The Bureau is intended
to serve as a liaison between MPW and the Ministry of Planning, and will be
responsible for the country's entire road network, primarily for: (i) collect-
ing and evaluating traffic and road inventory data on a permanent basis;



- 7 -
(ii) formulating and coordinating with the various Government agencies the
priorities for road improvement; and (iii) analyzing sector issues and
developing transport policy recommendations and future road investment plans.
The Government requested the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to
help establish the unit, and to provide two experts for about three years,
as well as overseas fellowships for local staff. UNDP has indicated its
willingness to provide this assistance, and the Bank Group has agreed to act
as executing agency. Early establishment of the Bureau is important to im-
proving DPW's institutional capacity, and the Government has accordingly
provided assurances that this will be effected not later than June 30, 1976,
the expected starting date of physical implementation of the project. A
condition of effectiveness of the proposed project will be the receipt of a
firm commitment from UNDP, or some other source of technical assistance
acceptable to the Association, that it will provide the Government with the
required expert services to establish and maintain the Bureau of Planning and
Programming.
2.19      Most of DPW's foreign assistance staff is provided by FAC; there are
at present 31 FAC experts at various levels, including three Division Chiefs,
some accountants, and several highway technicians supplementing the 84 local
staff. The Government is presently making a major effort to train Voltaics
to take over positions in DPW now held by foreign staff.
Financing Highway Maintenance
2.20      Maintenance of national roads is financed through allocations from
a Road Fund established in 1968, as well as through supplementary appropriations
from the current budget, and by contributions from FAC. Total allocations to
DPW for this purpose ranged from CFAF 550 million (US$2.5 million equivalent)
in 1968 to CFAF 693 million (US$3.1 million equivalent) in 1974.
2.21      According to the law establishing the Road Fund, 59% of all Govern-
ment revenues from taxes, duties, and other levies on gasoline and diesel
oil are to be allocated to the Fund and used exclusively on the national
network. Revenues increased from US$5.2 million equivalent in 1970 to US$6.1
million equivalent in 1974, representing about 10% of the current budget.
However, the Ministry of Finance in line with its general policy of fiscal
austerity, has not been making allocations to the Road Fund as stipulated by
law, and between 1970-74, allocations ranged between only 46% and 57% of the
revenues accruing to the Fund. The effect of the reduced allocations on the
road network has however not been detrimental, and the Association feels that
the reductions were justified given the other priorities created as a result
of the drought.
2.22      For maintenance of rural roads, the annual allocation to DPW on
termination of the proposed project should be about CFAF 200 million (US$0.9
million equivalent) to assure effective operations. This additional expendi-
ture for maintenance of rural roads would not appear to be an excessive burden



- 8 -
on public finances, and could be met from the revenues from fuel taxes which,
as indicated in para. 2.21 above, are only partly used for national roads.
The Government has therefore agreed that it will allocate a minimum of
CFAF 200 million for rural road maintenance in the first year after project
completion, and that this amount will be augmented annually in line with cost
increases, and adjusted to reflect the evolution of maintenance requirements
on the rural road network.
2.23      Althougb the initial financial requirements of the rural road main-
tenance program are not expected to represent an unbearable burden on public
finances, they are not negligible in comparison to the requirements of the
national network, and could conceivably increase very substantially as the
scope of rural road operations increases. Alternative sources of revenues
should therefore be sought; these could possibly come from the budgets of the
local communities which will directly benefit from the rural road improvement
and maintenance program, or the populations of those communities could parti-
cipate in execution of the works through self-help programs (para. 3.13).
These alternatives would not only provide some relief to the public finances,
but would also ensure that the local communities are committed to the road
program.  The Government has agreed to review these proposed alternative
financing methods, and to discuss its findings with the Association no later
than June 30, 1976.
The Road Construction Industry
2.24      Since 1968, an annual average of about CFAF 2.5 billion (US$11
million equivalent) has been spent on road investments. All major contracts
have been carried out by foreign firms, many of which operate throughout West
Africa. There is only one local contractor of any importance involved in
road construction works, and his activities are limited to supply and haulage
of materials, and construction of culverts. On the other hand, 15 domestic
entrepreneurs active in the house-building sector had contracts with DPW in
1973. These contractors have the potential to enter the civil works field,
for which the proposed project will provide good opportunities. The improve-
ment and maintenance of rural roads calls for operations such as simple
drainage works, roadway reshaping, and periodic regravelling, all of which
are well suited to small domestic contractors willing to enter the civil works
construction industry.
2.25      To help develop the domestic industry, the Government in 1970
created the Office de Promotion de l'Entreprise Voltaique (OPEV) responsi-
ble for training and assisting in the management of small- and medium-sized
domestic enterprises, and it has so far been effective in this effort. OPEV
also has a training center which provides courses in accounting, management
and elementary technology for home construction; 275 Voltaic nationals have
so far been trained.



- 9 -
2.26      Since its creation, OPEV received technical and financial assistance
from France through AFCOPA (Association Francaise de Formation, de Coopera-
tion et de Promotion Artisanale), (CFAF 180 million); from Germany (DM925,000
or CFAF 85 million); and starting in February 1975, from UNIDO (US$530,000
or CFAF 119 million). A special equity fund has also been created in OPEV
in 1974 with German financing (DM 500,000 or CFAF 46 million) to help very
small enterprises obtain loans from commercial banks. It is expected that
development of the domestic construction industry will be stimulated by these
various measures.
3. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
3.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  a three-year program for improvement and subsequent maintenance
of about 1,200 km of rural roads, and maintenance of about 2,100 km
of existing rural roads;
(b)  strengthening of SERS through technical assistance to MPW for
implementation of the above road program, and procurement of
highway equipment; and
(c)  consulting services for an evaluation study of the impact and
effectiveness of road components included in agricultural and
rural development projects financed by the Association over the
past five years.
-Iprovement and Maintenance of Rural Roads
3.02      The project provides for improvement of about 1,200 km of rural2
roads in all regions of the country except for an area of about 35,000 km
in the south, where road requirements will be met under the Bougouriba
Agricultural Development Project (Annex 3, para. 4). The proposed improvements
are: (i) reshaping of roadway; (ii) regravelling of selected sections; and
(iii) building or reinforcing of drainage and crossing structures.
3.03      As justified by traffic levels, two types of improvements are
planned as follows:
Type_A:  Roads designed to carry more than 2,500 tons
annually will have a 7 m roadway. and will be gravelled over
a 5-6 m width to a thickness of about 15 cm where necessary.



- 10 -
Type B: Roads designed to carry less than 2,500 tons
annually will have a 6 m roadway, and will be gravelled over
a 4-5 m width to a thickness of about 12 cm where necessary.
Details of road design standards are shown in Table 2.
3.04      Of the total planned improvement program, only four roads totalling
250 km have so far been identified (Table 3). One of these roads (Orodara-
Kourouma) is vital for the proposed livestock project which is now being
negotiated between the Government and the Association, and which is expected
to start at about the same time as the present project; the other three roads
have been selected and already partially improved by FED and the RDF. These
four roads will provide SERS with a work program for the first year of the
project (1976/77), during which time the planning unit will identify and
prepare roads to be built during the next year of the project period, in line
with progress made in planning for rural development projects. Road selec-
tions will be made by MPW according to criteria and procedures discussed and
agreed between the Government and the Association (para. 3.11 and Annex 4).
3.05      The proposed project also provides for maintenance of about 2,100 km
of rural roads for which SERS will take over the responsibility from other
projects (Tables 3 and 4). These roads will be maintained to the standard
and service level for which they were designed, possibly also with some up-
grading in the case of several roads built under the RDF/DRF projects using
labor-intensive methods. SERS will also take over maintenance of the 1,200 km
of roads to be improved under the project as the works are completed.
Technical Assistance to MPW
3.06      To implement the road program, it has been estimated that SERS will
need two road engineers, four highway technicians, and five administrative
assistants. Of these eleven posts, eight can be filled with local staff now
available in the country or overseas on training courses. For the other
three positions (two road engineers and one administrative assistant/accountant
for equipment management), technical assistance experts will be required for
two years, and the proposed project provides financing for these services.
The experts' duties would include on-the-job training of their local counter-
parts scheduled to take over responsibility during the third year of the
project. The outline of the experts' job description given in Annex 5 has
been discussed and agreed with the Government; the Government also confirmed
that it will provide qualified local staff to be trained by the experts. SERS
will also require about 120 foremen, mechanics, plant operators, equipment
overseers, and laborers; these personnel can all be recruited and trained
locally.
Equipment Purchase
3.07      Highway equipment for the improvement of rural roads has been
financed under various projects by foreign assistance agencies (Table 5).
FED has financed a light highway brigade in the Banfora region, and FAC is



- 11 -
financing another highway brigade to build the Kongoussi-Djibo road in the
Sahel Zone; FAC also provides equipment to the Volta Valley Authority for
the development program in the White Volta area. The Association has
financed equipment under the West Volta Cotton project, the Bougouriba pro-
ject, and the Drought Relief Fund, and this equipment will all be transferred
to SERS when the projects are completed. The proposed road improvement pro-
gram will require two additional regravelling brigades and two culvert-
building units; the maintenance operations will require three equipment groups.
The proposed project provides funds for procurement of all the necessary
equipment as listed in Table 6.
Evaluation Study of Rural Road Construction
3.08      By mid-1976, about 1,600 km of rural roads will have been improved
with financing under Bank Group agricultural and rural development projects.
It is now considered necessary to provide a stronger basis for future plan-
ning of rural road investments, particularly in areas scheduled for systematic
development over the next ten years (see Annex 1, section C). Under the pro-
posed project, SERS will commission about 25 man-months of consulting services
for a study which will, inter alia, review the cost effectiveness of construc-
tion methods used, analyze observed traffic, and attempt to assess the link
between transport costs and agricultural production. Outline terms of refer-
ence for the proposed consulting services as given in Annex 6 have been
discussed and agreed with the Government.
B.   Cost Estimates
3.09      The project is estimated to cost US$8.5 million equivalent net of
taxes (in June 1975 prices), with foreign exchange costs of US$6.6 million
(78%). Taxes and customs duties are estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent.
Details of cost estimates are given in Table 7 and summarized below:



- 12 -
---- (in CFAF million)---   ----(in US$ '000)----
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign  Total
A.   Equipment & Materials
-  Equipment                  8        384        392      30      1,709    1,739
-  Materials                  4        152        156      20        678       698
12       536        548      50      2,387    2,437
B.   Spare Parts & Sjpylies        67        380        447    300      1,688    1,988
C.   Staff
-  Technical Assistance       9         54         63      40        242       282
-  Head Office               15          4         19      70         16        86
Field Staff               98          -         98    437           -      437
122        58        180    547         258       805
D.   Works Contracted              79         79        158    350        350       700
E.   Studies                        -         43         43      -        192       192
Total A - E            280      1,096      1,376  1,247      4,875    6,122
F.   Contingencies
-  Physical (about 5%)       14         51         65      70        232       302
-  Price Escalation /1_   114          350        464    520       1,535    2,055
Total F                128        401        529    590      1,767    2,357
GRAND TOTAL            408      1,497      1,905  1,837      6,642    8,479
(rounded)                                        (1,900)    (6,600)  (8,500)
/1   Details in Table 7.
3.10      Estimates of equipment costs are based on the results of bids for
similar items financed recently tnder Credit 442-UV for the Drought Relief
Fund project. Estimated direct operating expenditures and maintenance costs
of equipment are based on the most recent (December 1974) tariffs of the
Central Equipment Pool. Running costs of equipment to be transferred to SERS
from ongoing agricultural projects are taken as of the expected dates of these
transfers: mid-1976 for the RDF/DRF and West Volta unit, and in 1978 for the
Bougouriba unit. Estimated costs of technical assistance are based on actual
cost of two highway experts now employed on the West Volta Cotton Project and



- 13 -
the RDF/DRF projects. A 5% physical contingency allowance has been made in
order to permit some flexibility in adjusting the proposed scope of the
project. Price contingencies amounting to about 25% of total project cost,
have been calculated as shown in Table 7.
C.   Execution
3.11      Physical execution of the project is expected to start in mid-1976,
and to take about three years to complete. DPW will be responsible for over-
all execution. As regards the particular responsibility of SERS under the
proposed project, the Head of this agency will submit to the Director of DPW
annual work programs prepared by the Bureau of Planning and Programming in
coordination with SERS' Studies Section which will be responsible for engineer-
ing and programming aspects of the works. DPW will present this program for
approval to an Interministerial Technical Committee (ITC) which the Government
plans to create shortly. It is intended that ITC will be chaired by the
Minister of MPW and consist of representatives of Ministries and local agencies
which have a direct interest in rural roads; ITC will be similar to a committee
which was created for the DRF project, and which is functioning satisfactorily.
The existence of ITC will be essential to ensuring that rural road improve-
ments are closely linked with rural development programs, and the Government
has provided assurances that ITC will be established not later than July 1, 1976
when project execution is scheduled to start; the composition of the Committee
will have to be satisfactory to the Association. Once SERS' work program for
each fiscal year is adopted by ITC, it will be submitted to the Association
for approval four months before the scheduled start of work to be undertaken
in that year's program. The Association will satisfy itself that the roads
selected for improvement meet agreed criteria (Annex 4).
3.12      In order to create a legal basis for budgetary appropriations for
improvement and maintenance works, all roads included in the project which
are not yet classified must be brought into this category (para. 2.13 and
Table 1). The Government has provided assurances that it will fulfill the
required administrative and legal procedures for classifying such roads.
3.13      Road improvement and maintenance works will be carried out by SERS'
own forces, with some support provided by contractors and community self-help
programs. This method of execution is expected to be best suited to the
scattered nature of the proposed operations and the flexibility required in
conducting them. The project is expected to provide good training oppor-
tunities for local contractors (most likely small domestic entrepreneurs)
who are initially expected to be involved in the construction of minor works,
mainly drainage and crossing structures, and in haulage of road surfacing
materials. Regarding the proposed community action programs, basically
similar labor-intensive work methods were used extensively in execution of
the RDF/DRF projects, but the degree of participation of the population, as
well as the technical results, were uneven among the various project areas.
In the present project, labor-intensive activity can be applied most effec-
tively in day-to-day patching and repairs, cleaning of ditches and culverts,



- 14 -
and minor earthworks. SERS will be asked to review carefully the various
experiences in the country with labor-intensive work, and to incorporate
these methods in its work programs wherever appropriate; in this respect,
SERS will attempt to enlist the cooperation of local authorities in setting
up self-help community action programs. The extent to which SERS intends
to make use of local contractors and self-help schemes will be described in
the work program to be submitted to the Association for its approval (para.
3.11).
3.14      Consultants should be engaged so as to allow a start on the evalua-
tion study not later than September 1, 1976. SERS will be assisted by the
Bureau of Planning and Programming in supervising the study. All arrangements
for project execution as described in the preceding paragraphs have been
discussed and agreed with the Government.
D.   Procurement
3.15      Equipment, materials, spare parts, and supplies amounting to about
US$4.2 million will be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Items which could not be
bulked into packages costing US$40,000 equivalent or less, and which would
not be sufficient to attract the interest of foreign bidders, could be purchased
through local suppliers in accordance with Government competitive bidding pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association; the total amount of such purchases would
however not exceed US$250,000 equivalent. Manufactured items in this category
are available from local representatives of international suppliers, service
is adequate, and prices are competitive. Contracts for selected minor works
(mainly drainage and crossing structures) and haulage of materials, will be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally following
procedures acceptable to the Association. A small part of project costs
(about US$0.7 million) will be for staff salaries and direct operating costs.
Consultants for technical assistance and for the evaluation study will be
retained in agreement with, and under terms of reference and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. All the above arrangements have been dis-
cussed and agreed with the Government.
E.   Financing and Disbursements
3.16      The proposed Credit of US$7.5 million will finance about 88% of total
project costs net of taxes, i.e. all the foreign costs (US$6.6 million) and
US$0.9 million equivalent of the local costs. The Government has confirmed
that it will provide the remaining local costs of the project (US$1 million
equivalent) plus about US$1.7 million equivalent in taxes.
3.17      Credit funds will be disbursed as follows:
(a)  100% of c.i.f. costs (Bobo Dioulasso or Ouagadougou) of
equipment, spare parts, materials, and supplies;



- 15 -
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services and
technical assistance;
(c)  50% of expenditures (net of taxes) for direct operating
costs for improvement and maintenance works by SERS' forces;
and
(d)  80% of total costs (net of taxes) of works by contractors.
A schedule of cumulative quarterly disbursements from the proposed Credit
is shown in Table 8. Disbursements for direct operating costs will be made
against claims submitted by DPW and supported by relevant documents. The
accounting system to be followed and controls to be established for assessing
the direct operating costs of departmental works have been defined and agreed
with the Government.
4. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
4.01      The economic justification of the project rests on two complemen-
tary factors: favorable conditions for road construction, and low traffic
volumes. The first element results from the generally easy terrain in the
country and the abundance of natural construction materials which make it
possible to achieve major road improvements at very low cost. The low traffic
volumes mean that goods generally move on small vehicles, and that unit trans-
port costs are high; as a result, any road improvement tends to have a
substantial impact on transport costs. The combined effect of the above
factors implies that relatively small expenditures on the improvement and
maintenance of rural roads can be expected to have a significant impact on
transport conditions, and in turn, on agricultural production (para. 2.12).
4.02      Institution-building is of primary importance, and the component
included in the project represents a major benefit which cannot be quantified.
It consists of: (i) establishing within DPW a division for improving and
maintaining rural roads; and (ii) coordinating the development of agriculture
and of rural roads through the ITC. Concurrently with implementation of the
proposed project, UNDP will be helping finance the required technical assist-
ance for a Bureau of Planning and Programming to be created within DPW. With-
out this institutional strengthening, rural road improvement and maintenance
could not be executed effectively on the country-wide scale as required.
4.03      Quantifiable project benefits would include:  (i) direct benefits
resulting from savings in vehicle operating costs; and (ii) indirect joint-
product benefits related to increased agricUltural production in some areas,
or to new agricultural development in others. Details of the economic
analysis are given in Annex 7.



- 16 -
4.04      The economic justification for the improvement works will become
available only as project execution progresses and specific roads are
selected; all roads selected will have to yield an economic return of at
least 10%. The selection procedure described in Annex 4 distinguishes
between three cases:
Case I:   This category would include roads in areas where
ongoing agricultural activity is already substantial.
The economic return will be based on road-user savings.
Case II:  This category comprises roads with little or no existing
traffic, but which form part of an agricultural develop-
ment project. In this case, the economic return will be
based on savings in transport costs for the traffic
which would use the road in the absence of the agricultural
project, augmented by the value added on the incremental
agricultural output resulting from the combined road/
agriculture investment.
Case III: This category would include roads which carry less traffic
than those in Case I, and which are located in areas with
good agricultural potential. The economic return of these
roads will be computed as in Case II above, but in this
instance, the analysis will also include a thorough investi-
gation of the agricultural and economic activity in the
zone of influence, w:Lth particular emphasis on any invest-
ment outside the transport sector which may be required
to bring forth the expected agricultural development impact.
As the Bureau of Planning and Programming gains experience and the evaluation
study bears results, the Government and the Association may agree to review
and improve the above selection criteria.
4.05      Of the four roads selected for improvement during the first year
of the project, one has been identified as vital to the proposed Association-
financed livestock project, and the other three have been previously identified
and already partially improved by FED and the Rural Development Fund (para.
3.04). Each of the roads currently carries traffic of between 8-15 vpd, and
on the basis of a Case I type analysis, their improvement is expected to yield
economic returns ranging between 10--18%. An extrapolation of the analysis
done for the four roads (Annex 7) shows that, on the basis of savings in
vehicle operating costs alone, improvement to Type A level (para. 3.03) would
be justified for traffic of more than 15 vpd, and to Type B level for traffic
as low as 6-8 vpd (Table 2). Such traffic levels are typical for the many
roads that could be considered for improvement under the proposed project.
4.06      The economic justification of the maintenance component of the
project is based on vehicle operating cost savings only. As in the case
of roads falling under Case I described earlier, it ignores any attributable



- 17 -
indirect benefits resulting from induced agricultural development. The com-
puted economic return is therefore very conservative, ranging between 10-18%
depending on assumptions made about the rate of road deterioration with no
maintenance (Annex 7).
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations with the Government on the proposed Credit,
agreement was reached on the following principal items:
(i) allocation of agreed amounts for maintenance of the rural road
network after completion of the proposed project (paras. 2.22
and 2.23);
(ii) criteria and procedures to be applied in selecting rural roads
for improvement during the second and third years of the project
period (paras. 3.04, 3.11, and 4.04);
(iii) establishment of an Interministerial Technical Committee not
later than July 1, 1976 (para. 3.11); and
(iv) provision by the Government of all local project costs not
financed by the Credit, plus the tax component (para. 3.16).
5.02      A condition of effectiveness of the proposed project will be the
receipt of a firm commitment from UNDP, or some other source of technical
assistance acceptable to the Association, that it will provide the Government
with the required expert services to establish and maintain the Bureau of
Planning and Programming; the Government has provided assurances that the
Bureau will be established not later than June 30, 1976 (para. 2.18).
5.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit to the Republic of
Upper Volta in the amount of US$7.5 million on standard IDA terms.
June 6, 1975.






Table 1
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Highway Network
1/          Surface type (km)
Total Length-
km          Paved  Gravel    Dirt       Dirt
Partly    Without
Improved   Improve-
ment
A. Classified Roads
tlational Roads (Nl-19)          4,457          576    2,510   1,371        -
Departmental Roads (Dl-18)       1,905           -        300     524    1,081
Regional Roads (Rl-34)           2,331           _  -   290       684    1,357
8,693           576   3,100   2,579    2,438
B.  Unclassified Tracks              7,760                            876    6,884
TOTAL      16,h53            576   3,100   3,455    9,322
Sourc_s:  Directorate of Public Works,
BCEOM Report, dated May 1973
Excluding urban roads.



Table 2
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Design Standards
Type A             Type B
Clearing                   12 m                lOm
Roadway                     7 m                 6m
*
Gravelling width          5-6 m               4.5-5m
depth         0.15                0.12
Gradient                   107o                 i2%
Design Speed               60 km/hr             40 km/hr
* Spot im-provements
Source: BCEOM Report, May 1973



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Maintenance Program and Improvement Program
Km to be   ,Km to be improved&       Road
maintained 2/ to be maintained      financed by         Observations
subsequently
A.  Type A Roads
RD  1 Ouagadougou-Pabre-Kongoussi        107                                 FAC
RD  2  Kongoussi-Djibo                    94              _
RD  5 Nobili-Manga                        23              -                   "
RR 11  Manga-Garango                      60              -                   of
RD  9 Garango-Tenkodogo                   22              -                   '
RR 14  Koudougou-Didyr-Sapala             63              -
RD  8  Po-Ouengo                          48              -             AAVV /FAC
RR 28  Bamoi-Baringira-Dapola             29              -              IDA Bougouriba
RR 30  Latara-Batid                       63              -                  o
RD 18 Koundougou-Solenzo                  77              -              IDA 1st Highway Pr.
RD 15 Pa-Dano-Djipologo                   73              -                                  Under study for possible
construction (IDA Project
Bougouriba)
RR 22  Boundoukou-Bagassi-Ouahabou        80              _              IDA Wett Volta
RR 35  Ndzrola-Kourouma-Orodara           17             101                                  For IDA Livestock Project
17 km built by West Volta
Project
RR 38  Banfora-Sindou-Baguera             52              33                                  52 km constructed by FED
Subtotal A                               808              134
It Firm list only.
2/  Initially, i.e. by mid-1976 before improvement program under proposed project starts.                                  CD



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Km to be    Km to be improved&
maintained   to be maintained       financed by          Observations
subsequently
,B. Type B Roads
a) Tracks constructed by IDA ProjectsI/
West Volta Cotton Project             345               -              IDA, West Volta Proj.
Bougouriba Agric. Dev. Project        341                              IDA, Bougouriba Proj.
Rural Dev. Fund/Drought Relief Fund  190                               IDA, RDF/DRF Proj.
Subtotal a)                           876
b) Identified Secondary Roads
RR 27  Tonker-Nako-Tiankoura           57                              IDA Bougouriba
RR 29 Batie-Volta Noire                20                                 to
RR 31  Loropeni-Kampti                 21                                 it
RR 21  Balave-=Solenzo                 24               _              IDA West Volta
RD 18  Solenzo-Nouna                   80
RR 18  Gassan-Toma                     20                                                   20 km constructed by West
Volta project
RR 20  Kosso-Sanaba-Manemba            49                                                  49 km constructed by West
Volta project
RR 19  Soin-Sourou-Gassan              37               -                                   37 km constructed by RDF/DRF
RR  5 Boulsa-Zorgo                     12              48                                   12 km constructed by   n
RR  1 Latodin-laya                     80              69                                   80 km constructed by   n
Subtotal b)                           400             117
Subtotal B                             1,276             117
Total Identified Roads (A & B)             2,o84             251
Unidentified Roads                                           949
Total Program                              2,o84           1,200
1/ For details see page 3 of this table
2/ Assuming a share of 25% standard A roads



Table 3
Page 3
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
IDA and RDF/DRF Tracks to be maintained
A.  West Volta cotton project                        KM
Souna - Dedougou Area
Nouna - Dimbo - Doumbala                        45
Dimbo - Felawe                                  47
Nouna - Badinga                                  62
Dira - Dimkouro                                 17
Solenzo - Tansilla - Ben                        41
Namouana.- Toukouro                             10
Subtotal                                     222
Nounde - Boromo Area
Safane - Tona                                   30
Bohakari - Bereba                                30
Subtotal                                      60
liobo-Djoulasso Area
Sanandeni-Lahirosso                             63
Subtotal                                      63
Grand Total                                  345 km
B. Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project
Diebougou District
Dano - Kpoumane                                 32
Dano - Gueguere - Nakar - Tankredougou          48
Oronkua - Kankani                               25
Fouazan - Kovio - Poulaba                       40
Djisslogo - Zambo - Manoa                       37
Mongue - Nisseo - Loukoura - Tiankoura           38
Loukoura - Dissara                               33
Subtotal                                     253
Gaoua District
Bouroum - Bouroum - Dipeo                        31
Dipeo - Loropeni                                37
Batie - Malba junction                          20
.Subtotal                                      88
Grand Total                                  341 km
C. Rural Development Fund and Drought Relief Fund
ORD Yatenga
Ouahigouya - Koumbri - Ban                      45
ORD.Ouagadougou
Zorgho - Yarghim                                70
ORD Bobo-Dioulasso
Bamakeli - Daka                                 25
ORD Koudougou
Fara - Laro - Ouessa                            49
Grand Total                                  .190 km



Table 4
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Length of Rural Road Network to be Improved and Maintained
*            - --   ~~~~(km)
Identified    Optional*   Total
A. Betterment Works
Rural roads   Type A                      134            166       300
Type B                     117            783       900
MOTAL (A)         251           949      1,200
B. Maintenance Works
(I)  Rural roads (including A)        1,459            949      2,408
(ii)  Tracks:
West Volta cotton area      345                       345
Bougouriba area             341                      3141.
RDF/DRF areas               190                      190
876                      876
TOTAL (B)       2,335             949    3,284
*  Estimated total distribution: 25% A roads
Not: for details see Table 3. Item B (i) equals all rural roads listed
in Table 3 minus the tracks financed under IDA projects (item B (ii)
plus rural roads included under A, i.e. those to be improved under
the project.



UPPER VOLTA
Table 5
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Highway Equipment Purchased under Previous ProJects
A. West Volta Cotton Project  - Credit 225 UV
Bulldozer D7               Caterpillar         1
Motorgrader 112F           Caterpillar         3
Front Loader 920           Caterpillar         1
Frort Loader ME44          Massey Ferguson    I
Dump Trucks L62            Berliet             6
Tanker Trucks L62          Berliet             2
Agricultural Tractor       Massey Ferguson    1
Compactor, towed           Richier             1
Service Truck SG4          Renault             1
Pick-up 404                Peugeot             I
Station Wagon 404          Peugeot             1
Total cost CFAW 75 million ($330,000)
B.  Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project - Credit 496 UV
Motorgraders                                   2
Pick-ups                                       2
Tanker Trucks-                                 3
Agricultural Tractor                           1
Compactor, towed                               1
Water Pump 50m3/h                              I
Concrete mixer                                 2
Dump Truck                                     3
Compressor 7 kg.                               I
Vibrating Compactor                            I
Total cost CFAF 50 million ($220,000)
C.  Rural Development  - Credit 317 UV and
Drought Relief Fund- Credit 442 IN
Front Loader                                   1
Motorgrader N521           Richier             2
Dump Truck GLR160          Berliet             4
Tanker Truck's GLR160      Berliet             1
Bulldozer D50              Komatsu             1
Agricultural Tractor       Massey-Ferguson    I
Compactor, towed           Albaret             1
Service Truck L62          Berliet             I
Concrete Mixer B942C       Richier             1
Water Pump P487            Richier             1
Vibrating Rammer SV1500    Delmag              1
Total cost CFAF 65 million ($290,000)
D.  ORD Banfora   -   Financed by FED
Dump Trucks 7.5T                               2
Tanker Trucks 6m3                              2
Service Truck 5T                               1
Agricultural Tractor with Trailer 3m3          4
Motorgrader                                    1
Front Loader                                   1
Agricultural tractor with compactor            1
Pick-up                                        1
Concrete mixer                                 2



UPPER VOLTA
I
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Equipment to be Purchased
_____________Equipment (in units)_----------------                CIF Cost (in million CFA)
Hiead Office   Betterment    Culvert    Maintenance   Total       Unit Cost      Total Cost
Bulldozer     180HU                          2                                      2           24.0          48.0
Motorgrader   120HP                          4                           6         10           12.6         126.0
Front Loader  115HP                          2                                      2           12.0          24.0
Dump Trucks     6/7T                        14                                     14            5.2          72.8
Tanker Trucks   6m3                          4                                      4            5.2          20.8
Service Trucks  3.5T                         2             4            3           9            2.6          23.4
Self-Propelled
Compactor      15T                           2                                      2            8.0          16.0
Fuel Tankar     5m3                          2                                      2            1.3           2.6
Trailer (office & repair)                    2                                      2            1.4           2.8
Agricult. Tractor 75HP                       2                                      2            2.9           5.8
Concrete mixer 4001tre                       -             4                        4   ,        1.0           4.0
Water pump        50m3/h                     4             4                        8            0.3           2.4
Water Tank         2m3                       -             4                        4            1.3           5.2
Station wagon                  2                                                    2            1.4           2.8
Pick-up                        2             1             1             1          5            1.1           5.5
Radio Equipment                              6                                      6            0.1           0.6
TOTAL: 362.7
CD
Source: Ministry of Public Works and Appraisal Mission
December 1974



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Project Costs
(In million CFA Frs)
1976                             1977                           1978                          1979
Six months -------   ------Twelve months-----    ------Twelve months-----   -------Six months -----    ----------TOTAL ---------
Local   Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total   Local    Foreign  Total                   Local     Foreign    Total
A. EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
Equipment                                        -         -           -         8         384       392        _     -         -         -               -         -         8         384         392
Materials                                        -        25         25          2          51        53        2          51        53         -         25       25         4         152          156
25         25        10         435        445        2         51         53                  25        25        12        536          548
B.  SPARE PARTS AND SUPPLIES                            11       63         74         22         127       149       23        127        150       11          63       74        67         380         447
C.  STAFF
Technical Assistance                              3       18         21          4          24        28        2          12        14        -           -        -         9          54          63
Ilead offfice                                     3        1          4          5           1         6        5           1         6        2           1        3        15           4           19
Field Staff                                      16        -         16        33           _         33       33           -        33       16           -       16        98           -          98
22      19          41        42           25        67       40         13         53       18          1       19        122         58          180
D.  WORKS CONTRACTED                                    11       11         22        28           28        56       29          29    ,  58        11          11       22        79          79         158
E.  STUDIES                                              -        -           -         -          43        43        -           -         -        -           -        -         -          43          43
Sub-total A - E,                            44      118         162       102         658        760       94        220       314        40        100      140        280       1096         1376
F. CONTINGENCIES
Physical (about 5%) A -E                          1        4           5         5          30        35        5          12        17         3          5        8        14          51           65
Price Escalation
on A - 1976  14%                                -        4          4                                                                                                                   4            4
1977  21%                                                              1          96        97                                                                      1          96           97
1978  32%                                                                                              -         16        16                                        -         16           16
1979  39%                                                                                                                             -         10       10          -         10           10
on B, C, D, E
1976  19%                               5        5          10                                                                                                      5           5           10
1977  30%                                                             26          63        89                 ,6                                                              63           89
1978  45%                                                                                            52          95       147                                      52          95          147
1979  58%                                                                                                                           30          61       91        30          61           91
Sub-total F                                   6       13         19         32         189       221       57        123        180       33          76      109       128        401          529
GRAND TOTAL A - F                                       50      131         181       134         847       981       151        343       494        73        176      249       408        1497         1905
All basic costs as of June  1975
Delivery of equipment by January 1977
Source:   DPW and mission estimates.
May 1975.



Table 8
U?PPE  VOLTA
7TPRAL RPOADS PROJECT
Estirnated Schedule of Disbursements
(US:+ 'o0o)
IDA Fisoal Year    Quarter             Disbursement             Undisbursed amount
During Quarter    *3uimulation    at end of, quarter
1             lo00            100                7,),OO
1977             2              1400           500                7,000
3           2,200           2,700               11,800
4             900           3,600                3,900
1             700          h4300                 3,200
1978             2              700          5,000                2,500
3             500           5,500               2.000
4             500           6so00               1,500
1             600           6,600                  900
1979             2              500          7,100                  400
3             200           7,300                  2.00
)'            200           7,500
Source: Mission estimates
June 1975



Annex 1
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Agriculture
A. Main Features
1.    Agicultural production statistics are summarized in Tables 1 - 3 of
this Annex. Cereals account for more than 50% of total production. The
share of marketed production (excluding exchange on the local level) is
estimated to be not more than 15%. Where is a structural deficit in the
Sahel region and in the Yatenga ORD,/, and to a lesser extent, in the
other areas of the Mossi Plateau. The west and southwest, as well as some
areas in the east, are structural surplus regions. Marketed production
is about 100,000 tons annually, and by far the most important commodity
flow on rural roads. The main flows are from the Black Volta area
to Yatenga, the Sahel and Koudougou, from Bobo-Dioulasso and Bougouriba
to Koudougou and Ouagadougou, and from Fada-Ngourma/Koupela to Ouagadougou.
2.   Millet and sorghum (778,000 tons in 1972) are grown alU over the
country; maize thrives best in the south and parts of the west,while rice
is grown primarily in lowlands throughout the country and in the Kou Valley
in the west where irrigation is controlled. Rice is a staple food in some
producer areas and among upper-income groups in the towns.
3.    The main cash crop is cotton which is grown primarily in the West
Volta and Bobo-Dioulasso regions, and on a much smaller scale, on the Mossi
Plateau and in the southwest. Total production by region is shown in Table
2 of this Annex. Cotton comprises about 20% of total exports. Secondary
cash crops are groundnuts, sesame and sheanuts. The share of home consumption of
these products is constantly rising, however. Still, in 1971 the combined
share of the oilseed products in total exports was about 20%, or as high as
the contribution of cotton.
4.    About 2.2 million hectares (or 8% of total land area) are devoted to
crop production which is generally practised in the form of shifting culti-
vation. In some parts of the Mossi Plateau, the share of cultivated areas
reaches 18% on an ORD average.
5.    The typical farm in Upper Volta has about five hectares (4 to 5 on
the Mossi Plateau, and 5 to 6 in the less densely populated areas in the
west, south and east). The average family has 9 or 10 members, of whom
about half are active. Except for the monitored cotton areas in the West
Volta region, production techniques are elementary. Little if any ferti-
lizers and insecticides are used; animal traction for transport (donkeys)
has been introduced with the help of FAC on parts of the Mossi Plateau,
and is spreading. Yields per hectare range from 300-500 kg for millet,
from 400-800 kg for sorghum, from 500-1,000 kg for maize; the yield for
rice is very uneven, varying with the type of cultivation practised.
1/ Organisme Regional de D6veloppement



Annex 1
Page 2
Cotton yields an average of 460 kg/ha, which leaves much room for increase
if compared to yields in neighboring countries with comparable physical
conditions. The same applies to groundnuts (average 520 kg/ha).
6.    Livestock is one of the cointry's main resources, and has tradi-
tionally been the principal source of export earnings. The national herd
was estimated at 2.5 million head of cattle in 1971. Its contribution to
GDP is about 10% (provided by 6% of the population), and before the drought,
livestock products comprised about one-third of total exports. Develop-
ment of the livestock sector is hampered by overstocking and consequent over-
grazing in the north, insufficient watering capacity, insufficient veterinary
control, and growing competition with crop production for the available land.
Like many other problems, the latter has become more acute since the recent
droughts. Conflicts have developed between herdsmen and sedentary farmers,
in particular in the west where herdsmen have moved from the north in search
of food and water.
7.    In late 1974, a large-scale campaign for eradication of onchocerciasis
(river-blindness) was started.  This campaign, carried out by the World
Health Organization (WHO),will eventually cover seven West African countries-/.
The Bank has been instrumental in organizing financing for the program by
bilateral and multilateral sources. In Upper Volta, the campaign will be
directed to the valleys of the three Voltas and their tributaries as well
as the Comoe basin and several minor rivers in the east, and is expected to
make these fit for settlement beginning as early as 1975 (although the
campaign will have to extend over a 20-year period). As a result of the
campaign, some 1.6 million hectares in Upper Volta alone will become acces-
sible for permanent settlement, of which (according to preliminary studies
carried out by the Preparatory Assistance Group (PAG) organized by UNDP)
about 600,000 hectares will be suitable for agricultural development purposes.
B. Government Services
8.    The agricultural services cf the Ministry of Planning and Rural Deve-
lopment comprise the agricultural, extension service, the livestock service
(veterinary and extension), and the Service de l'Hydraulique et de l'Equipe-
ment Rural (HER) responsible for small dams, lowland development and well-
drilling. The first two services operate through the individual ORDs to
which the staff are seconded; HER has offices only in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Dioulasso. The central staff of the Directorate of Agriculture is very small.
A rural planning unit and a Permanent Committee for the Coordination of
Rural Development were created in 1974 within the Ministry of Planning and
Rural Development, but are not yet fully operative due to lack of staff.
Agricultural servicesalso suffer from a shortage of personnel, and live-
stock services are particulary limited; livestock is one of the country's
main resources, but it receives only 1% of Government current expenditure.
The ORDs are supposed to employ additional staff from their own resources,
but because of a lack of funds,are actually able to do so only on a very
limited scale. Water resource development has been pursued with increased
vigor since the start of the Rural Development Fund (RDF) project which
includes lowland development. The activities of the RDF are controlled by
I1/ Niger, Dahomey, Togo, Ghana, Upper Volta, Mali, and Ivory Coast.



Annex 1
Page 3
the Banque Nationale de Developpement (BND). In late 1974, a regional
authority was created for development of the valleys of the three Volta
rivers, the "Autorite pour l'Amenagement des Vallees des Voltas" (AAW).
This organization is likely to supersede the ORDs within the area of its
authority once the settlement programs are launched on a larger scale
following the control of river-blindness.
9.    The Government is shifting the emphasis of development expenditures
to agriculture, and the current development plan (1972-76) has earmarked
30% of total expenditures for this sector. The first priority is achieving
self-sufficiency in food, and livestock also receives more attention than
in the past.
10.   Implementation of the plan is about 50% behind schedule during the
first two years of the period (48% and 56% respectively for the rural sector),
primarily as a result of limited administrative and planning capacity, in-
adequate preparation of projects, lack of qualified personnel, and delays
in equipment delivery.
11.   A further inhibition to agricultural development is the Government's
reluctance to allocate funds both for investments and for recurrent costs.
Since foreign donors have frequently agreed to finance very high proportions
of project costs (both capital and recurrent cost), there is generally a
heavy reliance on foreign assistance for all types of expenditure associated
with development projects, particularly in the rural sector. The inherent
danger is that projects which do not have a minimum financial autonomy are
very vulnerable to changes in the interest and the involvement of foreign
agencies.
C. Agricultural Development Programs
(a) Mossi Plateau: Rural Development Fund Operations
12.  On the densely populated Mossi Plateau, efforts will in future be
directed primarily towards preventing the further decline of soil productivity,
and the consequent degradation of living standards. Specific actions
envisaged comprise water supplies, storage facilities,erosion control, lowland
development, water conservation works, etc., i. e. activities presently
carried out by the Rural Development Fund, which, incidentally, encounters
the best response precisely in the overpopulated regions of the plateau.
These actions will be continued and intensified over the next few years in
the ORDs of Yatenga, Kaya, Koudougou and Ouagadougou; in the peripheral
development areas, they may be expected to be scaled down or discontinued
in favor of other actions.
(b) Southwest and East: Integrated Rural Development Programs
13.  Integrated rural development programs are comprehensive operations
concentrated in a particular geographical area, and including not only
crop development with the required input package (seeds, pesticides, ferti-
lizer, credit, technical advice), but also well construction, staff training,
and applied agricultural reserach. An important objective is the integration



Annex 1
Pa ge 4
of cash crops with food crop cultivation, and where feasible, with live-
stock husbandry. In the future, efforts will be 4ncreasingly directed
towards achieving more sedentary cultivation methods (using draft animals,
-fertilizers and crop rotations), since the present method of shifting
cultivation will ultimately become impracticable even in areas of new
settlement as population continues to grow.
14.   The first project of this type in Upper Volta is the Bougouriba
Agricultur-l Development Project' in the southwest which comprises 350,000
people, including a growing number of Mossi immigrants. In the West
Volta cotton area, the need is felt to extend the ongoing cotton project
into a more broadly based Rural D)evelopment Project integrating, in
particular, food crops. Other actions of this type are envisaged in the
B,nfora ORD and in the east. In the Banfora region, limited operations
focussing on rice are underway with assistance from FED; in Fada-Ngourma,
a preparatory project in four pilot zones will start with US assistance
in 1975. In the southwest and west, similar programs are expected to reach
almost a million people by the end of the decade. In the east, progress
is expected to be slower due to the different physical conditions and the
lower degree of preparation of the local population.
(c) West and South: Irrigation Programs
15.   Development of swampy lowlands (potential: 30,000 ha) and of small
dams (potential: lO,OOO ha) is planned to continue in all parts of the
country, although with rather more emphasis on the Mossi Plateau. These
operations fall within the scope of the Rural Development Fund mentioned
in para. 12 above.
16.   The remaining irrigation potential comprises:
- 55,000 ha in the Black Volta basin (including tributaries);
- 47,000 ha in the White and Red Volta basins;
- 15000 ha in the Comoe basin; and
- 13,000 ha in the flood-plains of the west.
17.   The largest project underway is the sugar-cane plantation near Banfora
in the Comoe basin where a first stage of 2,250 ha is nearing completion,
and a second stage of l,500 ha is planned on the basis of a FAC-financed
master plan for use of the Comoe water resources.  The irrigation scheme
is expected to also accommodate some rice-growing projects for laborers
working in the sugar-cane plantations.
18.   The flood plains of the Kamadena (5,000 ha) and the Niena-Dionkele
(2,000 ha) both seem to offer good possibilities for integrated programs
including, besides irrigated crop production, rainfed agriculture and
livestock husbandry. A feasibility study is underway for the Kamadena
project. Both projects are located in the West Volta area.
19.   A further plan concerns the Sourou plain, a dry valley flooded a few
months each year by the Black Vol-ta waters, and for which studies have been
underway for many years. An exper.imental irrigation scheme exists at



Annex 1
Page 5
Sanfiera, and over the long run, up to 20,000 ha could be developed
here (in the northern part of the Black Volta ORD); a first phase
comprising 3,000 ha is under consideration.
20.   Except for the Sourou plain, all other irrigation projects in
the Black Volta basin must be postponed until the UNDP-financed com-
prehensive survey (including a master plan for the use of water
resources)is completed in 1977; any project started before that date will
probably be adversely affected by major dams that may be built on the
basis of findings of the UNDP study.
21.   Irrigation projects in the valleys of the three Volta Rivers will
form part of the wider settlement programs envisaged for these areas when
they become fit for settlement as a consequence of the ongoing onchocer-
ciasis eradication campaign.
(d) South and Southwest: Settlement Projects in the Volta Valleys
22.   The areas to be freed from onchocerciasis are estimated as follows:
While Volta Basin           750,000 ha
Black Volta Basin           600,000 ha
Red Volta Basin             250,000 ha
The Red Volta Basin however appears to offer only limited agricultural
opportunities.
23.   Starting in 1972, bilateral French aid (FAC) has financed an
important program to make preliminary studies for development of the Volta
vallyes, and to establish a technical assistance group to help insure the
success of this program. The objective of the program was to study the
prospects for developing irrigable areas, and the possibility of dry-
farming settlement.
24.   The studies have already resulted in the start of a pilot project:
in three zones in the White Volta Valley (Mogtedo, Kaibo, and Bane), 1,800
families will be settled over 197h-76. The settlement pattern will bring
about a departure from traditional shifting cultivation patterns; more
intensive farming will be practised, including fallow, the use of ferti-
lizers,-and the use of animal traction.
25.   The project contains a road improvement brigade which is to improve
selected secondary roads in the White Volta area (Po-Tiebele-Zabre-Ouargai,
Nobere-Palogo, Kombissiri-Ouigi) totalling 600 la plus 1,600 km of tracks
primarily in the Manga area.
26.   The two major irrigation projects under study in the White Volta
area are the Bagre dam (study financed by FAC) estimated to have an irriga-
tion potential of 30,000 ha, of which 5,000 ha are to be developed in the
first phase. Tne Tanema dam would have a potential of only 7,000 ha.



Annex 1
Page 6
27.   Studies in the Black Volta basin are less advanced because they
have only recently started on a substantial scale, while in the White
Volta,studies have been going on with FAC assistance since 1972. At
present, the status of projects and studies in the White Volta area is
estinated by AAW to-be two years ahead of the other regions, but this
advance will be progressively reduced until 1976/77.  Project possibili-
ties identified in the Black Volta a.ea are a a dam at Karankasso on the
Bougouriba with an irrigation potential of 20,000 ha, and the development
of the Poni river, a tributary of the Black Volta, in the south of the
Bougouriba ORD.



ANNEX 1
UPPER VOLTA                     Table 1
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Agricultural Production, 1967-73
(in thousand of metric tons: in CFAF per kg: in CFAF million)
1967/68 1968/69 1969/70 1970/71 1971/72 1972/73 1973/74:
Millet:
volume        1/      330     315     362      327     298     259      257
Farmgate price-        12      12       12      12      14       16      20
production value   3,962   3,780   4,344   3,924   4,172   4,144   5,140
Sorghum:
volume                546     545     560      506     474      507     493
farmgate price         13      13      13       14      15       17      23
production value   7,098   7,124   7,280   7,084   7,110   8,619  11,339
Maize:
volume                 65      66       69      55      66       59\    58
farmgate price         13      13      13       14      16       19      25
production value      845     858      897     770   1,056   1,121   1,450
Rice:
V4lume                 36      38       39      34      37       34      31
farmgate price         17      17       18      20      23       28      30
production value      612     646     702      680     851      952     960
Groundnuts:
volume                 75      75       78      65      66       60      63
farmgate price         17     1l        18      18      19       21      22
production value   1,375   1,350   1,404   1,170   1,254   1,260   1,386
Sesame:
volume                  3       5        8       4       4        6       5
farmgate price         19      20      20       20      21       22      23
production value       57     100     160       80      84      132     115
Cotton:
Volume                 17      32       36      24      29       32      27
farmgate price        29       30      30       30      30       32      35
production value      493     960   1,080      720     870   1,024      945
Total Agricultural production value
Current prices 3/  14.3    14.8    15.9    14.4    15.4    17.2    21.1
(100)  (103)   (111)   (101)   (108)   (120)   (147)-
1967.constant price.-8 b    15 1    16.2    14.1    13.7   13.5    13.1
(106)   (113)   ( 99)    (96)    (94)    (92)
Source: Direction du Plan, Haute-Volta.
1/  Farmgate prices reflect to the extent possible average prices paid to
the producer immediately after harvest, and therefore differ from official
farmgate prices particularly in the 1971173 period for millet, sorghum and
maize, for which official prices have increasingly tended to lag behind prices
actually received. Official prices have been used for commodities where
price control tends to be more effective, such as cotton, rice (when pro-
duced in irrigated areas, about 50 % of total production) and groundnuts
(when sold for processing, about 15 X of total production).
2/  Tentative estimates.
3/ CFAF billion.



LPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Agricultural Production 1972/73 b ORDs2/
i n lO -tons)
Area             Millet   Sorghum   Maize   Rice Groundnuts Cotton   Sesame   Total 7 Crops Total 4 Cerecjs
Bobo-Dioulasso'   13.5     43.0       11.1   11.9    7.0        15.0     1.8         103.3          79.5
Yatenga           23.1      40.2        -      -     2.1         0.1     0.4          65.9          63.3
Black Volta       39.6     70.4        4.9    1.0    7.2         9.9     1.3         134.3          115.9
Fade N'Gourma?J   16.3     43.2        7.7    6.6   12.2         0.2     0.6          86.8          73.8
Kaya              26.6     77.8        1.8    2.9     -          1.6      -          110.7          109.1
Koupela           30.4    27.1         0.6    1.3    6.0         0.1      -           65.5          59.4
Koudougou         25.0    72.8         3.5    1.2    4.7         3.3     0.1         110.6          102.5
.Ouagadougou       53.1     86.5       2.8    1.9    6.5         0.9      -          151.7          144.3
Sahel             11,4       8.3        -      -     0.1          -       -           19.8           19.7
Bougouribe        14.0    29.9         3.2    1.1    3.2         1.6      -           53.0          46.2
Banfora           12.6      13.8      23.02/ 5.1   11.7           -      1.4          Ei7.6         54.5
Total Upper
Volta   265.6    513,0       58.6   33.0  60.7         32.7     5.6        969.2          870.2
Source:  Direction des Services Agricoles, Annuaire de Statistiques Agricoles 1972.
ll Organisme Regional de D0veloppement.
2/ Plfan target.
/ Estimate.                                                                                           v 5



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL RODAS PROJECT
Rural POPulation, Cultivated Area and Population Density. 1972
Rqgior             Rural       Total      Population     Cultivated      % of    Cultivated Area
I,        Popultion      Area   2      Density 2       Area        Total   per Rurel Inhab.
(loob)     (lWOo km )  (inh./km2)      (1000 ha)       Area       (hc/inh.)
Ouagcodougou        848         24.2          35            352           15          0.42
Yetenge             531         12.3          43            218           181         0.41
Kaya                593         21.3          28            276           13          0.47
Koudougou           719         26.3          28            342           13          0.48
Koup6la             273          9.0          30             125          14          0.46
Sahel               260         36.9           7             133           0.4        0.51
Fade N'Gourma       287         48.0           6             148           3          0.51
Bobo-Dioulasso /   326          28.3          12             158           6          0.48
Black Volta         479         29.6           16           240            8          0.50
Bougouriba          360         17.4          21             143           8          0.40
Banfora             180         18.4          10             87            5          0.48
Total Upper
Volta 2J 4L856        271.8          18          21222            8          0.46
Source: From ORD reports 1972/73 and Direction des Services Agricoles.
j Rural
?/ Without city population.                                                                          0
I-'0
a,
w 



Annex 2
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Migration
1.    The importance of emigration from Upper Volta is known only approx-
imately.  Some 400,000 to 500,000 Voltaics are estimated to be living
in the Ivory Coast and a further 100,000 in Ghana. About 200,000 go to
the coastal countries for seasonal employment during several months of
the year. A migration survey now being prepared by ORSTOM estimates that
in some rural areas of the Mossi Plateau, about 60% of the male population
between 20 and 40 years of age are abroad. Formerly, emigration lasted
for one to two years on average, but more recently emigrants tend to marry
abroad and remain out of their home country much longer, and in some cases
permanently.
2.    Internal migration  from the Mossi Plateau to the West Volta and
and the south of the country is estimatedat about 300,000 since independence
in 1960.  Until that time, Mossi settled only on the western and southern
fringes of their home base, and only from 1962/63 did the penetration of
other regions gain momentum. The main lines of penetration are along the
Dedougou-Bobo-Dioulasso road, and along the parallel road on the West Bank
of the Black Volta (Nouna-Solenzo-Kourouma-Bobo). More recently, a secondary
area of settlement has developed along the Sabou-Leo axis in the southern
Koudougou ORD.
3.   Outward migration  has increased as new migrants found more and more
friends and relatives in the new settlement areas to receive and help them
settle in. The size of the migratory movement has at times given rise to
social frictions with the local population in the west and southwest regions.
Problems are less frequent in the center-south, in particular in the White
Volta area which is an extension of the Mossi Plateau.
4.   Migratory movements have increased dramatically as a result of the
droughts of the last four years. The most important emigration area is
the Yatenga ORD.  People from Yatenga and Koudougou tend to move towards
the adjoining Black Volta areas, whlile people from Kaya and Ouagadougou
also move towards the southern border.
5.    Internal migrations of the extent required over the next 15-20 years
call for an organizational structure which would channel the direction,
size, and type of settlement in the peripheral areas. Such migration should
be governed by two key elements:
(i) avoidance of tensions and conflicts with the original population
of the settlement areasv and
(ii) avoidance of overcultivation and depletion of soils in the new
settlement areas through introduction of adapted fanming patterns.



Annex 3
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Bank Group Operations in the Highway Sector
1.    The first road operation financed under the West Volta cotton
project (Credit 225 UW, US$602 million, 1971) consisted of: (a)
establishing a road rehabilitation unit and then rehabilitating about
820 km of rural roads; (b) detailed engineering of two cotton collec-
tion roads within the project areas. Rehabilitation under the project
is still underway, and progress is satisfactory. Detailed engineering
was satisfactorily completed in 1971l
2.    The second highway operation (Credit 316 UV, US$2.2 million, 1972,
increased to US$4.15 million in 1973) consisted of: (a) construction of
two cotton collection roads totalling 97 km; and (b) feasibility studies
for two trunk roads totalling 200 km, to be followed by detailed engine-
ering as required. Originally, about 400 km of trunk roads were scheduled
to be studied; later, selection of the highest priority roads was agreed
between the Government and the Association. Construction of the Kound-
ougou-Solenzo cotton collection road started in early 1971, and is now
almost completed.  Upgrading of the second road (Hounde-Bereba) was post-
poned because the planned construction of additional ginning facilities
at Hounde was found to be unjustified.
3.    The third and fourth  road operation for improvement of the highway
network are components of the Rural Development Fund (Credit 317 UV, US$2.2
million, 1972) and of the Drought Relief Fund (Credit 442 UV, US$2.0 million,
1973). The RDF and DRF provided about US$1.1 million for improvement of
about 270 km of rural roads, and for purchase of highway equipment.  Improve-
ment works started in early 1974.
4.    The fifth operation which includes a road component is the Bougouriba
Agricultural Development Project (Credit 496 uv, US$8 million, 1974).
The road component consists of: (a) improving of about 660 km of rural roads;
and (b) preliminary engineering of the Pa-Djipologo road, and a road survey
in the Leo District to establish priorities for improvement and extension
works, as well as preliminary cost estimates. Project execution has not
yet started. Preparation of bidding documents for highway equipment, and
selection of consultants for studies, are both underway.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Guidelines for Selection of Rural Roads to be Improved
in the Second and Third Years of the Project
Institutions
1.      The rural roads to be improved in the second and third years of the
project period (beginning end-1977) will be selected in the year preceding the
improvement works by the Bureau of Planning and Programming (BPP) of the Minis-
try of Public Works (MPW) in cooperation with the Studies Section of SERS;
BPP will be responsible for overall economic aspects, and SERS for engineering
and work programming aspects. BPP will work in close cooperation with ITC
which will have a coordinating role.   The Feeder Roads Section of RMWA will
be available for methodological advice.
Procedures
2.      BPP will use the attached list discussed between MPW and the IDA project
appraisal mission as a basis for selecting roads to be improved, but will also
consider roads not specified in that list if ITC proposes them. IDA may also
propose additional roads not included in the list if they are considered neces-
sary for agricultural projects that may eventually be financed by the Bank Group.
An annual work program (including a list of roads to be improved) will be drawn
up by MPW and presented to ITC for approval. Proposals will then be submitted
to RMWA for approval on behalf of the Association, not less than four months
before the scheduled start of work to be implemented under the year's program.
Since the program covers the construction period October - June, the first
such program (for the 1977/78 season) will be submitted by April 1, 1977.
Criteria
3.      Roads to be included in the program will be selected according to the
criteria described below. An econcmic rate of return of at least 10% will be
required for a road section to qualify for improvement. Three cases are
distinguished:
Case I:   This category would include roads in areas where ongoing
agricultural activity is already substantial. The
economic return will be based on road user savings.
Case II: This category comprises roads with little or no existing
traffic, but which form part of an agricultural deve-
lopment project. In this case, the economic return will
be based on the savings in transport costs for the
traffic which would use the road in the absence of the
agricultural project, augmented by the value added on
the incremental agricultural output resulting from the
combined road/agriculture investment.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Case III:  This category would include roads which carry less traffic
than those in Case I, and which are located in areas with
good agricultural potential. The economic return of
these roads will be computed as in Case II above, but in
this instance, the analysis will also include a thorough
investigation of the agricultural and economic activity
in the zone of influence, with particular emphasis on any
investment outside the transport sector which may be
required to bring forth the expected agricultural deve-
lopment impact.
Information Requirements
4.      BPP will initiate surveys of the rural roads earmarked for improvement,
and collect data required for their economic evaluation. The information
requirements for the analysis of Case II and Case III are of course greater
than those for Case I. The following checklist is illustrative of the type
of data required:
1. State of the road; investments and means of execution required
to upgrade it to the proposed standards;
2. Density, composition by type of vehicle, and load factors of
present traffic, both in the peak and low seasons;
3. Main functions of the road in its present state;
4. Anticipated functions of an improved road in the regional context,
in particular:
- linkage between the new agricultural development programs
in the south and west, and the present centers of economic
activity
- linkage between regions producing cereals surpluses, and
regions having a net deficit in cereals, and encouragement
to increase the share of marketed production
- facilitation of migration into new settlement areas (taking
into account both organized resettlement and spontaneous
movements)
- improvement of access to potential drought emergency areas;
5. Population in the area, agricultural, active in agriculture;
6. Climatic data;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
7. Topography;
8. Soils;
9. Present land utilization;
10. Present production pattern, crop production and yields,
livestock;
11. Present application of inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, improved
seeds, machinery);
12. Credit system;
13. Number and area of holdings;
14. Prices received and paid by farmers;
15. Trade and marketing system;
16. Organization of transport operations;
17. Composition, volume, and gross value of present agricultural
production (total per ha);
18. Costs of production, including labor;
19. Future agricultural production, composition, volume, and
gross value;
20. Future costs of production;
21. Comparison of net produiction at present and in the future;
22. Farm budget before and after project;
23. Farm income at present and in the future;
24. Cash flow table at farm level;
25. Internal rate of return of project.
NOTE:  List is not mandatory or exhaustive, and is given to illustrate the type
of detailed data required in someI cases.



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
List-ofLEural Roads discussed between Government and Appraisal Mission
for Possible Selection in the Second and Third Years of the
Improvement Program
Km to be
Load no.  Road                            improved    Observations
RD 17    Niangoloko-Sindou                   55      Area of ongoing and planned FED projects (rice)
RR 37    Koloko-Sindou                       80
RR 39    Tengrela-Soubakanie Dougou          25
RR 10    Garango-Comboussougou               60      White Volta development area
RD  5   Manga-Zabre                         106
RR 11    Noberd-Manga                        19
RR  9    Zabrd-Bittou                        35
RR  8   Bittou-Sangha-Pama                   92
RR 14    Sapala-Toma-Saran                   44       Complementary to RR14 being constructed by FAC
RD  3    Kaya-Barsalogho                     42       Complementary to RR I
RR 15    Koudougou-Saria-Poa                 40      Koudougou-Boromo-Houndd area
RD 14    Boromo-Siby-Safand - RN 14          82                p
RR 26    Sara-Houndd                         45                is
RR 23    Siby-Bagassi                        45                i
RR 13    Koudougou-Gode                      27
RD 10    Fada Ngourma-Bogandd - RN 3        216       Fada Ngourma-Bogandd area
RD  4    Korsimoro-Boulsa                    73                to
RR  4    Tougouri - RN 15                    70                to
RR  6    Fada Ngourma-Cominyanga             50
RR  7    Diapaga-Dahomey border              75
aWlIi
4Q



ANNEX 5
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Technical Assistance to DPW
Job Description
The program will be carried out by DPW. Of the eleven positions
to be created in the Department of Rural Roads (SERS), eight can be filled
by Voltaic personnel; the remaining three positions (two road engineers
and one accountant for equipment management) will be filled by foreign
experts financed by the Association. The positions and required qualifi-
cations of the proposed experts are as follows:
(i) Deputy Chief of SERB. A road engineer with at least six
years' practical experience in road construction and main-
tenance who will assist the Chief of SERS in implementation
of the program. His principal task will be to help organize
and supervise the field units in charge of improvement and
maintenance works.
(ii) Chief of SERS' Study Section. A road engineer with at least
four years' practical experience in road planning, design,
and work organization. He should have some knowledge of
transport economics. He will collect and analyze the informa-
tion necessary to prepare comprehensive annual work programs
in liaison with the Bureau of Planning and Programming. He
will also prepare designs and estimates of works to be
carried out.
(iii) One Accountant.   The accountant should have at least two
years' experience in accounting of public administration,
and should have experience in setting up an analytical
accounting system. lie will set up such a system for the
improvement and maintenance operations to be carried out
under the program.
The Government will provide qualified local staff to be trained by these
experts, and to eventually take over these positions.



Annex 6
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PROJECT
Evaluation Study of IDA-financed Rural Roads
Outline Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
The purpose of the study is to:
-  assess the effectiveness of implementation of the road-bui  ing
components included in IDA-financed agricultural projects;v
- assess the adequacy of the roads built considering prevailing
traffic patterns and densities;
-  assess the direct benefits from the road improvements, and the
distribution of such benefits between different groups (farmers,
truckers, marketing organization, and Government);
- assess the developmental effects of these roads in terms of in-
creased quality of social services, increased cash crop production
(cotton and food crops), settlement of migrants, etc.;
- assess the share of observed traffic that can be imputed to the
road improvements;
- calculate the costs and benefits of these roads (internal rate
of return) using both market prices, and, where appropriate, also
shadow prices of factors of production and foreign exchange; and
-  attempt to develop a model explaining the level and increase of
traffic and agricultural production in terms of basic causal
factors and structural parameters, with a view to using this
model as a tool for analyzing the relative merits of rural roads
proposed for improvement.
The study will focus on about 15 of the rural roads built under the
abovementioned IDA projects; selections will be made with a view to obtaining
samples of roads of different characteristics and in different agricultural
areas. Availability of data and relative ease of data collection shall also
be criteria for road selection.
1/ West Volta Cotton Project
First Highway Project
Drought Relief Fund
Rural Development Fund
Bougouriba Agricultural Development Project



Annex 6
Page 2
The study will include the following:
A.  Background
Brief outline of the subject agricultural development projects,
with particular emphasis on their road elements. Objectives of the
projects, expected volume of tra:ffic, and projected costs of road works.
Selection of roads to be used for the study.
B. Administration
Efficiency of Government services and other agencies involved in
preparation of rural roads program, evaluation of sub-projects, imple-
mentation and supervision of conetruction and maintenance works.
C. Cost Analysis
(i)  analysis of the means of execution, in particular contractors
vs. force account, the respective quality and cost of more or
less labor-intensive methods of construction and maintenance,
the cost effectiveness of large and small contractors;
(ii) analysis of reasons for cost increases and causes of delay in
program implementation; and
(iii) comparison of projected and actual costs.
D. Benefits
(i)  analysis of direct road-user savings on the basis of traffic
counts establishing level and composition by type of vehicle,
seasonality of traffic, and load factor of vehicles;
(ii)  analysis of development effects and traffic generated thereby,
share of generated traffic in total traffic;
(iii) analysis of the link between transport eosts, producer prices,
and agricultural production; and
(iv)  analysis of distribution of benefits between different groups.
E. Evaluation
Synthesis of findings in cost/benefit analysis differentiating between
benefits from normal traffic and from generated traffic or value added
resulting from incremental agricultural production, and using both market
prices and, where appropriate, shadow prices.



Annex 6
Page 3
F. Model
On the basis of the findings of the above analysis, an explicative
model will be developed linking the observed level and type of traffic on
rural roads to main causal factors and structural parameters of the area
of influence. This model should have operational value for the prior
analysis of other rural roads in Upper Volta which may be proposed for
improvement.
G. Conclusions
This will be a summary statement on the main findings and proposals
of the study.



Annex 7
Page 1
UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROAD' PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
A. Approach
1.        The improvement component of the project (about 1,200 kn) and the
maintenance component (about 2,100 km) will be considered separately in the
rate of return calculation:
(i)  only a small proportion of the 1,200 km of roads for improve-
ment have been identified; about 950 km remain to be selected
according to criteria and procedures spelled out in Annex 4;
for these latter roads, no rate of return can be calculated
as yet. As explained in Annex 4, the roads qualifying for
improvement should show a rate of return of at least 10%.
(ii)  for maintenance of existing rural roads, road user savings
in terms of cost increases that would have occurred without
the project are an adequate measure of benefits, since any
existing agricultural developmental effects were attributed
to road construction; for roads to be improved under the
proposed project, their impact on agricultural development in
conjunction with a bread package of agricultural inputs within
a specified program is the essential benefit;
B. Traffic Density and Composition
2.        With very few exceptions, there are no data on traffic densities
on rural roads. Consultants ECEOM estimated the total volume of passenger
and commodity traffic on rural roads in 1970/71; the average traffic
density on rural roads which can be derived from this estimate would be 11
vpd in 1976.  However, some key factors in this computation have been over-
estimated (in particular  the growth rate of traffic and the average distance
travelled on rural roads).  The missiona's more conservative estimate puts
average traffic on rural roads at abou-t 6 - 10 vpd in 1976. In the absence of
specific agricultural or other development projects, traffic is expected to
grow by 4% p.a. on average.
3.        The share of different vehic:le types on rural roads was recorded
in 1970/71 as follows:  passenger cars,, 29X; pick-ups, 42%; trucks, 29A.
4.        Average loads per vehicle were close to 4 passengers per passenger
car or pick-up, and close to 9 passengers per truck; and about 0.2 tons of
commodities per pick-up, and 2.2 tons per truck. The composite average load
per vehicle on rural roads would therefore be about 5 passengers and 0.7 tons.



Annex 7
Page 2
C. Road User Savings
5.        Road user savings from improvements of rural roads in Upper Volta
were calculated by BCEOM, but appear too high. An alternative and more con-
servative calculation was derived from a more detailed analysis based on data
from BCEOM and Louis Berger relating to Senegal.
6.        typical trucks on rural roads in Upper Volta have a capacity of
seven tons (11% of total traffic) and two tons (18% of total traffic), based
on a 1970/71 traffic count by consultants BCEOM. The mission estimated the
following vehicle operating costs (net of taxes):
(CFAF/vehicle km at January 1975 prices)
Representative Vehicle   Unimproved Track   Improved Rural ibad
Seven-ton Truck                 139.3              69.7
Two-ton Truck                    75.0               37.5
Passenger Car or Pick-
up                               64.3               34.1
The weighted average vehicle operating cost saving resulting from improvenent
is 37.5 CFAF/vehicle km.
D.  Project Cost
7.        The economic cost of the combined improvement/maintenance project is
summarized in Table 1 of the Annex; the improvement and maintenance subprojects
are summarized in Tables 2 and 3 respectively. The assumed life of the project
is ten years, beginning at the end of the three year-project period.
E. Rate of Return
Road Improvement
8,        It is not possible to calculate an overall rate of return for the
improvenent component of the project, since approximately 950 km of roads will
be seledted during the course of project implementation. However, four roads
totaling 251 km were selected during the course of appraisal for improvement
during the first year of the project. These include the Ndorola-Kourouma-
Orodara road (101 km) which is considered essential for the livestock project
proposed for financing by IDA.  The mission estimates that traffic on this
road is currently in excess of 15 vpd; on this basis, the road is estimated
to have a rate of return in excess of 10% for Type A improvement (see Table 2,
main report), based on the vehicle operating cost savings and other data
presented in this Annex.



Annex 7
Page 3
9.        The other three roads selected, totaling 150 kIn, were previously
identified and already partially improved by FED and RDF. The mission ob-
served that these roads are currently carrying traffic of about 8 vpd. On
this basis, the three roads are proposed for Type B improvement, which is
estimated to yield a return of about 18%.
10.       An extrapolation of the above analysis shows that Type B improvements
would produce a minimum 10% rate of return from savings on roads which currently
carry at least 6-8 vpd.  Type A improvements will produce a minimum 10% rate
of return for roads which carry 15 vpd at present. It is anticipated that
the majority of the roads which will be considered for improvement meet this
minimum criteria.
Road Maintenance
11.       The benefits from continued maintenance of rural roads built in the
past are avoided cost increases which would occur in the absence of the pro-
ject, assuming that the SERS would not have been created without the impetus
of the project. The calculation is made for the entire network of 2,100 km
assuming an average traffic density of 6 vpd and a uniform growth rate of
traffic of 4% p.a. The rate of return under these circumstances depends
heavily on the hypothetical function of progressive deterioration in the
absence of continued maintenance. Two hypotheses have been analyzed:
(i) the road quality deteriorates (and vehicle operating costs
rise) uniformly by 10% yearly of the difference between
improved roads and unimproved tracks, and returns to its
orginal condition after 10 years;
(ii) the road quality deteriorates (and vehicle operating costs
rise) more slowly initially, but more rapidly once initial
damages have occurred as a consequence of omitted mainte-
nance; the road would return to its original state in year 6
instead of year 10.
The latter hypothesis is thought to reflect the probable development better
than the former.
12.       Calculations are summarized in Tables 3a and 3b of this Annex.  It
appears that according to the first variant, the rate of return of maintenance
operations is only 10%, while under the more realistic alternative assumption
it is 18%.
13.       The basic assumptions made are mostly conservative, in particular the
level of traffic and its rate of increase.  Due to the given distribution
of costs and benefits over time, the result is highly sensitive to variations
in any of the parameters.



UPPER VOLTA
RURAL ROADS PRCWJECT
Economic Cost of Project (CFAF million)
Year          Work Program (km)               Investment                            Operating Cost
Improve-  Maintenance         Improve-    Meintenance               Improve-    Maintenence
ment      Routine  Periodic  ment          Routine  Periodic        ment         Routine  Periodic
1        240      2.100                70,0        25.0                     138.1        34.0
2        480      2.340               287.1        75.6                     244,1        37.9
3        480      2.820      210       48.0                                 244.1        45.6
4                 3.300      210    - 219.7(a)               219.?(a)                    53.4       50.3
5                 3,300      210                               46,8                      53.4       50.3
6                  3.300     210                               31.2                      53.4       50.3
7                  3.300     210                   37.8       75,2                       53.4       50.3
8                 3.300      210                              117.0                      53.4       50,3
9                 3.300      210                   25.2       44.0                       53,4       50.3
10                 3,300      210                   25.2                                  53.4       50,3
11                 3.300      234                  125.0       90.8                       53.4       59.3
12                 3.300      282                                                         53.4       69.5
13                 3,300      330                              31,2                       53,4       79.1
(a)  Residual value of equipment after termination of improvement program, transfered
to periodic maintenance operations (regravelling) as from year 4.
fIrL



IUTl'l' VOLTA
RtU uMI, I oR )A0 S~ j't)..',I'
.,'
SiuliPro~j:c1.. Inadl .Irprovamenlt,
I2n KI'lA mililion
Year        ___                        Costs
Investmcnt   Opcrating Cost         Maintenance         Totel
Routine    Periodic
I        -  70,0       - 138.1             -                   - 208.1
2        - 287.1        - 244,1          -  3.9                 - 535.1
3        -  48.0       - 244.1           - 11.6                - 303,5
4        + 219.7()                       - 01 4                 + 200.3
5                                           1 19.4              -  19.4
6        -  11.3                     .   - 19.4                -  30.7
7        -  41.1                         - 19.4                 -  60.5
8        -  42.5                         - 19.4                -  61.9
9        -  25.2                         - 19.4                -  44.6
10        -   9.2                         - 19.4                - 20.6
11        -  78.8                         - 19.4      -  9.6'  - 107.8
12            -                           - 19.4      - 19.2    -  38.6
13        +  844.6                        - 19.4      - 28.8  .+  36.4
1/ 1500 krm of B standard roads or 750 kla of A standard roads.
AssoLied mix: 900 l;m of B roads and 300 k1n of A roads = 1200 km
(a) Riesiduial value of 0l'AP, 219.7 million, transferred to regravellin:g of            or 
existing roads (see tabla la and lb)
(b) li-siduai value of renewed maintcnanco equipment



1Tpl-l1 VOTTA
RTIRT.4     110A 1?-,  'l ,JECf T
SUB-HPlOJE0 '. I',()AD TMPRO V  INT'[
IN  i"AF 1" 1,00(
COSTS PER K[M (B S'TANDARD) 1
sonstruction                      Mainten.ance            Total
Year      Equipment        Operating Cost       Routine        Periodic
1         123.6              417.5              _                           541.1
2                                              12.9                          12.9
3           -                                  12.9                          12.9
4           _                                  12.9                          12.9
5           -                                  12.9                          12.9
6            7.5                               12.9^                         20.4
7          27.4                                12.9                          40.3
8           28.3                               12.9                         41.2
9          16.8                                12.9                          29.7
10            6.1                               12.9                          19.0
11          52.5                                12.9            64.o         129.4
1?            -                                 12.9                          12.9
13        _ 56.0/                               12.9                          43.5
1/ The cost of A standard road imrovements is approximnately twice as much...
a/ Residual   value of maintenance equipment.
CD
N)
a,3 



UPPERi VOLTA
J.'i'11 '(WI )LRUA.1l
I tTJ :AL ftOAS) 03 lH()Jj"(' 
Pin IT iYPIOI.ESJI.S 1/
\{czii                       CoStS                                t3en25'itS        Benei't-OSta
Investment    fWvintr'nnce         Total
Routiric2  Peri.odic    -
1      -  25.0          34.0               - 59.0                  11               -  41
2       -  75.6      -34.0                 -109.G               +  35.7             -  73.9
3                        4 - 34.0          - 34.0              +  55 . 6            +  21.0
4       - 139.8(')  - 34.0    - 50,3   -224.1                   +  77.0             - 27. 0
.0      -  29.3      - 34.0    - 50.3   -114.1                  +  99.8                 1 lh.3
G       -  19.9      - 34.0    - 50,3   -104.2                 + 1240 9             -+  2007
7       -  71.9      - 34,0    - 50.3   -S156.2                 + 151.8             _   h.6
8       -  74,5      - 34,0    - 50.3   -158.8                 + 180,3              +  21.5
9      -  44,0       - 34.0    - r0.3   -128.3                 + 210.5              +  82.2
10      -  16,(       - 34.0    - 50.3   -100.3                 + 243.9              + 143.6
11      - 130,0         34.0    - 50.3   -222.3                    253.9             +  31.0
12           -        - 34,n0    - 50.3   - 04.3                + 2to3 .9            + 179.
13      +17(b)  - 34.0    - 50.3   + 63.6                       + 07 3 .8            + 337*lL
1/ Lymr Lhe,L-L: In the abs-ance of Lhe project, vehiclee operatin<g costs wiould have rinon
t'm.,i veyar by IP%'. CL tLL  i differclce be6w&Lwn t.le ViC1e oporatinLg costq or, u-,nlnp,vovcoo
'iRraC'~ .!ri.i on irnproveri. r,e's.; operatin? eStS w:LU. h-ave  rea   thed Lbe level provalling
orl uni-1iprovod traclcz3 in year 10;
ta) 1aesiUls:a value of eaqui.pet nurchased for improvrement and transferred to maintellnalce cpi-rati ons.
(b) I.Ltu-1-al value of r atL-Lcd equipment.



UPPER VOLTA
R-RAT. ROADS PROJECT
_.2..-PLJLectr       aintenakrce (?.08) krin
in Cf'Aw  million
SE3,OND ITYPOTIIESIS  /
Y_.. P                        Costs                             Benefits    Benefit-O'ost
Investment   Maintenance
RrmtiLne   Per iofda c     -otal
1         -  25.0     -34.0                - 59.o             +  8.5            - 50.5
- 15.6       -34.0                -lo9.6            + 17,8            - 91.8
3            -         -31.0                - 3,'4.0           + 46.3            + 12.3
14        _ 139,8 (a)   -34.0     -50.3    -22)4.1             + 86.6            -217,.l
- 29.9       -34.0      -50.3    -14.1              +139.8            + 25.7
6         - 19.9       -34.0      -50.3    -1041.2             +208.2            +104.O
7         - 71.9       -34.0    -<0.3    -156.2                4-216.8           + 60.6
8         - 7h5        -34.G      <50. 3    -158.8             +225.3            + 66.5
9         - 44;.0}     -3!4.0     _50.3    -128.3              +233.9            +105.(
- *6.o       -34L .       0 -5o.3    -100.3          +243.9            +143.6
1 -i       -] 38.0      -34.0      -50.3    -222.3              +253.9            + 31.6
12 i ) -  -             -3)4.0      <0.3    - 84.3              +263.9            +179.6
13        +147.9(b)   -34.0        -50.3     + 63.6            +273.8            -337.1;
Rate of Retuirn:  18%
1i iy)othrsis:  In the abiznce of t?e Project, vehicle operating costs wouldl have
risen accordin[ to the followling patterrn (in % of the difference between operating
costs on unimprovetl tracks and on imtiproved roads)   ~ 5c' in year 1, 10% in year 2,
2)', in year 3, 45% in year 4, 70Q/ in year 5; vehicle operating costs would have
reached the level prevaidling on unimproved tracks in year 6.
(:i) Ulidcial value of eq,uiprient purchnsed for improvement and transferred to
naintnnance operations.                                                                               CD
(b) Timsiduuai value of equipment.



RURAL ROADS PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART
uirectorate          I    _            .
of Public Works         Inter-Ministerial Technical Committee
|PWTraining                          Bureau of Planning
|   Center                   - Programming
Dept. of        Dept. of           Department             Department of
New Works |     Maintenance of      _   of                   Rural Roads
Piary poaids      ... Ecuigmgnt ..... 
Maintenance       Betterment                   Administratlon |Studie  i
Section           Section                   |    Section          Sectn
|Culvert |                     gravelling|
Brigades                       Br  ades
Source: DPW, January 1975                                                  LeRend
-. Direct Responsibility
------ Consultation & Advice



-f- I                          I               i                                                                                                                                                   IF  0   ,:gRET , n 0 . !BRD  11504
4                              r                                r                                                                  '                                                                 APRIL    1975
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA                                                                          r
RURAL ROADS PROJECT                                                                                                -
NE                           1 :: ; '                                 7 tK
.14-3                                                                                                       T I,                              := ,4
ou~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
lb ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
~~~OGAND~~~~~
(A     0 arko1e     OSAFANE  -,r ADO                               N y       .    KONGOISSIRI                              A            FADA  GOLSAMA
a,                   \,                          (                  9 I             /,OAD                                                                               <                      /              /.A'ACAl
0  !  <  Kr  D  r k uW / r { *8 -5^8Nn > 9 3YS sUDUCbt1Q<<JGC o.                                                                      N                 Pam,           I       DA  F'4O  \ R    AEY >
ST2                                                                                                                                               TIeb,   ,   fi g r  oa\.4     ? xSEO \ JR%5 C|abe    CAO  4,                                    DI7CA^.1m
Teerl f~      CEdTamn nII                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ]U            obr     -4X \   ,  <r ,
*/;                                                                                                                                                                                 -   ro            o-OB D  UA     S  D' Ornut\ Xtf8j>oEE         m     3 DAHC  
8  0_~~~~~>                      ioetradouEau   c>LoukouratX A;0rS                                                                   ANANDUfiRP JApOOFe,6FO
-10  As  4                           X    Kansptl                A   t                     V     ,;  :                   f.E~~~~2  RCL MAINTAINEDSlIE T! PROJ                                                        i ECT
'-ESOPAVEDA                   Dr, b   i  _     .     G
5100                                                                    ARHRUALRADTPENTOHEIPRGDOh boR;a/o M0
*\>~~~~~~~~~~~eo                                                                                          O lR MAINTINED  NDER TE PUI5C                                          ino d b9R. n Cod
i V  O  R Y    C O  A  S  T         \      ;y        "^ o lo io 3q 40 X  se 7wtTH  ROAD--TW Rt IN HE SHDED AEA IS NDER TUDY                                                   o>' (I                        / 
I12.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12'    CRL   ONDRE   
k- ~  ~     ~    IEITN   AVDHOD                                                                                                                   4o 
I.  noorr~~~                                 PAVED ROADS UNDE~-RASUD Gelr
_____                                                                I                                 ,~~~-DoG
V  r    \,,A       a'                                                                0'                            /        %   RUSI~~~~~~~~~~~DA> 4 H   0     E



