CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 579 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Roads Project)
BETWEEN
0
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 13, 1975
0


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 579 UV
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Roads Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 13, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 13, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF UPPER
VOLTA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "DPW" means "Directorate of Public Works (Direction des Travaux
Publics)" a directorate established and operating within the Borrower's Ministry
of Public Works, Transport and Urban Development pursuant to the Borrower's
Decree No. 71034 PRES/PL,TP, dated February 21, 1971, as amended by the
Borrower's Decree No. 75031 PRES/MTP.T. URB, dated January 24, 1975; and
(b)   "SERS" means "Service d'Entretien des Routes Secondaires" a
subdivision within DPW established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Decree
No. 75031 PRES/MTP.T. URB, dated January 24, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand
dollars ($7,500,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1985, and ending April 15, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its DPW
and SERS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.


﻿5
(b)   Without limitation or restrictions on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall take all such
actions as may be required to provide SERS with qualified and competent personnel
in adequate numbers in order to enable SERS to carry out its responsibilities with
respect to the execution of the Project.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction on the provisions of the foregoing
paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall, in order to assist SERS to carry
out its responsibilities with respect to the execution of the Project, employ no
later than January 1, 1976 or such other date as the Association may agree: (i)
two road engineers and one accountant for equipment management to be employed
with qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment, to be
acceptable to the Association; (ii) suitably qualified counterpart personnel, in
adequate numbers to second the said engineers and accountant; and (iii) four
highway technicians and four administrative assistants with suitable qualifications
and experience.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, no latcr than June 30, 1976, or such other
date as the Association may agree, establish and thereafter maintain within DPW
a Bureau of Plaining and Programming which shall be responsible inter alia for:
(i) the country's entire road network with respect to collecting and evaluating traffic
and road inventory data on a permanent basis, formulating and coordinating with
the Borrower's departments, agencies and instrumentalities priorities for road
improvements, for analyzing road sector issues, and for developing transport policy
recommendations and road investment plans; and (ii) liaison with the Borrower's
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Urban Development, and the Borrower's
Ministry of Planning, Rural Development, Environment and Tourism, with respect
to its responsibilities defined in sub-paragraph (i) of this Section.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower (i) in the carrying out of Part
C of the Project, the Borrower shall employ no later than September 1, 1976,
or such other date as the Association may agree, consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to ensure adequate overall coordination of Part
A of the Project, the Borrower shall establish no later than July 1, 1976, or such
other date   as the   Association  may   agree, and   thereafter maintain, an
Interdepartmental Technical Committee, whose composition shall be satisfactory
to the Association and which shall consist of, inter alia, high ranking representatives
of its ministries, and agencies, interested in the execution of the Project. Such


﻿6
Interdepartmental Technical Committee shall inter alia be responsible for review
and approval in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Association and upon
recommendation of the Borrower's Bureau of Planning and Programming referred
to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement of the Borrower's annual rural roads
improvement program.
(b)   The Borrower shall starting April 1, 1977 or such other date as the
Association may agree, cause SERS to submit annually to the Association for its
approval, its annual rural roads improvement program after such program has been
approved by the Interdepartmental Technical Committee as provided in paragraph
(a) of -is Section, but no later than four months before the scheduled start of
the works to be undertaken under its annual rural road improvement program.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonabiy request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿7
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction (and operation) of the
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all actions as may be required to
adequately maintain its roads network, to make promptly all necessary repairs
thereof in accordance with sound engineering practices, and to maintain and renew.
as and when needed, the roads network maintenance equipment required for the
purpose and shall make adequate arrangements for the timely provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall promptly take all such measures as may
be required to classify, no later than July 1, 1976, or such other date as the
Association may agree, under its regulations the rural roads to be constructed or
maintained under the Project.
Section 4.04. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
make: (i) at the end of the year during which the Project has been completed,
an allocation in its national annual budget of not less than CFAF200 million to
meet the maintenance requirements of its rural road network during the year
immediately succeeding such year; and (ii) thereafter for each succeeding year an
allocation in its budget for maintenance of its rural road network, the amount
of which shall be (A) increased, as compared with the amount allocated for
maintenance of its rural roads network in its budget of the year immediately
preceding such succeeding year, to take into account cost increases occurring during
such preceding year, and (B) adjusted, from time to time, to reflect changes in
the maintenance requirements of the Borrower's rural road network.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof


﻿8
namely that (i) Decree No. 71034 PRES/PL.TP. dated February 21, 1971, or (ii)
Decree No. 75031 PRES/MTP.T. URB dated January 24, 1975 have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without the prior approval of
the Association.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely
that any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has
furnished evidence, satisfactory to the Association that it has received from the
United Nations Development Program or such other source of technical assistance
as shall be acceptable to the Association, a firm commitment to provide to the
Borrower such technical assistance as shall be needed by the Borrower to establish
and maintain the Bureau of Planning and Programming referred to in Section 3.02
of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date November 1, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.03 and 4.04
of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease
and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date fifteen years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finances is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.0 1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Finances
Ouagadougou
Upper Volta


﻿9
Cable address:
MINIFINANCE
Ouagadougou
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
*         as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UPPER VOLTA
By /s / Telesphore Yaguibou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Equipment, Spare               4,100,000          100% of foreign
Parts, Materials                                  expenditures
and Supplies
(2)  Consulting                       500,000          100% of foreign
services and                                      expenditures
technical
assistanre
(3)  Operating expendi-               250,000          50%
tures for better-
ment and maintenance
work under the Pro-
ject
(4)  Civil works                      550,000          64%
(5)  Unallocated                    2,100,000
TOTAL         7,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of a country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the Borrower;


﻿11
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures".
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures:
(a)   prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   in respect of the Project unless the Borrower's request for authorization
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be supported by contract,
shipping and other appropriate documents satisfactory to the Association, provided
that, in the case of small items, for which presentation to the Association of such
documentation shall not be practical, requests for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit Account on account of expenditures in respect of
the Project shall be supported by statements certified by DPW that such amounts
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account have been paid in connection with the
Project.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an     amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿12
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to preserve recent investments
in its rural road sector and to develop rural roads in regions with significant
agricultural and rurai development programs. The Project consists of the following
parts:
Part A:     Improving and maintaining about 1,200 km of rural roads and tracks
and maintaining about 2,100 km of additional rural roads;
Part B:     Strengthening SERS by:
(i)         the  utilization  of  technical  assistance  for  the
implementation of Part A of the Project; and
(ii)        procurement of highway improvement and maintenance
equipment.
Part C:     An evaluation of the impact and effectiveness of the road components
included in the agricultural and rural development projects financed
by the Association over the last five years.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)   Civil works may be carried out under force account or contracts for
civil works may be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding
prou dures, acceptable to the Association, based on local advertising.
(b)   Contracts for items estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$40,000 may be awarded in accordance with local competitive bidding procedures,
acceptable to the Association, based on local advertising; provided, however, that
the aggregate amount of contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent
of $250,000.
3.    Identical or similar items of material and equipment shall, to the extent
possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purposes of bidding.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Upper Volta may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿15
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Upper Volta if
the bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the
Borrower and the Association that the manufacturing cost of
such goods includes a value added in Upper Volta equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Upper
Volta.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 1 5% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment, spare parts and materials
estimated to cost the equivalent of $40,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures


﻿16
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


