                                       Documentof
                                     The World Bank

                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                   ReportNo: 28543-BR




                         PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ONA

                                   PROPOSEDLOAN

                     INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$lOO.O MILLION

                                         TO THE

                        FEDERATIVEREPUBLIC OFBRAZIL

                                          FORA

    SECONDDISEASESURVEILLANCE AND CONTROL PROJECT VIGISUS I1           -

                                      April 19,2004




BrazilCountry ManagementUnit
HumanDevelopmentSector ManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective December 16,2003)


                         Currency Unit = Real
                                    1.00 = US$1
                              US$ 1.00 = R$3.00

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1      - December31

                    ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
AIS        Indigenous Health Agents
ANVISA     National Sanitary Surveillance Agency
APL        Adaptable Program Loan
ARI        Acute Respiratory Disease
BP         Bank Procedures
BRF        Brazil Risk Factor
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CDC        Centersfor Disease Control and Prevention
CDD        Community-driven Development
CENEPI     Centro Nacional de Epidemiologia (National Epidemiological Center)
CGOF       General Coordination Unitfor Budgeting and Finance of M o H
CIB        Bi-Partite Health Management Commission
CIT        Tripartite Inter-managerial Commission
CNS        National Health Council
CONAMA     National Environment Council
CONASEMS   Council for Municipal Health Secretaries
CONASS     National Council of State Health Secretaries
CORE       Indigenous Health Regional Coordination Office
DALY       Disability-adjustedlife year
DESAI      Department of Indigenous Health (inFUNASA)
DFID       Department for InternationalDevelopmentRJK
DOTS       (Directly Observed Treatment Short-Course) (for TB)
DPT        Dipropyltryptamine - Vacina Hepatite B
DSEIs      Special Indigenous Sanitary Districts
EPI-SUS    FieldEpidemiology Training Program
FES        State HealthFund
FM         FinancialManagement
FMR        FinancialManagement Reporting
FNS        National Health Fund
FUNASA     National Health Foundation
FUNCOMW    Fundfor Indigenous HealthCommunity Projects
GIS        Geographic Information System
GPS        GlobalPositioningSatellite
HiB        Hepatitis B
IBAMA      National Institute for the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources- Znstituto
           Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renovdveis
ICB        InternationalCompetitive Bidding



                                        11

                                                               FOROFFICLALUSEONLY

      ICR           Implementation Completion Report
      IDA           International Development Association
      IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
      IRR           InternalRate of Return
      M o H         Ministry of Health
      NCDs          Non-Communicable Diseases
      NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
      NOAS          Norma Operacional Bhsica (MoH regulations)
      NPV           Network Vice-president
       OM           Operational Manual
       OP           Operational Policy
       osc    I
                    Civil Society Organization in the Public Interest
       PAHO         Pan-American Health Organization         .
       PIU          Project Implementation Unit
       PLANVIGI     Health Surveillance Institutional Development Plans
       QCBS         Quality - and Cost-Based Selection
       REFORSUS     Health Sector ReformProject
       RPA          Regional Procurement Advisor
       SARS         Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
       SES          State Health Secretariat
       SFC          Federal Control Secretariat (National General Controller)
       SIAFI        Federal IntegratedFinancial Administration System
       S L A B      Central Public Health Laboratory
       S I M         (Mortality datafrom vital registration) - Sistema de InformaGgo de Mortalidade
       SINAN         (Mandatory Disease Noti$cation System) - Sistema de Informa@o de Agravos de
                     Notifica@o
       sIS           (Indigenous Health System)- Sistema Indigena de Saitde
       SISAGUA       Sistemas de Apoio ao Gerenciamento de Usu6rios de A p a
       SISNAMA       Sistema Nacional do Meio Ambiente
       SOE           Statement of Expenditure
       SOT           Statement of Transfers
       SPIV          Financial Management System
       STN           National Treasury Secretariat
       SUS           Single Health System
       svs           Secretaria de VigiliinciaSanita'ria (Health Surveillance Secretariat)
       SWAP          Sector-Wide Approach (pooled funding arrangement)
       TB            Tuberculosis
       TFECD         Grant transfer for Health Surveillance (Teto Financeiro de Epidemiologia e Controle
                     de Doenps)
       TOR           Terms of Reference
       UFSP          Universidade Federal de SBo Paulo
       UGP           Project Management Unit
       UNDP          United Nation Development Programme
       VIGISUS       Disease Surveillance and Control Project


                                 Vice President:          David de Ferranti
                    Country ManagerDirector:              Vinod Thomas
                       Sector DirectodManager:            Ana-Maria ArriagadaEvangeline Javier
                             Task Team Leader:            Gerard L a Forgia

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.                                                          -


                                                           BRAZIL
     BRDISEASESURVEILLANCE AND CONTROLPROJECT-VIGISUSI1

                                                        CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                                 Page

A.  STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                              ..................................................................  2

 1.  Country and sector issues        ........................................................................................................ 2
 2.  Rationale for Bank involvement              ..............................................................................................    3
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                         ............................................................ 4

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
 .                                          ..................................................................................................     4

 1.  Lending instrument, Program objective and Phases                         ...................................................................  4
 2.  Project development objective and key indicators                       ..................................................................... 6
 3.  Project components       ................................................................................................................ 7
 4.  Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                        ................................................................. 10
 5.  Alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                       ....................................................................    11

C.  IMPLEMENTATION                 .........................................................................................................       11

 1.  Partnership arrangements:          .....................................................................................................      11
 2.  Institutionaland implementation arrangements                       ....................................................................... 12
 3.  Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results                      .......................................................................    12
 4.  Sustainability  .......................................................................................................................       12
 5.  Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects                    ......................................................................    13
 6.  Loan conditions and covenants             ..............................................................................................      14

D.  APPRAISALSUMMARY                       ..................................................................................................      14

  1. Economic and financial analyses (Annex 9)                     ........................................................................... 14
 2.  Technical (Annex 1)       ............................................................................................................. 15
 3.  Fiduciary  ............................................................................................................................. 15
 4.  Social (Annex 10)      ................................................................................................................ 16
 5.  Environment (Annex 10)            ...................................................................................................... 16
 6.  Safeguard policies     ................................................................................................................ 16
 7.  Policy Exceptions and Readiness              ...........................................................................................      17




                                                               iv

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                                                 ..........................................................    18

Annex 2: Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies
.......................................................................................................................................................       35

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                                       .........................................................................     36

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description                             ......................................................................................      41

Annex 5: Project Costs                 ................................................................................................................       56

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                                   ..................................................................................      57

Annex 7: Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements                                                             ...................................... 62

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements                                 .......................................................................................      68

Annex 9: Economic Analysis Summary                                 .....................................................................................      83

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicy Issues                          .............................................................................................       89

Annex 11:Project Processing                       .....................................................................................................       99

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                                 ................................................................................        101

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                                 .............................................................................        103

Annex 14: Country at a Glance                        ................................................................................................         107




                                                                           V

                                           BRAZIL

           BR DISEASESURVEILLANCEAND CONTROLPROJECT- VIGISUS I1

                             PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                             LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN


Date: April 19, 2004                          Team Leader: GerardMartinLaForgia
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                Sectors: Health(100%)
Sector Directorhlanager: Ana-Maria            Themes: Other communicablediseases (P);
ArriagadaEvangelineJavier                     Indigenouspeoples(P)
ProjectID: PO83013                            Environmentalscreeningcategory: B
LendingInstrument: Adaptable ProgramLoan Safeguardscreeningcategory: B

[XILoan     [ 3 Credit  [ ] Grant  [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:
                                         LCSHH

For Loans/Credits/Others:
TotalBank financing (US$m.): 100.00




INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR                            77.7               22.3       100.0
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                           177.2    I          22.8   1   200.0

Borrower:FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOFBRAZIL

ResponsibleAgency: MINISTRY OFHEALTH
Address: Ministtrio da Saiide
Esplanadados Ministtrios, BlocoG. Brasilia, DF, Brazil, CEP. 70..058-900
Tel: (55-61) 315-3777,Fax: (55-61) 321-9253;

STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

Brazil has made great strides in improving health outcomes over the last decade, reducing infant mortality
from 48 per 1,000 births in 1990 to 30 in 2000. Despite these achievements, Brazil under-performs other
countries at similar income levels. This situation results in part from large and persistent health status
disparities among regions and racial groups. With an infant mortality rates of 34 and 44 per 1,000 births, the
North and Northeast significantly trail the South and Southeast regions; the latter registering rates of 17 and
21 respectively. Infant mortality rates for indigenous and Afro-descendent populations, particularly those
residing in rural and isolated areas, are three-to- five times the national average. Inaddition to long-standing
public health problems related to infectious and communicable diseases, especially diarrhea, malaria,
tuberculosis and other endemic diseases, which disproportionately affect the poor, non-communicable
diseases have become the leading cause of death with cardiovascular diseases, injuries and cancer accounting
for nearly two-thirds of all deaths. Closing the equity gap while addressing the increased burden of
degenerative diseases i s the principal challenge facing the Brazilian health system.

The new government has placed poverty reductionat the top of the policy agenda, committing itself to reduce
inequities in the access to and quality of social services, as specified in its four-year plan (Plano Brasil de
Todos, 2003).    High priority social initiatives include programs to eradicate hunger (Fome Zero), unify
existing cash transfer programs (Bolsa Familia) and generate employment opportunities for youth (Primeiro
Emprego). Nonetheless, the government i s strongly committed to continue support for and expansion of on-
going health programs (e.g. Family Health) and reforms (e.g., decentralization and resource allocation), but
with an increasedemphasis on improvingthe efficiency and quality of public spending and service delivery.

Main Sector Issues and Government Responses: With the approval of the new regulations and policies in
2001 and 2002, (Norma Operacional Basica-NOAS 01-02) the health sector embarked on a third wave of
reforms. Major features include: strengthening the oversight and monitoring roles of states; reorienting
resource allocation toward more an equity-enhancing, capitation-based financing system, establishing
instruments to improve and assess system performance (setting of state/municipal performance targets); and
expansion of packageof basic services and definition of regionalization strategy for optimizing resources.The
effectiveness of these reforms will depend on how well the following system characteristics are addressed:
management and oversight capacity, particularly at the state and municipal levels; ability of decisionmakers to
access and use quality data and information to monitor and evaluate strategies, programs and service
provision; introduction of incentives and instruments to drive performance; and the implementation of
targeting mechanismsto reach and address the needs of specially vulnerable populations.

Inaddition to pledging support for the implementation of the NOAS 01-02, the Health Ministry (MoH)
specified four policy areas which will receive special focus during the 2003-2007 period (MoH: 2003): (i)
coverage extension and service expansion with emphasis on underserved and hard-to-reach populations; (ii)
disease surveillance and control; (iii)human resource professional and career development; and (iv)
governanceand managementof publicly-financeddelivery system.

The Health Ministry has prioritized disease surveillance and control because it recognizes the strategic
importance of these activities for achieving its national health goals of reducing communicable diseases
(vaccine-preventable diseases, malaria, TB, leprosy, yellow fever, dengue, AIDS,), reducing maternal and
infant mortality, and preventing or controlling the non-communicable diseases of cervical cancer, diabetes
and hypertension. A well-functioning public health surveillance system provides information on disease
outbreaks and patterns that Brazilian policymakers need to make better decisions about the efficient and
effective allocation of limited resources. Communicable disease surveillance leads to timely responses to
disease outbreaks that saves lives, reduces morbidity and disability, and in some cases protects against


                                                       2

economic shocks (e.g. cholera and SARS). Vital statistics information permits targeting geographic areas
with the resources needed to reduce maternal and infant deaths. These systems also provide information to
decisionmakers about whether interventions are having an impact. Investment in Brazil's surveillance system
has both contributed to and documented a reduction in the incidence of malaria, rabies, vaccine-preventable
diseases, leprosy and cholera. Given the epidemiologic transition and urbanization ,health policymakers now
require information about risk factors that contribute to the growing burden of non-communicable diseases
and injuries.

Inresponseto theseneedsthe HealthMinistryrecently (2003) createdthe Secretariatfor HealthSurveillance
(SVS). This action integrates surveillance and health information systems with the programs necessary to
control diseases in one Secretariat. The Second Disease Surveillance and Control Project (VIGISUS 11, APL
Second Phase) will support this new Secretariat in its consolidationof institutional capacity and surveillance
structures developed for communicable diseases, environmental health and vital statistics under VIGISUS I,
and will provide financing for the development of the nascent injury, non-communicable disease and risk
factor surveillance and control system.

Consonant with the overall decentralization of Single Health System (SUS), the Health Ministry continues to
decentralize many public health functions to states and municipalities. Disease reporting and many control
activities take place at the municipal and local level. The Ministry provides financing for these activities to
states and municipalities and at the same time it i s developinga system to monitor performance in these areas.
VIGISUS I1will support efforts to build capacity and infrastructure in states and municipalities, and to
monitor performance.

Vulnerable Populations: The approval of the National Indigenous Health Policy and creation of the
Indigenous Health Subsystem (SIS) in 1999 and 2000 respectively mark major achievements for both
indigenous groups and the government. Since SIS inception and concomitant delegation of institutional
responsibility to the National Health Foundation (FUNASA), much effort has been directed to creating
surveillance systems, expanding access to preventive, promotional and curative care, and establishing an
organizational and governance framework. SIS i s embarking on a second development phase. Inaddition to
consolidating SIS coverage extension, the government has identified several challenges and strategic areas
which will be supported through the proposed project (FUNASA, 2003a,b) including: (i)         elevated rates of
child malnutrition, infant and maternal mortality; (ii) increasing incidence of alcoholism and suicide; and (iii)
high and persistent disease burden from infectious and transmissible diseases. The ability of SIS to
consolidate gains made and address these health issues faces a number of constraints related to the financing,
organization and delivery of health services: low quality and discontinuous care; lack of a results orientation;
weak oversight capacity; and inability to respondto demand.

The government also has placed a high priority on improving the social conditions of Quilombolas; Black
populations, descendents of fugitive slaves, residing in about 750 communities dispersed throughout Brazil.
With an estimated population of about 2 million, Quilombolas are considered one of the most impoverished
populations in Brazil as evidenced by infant mortality rates that are significantly higher than the national
average. Access to basic social services i s precarious at best. For example, FUNASA data suggest that
Quilombo communities may account for one of the lowest rates of water supply and sanitation coverage in
Brazil.

2. Rationalefor Bank involvement

The proposed project i s closely aligned with corporate priorities related to the achievement of the Millennium
Development Goals (MDGs) in Brazil. It will directly contribute to the achievement of goals for reducing
infant mortality, combating communicable diseases, improving maternal health and empowering women.
These priorities have been endorsed by other multilateral and bilateral agencies active in Brazil (IDB, PAHO,

UNDP, DFID). The Indigenous Health Component has received the support of NGOs and indigenous
organizations (See Annex 10).

The project will finance a relatively small slice of two large government programs: Epidemiology and Disease
Control and Indigenous Health. The Bank's value added relates more to contributions of technical know-how
and experience related to health surveillance and disease control practices, institutional capacity building for
health surveillance at subnational levels, organizational arrangements and financial instruments to improve
quality and effectiveness of indigenous health services, establishment of a community-driven development
initiatives and the introduction of a performance-basedfinancing scheme for supporting disease surveillance
and control activities in states and municipalities.

Drawing on the experience accumulated in VIGISUS Iand the application of pooled funding arrangements
(introduced in the Family Health Extension Project), the Bank i s well-positioned to support government
policies and strategies related to health surveillance and coverage extension to vulnerable populations. The
Bank and others have identified public health surveillance and disease control as essential public health
functions and public goods that can only be provided by governments. It has acquired considerable technical
expertise in strengthening disease surveillance and control systems at both regional and central levels. The
Bank team consists of epidemiologists seconded from the CDC who are well-versed in health surveillance
issues, constraints and activities in Brazil. Although an undetermined number of NGOs working with
indigenous populations receive external funding, the Bank i s the major external actor in indigenous health.
Drawing on Bank experiences supporting NGO delivery of services to indigenous and poor populations in
other countries, the proposed project will support over 50 NGOs working on health issues in indigenous
communities. Finally, policies supporting pooled funding arrangements (SWAP)uniquely position the Bank
to work within the federal financing system to support health surveillance capacity building in states and
municipalities.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

Through addressing the health needs of vulnerable populations and improving the capacity of the health
system to provide and act upon information to improve the effectiveness of public health programs and
services, the project i s closely aligned with the CAS goal of enhancing social equity and the specific sector
goal of promoting longer, healthier lives. The project i s also in line with the main dimensions of the CAS as
they pertain to using SWAps as an investment platform, focusing on regions and social groups with
comparatively higher levels of poverty and applying a result-based focus.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument, Program objective andPhases

APL Program: In1998 the Bank approved a seven-year $600.0 million VIGISUS Program (APL)consisting
of three-phases of $200.0 million each. The Program seeks to contribute to the reduction of mortality and
morbidity and decrease exposure to risk factors associated with illhealth through strengthening the national
public health surveillance and disease control system, and supporting disease prevention and control for
indigenous populations. The first phase will be completed by June 30, 2004 and the second phase i s expected
to becomeeffective on July 1,2004 while the third i s expected to commence in 2007.

The first phase focused on strengthening the public health laboratory network, improving the data
management telecommunication system, establishing an Environmental Health Surveillance Unit,
strengthening disease control activities in the Amazon Region and improving capacity to investigate and
control disease outbreaks. Support for indigenous health included upgrading and expanding the service
delivery system, creating the institutional framework for the management and oversight of this system and


                                                      4

implementing the essential features of a public health surveillance system in indigenous areas. Supported by
VIGISUS Iinvestments, many communities currently benefit from regular access to basic care and a
functional surveillance system collects and analyzes information on the health situation of the indigenous
population. The first phase of the indigenous health subcomponent was rated as highly successful while
VIGISUS as a whole received a satisfactory rating(ICR, 2003).

VIGISUS Iachieved substantial compliance with expected outcomes while impacting health status in ways
not anticipated by the original design. The Borrower met or surpassed expectations for six of the seven
triggers established for moving to Phase 11, and significantly exceeded the targets originally established for
three of the triggers. In addition, as described below, the Borrower has provided evidence that results for one
trigger (increase in tuberculosis cure rates in the Amazon Region) have been substantially met. Compliance
with specific triggers i s as follows:

                                   Achievementof APL Phase I1Triggers
0    At least 50 candidates would havebeentrained under the "Basic Principlesof Outbreak investigation
     course: Exceeded - 138candidates trained
0    At least 200 superior-level and 100mid-level staff would havebeen trainedinlaboratory biosafety:
     Exceeded- 1,576superior- and 1,632mid-levelstaff trained.
0    Nine nationalreference laboratories have beenrehabilitated and equipped: Completed- the laboratories
     have been rehabilitated and equipmentpurchases completed.
0    Data and coding standardsfor the national surveillance system have been properly defined: Completed-
    fully complied and applied to all states.
0    New notifiable diseases reporting system (SINAN) would be fully operational in at least 20 national or
     macroregional public health laboratories: Completed - SINAN implemented in 20 state laboratories.
0    300 indigenous community health agents would have been trained: Exceeded -2,730 health agents
     trained.
0    The number of cases of tuberculosis cured inthe Amazon Region increased by 10percent: Substantially
     Completed - reliable data on tuberculosiscure rates were available infive of nine states comprising the
     Amazon Region, demonstrating that these states met or surpassedthe target. In the otherfour states
     reliable data were unavailable, butprogress is being made (see below).

The trigger relating to, "the number of cases of tuberculosis (TB) cured in the Amazon Region would have
increased by at least 10 percent," was substantially met. Five of the nine states comprising the Amazonian
Region achieved or surpassed this target. However, reliable data on TB cure ratesfor the otherfour states is
still unavailable in part due to delays in installing the information system. Still, the Borrower raised the rate
of TB cases registered and under continuous monitoring from 58 to 89 percent in the Amazonian Region
between 1999 and 2001, providing evidence of signijicant progress and, as a result, assurances that
substantial compliance has been achieved.

Furthermore, VIGISUS Ialso affected health status in ways not anticipated in the original design, suggesting
that the project actually exceeded original objectives. For example, disease control activities supported
through VIGISUS Icontributed to the eradication of polio and plague (in 2001) and cholera (in 2002) and
elimination of chagas disease in 10 (of 12) states where infection was prevalent. The project also supported
the government's immunization program that resulted in a significant reduction in infectious diseases. For
example, the number of registered cases of measles, German measles, tetanus, diphtheria, meningitis, and
pertussis dropped by 80 percent between 1998 and 2002.

The second phase will build upon the accomplishments of the first phase while supporting the
decentralization of health surveillance activities and institutional reforms related to the indigenous health
system. The second phase contains minor adjustments that do not represent substantive adjustments to the


                                                       5

APL content or overall project objective. These modifications entail improvements in implementation and
fiduciary arrangements building upon the experiences of the first phase as well as other Bank-financed
projects in the sector. At the request of the Borrower, the proposed project will support the decentralization
of health surveillance activities to states and municipalities through a pooled funding arrangement,
incorporate a performance-based financing scheme for states and municipalities and introduce special
subprojects to support community-based activities in indigenous and Quilombo communities. Given the
recent separation of institutional functions (see Annex l), health surveillance activities will be implemented
by the SVSMoH while activities directed at indigenous and Quilombo populations will be the responsibility
of FUNASA. Given the innovative nature of these implementationand fiduciary arrangements, as well as the
use of two executing agencies, the Borrower requestedthat the secondphasebe lengthened from three to four
years to facilitate full execution prior to the anticipated closing date.

Triggers for the thirdphase are as follows:

                                         TRIGGERS APL PHASE111
                                                     FOR
                                               Health Surveillance
       0   At least 70% of cases notified through SINAN, except dengue,a are investigated and files
           closed within time frame establishedin SVS guidelines.
       0    50% of municipalitiesprioritized by the TB control programare providingDirectly
           Observed Treatment Short-Course-for TB (DOTS) inat least 50% of health care units.
       0   60% of states and capital cities are disseminating bi-annual, consolidated reports of water
           quality surveillance that includes responsesto problems encountered.
       0   70% of capitalcities have carriedout a school-based adolescentbehavioralrisk factor survey.
       0   Formal evaluation of every state surveillance system and institutionalcapacity completed and
           results disseminated.
                                                Indigenous Health
       0   50% of NGO andpublic (municipal) indigenous health providers operating under
           performance-basedcontracting scheme.
       0   60% of indigenous populationcovered with complete vaccination regimen.
       aDengueis reportedinthe aggregate due to the wide-spread nature of most outbreaks.

The third and final phase will support the consolidation of the national health surveillance and indigenous
health systems. Expected results include:

Public Health Surveillance: (i)    states submit regular weekly reports for mandatory disease notification and are
carrying out timely investigations and control activities of key communicable diseases; (ii)        public health
laboratory network is effectively linked to the disease reporting system; (iii)   70% of states have developed a
system for surveillance of injuries, non-communicable diseases and their risk factors and are carrying
activities to promote health and prevent non-communicable diseases and injuries; and (iv) 90% of deaths are
registered in vital statistics system.

Vulnerable Populations: (i)    full coverage of indigenous populations with an integrated package of preventive
and curative services; (ii)all providers under contract with FUNASA operating under performance-based
contracting arrangements; (iii)      protocols for mother-infant care implemented in all Special Indigenous
Sanitary Districts (DSEIs); and (iv) nutritional surveillance system i s fully operational in all DSEIs.

2. Project development objective and key indicators

The objectives are two-fold: (i) mortality and morbidity from communicable and non-communicable
                                    reduce
diseases and exposure to risk factors associated with ill health, and (ii)       improve the health outcomes of


                                                         6

specially vulnerable groups including indigenous populations and Quilombo (descendents of slaves)
communities. This will be achieved by:
(i) Continuing to strengthenthe national public health surveillance and diseasecontrol system for
            communicable diseases and environmental health, particularly in states and municipalities;
(ii) Improvingandbroadeningthescopeofpublichealthsurveillanceanddiseasecontrol,toincludenon-
            communicable diseases, injuries and maternalkhild health, and the surveillance and preventionof risk
            factors;
(iii)       Expandingaccess to and utilization of health services to indigenous populations;
(iv)        Improving the effectiveness of indigenous health care through institutional development, quality
            enhancement and cultural appropriateness; and
(v)         Extending water and sanitation services to rural, Quilombo communities.

Key Performance Indicators for APL Phase 11: Selected outcome and intermediate results indicators for
Phase I1are as follows (for the complete list of indicators see Annex 3):

                                                      Outcomes
  ~~    ~




   0     80% of new TB cases are cured.
   0     60% of municipalitiesinevery state have at least 95% coverage for DPT+HiBfor children <one year
         of age.
   0     50% reduction in number of municipalitiesin Amazonia Legal considered at highrisk for malaria.
   0     50% of indigenous pregnant women intargeted districts receive at least 3 prenatal consultations
         according to MoWFUNASA protocols;
   0     100percent of indigenous mothers with children lessthan two years of age identified with inadequate
         weight gain receive nutrition education and counseling on feeding practices that are also culturally
         appropriate;
                                               IntermediateResults

   0    40% of cases of bacterial meningitis confirmedby laboratory analysis.
   0     85% of municipalities at high risk for dengue have fewer than 10%of households with a health visit
        pending
   0     90% of deaths are notifiedto vital statistics
   0    At least 50% of states calculate a valid infant mortality rate usingvital statistics
   0    Environmentalhealth surveillance subsystemsfor water, air and soil are fully developed at the national
         level.
   0     70% of states have prepared career plans for health surveillance professionals
   0    All modules of indigenous information system functioning inall DSEIs.
   0     70% of health teams in targeted DSEIsproviding integrated, benchmark service plan.
   0    One-third of new AIS hires are indigenous women.
  0     Indigenous nutritional surveillance systemfully operational in 10DSEIs.

3. Project components

Component I:Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (US$14.8 million): The activities
financed by this component seek to reduce morbidity and mortality and exposure to risk factors associated
with illhealth among Brazil's people by strengthening the public health surveillance and disease control
system at the national, state and municipal levels. This will be done by supporting the newly-created
Secretariat for Health Surveillance (SVS) in its efforts to improve communicable disease surveillance and
control, strengthen environmental health surveillance, and expand its scope of activities to include non-
communicable diseases, injuries, and their risk factors. It will also support improved vital statistics, a tool to
monitor and prevent maternal and infant mortality, and collect and analyze health information for the



                                                        7

 assessment of health disparities. Finally, activities inthis component will invest significantly in strengthening
 the currently weak, but critical role of the states and municipalities in surveillance and disease control efforts
 at the local level. The Component will finance construction, rehabilitation, and equipping of pubic health
 laboratories; computer software and hardware; capacity building through training; equipment for long-
 distance training and videoconferencing; vehicles and boats necessary for vector control; establishment of
 collaborating centers; operational research; solar refrigerators; materials for dissemination and social
 communication; national and international technical assistance; and workshops, conferences and public
 gatherings to disseminate and discuss information, and health surveillance capacity building subprojects in
 participating states and municipalities. Special implementation arrangements involving third parties and
 decentralized entities are outlinedineach Subcomponentdescription below.

 Subcomponent A - Surveillance and Control of Communicable Diseases: (US$43.2 million) This
'subcomponent aims to continue the process of strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance System.
 Specifically, it will: (i)expand and improve the public health laboratory network, (ii) the quality and
                                                                                           improve
 utilization of information from the mandatory disease notification system (SINAN) to control disease, (iii)
 improve capacity incommunicable disease surveillance and control through training and research, (iv) expand
 and strengthen hospital-based surveillance with a focus on emerging and reemerging infections, (v) guarantee
 the cold chain to ensure the quality of vaccines, (vi) guarantee and expand activities to control vector-borne
 disease, (vii) improve management capacity of           SUS institutions responsible for surveillance including
 response to emergencies, (viii) improve dissemination of communicable disease surveillance information and
 capacity in social communication, and (ix) improve social participation in disease prevention and control.
 Research activities related to items (iii),(iv), (vi) and (viii)above will be implemented through supply-driven
 subprojects (known as TypeA) as well as demand-driven subprojects (known as Type B). Capacity-building
 activities related to items (ii), (iii), (iv),(v), (vi), (vii) and (viii) will be implemented through Type A
 Subprojects. The implementing entities for both Subprojects Type A and B will be NGOs, universities,
 institutes,foundations and centers of excellence(for definitions of subproject refer to Annex 6 and Annex 8).
 Other inputs such as construction and equipping of a National Laboratory, acquisition of power and energy
 equipment, vehicles and computershardware and sojhvare, and training and consultancy services in support
 of disease surveillance and control will be directly implemented by SVS.

 Subcomponent B: Environmental Health Surveillance (US$5.6 million): This subcomponent aims to continue
 to strengthen the implementation of the National Environmental Health Surveillance System by identifying
 and monitoring health risks related to environmental conditions and determinants within a sustainable
 framework. Specifically it will: (i)strengthen and fully implement National Environmental Health
 Surveillance subsystems for water, air and soil quality, (ii)   structure national subsystems related to hazardous
 substances (e.g. pesticides, asbestos, lead, mercury), biological and physical (radiation) factors, chemical
 accidents and natural disasters, (iii) create a national environmental health laboratory network, (iv) develop an
 infomation system for environmental health surveillance and indicators to evaluate control activities, (v)
 increase scientific and technological capacity, (vi) support national policy development for environmental
 health, (vii) develop activities within primary care that help create healthy environments, (viii) promote social
 mobilization and community education in high risk areas, and (ix) improve mechanisms that promote intra
 and inter-sectoral activities. Research activities related to items (i), (ii), (iv), and (vi) will be implemented
 through TypeA and B Subprojects while capacity building activities corresponding to items (i),(ii), (iii), (iv),
 (vi), (vii), (viii) and (ix) will be implemented through TypeA Subprojects. The implementing entitiesfor all
 subprojects will be NGOs, universities, institutes,foundations and centers of excellence. Other inputs such as
 rehabilitation and equipping of environmental and public health laboratories, material for dissemination of
 information, consultantservices, workshopand other training will be directly implemented by SVS.

 Subcomponent C: Health Situation Analysis (US$10.7 million): This subcomponent aims to strengthen
 operational and technical capacity to carry out health situation analysis, and monitoring and control of non-
 communicable diseases. Specifically it will: (i)     improve coverage, quality and utilization of vital statistics


                                                         8

(births and deaths) with a focus on maternal and infant mortality, (ii)    improve capacity to carry out health
situation analyses including GIs, vital statistics, health program evaluation, and analysis of inequities in
health, (iii)strengthen the nascent non-communicable disease and riskfactor surveillance system, (iv) develop
an injury surveillance system, and (v) improve dissemination and social communication related to health
promotion and risk factor prevention. Research activities related to items (i), (ii) and (iii) a will be
implemented through TypeA and B Subprojects while training activities corresponding to items (i), (ii), (iii),
(iv) and (v) will apply Type A Subprojects. Both types of subprojects will be implemented by NGO,
universities, institutes,foundations and centers of excellence. Other activities such as computer software and
hardware, GPS, study tours, material for dissemination of information, consultant services, workshops and
other training will be directly implemented by SVS.

Subcomponent D: Strengthening Institutional Capacity in States and Municipalities (US$85.4 million): This
subcomponent will finance subprojects to strengthen: (i) capacity to lead, organize, manage and monitor
                                                             state
surveillance and disease control systems, and provide systematic support to small municipalities, and (ii)
municipal capacity to perform the essential functions of surveillance including detection and notification,
investigation, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, feedback and dissemination. In an effort to
support the decentralization of technical and managerial know-how, this subcomponent provides states and
municipalities both the opportunity and financing to develop and implement complementary but innovative
activities related to five technical areas: (i) institutional development; (ii)
                                                                              epidemiological surveillance and
disease control; (iii) environmental surveillance; (iv) situation analysis; and (v) upgrading of technical skills.
Beneficiaries will consist of approximately 200 subnational entities: 27 states, 26 state capital cities and 147
"satellite cities"   within the capitals' metropolitan areas. This subcomponent will finance surveillance
subprojects that draw on plans presented by participating states and municipalities, who will be responsible
for their implementation (`for firther definition see Annexes4 and 8).

Component 11: Indigenous Health(US$47.9 million): The activities that constitute this component seek to
improve the health outcomes of specially vulnerable groups including indigenous populations and Quilombo
communities by financing inputs to foster institutional and financial reforms, extend coverage for basic
services, enhance the quality of care, address special and emerging health needs, and support community-
driven initiatives that can contribute to improved health status. To meet these objectives, the project will
finance laboratory and medical equipment for primary care facilities, vehicles and boats to transport patients
and health teams, computer and communication equipment to enter and transmit surveillance data, consulting
services, community-driven subprojects, small works (e.g., construction and upgrading of health posts, basic
laboratories and indigenous residences), training, workshops, seminars, software and training materials and
water supply, sanitation and housing upgrading subprojects. Key outputs for each subcomponent are
presented in Annex 3.

The activities of    Subcomponents A and B will be implemented directly by FUNASA. The activities of
Subcomponent C will be implemented by indigenous communities in partnership with NGOs and bona fide
community organizations selected by the communities. Subcomponent D will be implemented by states,
municipalities or NGOs.

Subcomponent A: Institutional Capacity Strengthenin? (US$33.3 million): This subcomponent aims to: (i)
extend basic care coverage to unserved indigenous communities; (ii)      improve the technical quality of public
and private providers serving indigenous communities; (iii)        develop and implement a performance-based
management system; (iv) decentralize decision-makingauthority to and strengthen governance mechanisms at
the subregional level, and (v) strengthen health surveillance systems while introducing monitoring and
evaluation methodologies to systematically assess the structure, processes and impact of the Indigenous
Health System.




                                                        9

Subcomponent B: Special Health Needs of Indigenous Po~ulations(US$4.5 million): Through the
development of strategies and implementation of small-scale projects implemented by NGOs and other
organizations (directly financed by FUNASA), targeted interventions and research activities in this
subcomponent aim to document and comprehend the causes of malnutrition, alcoholism and suicide among
indigenous populations while reducing the incidence of the these problems among targeted groups. The
subcomponent will also support research on options regarding the integration of traditional and modern
medicalpractices.

Subcomponent C: Fundfor Indigenous Community Initiatives (US$3.6 million): The purpose of the Fundfor
Indigenous Community Initiatives (FUNCOMIN) i s to promote community-driven local development in
health by transferring grants to indigenous communities. It will support about 150 small subprojects costing
less than $12,000. Eligible activities will include community kitchens, medicinal remedies processing,
promotion of traditional healing practices, training and equipping of midwives, fruit tree groves, vegetable
gardens, breastfeeding promotion, women support and mutual help groups and other activities that can
directly contribute to improve health. FUNCOMIN will favor subprojects that seek to strengthen participation
and capacity of women inpromotional, preventive and curative health activities.

Subcomponent D: Water and Sanitation for Ouilombo Communities (US$6.4 million): The subcomponent
will finance the installation, expansion and upgrading of water supply and sanitation systems for dispersed
rural hamlets and individual residences that will ensure basic access to technologically appropriate and
sustainable water supplies and sanitation facilities for approximately 3,750 Quilombo families residing in 150
localities in 52 municipalities. In areas where chagas disease i s endemic, the project will also finance housing
improvements oriented toward eliminating the reservoir of reduviid bugs (and other vectors) that thrive in
poorly ventilated and illuminated houses constructed with mud, adobe and thatch materials. Upgrades can
include wall plastering, cementing of floors and improvements.

Component 111: Project Management (US$6.4 million: US$4.2 million to UGP/SVS and US$2.1 million to
UGPFUNASA): The proposed project will finance incremental cost relatedto management and supervision
of project activities. These costs include UGP staff, technical assistance to ensure adequate implementation
and supervision of the project, administrative expenditures for the two UGPs (excluding civil servants), office
equipment, as well as operational maintenance of office equipment as needed, travel expensesfor supervision
in the fields and sundry items. This component will also finance, on a pilot basis, the construction of a
database of actual costs for a subset of activities implemented in low risk states and municipalities. This
database will be used to calculate standardized costs for these activities (for details refer to Annex 8). For the
purposesof the pilot the component will finance technical assistanceand computer software and hardware.

4. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

Better Integration of Operational and Technical Staff and Better Support to States: Under VIGISUS I,
            -                                                                                                  60
percent of financing went to state and municipal subprojects that were administered centrally by the project
management unit. The rest of the project financed activities and technical staff working within already
established FUNASA programs. This separation was dysfunctional and by the end of the project, changes
were made so that operational staff worked in an integrated manner with technical staff. Furthermore, specific
staff were hired to provide technical support to states, and they worked closely with FUNASA program staff.
This modelwill be continued inVIGISUS II.

Pooled Funding and Performance Financing: The M o H and Bank assessments of VIGISUS identified
significant  operational problems related to financial instruments, known as convenios, used to transfer
resources from the federal government (FUNASA) to state and municipal governments. Unfamiliarity with
Bank and government procurement rules, weak institutional capacity, ex ante controls, and an hierarchical
approval process led to major delays in the execution of state and municipal subprojects. Another issue raised


                                                      10

was the excessive input orientation of the subprojects and the lack of performance criteria to enable rigorous
monitoring and evaluation. Some states complained of exaggerated micromanagement by the federal
government in the identification of activities and inputs.

Based on this experience, the government and Bank teams have opted to apply a pooled funding or SWAP
approach to Subcomponent D of Component Iin which Bank financing is mingled with a federal grant
transfer to finance health surveillance subprojects by the states and municipalities. Also, a performance-based
financing feature will be introduced into this subcomponent in which a proportion of loan proceeds will be
tied to achievement of benchmarks by participating states and municipalities. Linking financing to
performance facilitates the introduction of a new results-oriented accountability into a hierarchical, input-
oriented public system. It is intended to support an overall focus on outputs and outcomes rather than inputs
and processes. The pooling arrangementand performance-based scheme are described inAnnex 4.

Institutional Capacitv: Although FUNASA successfully implemented indigenous health activities through
VIGISUS I,    the expansion of financing contemplated in the proposed project will require a much higher level
of organizational and technical capacity in the Indigenous Health Directorate (DESAI) of FUNASA.To this
end, FUNASA has agreed to revamp DESAI'Sorganizational structure and assemble a professional team of
indigenous health specialists and social scientists through a competitive process.

5. Alternatives consideredand reasonsfor rejection

The current programmatic design has proven robust for meeting stated objectives, as evidenced by the results
of the first phase. The programmatic platform also i s sufficiently flexible to: (i)    accommodate changing
institutional priorities (e.g, consolidation of surveillance interventions under the newly created SVS and
implementation of a new indigenous health policy and institutional framework); and (ii)     allow for expansion
of the scope of activities supporting health surveillance (e.g., non-communicable diseases, environmental
surveillance, decentralized implementation by states and municipalities) and indigenous health (e.g., quality
enhancement, special health needs related to nutrition and mental health, and community-driven subprojects).
Therefore, re-conceptualizing project design was rejected for APL PhaseII.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements:

Special Implementation Arrangements for Subcomponent D of Component I: financing will be pooled
                                                                                 Bank
with a federal grant transfer, Teto Financeiro de Epidemiologia e Controle de Doenqas (TFECD) to finance
health surveillance subprojects by the states and municipalities. TFECD i s the main federal conduit for
financing the government's National Epidemiology and Disease Control Program in states and municipalities.
The TFECD i s transferred from the Health Ministry's National Health fund to common bank accounts
(known as Fundo Municipal de Saiide and Fundo Estadual de Sacde), in each participating state and
municipality. Based on Surveillance Development Plans (PLANVIGI) submitted by the states and
municipalities, a pool of financing will be dimensioned in state and municipal Health Funds consisting of
both Bank and TFECD financing to support Health Surveillance Institutional Development Subprojects.
Fiduciary arrangements are described in Annexes 7 and 8. To enhance development impact, the project will
work with the federal government to supervise and strengthen municipal and statefiduciary processesthrough
risk assessments, fiduciary improvement action plans and audits. Government and the Bank are the only
financial partners in the proposed pooling feature. A more detailed description of the pooling arrangement i s
presentedinAnnex 4.




                                                      11

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

Due to the creation of the Secretariat of Health Surveillance (SVS) in the Health Ministry in July 2003, and
the transfer of the duties of the National Epidemiological Center (CENEPI) from FUNASA to this newly
created Secretariat, the project will have two distinct implementingunits- UGPs.The first and larger unit will
be located in SVS/MoH and will be responsible for the implementation of Component I(Health Surveillance)
and will respond directly to the Secretary of Health Surveillance. The secondunit will be located inFUNASA
and will be responsible for the implementation of Component I1(Indigenous Health) and will respond to the
President of ELTNASA. These units will work closely with the existing organizational structure (management,
technical, human resources and evaluation) both in SVS and inFUNASA.The main function of the UGP is to
coordinate and monitor all project activities including procurement planning, scheduling, monitoring and
reporting, disbursement and controls, maintenance of project accounts and preparation of reports related to
project implementation to guarantee that projects components are executed according to terms of Loan
Agreement and agreed timetable. Although each UGP will be autonomous in terms of implementation, the
larger unit located in SVS will be responsible for consolidating progress reports every four months to be
forwarded to the Bank. Details of the institutionaland implementationarrangements are found in Annex 6.

Operational Manual (OM)- An operational manual is being prepared by the Health Ministry (MoH) and a
draft was submitted to the Bank for reviewing before negotiation. The final version of the OM is expected to
be cleared by the Bank and adopted by the Government by the effectiveness of the loan. The OM will detail
procedures for monitoring of compliance with performance benchmarks, reporting, procurement, financial
management, disbursement, and auditing procedures for each component. More information is found in
Annex 6.

3. Monitoringandevaluationof outcomes/results

The Health Ministry i s committed to monitoring and improving performance of all of its activities including
public health surveillance and disease control (see Box in Section B.2 and Annex 3). In order to receive the
TFECDgrants, states andmunicipalities agreeto set targets for key indicators (see Appendix to Annex 3) and
periodically report progress in reaching them (`pactos').    Information sources for all these indicators have
been established. Many of the VIGISUS I1 indicators are identical to those in these agreements. Thus
monitoring and evaluation of most of project performance i s integrally related to the government's own
process of monitoring and evaluation of the performance of the public health surveillance system at the three
levels of government. Improving disease information i s an essential part of the project, and quality of the
government's performance indicators should improve as project investments are made. Those indicators that
are not part ,of the nationaYstate/municipal `pacts' are either related to establishment of a surveillance
structure or to training activities. Development of surveillance structures at the state level i s fundamental to
the project and to the national surveillance system and will be assessed during supervisory visits by national
staff. Likewise, assessmentof municipal structures will be carried out by state staff.

The Indigenous Health Component will support the establishment of a results-based monitoring system to
complement the new institutionalroles, resource allocation mechanisms and management framework outlined
above. Monitoring capacity building will focus on regional and subregional levels with aggregation by
FUNASA, while evaluation will be central-level function. The system will track both implementation (inputs,
activities and outputs) and results (intermediate outcomes, final outcomes and impacts). The complete list of
indicators i s presentedinAnnex 3.

4. Sustainability

The policy, institutional and financial framework supporting health surveillance and indigenous health
suggests a high level of sustainability for project-supported interventions. This i s complemented by the


                                                     12

 endorsement of        the project by state and municipal chief epidemiologists as well as by indigenous
 organizations and NGOs active inindigenous communities.

 The recent creation of the SVS and integrationof all health surveillance activities within a single organization
 increases the institutional profile of health surveillance while contributing to overall system effectiveness.
 This clearly shows the seriousness of government intentions to improve health surveillance and raise the
 capacity of the system to influence planning and implementation of public health programs and service
 provision. The recent (2000)approval of an indigenous health policy and legal framework also demonstrates
 long-term government commitment to address the health needs of indigenous communities.

 A recent constitutional amendment (No. 29) has contributed to stability of health financing, resulting in an
 estimated 26 percent increase in financing between 2001 and 2004. Also, the M o H has demonstrated strong
 budgetary commitment to health surveillance and indigenous health, registering real increases of 27 and 24
percent respectively between 2000 and 2003. While bank financial participation represents a small slice of
both programs, the joining of Loan Proceeds with federal transfers will ensure sustainability of the National
 Health Surveillance Program.

5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects


                 Risks                                 RiskMitigationMeasures                     RiskRating
                                                                                                  w/ Mitigation
To project development objectives
Inadequate capacity at state and       Project has significant financing for improved
municipal level to implement           monitoringlsupervision by national level and training I         M
surveillance and diseasecontrol        capacity buildingat state and municipal level.
activities

N o clear lines of responsibility at    SVS has expressed interest in expanding its
M o Hfor risk factor reduction and     responsibilitiesto include health promotion. Project            M
health promotion activities.           calls for strengthening intra- sectoral (within MoH)

Non-application of disincentives       activities

associated with non-compliance with    States and municipalities prefer a results-based                M
performance benchmarks specified in approach over continuation of previous "convenio"-
PLANVIGIs.                             basedarrangements in which M o H micromanaged

Insufficient institutional capacity to inputs

implement IndigenousHealth Policy                                                                      M
                                       Strong package of international and national technical
                                       assistanceincluded in project. Creation o f critical mass
                                       of professional inFUNASAto oversee indigenous
                                       health activities.
To component results
Diseasecontrol and environmental       Project invests in strengthening cross-sectoral activities
healthdependent on other                                                                               N
government sectors (e.g. water, air
quality, education).

Insufficient capacity for indigenous   Subprojects include financing for community selection
communities to develop and             of NGOs and consultants to provide technical                    M
implement community subprojects        assistance. Project will build upon experiences AIDS

Insufficient state and municipal       IMIIProjects.

capacity to meet fiduciary



                                                         13

  requirementsrelated to pooled         Conduct capacity assessment of fiduciary systems,         M
IIfunding arrangements.                 classify states and municipalities by risk and develop

  Difficulty in inducing data use and I action plan and work with counterpartsto improve       I
  uerformance-basedculture.             fiduciarv Derformance
                                                , 1


                                       Limit the numberof performanceindicators. Create           M
                                        high, base and low performancegates. Allow for
                                       remedialplan to assist low-performing statesand

  Overall Risk Rating                                                                             M

  6. Loan conditions and covenants

  1. Effectiveness Conditions
  e   OperationalManual approved by Bank.
  0   UGPfor SVS andFUNASAestablished.
  0   Financial Management System (SPIV) implemented incentral-level SVS and FUNASA.

  2. Disbursement conditions for HealthSurveillance Component: Subcomponent D(phase 1)
  0   Signed Subproject ImplementationAgreements between M o H and participating states and municipalities
      include technical performance indicators at two intervals: midpoint and end of implementationperiod.
  e   FMandprocurement assessmentscompleted for allparticipatingstates andmunicipalities.
  e   Regulation (portaria) approved by M o H setting forth requirements of Surveillance Subprojects.
  0   SPIV implemented inparticipatingstates and municipalities.

  3. Disbursement conditions for HealthSurveillance Component: Subcomponent D(phase 2)
  0   Phase 1performance audit completed and approved by Bank.
  0   Subproject Implementationagreementsamendedto reflect additional and revised activities.
  0   Audit and expenditure reconciliationreports furnishedto the Bank.

  4. Disbursement conditions for Indigenous HealthComponent
  e   M o H-FUNASACooperation Agreement signed and found legally binding.
  e   SPIV implementedinall participatingregions (Indigenous Health RegionalCoordination Office, CORE);

  D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

  1. Economicandfinancial analyses (Annex 9)

  The project will potentially save over 193,000 lives through improvements in the healthcare system,
  reductions in disability and mortality. Additionally, it will contribute over 11 million productive life years
  (DALYs) to the economy. In general, the project would yield a net present value of benefits, after investment
  and recurrent costs, of over $ 1,427.3 million and produce an internal rate of return (IRR) of 124% over ten
  years. The VIGISUS I1Project will produce substantial savings for the health sector, primarily through
  reductions in hospitalization costs due to the reduced morbidity burden from better control of infectious
  diseases. The cost-benefit analysis, which gives the project a BenefitKOst Index of 5.1, will yield significant
  health and economic benefits to the Brazilian population. Projected recurrent expenditures generated by the
  project and the estimates of future healthcare spending show that the project would be financially sustainable.




                                                         14

2. Technical (Annex 1)

The technical design is basedon the findingsand recommendations of technical studies, special consultancies,
assessment of VIGISUS Iand consultations with SVS and FUNASA technical specialists. The results are
 summarized in Annex 1 and include: survey of public health surveillance capacity in six states, survey of
NGOcapacity to manageand deliver basic care services to indigenous communities, institutional assessment
of FUNASA to manage, monitor and evaluate the quality and effectiveness of indigenous health services,
special needs assessments (nutrition and mental health), assessments of the current status of the public health
laboratory network, environmental health surveillance, and non-communicable diseasehsk factors
surveillance. All technical reports are available inthe project files.

3. Fiduciary

Procurement (Annex 8): The overall risk assessment of the project was determined to be high as presentedin
the Capacity Assessment of the Project, due to the highly decentralized nature of the implementing actions in
Component I,Subcomponent D. The capacity assessment review included visits to three state secretariats of
health. The M o H will complete the capacity assessment of all other participating states before disbursingthe
resources for this subcomponent using a methodology acceptable to the Bank. It is expected that the risk
classification will follow this model: 25%: high risk; 25%: low risk and 50%: medium risk. The risk
classification will determine the number and periodicity of the independent procurement reviews and
supervision missions. The level of approval of the final procurement arrangements and changes to the
approved list of goods and services under PLANVIGIs will also depend on the risk classification, reserving to
the Bank the approval of plans and changes relating to highrisk or non-performing participants. See Annexes
7 and 8 for the riskclassificationscheme).

The UGP in SVS has gained procurement experience with the implementation of VIGISUS I,           and possesses
adequate systems to implement the centrally executed components. The UGP in FUNASA i s weak and will
require the support of the UGP in SVS to implement the Indigenous Health Component. The risk assessment,
selection of thresholds for prior review, use of independent reviews and the supervision plan are justified in
the SVS's capacity assessment presented to and approved by the RPA. The capacity assessment resulted in
an action plan, including: gaining autonomy for procurement actions and the UGP and state and municipal
entities, filing and supervision improvement, strengthening of the information and reporting system on
procurement, development of manuals, etc. These actions were discussed with the UGP at SVS and will be
confirmed duringNegotiations.

Financial Management (Annex 7): The financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with
OPBP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial Management Arrangements in World Bank-
Financed Projects issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on October 15, 2003. It concluded that
the financial management arrangements satisfy the Bank's requirements, and a financial management system
i s in place that can provide with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the
project. The project intends to use the SOE/SOT disbursement methodology.                       The financial
monitoringheporting system has the capacity to produce reliable information and reasonable cash forecasts,
enablingthe project to disburse basedon a periodic reporting methodology. Ingeneral, the same arrangements
existing under VIGISUS IProject (L.4393) will be applied to VIGISUS 11Project. Special arrangements will
apply to Subcomponent D of Component I,as explained in more detail in Annex 7. The overall financial
management risk associated with this Project i s rated as moderate. External audits will follow Bank's new
audit policy and guidelines issued by the FMSBon June 30, 2003.




                                                     15

4. Social (Annex 10)

The main social outcomes are related to improving the health status of indigenous people and Quilombo
communities, creating educational opportunities for indigenous people to pursue a professional career, and to
foster greater participation of indigenous women in the Indigenous Health System. Improving the access to
basic services of impoverished Quilombo populations is another positive social outcome. Needs assessments
and a consultative process were carried out under the guidance of an anthropologist. Inputs were gathered
from an array of NGOs, research institutions, indigenous organizations and representatives of DSEIs. Also,
the preliminary VIGISUS I1 concept and design was presented at two meetings with indigenous women
groups. The findings, together with recommendations included in the project design, are described in Annex
 10. The Indigenous Health Component, in conjunction with the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan in
Annex 10.1, constitute the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for this project.

5. Environment (Annex 10)

Given the interventions contemplated for VIGISUS 11,the project has received a Environmental Category B.
The project does not contemplate large-scale engineering projects, it will only support the expansion of
relatively small facilities, health posts and laboratories. The potential for negative impacts resulting from
increased generation of waste materials is low. Several potential positive impacts will be derived from
project-financed activities. Waste management plans are available for most public laboratories, but
application i s inconsistent. To mitigate any potential adverse impacts, the following activities are proposed:
(i) application of environmental licensing regulations for the construction of laboratories and health centers;
(ii) training on risks related to waste management in laboratories and on preparation of a waste management
plandrawing on regulatory framework and best practices in Brazil, (iii)               development and implementationof a
waste managementplaninall laboratories constructed or expanded with project financing; and (iv) a checklist
of environmental protection procedures to be followed regarding the implementation of water supply and
sanitation subprojects.

6. Safeguard policies

     Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                             Yes                    No
     Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                                [XI                    [ I
     Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                            [ I                   [XI
     Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                   [XI
     Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                                  [ I                   [XI
     Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP4.12)                                                     [ I                   [XI
     Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP4.10)                                   [XI                    [ I
     Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                                     [ I                   [XI
     Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                              E[ l
                                                                                                I                   [XI
     Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                                                      [XI
     Projects on InternationalWaterways (OP/BP/GP7.50)                                        [ I                   [XI

OD 4.20 requirements were met with the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan in Annex 10.1of the PAD
and the specific investments and implementation and monitoring arrangements for Component I1(Indigenous
Health), which were based on the consultations and recommendations described inAnnex 10.1.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             16

7. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness

   1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
       the project implementation. (Not applicable)
  2. The,procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start ofthe
      project implementation.
   3. The ProjectImplementation Planhas been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
     '
       quality.
0 4. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):None




Gerard Martin La For&                                                                  VinodThomas
   TeamLender                                 Sector Director                         Country Director




                                                     17

                          Annex 1: Country and Sector or ProgramBackground


A.        APL PROGRAM

In1998,the Bankapprovedaseven-year$600.0millionVIGISUS Program(APL)consistingofthreephases
of $200.0 million each. The program seeks to contribute to the reduction of mortality and morbidity through
strengthening the national disease surveillance and control system and supporting disease prevention and
control for indigenous populations. The program complements an array of government programs and actions
aimed at improving the detection, notification and responseto specific diseases and health events, evaluation
of public health practices and application of information and analysis to prevention and control interventions.
Consisting of three projects over eight years, the first phase will be completed by June 30, 2004 and the
second phase is expected to become effective on July 1, 2004 while the third is expected to commence in
2007.

VIGISUS Iachieved substantial compliance with expected outcomes while impacting health status in ways
not anticipated by the original design. The Borrower met or surpassed expectations for six of the seven
triggers established for moving to Phase 11, and significantly exceeded the targets originally established for
three of the triggers. In addition, as described below, the Borrower has provided evidence that results for one
trigger (increase in tuberculosis cure rates in the Amazon Region) have been substantially met. Compliance
with specific triggers i s as follows:

                                     Achievement of APL Phase I1Triggers
0    At least 50 candidates would have been trained under the "Basic Principles of Outbreak investigation
     course: Exceeded - 138candidates trained
0    At least 200 superior-level and 100 mid-level staff would have been trained in laboratory biosafety:
     Exceeded - 1,576superior- and 1,632 mid-level staff trained.
0    Nine national reference laboratories have been rehabilitatedand equipped: Completed-the laboratories
     have been rehabilitated and equipmentpurchases completed.
0    Data and coding standards for the national surveillance system have been properly defined: Completed -
     fully complied and applied to all states.
0    New notifiable diseases reporting system (SINAN) would be fully operational in at least 20 national or
     macroregional public health laboratories: Completed- SINAN implementedin 20 state laboratories.
0    300 indigenous community health agents,would have been trained: Exceeded - 2,730 health agents
     trained.
0    The number of cases of tuberculosis cured in the Amazon Region increased by 10 percent: Substantially
     Completed - reliable data on tuberculosis cure rates were available infive of nine states comprising the
     Amazon Region, demonstrating that these states met or surpassed the target. In the other four states
     reliable data were unavailable, butprogress is being made (see below).

The trigger relating to, "the number of cases of tuberculosis (TB) cured in the Amazon Region would have
increased by at least 10 percent," was substantially met. Five of the nine states comprising the Amazonian
Region achieved or surpassed this target. However, reliable data on TB cure ratesfor the otherfour states is
still unavailable in part due to delays in installing the information system. Still, the Borrower raised the rate
of TB cases registered and under continuous monitoring from 58 to 89 percent in the Amazonian Region
between 1999 and 2001, providing evidence of signijkant progress and, as a result, assurances that
substantial compliancehas been achieved.

Furthermore, VIGISUS Ialso affected health status in ways not anticipated in the original design, suggesting
that the project actually exceeded original objectives. For example, disease control activities supported


                                                      18

through VIGISUS Icontributed to the eradication of polio and plague (in 2001) and cholera (in 2002) and
elimination of chagas disease in 10 (of 12) states where infection was prevalent. The project also supported
the government's immunization program that resulted in a significant reduction in infectious diseases. For
example, the number of registered cases of measles, German measles, tetanus, diphtheria, meningitis, and
pertussis dropped by 80 percent between 1998 and 2002.

The second phase will build upon the accomplishments of the first phase and increase support for the
decentralization of health surveillance activities and institutional reforms related to the indigenous health
system. The newly-elected government has decided to restructure the Health Ministry and create a Secretariat
for Health Surveillance. This change dramatically increases the visibility of disease surveillance. It also
effectively brings disease surveillance closer to programs that carry out prevention and control activities,
thereby facilitating a stronger link between surveillance and response. Whereas in the past, the Epidemiology
Center (CENEPI) of FUNASA (National Health Foundation) carried out disease surveillance and control
activities for some diseases, the new Secretariat will have responsibility for control of all communicable
diseases (including vaccine-preventable, vector-borne, TB, STDs and AIDS) and increased responsibility for
prevention of non-communicable diseases, injuries, and maternal and infant mortality. Disease surveillance
will be closer to policymakers inpublic health and health service delivery. This proximity should significantly
improve the ability to use public health surveillance information to influence programs directed towards
promoting the health of the entire population as well as clinical services aimed at improving individuals'
health.

The project will also continue to support the government's new Indigenous Health Policy (2000),
consolidating the gains of the first phase regarding expanding service delivery, while addressing specific
health needs of the indigenous populations. It will support continued strengthening of community-based
epidemiological surveillance and disease control efforts in indigenous areas and deal with a number of
emerging issues.

The second phase contains minor adjustments that do not represent substantive adjustments to the APL
content or overall project objective. These modifications entail improvementsinimplementationand fiduciary
arrangements buildingupon the experiences of the first phase as well as other Bank-financed projects in the
sector. At the request of the Borrower, the proposed project will support the decentralization of health
surveillance activities to states and municipalities through a pooled funding arrangement (SWAP), incorporate
a performance-based financing scheme for states and municipalities and introduce special subprojects to
support community-based activities in indigenous and Quilombo communities. Given the recent separation of
institutional functions, health surveillance activities will be implemented by the SVS/MoH while activities
directed at indigenous and Quilombo populations will be the responsibility of FUNASA.Given the innovative
nature of these implementation and fiduciary arrangements, as well as the use of two executing agencies, the
Borrower requested that the second phase be lengthened from three to four years to facilitate full execution
prior to the anticipated closing date.




                                                      19

Triggers for the thirdphase are as follows:

                                           TRIGGERS APLPHASE3
                                                       FOR
                                             HEALTHSURVEILLANCE
       e   At least 70% of cases notified through SINAN, except dengue,a are investigated and files
           closed within time frame established in SVS guidelines.
       0    50% of municipalitiesprioritized by the TB control programare providing DOTSin at least
           50% of healthcare units.
       e   60% of states andcapital cities are disseminating bi-annual, consolidatedreports of water
           quality surveillance that includes responsesto problems encountered.
       0   70% of capital cities have carried out a school-basedadolescentbehavioral risk factor survey.
       e   Formal evaluation of every state surveillance systemand institutional capacity completed and
           results disseminated.
       Indigenous Health
       e   50% of NGO andpublic (municipal) indigenous health providers operating under
           performance-basedcontracting scheme.
       0   60% of indigenous populationcovered with complete vaccination regimen.
       aDengueis reported in the aggregatedue to the wide-spread nature of most outbreaks.

The final phase will support the consolidation of a fully operational, decentralized national health surveillance
and indigenous health systems. Expected results include:

Public Health Surveillance: (i)   states submit regular weekly reports for mandatory disease notification and are
carrying out timely investigations and control activities of key communicable diseases; (ii)        public health
laboratory network i s effectively linked to the disease reporting system; (iii)   70% of states have developed a
system for surveillance of injuries, non-communicable diseases and their risk factors and are carrying
activities to promote health and prevent non-communicable diseases and injuries; (iv) 90% of deaths are
registered in vital statistics system; (v) municipalities have adequatecapacity to carry out disease surveillance
and control activities; and (iv) a nationalreference laboratory i s constructed.

Vulnerable Populations: (i)    full coverage of indigenous populations with an integrated package of preventive
and curative services; (ii) providers under contract with FUNASA operating under performance-based
                               all
contracting arrangements; (iii)   protocolsfor mother-infant care implementedin all DSEIs; and (iv) nutritional
surveillance system i s fully operational inall DSEIs.

B.       Assessment VIGISUS I:'

1.Epidemiological SurveillanceandDisease Controlinthe Amazon Region

The primary focus of the first phase of VIGISUS Iwas on strengthening the national public health
surveillance system and supporting disease prevention and control in the Amazon Region. The program also
supported decentralization efforts by providing resources to the states and municipalities to assist them in
carrying out their new and increasing responsibilities in this area. VIGISUS Iwas very effective at the
national level, but less so inthe Amazon Region and in the states.

The national public health surveillance system was strengthened through investments in: (i)the data
management telecommunications system, (ii)        the public health laboratory network, and (iii) training of
                                                                                                   the
staff. It was considered unlikely that the first phase of VIGISUS could have an impact on morbidity and


 Based on draft ICR report (October, 2003) and MoHreport submitted to Bank.


                                                       20

mortality outcomes in such a short time and therefore the focus was on process indicators and the
strengthening of the structures, including human resources, that are necessary to carry out surveillance and
disease control. Once the system i s strengthened, activities it carries out should lead to reductions in the
incidence and prevalence of communicable diseases. As shown inTable 1nearly all performance benchmarks
were achieved or surpassed.

                                                       Table 1
                                                      VIGISUS I
                            COMPARISONOF TARGETSAND ACHIEVEMENTS

                      ActivityAndicator                         Target                 Achievement

      Field epidemiology training program                     10graduates           21 graduates to date;
                                                                                     program ongoing
      Data for decisionmaking course                               25                         23
      Public health fellowships                                    22                         27
      Management training                                  60 professionals                   60
      Access to internet                                  All states and 1/3 of      Target surpassed
                                                            municipalities
      States and municipalities receive financial         Mechanism in place     Completed -- all states and
      resourcesand support services to sustain and         to transfer funds    88% of municipalities certified
      improve National Surveillance System.                                         and receiving funds
      Border laboratories constructed and equipped                  9                         11
      A coordinating mechanism established that                                    Immunization advisory
      includes public and private sector                                         committee established that
                                                                                   includes private sector
      Training in diseasecontrol in the Amazon Region        60 graduates                     282
      Multipliers trained for leishmaniasis control in            300                         503
      Amazon Region
      Hepatitis B vaccination coverage increased for        95% coverage                 2002 data:
      infants c one year old in the Amazon Region                                 5/9 statesreached target
                                                                                   2 state at 88% or better
                                                                                  3 states at 77% or better

VIGISUS Iachieved the modernization of the data management telecommunication system. New software
was developed for the mandatory disease notification system (SINAN) which i s the core information system
for public health surveillance. Under this system, priority communicable diseases are identified and reported,
and this sets off a chain of activities to control the disease and prevent others from occurring. By the end of
VIGISUS I,all 27 states and approximately 1,500 municipalities had access to the INTERNET and were
reporting results via e-mail. The other municipalities were using the Windows-based system and sending
reports on disquiets. Only 50/5,000 municipalities were not reporting on at least a monthly basis through the
S I N A N system.

The development of the information system was associated with the development of norms and guidelines
that clearly spelled out which diseases were to be monitored, when they were to be suspected, how a
diagnosis was to be confirmed, what tests should be sent to the laboratory, how to investigate it and determine
how it was transmitted, and what actions should be taken to control the disease and prevent it from occurring
in others. Capacity building through training activities was an important part of the program and highly
successful. All training targets were surpassed. Training activities included information about the new
surveillance system, outbreak investigations, various levels of training in epidemiology, laboratory biosafety
and reporting, management training in public health surveillance, environmental health surveillance, and



                                                       21

disease specific prevention and control training. A highly successful collaboration with the U.S. Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) was developed and financed through the project. CDC provided two
staff members to work in Brasilia with the newly created Field Epidemiology Training Program. It also
provided technical assistance for the Data for Decisionmaking training program. This collaboration and its
training programs will continue inVIGISUS 11.

A functioning public health laboratory network is critical to the success of surveillance and disease control.
The network in Brazil was successfully strengthened with the construction or rehabilitation of state and
zoonosis laboratories, the upgrading of nine state laboratories to biosafety level 2 (important to prevent
transmission of several highly infectious diseases to laboratory staff), and the construction of twelve border
laboratories. A laboratory information system linked to SINAN (SILAB) was developed for acute flaccid
paralysis (suspected case of polio) and yellow fever, and implemented in 20 state labs. Evaluations at the end
of VIGISUS highlighted improvements inlaboratories as some of the most successful project efforts.

One of the major achievements of VIGISUS Iwas the development of the Environmental Health Surveillance
System. This system did not exist prior to the project and was developed from scratch. By the end of the first
phase, there was a sound regulatory basis for environmentalhealth surveillance, a well-formulated plan for its
development, and a water quality surveillance system with an accompanying information system (SISAGUA)
had been implemented in nearly all of the states. Surveillance systems for air and soil contamination had also
been developed and will be implemented duringthe secondphase of the project.

Diseasecontrol efforts financed by VIGISUS Iwere limited to the Amazon Region and the 329 municipalities
where the incidence of communicable diseases was the highest. The government targeted five endemic
diseases with a case-fatality rate, epidemic potential and effective cost control measures: malaria, TB, leprosy,
leishmaniosis, and hepatitis B. Results were variable. A massive malaria control effort, launched by the
government during this time, was highly successful with a reduction in malaria incidence of nearly 50
percent-despite an increase in the number of people tested for malaria. The government invested heavily in
this effort and the result cannot be attributed to VIGISUS I. the project contributed to the positive
                                                                    However,
outcome by providing resources for training and computer infrastructure. The leishmaniosis program was also
highly successful with a sharp increase in the number of people with the disease identified and treated. The
hepatitis B vaccination campaign was less successful. By 2002, coverage for infants in the nine Amazon
states had increased, but varied from 77 to 100percent, falling short of the general target of 95 percent. The
TB control program was the least successful. This was due in large part to the fact that CENEPI, located
within FUNASA, had little control over the TB program which was located inthe MoH.

While impact indicators were not included in the VIGISUS IProject, CENEPI had developed impact targets
that are summarized in Table 2. The results obtained suggest that, at least for these priority diseases, the
surveillance system i s performing reasonably well andalready having a beneficial impact.

                                                       Table 2

                            Goal                                    Target                2000       2002
      Eradicatemeasles                              Maintain zero cases                   35          0
                                                    Vaccinate 95% of infants<1           86.8%      95.4%
      Polio stays eradicated                        Maintainzero cases                     0          0
      Urbanyellow fever stays eradicated            Maintainzero cases                     0          0
      Eliminate Chaaas
                    -                               Certificate of interruptionof          6          10
                                                    transmission for high risk states
      Intensify rabiesprogram                       Reduce number of cases                26          6
      Reduce malaria incidence                      Reduce cases inAmazon Region         613,24 1  348,259
      Reducecholera occurrence                     Maintainzero cases                     753         0
      Implement water quality surveillance system   State system implemented               5          19




                                                       22

 The least successful aspect of VIGISUS Ipertains to its provision of resources and assistance to the states
 and municipalities. These efforts were fraught with problems which have led to considerable changes in the
 design of VIGISUS 11.There were two primary problems: 1) The use of convenios as financial instruments to
 transfer resources from the federal government to state and municipal governments was extremely
 cumbersome and inflexible and resulted in reduced execution of available resources. This was due in part to
 the lengthy time requiredto elaborate and sign the convenio, Bank procurement rules that were different from
 Brazilian rules and assimilated with difficulty by the states much less the municipalities, and weak
 management capacity at the state and municipal level resulting in the slow execution of resources; and 2) The
 investments financed by the convenios were fragmented and were not placed in the context of a coherent plan
 to develop surveillance and disease control at the state and municipal levels, but rather they used the finances
 inahaphazard way to makelargepurchases(vehicles, computers) andtraining.

Despite the problems with investments at the state and municipal level, the many activities initiated under
VIGISUS I,contributed successfully to the strengthening of the national public health surveillance system
and the reduction and elimination of certain priority communicable diseases. The project contributed to the
increased awareness of the importance of surveillance and disease control and ultimately to the creation of a
new Secretariat for Public Health Surveillance,

2. IndigenousHealth

VIGISUS Ifocused on upgrading and expanding the service delivery system, creating the institutional
framework for the management and oversight of this system and implementing the essential features of a
public health surveillance system in indigenous areas. Supported by VIGISUS Iinvestments, many
communities currently benefit from regular access to basic care and a functional surveillance systems collects
and analyzes information on the health situation of the indigenous population.

Duringimplementationof VIGISUS I, Indigenous Health Subcomponent underwent a significant shift in
                                           the
focus, mirroring a reform in government policy and institutional framework regarding the organization and
delivery of health care to indigenous populations. According to the original project design, project
interventions centered on epidemiological surveillance, disease control, sanitation, immunization coverage
and expansion of the primary care delivery system. While these planned activities were successfully
implemented, commencing in 1999 the project also supported the implementation of the government's new
Indigenous Health Policy.2

Under the Indigenous Health Subcomponent, the project established an indigenous health information system
registeringnearly all of the estimated population (398,000) including data on demographics, births, mortality,
observed morbidity, sanitary practices, garbage disposal, access to potable water, housingand immunization
~overage.~   This information i s critical to the planning and execution of surveillance, disease prevention and
healthcare activities. As shown inTable 3, nearly all performance benchmarks were exceeded.

In addition, VIGISUS Isupported the development and implementation of the above-mentioned Indigenous
Health Policy, financing the establishment of 34 DSEIs, and corresponding governance councils through
training and technical assistance, the upgrading and establishment of community-based services (aten@ a
salide nus aldeais) through the construction and remodeling of health posts, health centers and Indian
residences (for referrals), provision of basic equipment, training of indigenous health agents and family
healthteams (see Figures 1 and 2 below). Currently, an estimated 90 percent of indigenous communities have
regular access to basic care. The project also supported the construction of "Indigenous Health Units" (Casas


  As stipulatedin Law No. 3156 (August 27, 1999), HealthMinistry Portaria No. 1.163/GM (September 14, 1999) and
IndigenousHealthPolicy (2002).The policyis describedin Annex 10.
  At projectonset (1998) the estimatedpopulationwas 350,000.


                                                      23

de Saiide Indigena) which serve as referral and "holding" centers for indigenous patients (and their families)
seeking specialty and hospital care, and the credentialing of 320 referral hospitals to provide services to
indigenous patients. Communication links (via satellite) were set up for 15 DSEIs. The project has financed
localized research studies on traditional medicine (medicinal plants), alcohol abuse and maternal-infant
health. It also launched studies and small pilot activities to combat alcoholism and high suicide rates.

                                                           Table 3
                                                        VIGISUS I

                          Activityfindicator                         Target                Achievement
              Percent of indigenous population with                  80 percent               90 percent
              access to basic care
              Hiring/ training of professional personnel             200 teams           300 teams providing
              for indigenous health teams                       providing services             services
              Creation of District Health Councils;                     34                        34
              training of Council members                     I Notificationof 50 I      Notification of 100
              Health surveillance system                             percent of         percent o f mandatory
                                                                mandatory diseases             diseases
              Installation of health information systems        N o target specified        100percent of
              on indigenous communities                                                communities registered

              Health posts constructed, equipped and                    27                        69
              staffed.
              Hiring and training of Indigenous Health                  700                     2,730
              Agents
              Indigenous health professionals trained in                100                      207
              epidemiological surveillance

Whether VIGISUS Icontributed to improved health status of the indigenous populations i s an open question.
As suggestedabove, VIGISUS certainly contributedto the expansion of access to basic care to previouslyun-
served communities. FUNASA claims that between 1998 and 2002, infant mortality among indigenous
populations dropped by 42 percent, while the incidence of malaria and tuberculosis registered significant
declines over this same period. The last case of measles among indigenous population occurred in 2002 and
neonatal tetanus i s a rare event (<1/1000 births).

Although the downward trend of infant mortality and disease incidence may be accurate, the magnitude of
improvements in indigenous health status i s impossible to gauge given data limitations. The information
systems did not become operational until 2000 therefore pre-interventions data are non-existent. Further,
underreporting and data entry errors plague the system. Available data drawn from household surveys are
basedon small, localized surveys, and even here, may be erroneo~s.~




 Hern (1994: 126) suggestsother obstacles to securing robust demographic and householddata: "A principal difficulty in
obtaining accurate demographic information . . is that Amazon tribes have not had written languages untilrecently, and
                                                 .
inany case, systems of counting are lacking. Categories of time are general and do not allow precise interpretations. The
Shipido work for yesterday, for example (vakish), i s the same for tomorrow. . . Even having birth "documents" are not
certain guides to birth rates. Birth certificates are sometimes not sought immediately after a birth. Reports o f dates to
recording officials are approximate and may be misunderstood or recorded improperly.
been killed may be forgotten or ignored.    ...As                                             . . Childrenwho have died or
                                                  a result, the only way it is possible to obtain some accurate demographic
data is to live permanently with a group and observe every vital event. This, obviously, is not practical for most
observers."


                                                            24

         Figure 1:Expansionof Infrastructure                            Figure2: Expansionof Human
                      1999-2002                                            Resources,2000-2002




                                                               2002




                                                               2000



             1999     2000      2001       2002                     0            1000        2000         3000


    IndianResidences    HealthCenters 0HealthFbsts                   doctors Inurses 0auxiliaries 0Agents



An assessment of VIGISUS Ihighlighted the following institutional and delivery system shortcomings5: (i)
insufficient capacity of municipalities to prepare and implement service delivery subsystems to provide basic
care services to indigenous populations; (ii)     inadequate attention to emerginghealth needs such as alcoholism,
suicide and mental health; (iii)   deficiencies in the information system; (iv) lack of evaluation, baseline and
impact studies to facilitate improvement in quality, effectiveness and efficiency of indigenous health system;
(v) weak capacity of FUNASA and decentralized units (DSEIs and CORE) to plan health care organization
and delivery or manage and monitor public and private providers; (vi) District Councils appear to function as
a bureaucratic governance mechanism; real community voice and oversight appears limited; and (vii) sparse
participation of indigenous women on the District Councils or as community-based health agents.

C.       SVS and New Directions inDisease Surveillance

In 2003, the newly-elected government restructured the MoH and created a new Secretariat for Health
Surveillance (SVS)6responsible for public health surveillance and disease control. Table 4 summarizes some
of the reasons for this new secretariat and the expected results. The creation of the SVS dramatically increases
the visibility of disease surveillance. Now that disease surveillance systems are squarely within the MoH,
these important sources of health intelligence are closer to health policy-making and planning for public
health and health service delivery. This proximity should significantly improve the utilization of public health
surveillance information to influence programs directed towards promoting the health of the entire population
as well as clinical services aimedat improving individuals' health.

The creation SVS strategically places most disease control programs within one secretariat eliminating the
fragmentation that occurred when they were located in disparate departments within the Health Ministry and
FUNASA. This permits a more integrated approach to disease prevention and control. The change also
strategically brings surveillance systems, with the information they provide about disease occurrence, together
with the programs that require this information for prevention and control. This forges a much stronger link
between surveillance and response. SVS has responsibility for control of all communicable diseases. It


 These are discussed in greater detail in Section Dof this Annex. See project files: Coloma, C. 2003a. "Estructura@o de
Aqdes Voltadas para AtenGBo a Saudedas Populaqdes Indigenas." October. FUNASA,
mimeo. and 2003b. ``Projeto VIGISUS I:    Lesdes Aprendidas."
 Portaria No. 4726/2003.


                                                         25

incorporates      activities previously carried out by the now defunct CENEP17 including surveillance and
control of malaria, dengue and other vector-borne diseases, immune-preventable diseases, zoonotic diseases
such as rabies, and emerging infections. It also incorporates disease control programs previously in the MoH
including TB, leprosy, hepatitis, STDs and AIDS.


             Comparison of disease surveillance and control before and after creation of the SVS
                           Before SVS                                             After SVS
       -Institutionalfragmentation:                         Institutionalcohesion:
          nationalsurveillance inFUNASA while state         - all surveillance activitiesemanate from MoH
       and municipalprogramsinMoH                           - improvedability to ensure policiesand
                                                               guidelinesare beingadequatelycarried out
       Surveillance and disease controlnot apriority:       -Greaterinfluence, of informationfor policy-
                                                                                visibility, and resources:
       - surveillance informationdisconnectedfrom              greater utilization
          MoHdecision-making                                   makingand planning
       Fragmentedprogramactivities:                         Integratedsurveillance and control activities:
       - key communicabledisease controlprograms            - all disease controlprogramstogether in SVS
          dispersed in MoH (EPI, TB, leprosy, STDs)         - improvedability to coordinate and prioritize
                                                               activities
       -Inadequateattentionoutbreaks
                            to emerging disease:            Increasedresourcesfor emerging issues:
          poor response to                                  - improvedpreventionI control of new outbreaks

       Inadequateattention to epidemiologictransition:
       - growingburdenof Non-Communicable Diseases -Increasedresourcesfor            NCDs and injuries:
                                                              non-communicabledisease andrisk factor
       (NCDs) and injuries                                    surveillance and control will be developed
       Difficulty coordinatingwith Basic CareandFamily       Improvedability to coordinate with Basic Care and
       Healthprograms                                       -Family Healthprograms:
                                                              improvedidentificationand control of disease by
                                                              localproviders

Inaddition, SVS will develop new areas. It is responsible for the surveillance, preventionand control of non-
communicable diseases and injuries, and exposure to the risk factors that increase their prevalence. Brazil has
undergone a demographic and epidemiologic transition and non-communicable diseases and injuries are now
its principle burden of disease (Table 5). Addressing this new burden i s a challenge that requires a shift in
paradigm with a focus on policies that have a long-term impact on the prevention of risk factors such as
smoking, obesity, inactivity, poor diet, alcohol use etc. In response, the SVS will increase resourcesdedicated
to the prevention and control of NCDs, injuries, and risk factors. In addition, SVS i s responsible for many
epidemiologic information systems including vital statistics the principle tool for monitoring infant and
maternal mortality, an unfinished agenda in Brazil. It will disseminate and scale-up the maternal and infant
mortality surveillance system of community-based audits that has been developed in some regions of the
country. Thus, SVS play a key role in monitoring and achieving the health MDGs: communicable diseases
including malaria, HIV/AIDS,TB and others, and maternaland infant health.




  CENEPI, a part of FUNASA, was responsible for surveillance of all diseases on the mandatory notification list.
However, it was not responsible for all control programs. The MoH was responsiblefor TB, leprosy, HIVIAIDS control,
each with their own separate informationsystems.


                                                       26

administration's agenda of social development and poverty
reduction. As part of its situation analysis, a priority for SVS             Burdenof Disease,Brazil, 1998

i s the development of methodologies to analyze and                                                           % Share
understand inequitable health outcomes and their causes              Cause
                                                                SO   Infectious, parasitic diseases          15
that more effective programs are developed to address and            Maternal,     perinatal,   nutritional
eliminate them.                                                      problems                                 9
                                                                     Non-communicable diseases               55
SVS recognizes that many disease identification and control          Injuries                                22
efforts occur at the local level. Increasing the capacity of
health care providers, particularly those in primary care, to        Source: MoH, A Cargade Enfermedades,2003, mime0
participate iihealth sufveillance and diseasecontrol activities i s essential to an effective system. SVS i s thus
developing closer ties with the Secretariat for Health Care Delivery and capacity-building, particularly of
community health agents and family health teams i s an important new direction of work.

In order to achieve its disease prevention and control goals SVS will work across sectors such as water,
environmental protection, education etc. Such multi-sectoral efforts were initiated during VIGISUS I,
particularly for environmental health activities. These efforts will be enhanced under SVS. Furthermore,
modern disease prevention and control requires partnerships beyond those with other parts of the M o H and
other government Ministries. SVS recognizes the importance of partnerships with NGOs and civil society to
effectively address health problems and i s strengthening its own capacity in social communication and social
mobilization.

Incarrying out its responsibility for national disease preventionand control the SVS will needto ensure that
the role of the states i s effectively being carried out. Duringthe last six years, the Brazilian health system has
been decentralized as states and municipalities take over management of public health and health service
delivery. However, this process i s incomplete, and will continue to be nurtured and strengthened.
Responsibility for disease reporting, investigation, and most control activities rests with the municipal level.
States are expected to play an increasingly greater supervisory role as well as provide supplementary expertise
when municipal capacity i s exceeded. However, in order for this to be possible, capacity will have to be
ensuredinthe states.

Surveillance Capacitv in State and Municipalities'

The SUS decentralization process that commenced in 1988 transferred most health system responsibilities to
the municipalities. This situation was no different for health surveillance. According to the regulatory
framework,' municipalities are responsible for most surveillance activities, including detection, collection and
notification of case data, analysis and interpretation, case investigation and confirmation, and feedback and
dissemination of results to the health service system. However, the vast majority of municipalities were and
remain ill-prepared to comply with these responsibilities. The regulatory framework identifies the states as
pivotal players in the public health surveillance system, setting norms and standards that following federal
policy guidelines, supervising the implementation of surveillance and disease control activities by
municipalities, coordinating actions when diseases cross municipal lines and providing technical and resource
support to municipalities. Unfortunately, a great deal of variation exists in terms of the capacity of states to
fulfill these functions. Also, given that diseasecontrol and surveillance functions often exceedthe capacity of


* This section draws on three sources o f information: (i) assessmento f lessons learned from VIGISUS I;(ii)
                                                         an
consultations with State and Municipal chief epidemiologists, (SVS, 2003) and (iii) survey of health surveillance
                                                                                   a
capacity in six states (Simdes et al., 2003).
 Portaria No. 139911999.


                                                         27

most municipalities, states increasingly are called upon to provide a leadership role as well as supplementary
expertise and resourcesto support municipal capacity. Most are ill-prepared to meet the challenge.

Institutional capacity issues include: (i)most state and municipal secretariats don't function as an effective
public health team, sharing and using available data and epidemiological analysis to solve health problems;
this results in disintegration of the major components of the surveillance system; (ii)a data-use and
performance-oriented culture has not taken hold in most states and municipalities: where epidemiological
reports and good data analyses are available they are not used for priority setting, budgeting, planning,
monitoring or evaluating health programs and services; (iii)      the quality and coverage of the surveillance
system for infectious and transmissible diseases i s inconsistent; routine activities such as the timely detection
and notification of compulsory diseases still presentsa challenge to many municipalities; and (iv) many states
and municipalities require strengthening in specific technical areas such as surveillance of environmental
hazards (water, air and soil) and surveillance of NCDs.

These shortcomings respond to an array of factors evident in state and municipal health secretariats. The most
noteworthy are as follows: (i)high rotation of professional personnel in state and municipal health
departments in part due to lack of career paths, institutional system and salary structure; (ii)        ill-defined
position descriptions and low quality of personnel assigned to disease surveillance and control activities does
allow for an epidemiological intelligence to take place and performkey functions linkedto decision-making;
(iii)information systems remain disintegrated or partially functional, while the quality of data i s often not
monitored, (iv) Offices of the Chief Epidemiologist are afforded little importance, prestige or budgetary
autonomy by state and municipal secretariats resulting substandard working conditions in terms of office
space, infrastructure, information technology for epidemiology, prevention and control activities; and (v) low
capacity to provide and sustain quality training inepidemiology and disease control.

D.       Indigenous Health System: HealthStatus andInstitutional Capacity

Background

Brazil's indigenous population is estimated at 395,000 people" consisting of 210 ethnic groups speaking 170
languages. Approximately 190,000 are women of child-bearing age and 49,000 are children 0-4 years of age.
They reside in all but two states (Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte), mainly in 579 indigenous reservations that
occupy about 12 percent of Brazil's territory." An estimated 3,370 indigenous communities exist, many in
distant hamlets. Contact with the rest of the population began about 300 years ago and continued at different
rates for different ethnic groups. It i s estimated that only 55 groups remain isolated. Each ethnic group i s
unique.

An estimated 50,000 Indians reside in Brazil's largest urban areas particularly in Manaus, Manacapuru,
Campo Grande, Dourados and Aguas Belas. Considerable migration between urban settlements and rural,
isolated hamlets i s common. In some cases, movement i s temporary to seek work or health care. In other
cases, settlements are permanent resulting from the disintegration of tribal life, culture and livelihood.

Changes in the health profile of indigenous groups have occurred over a relatively short period of time.
Medical anthropologists hypothesize that Amazonian Indians suffered a reversal of the epidemiological
transition with the arrival of Europeans. Forensic data suggests that prior to colonization, Indians' health
problems resulted mainly from chronic and degenerative disease. With colonization came the arrival of
"induced" transmissible disease such as tuberculosis, smallpox, malaria and yellow fever. Currently, Indian
populations suffer from all phases of the epidemiological transition combining infectious diseases with


loLiving indefinedcommunities.
l1DESAI, March2002


                                                     28

degenerative illnesses. The latter are associated with an increasingly sedentary lifestyle. Communities also
suffer from problems such as alcoholism and suicide caused by disruption of social networks, environmental
pollution and diminishing natural resources that are detrimental to subsistence activities. As displayed in
Table 6, sanitary conditions are precarious in many Indian villages. Less than one-third have access to potable
water and sanitation facilities are absent.

Overall mortality i s on the increase, though this may be an artifact                        Table 6
of improved registration. Infant mortality i s decreasing and may                    Immunization Coverage
relate to improved access to basic care. However, the magnitude of               National and Indigenous, 2002
                                                                          ~




the decrease is unknown due to data limitations. Respiratory                Immunization               Indigenous
disease, enteric illnesses, perinatal causes, septicemia, suicide and       Pol10                97         61
violence are the main cause of mortality, accounting for over 50            DPT                  96         55
percent of registered deaths.'* Much of the burden of disease               HeptitisB            95         45

results from communicable diseases. Outpatient statistics show              DTP                  96         24

that intestinal illnesses account for about 35 percent of                   Measles 100                     32
                                                                            BCG                  100        44




Health and Institutional Issues




indigenous populations; (iii)  institutionalassessment of FUNASA                             Table 7
to manage, monitor and evaluate the quality and effectiveness of                    Indigenous Communities
indigenous health services; (iv) gap analyses drawing on lessons            Housing and Sanitary Conditions, 2002
learned from the implementation of VIGISUS I;and (v) special                            N=2174 villages

needs assessments (nutrition and mental health).                           Indicator                 Percent
                                                                           Village organization            24
Health Issues                                                                                              61
                                                                                                           47

Malnutrition: Available evidence suggests that infant and child            Healthpdst                      39

malnutrition remains unacceptably high in many indigenous                  Water System (workng)           28
                                                                           Sanitationsvstem                0.4
communities.      Systematic     and      reliable    databases     on
anthropometric assessments are lacking except for small,                   Source: FUNASA, SISABI, 2002




'*Over 25 percentof deaths are registeredas ill-defined,suggestinglack of access to medicalcare.
l3See project files: Hahn (2003); Encontro de Mulheres Indigenas da Amazonia Basileira (Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 2003);
Encontro de OrganizaGZoe Intercambio de Mulher Indigena do Nordeste (Oct. 24-26, 2003); Coputinho, et al. (2003),
Sanigest,(2003), Coloma(2003,a,b), Ferraz and Ribas(2003), FUNASA (2003a); DESAIFUNASA, 2003)
I4
 PNDSA996.


                                                       29

Data from developing countries shows that diarrhea is a major cause of growth faltering and malnutrition
among children between 6 and 18 months of age. About 75 percent of outpatient consultations in the
indigenous health system are for diarrhea for children less than five years of age. A FUNASA sponsored
study of the Kaingang in 1996 found that over one-third of children 0-5 years had diarrhea duringthe 15 days
prior to the interview. Worse, most mothers of children with diarrhea believed that food should be reduced
during a diarrhea episode. Anemia and micronutrient deficiencies, particularly vitamin A, are potentially
major problems, but evidence i s limited to a few tribes. In sum, malnutrition may be endemic, long term and
likely to have commenced in the uterus and aggravated by inadequate diet, micronutrient deficiencies and
disease stress.

                                                        Table 8:
                                 Frequency Distribution of children under height for age
                                       (c-iz scores reference population NCHS)
                                                    -                                      -


                       Source                    Ethnic Group          Year              Age     Deficit
                                                    (state)             Data           Bracket    (%)
                                                                     Collected
           Coimbra Jr. & Santos (1991).     Surui(RO)                1987          0 -9 years    46,3
             Coimbra Jr. et a1(2002)        Xavante (MT)             1995          0 -48 months  27,7
             Capelli & Koifman (2001)       Parakateje (PA)          1994          0 - 60 months 10,O
                Leite et al. (2003).        Xavante (MT)             1997          0 -5 years    28,3
             Martins & Menezes (1994)       Parakana(PA)             1991                        50,6
                                                                                   0-60 months
                                                                                   0 -5 years
                Morais et al. (2003)        Alto Xingu (MT)          1992                        16,O
                  Santos (1991)             Tupi-Monde               1990          0 - 10years   55,4
                                            (MTe RO)
                Ribaset al. (2001).         Terena (MS)              1990          0-60 months   16,O
                   Weiss (2003)             Enawenw-Nawe(MT)         1990          0 - 60 months 50,O
                 Horta& Oliveira            Kaineane                 1996          0-60 months   47
        Source: Ferraz and Rivas. 2003

Although nutrition is a stated priority of government's Indigenous Health Policy, nutrition surveillance and
interventions have yet to be systematically incorporated in the FUNASA system. The policy also mandates
the adoption of a culturally-sensitive set of interventions to combat malnutrition, however little is known on
appropriate approaches. However, there i s a growing consensus among nutritionists and anthropologists that
food supplementation, nutrition education and cash transfers may not be effective means to address nutritional
problems in indigenous communities. More research is needed on the diversity of dietary and child feeding
practices as well as approaches that have succeededinchanging behaviors ina culturally appropriate manner.

Znfant and Child Mortality: While infant and maternal mortality has decreased during the last five years,
indices are still well above national averages. The infant mortality rate in Brazil i s estimated at 30/1,000
births, compared to 56/1,000 births for indigenous peoples. Underreporting remains problematic, especially
for isolated groups. Available data suggest huge variations in infant and child mortality rates of indigenous
 population^.'^ For example, among the 34 Indigenous Health Districts, registers show variations in infant
mortality rates of 160 percent. Approximately 30 percent of deaths are infants(less than one year of age) and
about half of all recorded death are children less than 5 years old. Groups located in isolated areas of the
Amazon basin (such as Vale do Javari, Kaiapo, Medio Purus and Yanomani) report infant mortality rates over
100per 1,000 births. Less isolated groups in the Northeastern region generally display infant mortality rates
more in line with regional and national averages. Data on maternal mortality i s unavailable.

Little i s known about the determinants of infant mortality in indigenous communities or prenatal and infant
care practices. A study is currently analyzing infandmaternal mortality and care practices in a sample of

l5Although diseasesurveillancehas improved considerably, under-reportingis still wide-spread.


                                                     30

indigenous populations. It is generally accepted among health care practitioners that lowering maternalhnfant
mortality rates among indigenous populations will require special interventions to increase uptake while
applying culturally-sensitiveprenatal and infant care practices

Communicable Disease: Available evidence suggests that much of the burden of disease results from
infectious and transmissible diseases such as diarrhea, acute respiratory disease, malaria, and tuberculosis.
Diarrhea and ARI account for over 50 percent of all contacts with health providers and are the main killers of
infants and children. The incidence of tuberculosis among indigenous populations is double the national rate,
but varies tremendously among ethnic groups and communities. No information is available on cure rates.
Malaria still afflicts most indigenous groups and i s endemic in the Amazon Basin. The disease has been
perpetuated by deforestation. More troublesome, are the low rates of coverage for vaccine-preventable
diseases. According to FUNASA/MoH data, vaccination rates for polio, DPT, measles, BCGand Hepatitis B
amongthe indigenous population is about halfthe national average.

Suicide and alcoholism: Suicide i s the leading cause of death among adolescent males and young men. In
2002, FUNASA registered 99 suicides, representing 5 percent of all deaths, but 27 percent of deaths inthe 10-
29 age cohort. The overall incidence of suicides among indigenous populations i s unknown but the situation
for some ethnic groups i s particularly alarming. For example, the incidence for the KaiouA-Guarani i s 277 per
100,000 in 2002. During the last three years suicides accounted for nearly 25 percent of total mortality
among the Kaiouh-Guarani. Available data from a sample of DSEIs show that rates ranged from 7 to 47 per
100,000. (Among all indigenous groups in the USA, the rate is 34 per 100,000 population). Anecdotal
evidence suggests high rates among other indigenous groups, as evidenced by their requests for assistance to
FUNASA

High rates of alcohol dependency may
contribute to suicides as well as other health                              Table 9

and social problems such as violence, low          Incidence of Regular Use of Alcohol inSpecific Tribes

birth weight, diabetes, hypertension and          Ethnic     State   Percent Regular Use         Source

depression. Table 9 summarizes the results        Group                   of Alcohol

of localized studies on use of alcohol in a      Terena              31% men; 2% women       Souza     et   al.
small sample of ethnic groups. Not all the                    M S    (invillages)            (1997)
data i s comparable due to differences in                            17% women in city

methods, timeframe and definitions. There i s    Maxacali   I MG 138%invillages             ITorreta (1997)    I
little reliable data on the incidence of                                                     Kohatsu         e
alcoholism     among    indigenous    groups.    Kaingang     PR     27% in villages         Oliveira (1999)
Evidence from qualitative studies in specific
communities suggest that for some tribes, the incidence of alcoholism ranges from 22 to 38 percent of
adolescentsand young men (Souza, et al, 1997).

Dissecting the causes of suicides and alcoholism among indigenous groups is a complex endeavor.
Developing effective interventions i s even more difficult. Commencing in 2001, VIGISUS Isupported a
limited number of research projects, focus groups and pilot activities to understand suicides and alcoholic
abuse in a small sample of communities. One of the first items on the agenda for VIGISUS I1i s to evaluate
the pilots while assessing the researchresults.

Institutionalissues:

Since 1999, the National Health Foundation (FUNASA) has been responsible for indigenous health through
oversight and financing of a parallel indigenous health subsystem. Mandated through Law 9836 (1999) and
supported by the government's Indigenous Health Policy (Regulation No. 254: 2002), FUNASA established
34 Special Indigenous Sanitary Districts (DSEI) based on geographic, socio-cultural, and epidemiological


                                                    31

criteria. DSEIis the equivalent of a territorial-defineddelivery system. It i s headedby a director (chefe), who
representsFUNASA and is responsible for health services as well as for developing a district health plan with
the participation of District Councils. The latter consist of indigenous and NGO representatives. DSEIs are
organized by catchment areas where a health center (polo base) i s located. There, health teams consisting of
doctors, nurses and technical staff provide basic care through outreach services to villages in the area. About
half of indigenous villages have an indigenous health agent, usually a community member. Higher level care
i s providedthrough referrals to SUS facilities in towns and cities.

Three types of delivery models are used: (i) direct delivery: consists of "in-house" personnel hired by
FUNASA through Regional Units (CORE); (ii)indirect contracting: contracting of "administrative" NGOs
who hire health personnel, procure supplies and equipment, but service provision i s directly managedby the
DSEIs; and (iii)direct contracting: this mainly consists of contracting of NGOs to provide services and
procure all works, goods and services. (FUNASA has also entered into a limited number of "agreements"
with municipalities to provide care). DSEIs are responsible for supervision.

Indirect contracting is the dominant modality. Currently, FUNASA has signed contracts with 48 NGOs and 8
municipalities. For both direct and indirect modalities, FUNASA directly purchases drugs and medical
supplies for tuberculosis and malaria, and may finance investments in works (health posts) and equipment
such as vehicles and boats. FUNASA i s responsible for all training. In most cases, all supplies and logistical
support are provided by FUNASA through the DSEIs. The following are the main issues related the
financing, organization and delivery of health care:

Low quality and discontinuous care: Although this problem i s symptomatic of SUS, the DSEIs, NGOs and
municipalities responsible for delivering care to indigenous communities generally provide discontinuous and
low quality care. In a recent survey of 11 NGOs (in 11DSEIs), users affirmed that the healthteam visited the
villages half the number of times claimed by the teams. About half the health centers and teams lack the basic
equipment specified in FLTNASA norms. No team reported having the full stock of drugs. Whether this
situation i s symptomatic of other providers i s unknown .

The health care package i s ill-defined and fragmented across vertical programs. Although providers are
knowledgeable of the types of services they are to offer (e.g., pre-natal care, well-baby care, control of
communicable disease, etc.,) how care is provided appears to depend on the skill set of individual teams.
Although available through the MoH, treatment protocols are rarely applied. Some teams report providing an
array of services while others report nearly exclusive dedication to vaccination. Most respond to the
spontaneous demand from the populations residing in their catchment areas. Few adopt an integrated and
strategic approach to addressing the populations' health needs. Finally, referral systems appear uneven. Often
patients are referredto a nearby urban center for further diagnostics and treatment, but have to wait weeks or
months for an appointment. Contrarily, records show that patients are often referred for conditions that can be
adequately resolved at the primary level, resultinginunnecessarycost escalation.

Table 10displays the scores drawn from a capacity assessment of a sample of 12NGOs.Although some have
sufficient capacity to cover their beneficiary populations with basic care services of good quality, most
require significant capacity building.      Supervisory capacity along with administrative and financial
managementappear weak for the entire sample.




                                                     32

A final quality issue relates to the lack of articulation
between traditional and modern medical practice.                  Table 10: Resultsof NGO Capacity Assessmentof

Traditional practitioners including midwives are key                          Sample of 12NGOs,2003
                                                                                       Max.
caregivers in indigenous communities. The use of                 Function              Possible     Average Range
medicinal plants i s also common. There has been no                                    Score        Score
systematic attempt to explore options for linking Coverage                              135         95      53-115
traditional and modern practitioners.                            Technical Quality      135         88      65-120
                                                                 Supervision            140         70      58-94
Lack of a results orientation:         Indigenous health         Adm. -Financial                    58      46-69
providers are not accountable for results, however               Management            90
defined. The performance of NGOs and municipalities              Source: Coutlinho, Jr. et al., 2003
under contract (or through convenios) with FUNASA to provide basic care to indigenous communities i s
unknown. In a recent policy statement, FUNASA recognized that many teams fail to comply with DSEI
plans, in part because of low managerial and technical capacity. FUNASA has not specified performance
targets in part because the set of services and interventions for which providers are responsible is ill-defined.
The contracts themselves are legal documents devoid of performance criteria. In short, although FUNASA
has adopted a contracting model for the indigenous health system, the contracts are rarely monitored.
FUNASA lacks a purchasing function to "manage" the contracts.

Typical of SUS, financing appears more related to supply factors such as human resources, infrastructure and
equipment rather than technical criteria related to health status, population and epidemiological profile. The
scatter plot displayed in Figure 3 demonstrates the weak link between per capita financing and infant
mortality across DSEIs. In addition, spending appears to have little relationship to geographical size of the
DSEI, populations, distance to nearest city or transport costs. For example, per capita DSEI expenditures in
2002 ranged from US$ 39 to $564 (standard deviation: $130). Even among NGO contracts, there is little
correlation between coverage and per capita spending.

                   Figure 3: Infant Mortalityand Per CapitaFinancingby DSEI, 2002
                               8 -


                             7.5 -                t

                                                          t                  t
                               7 -          t                                          t
                                    Vale do Jaban           * e            e *
                          -                                 **        **
                          `86.5 -
                          k                                 t       ..  t t

                                                                      - 0 .



                                                                      t        t

                          m    6 -               t
                          - 5.5 -                                       t


                                                       t
                                                     Leste
                             4.5                                                    R2= 6E-08

                              4
                                0            1         2             3         4              5
                                                       logMrtalidad0-4



Weak oversight capacity: There is considerable confusion regarding the roles of central and decentralized
management levels of FUNASA. The functions of planning, management, monitoring and evaluation are
diffused between centralized (FUNASA) and decentralized (DSEI and CORE) levels. Lines of organizational
accountability are blurred, thwarting the decision-making process, especially at the lower levels.




                                                      33

Available data on production is not analyzed while feedback from users i s not systematically collected. Inthe
above-mentioned survey, all NGOs reported dispatching surveillance and production information to
FUNASA on a monthly basis, but none report receiving any feedback. The skill set of FUNASA staff i s more
oriented toward process- and -input management. Most management i s oriented toward solving short-term
supply problems and logistical bottlenecks. Yet service provision i s for the most part contracted out to NGOs
and municipalities. Contract managementfunctions have yet to be developed.

Finally, little i s known about the functioning and performance of the District and Local Councils. Currently
each of the 34 DSEIs possesses a Council, constituting 880 council members. In some DSEIs, the Councils
play important "social control" functions and represent the indigenous groups. In others, they exist in name
only, meeting infrequently. According to the NGO survey, only half the sampled teams rated the functioning
of the Councils as excellent or good.

Inability to respond to demand Although the Local and District Councils are the nominal platform for
community participation, FUNASA has yet to establish institutional mechanisms to systematically support
community-demanded initiatives that can contribute to improved health. Consultations with indigenous
groups together with the VIGISUS Iexperience suggest a need to form alternative partnerships with
indigenous communities through direct financing of community-initiated projects.

Health Conditions of Other Ethnic Minorities: The government has placed a high priority on improving the
social conditions of special populations residing in Brazil. One such group is Black populations who are
descendents of fugitive slaves, residing in about 750 communities dispersed throughout Brazil. With an
estimated population of about 2 million, Quilombolas are considered of the most impoverishedpopulations in
Brazil. For example, in 23 municipalities with a high concentration of Quilombolas, 18 displayed infant
mortality rates significantly higher than the nationalaverage (30/1,000 births) in 1999, rangingfrom 36 to 104
per 1,000 births. FUNASA, which i s responsible for the provision of water supply and sanitation in small
municipalities (less than 30,000 inhabitants), estimates that only 26 and 11percent of these communities have
access to potable water supplies and appropriate sanitation services respectively. The Quilombo communities
may account for one of the lowest rates of coverage for water supply and sanitation in Brazil.




                                                    34

    Annex 2: Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other developmentagencies
                                    (completed, ongoingand planned)

                                                                              LatestSupervision
                Sector Issue                           Project                   (PSR) Ratings
                                                                            (Bank-financedprojects
                                                                                     on 1
                                                                            Implementa Developm
Bank-financed                                                                  tion         ent
                                                                             Progress   Objective
                                                                               (W          (DO)
Malaria prevention and control          Amazon BasinMalaria and Control      Completed       S
                                       (Loan 3072-BR)                           (SI

Endemic diseasecontrol                 Northeast Endemic DiseaseControl      Completed       S
                                       (Loan 2690-BR)                           (S)

AIDS and STD preventionand control      AIDS (Loan 3659-BR)                     HS           S

Health Sector financing, improvement Health Sector ReformProject -
3 f infrastructure and management       REFORSUS (Loan 4047-BR)
                                                                                 S           S
EpidemiologicalSurveillance             DiseaseSurveillance and Control
                                       Project -VIGISUS (Loan 4394) with
                                        IDB
                                                                             Completed
4IDS and STD preventionand control      SecondAIDS and STD Control Project       S           S
                                        -AIDSI1(Loan4392-BR)

HumanResources                          Professionalization of Nursing
                                        Personnel(Loan BR-0305)                  S           S

Family Health                           Family Health Project (Loan 7105-BR)     S           S


Health, education and social protection HDProgrammatic Human                     S           S
policy improvement                     Development Adjustment Loan (Loan
                                        7159-BR)

41DS and STD preventionand control      Third AIDS and STD Control Project-
                                        AIDS I11(Loan 4713 -BR)
%her development agencies




                                                 35

                                          Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring

                                           PUBLIC HEALTHSURVEILLANCE
        PDO: Component 1                                   Outcome Indicators                     Use of Results Information
                                              80% of new TB cases are cured                      YRl :Assure availability of
                                              60% of municipalities inevery state have at least  baselinedata
                                              95% coverage for DPT+HiB for children <one         YR2: Review quality of data
                                              year of age.                                       and determine ifproject is on
Reduce morbidity and mortality                50% reduction in number o f municipalities in      course to meet objectives.
and exposure to risk factors                  Amazonia Legal considered at high risk for         YR3: Successful elements
                                              malaria.                                           incorporated into overall

                                         0    Increase in the prevalence of ex-smokers in        program and design of
                                              capital cities (based on 2005 baseline).           VIGISUS 111.
       Intermediate Results                    Results Indicators for Each Component             Use of Outcome Monitoring
Subcomponent A:                              40% of cases o f bacterial meningitis confirmed     YR1-1: Assure baseline data
Strengthen communicable disease              by laboratory analysis.                             available
surveillance and control.                0    85% of municipalities at high risk for dengue      YR2-1: Review of
                                             have fewer than 10%of households with a             performance problems and
                                             health visit pending                                suggestcorrective actions.
                                             20,000 surveillance agentstrained in
                                             communicable disease surveillance and control.
Subcomponent B:                              National environmental health surveillance          YR2-2: Review o f
Strengthen environmental health              system i s fully developed for water, air and soil  performance problems and
surveillance including                       at the national level.                              suggest corrective actions.
environmentally related diseases
and risk factors and their control.
Subcomponent C:                              90% of deaths are notified to vital statistics      YR1-3: Assure baseline data
Strengthen capacity to cany out              At least 50% of states calculate a valid infant     are available
health situation analysis and                mortality rate usingvital statistics.               YR2-3: Review of
injury, non-communicable disease         0   Instateswith >90% death certification coverage,     performance problems and
and related risk factor surveillance,        <11% of deaths are illdefined                       suggestcorrective actions.
prevention and control.                  0   Baseline data for behavioral risk factors
                                             available in all capital cities, and plan to reduce
                                             prevalence developed
Subcomponent D:                               100 % of statesare submitting regular bi-          YR1-4: Develop system for
Strengthen institutional                     monthly reports for mandatory disease               monitoringand supervising
surveillance and disease control             notification.                                       states; ensure baseline data.
capacity in states and                   0   60% of states and capital cities have an            YR2-4: Review performance
municipalities.                              environmental health surveillance system            problems with states and
                                             structure in place defined as i)an approved         suggest corrective actions.
                                             regulatory framework, ii)a technical team at the    YR3-4: Disseminate
                                             central level, and iii)bi-annual water quality      performance results and
                                             surveillance reports.                               discuss with states
                                             70% of stateshave implemented a system for
                                             injury, non-communicable disease andrisk
                                             factor surveillance and control.*
                                             70% of states have prepared career plans for
                                             health surveillance professionals.
        *Defined as: a technical team that produces at least one report annually summarizing ie results of an analysis of hosp :a1
        and mortality data for the principal NCDs (cardiovascular disease, strokes, diabetes, and cancers: breast, cervical, lung,
        and colon-rectal), traffic injuries and homicides; and an analysis of Brazil Risk Factor (BRF) (at a minimumfor
        smoking).




                                                                    36

                                              INDIGENOUSHEALTH
       PDO: Component I1                           Outcome Indicators                       Use of Results Information
                                        60% of indigenous population covered with         YR1: Review progress of
                                       complete vaccination regimen;                      expansion of surveillance system
                                       50% of pregnant women in targeted districts        and securing of baseline data.
                                       receive at least 3 prenatal consultations          YR2: Review quality of data and
Targeted vulnerable populations        according to MoWFUNASA protocols;                  determine if project is on course
have improved health outcomes           100percent of mothers with children <2 yrs.       to meet objectives.
                                       and identified with inadequate weight gain         YR3: Successful elements
                                       receive nutrition educatiodcounseling on           incorporated into overall
                                       feeding practices that are culturally appropriate; program and design of VIGISUS
                                       80% of cases of diarrhea inchildren less than 6    111.
                                       years of age treated with ORT.
                                       30% increaseof TB cases under DOTS.
       Intermediate Results              Results Indicators for Each Component              Use of Outcome Monitoring
Subcomponent A:                      e All modules of indigenous information system       YR1-2: Determine institutional
Targeted indigenous communities        functioning in all DSEIs.                          arrangements, governance
receiving an integrated package of   e Maternal-child care protocols defined and 50%      structures and support systems
quality basic care on a regular        of health teams trained.                           are in place for performance
basis and in a culturally-sensitive  e 50% NGO and public providers operating under       management and monitoring.
manner.                                new, performance-based contracting scheme          YR2: In-depth review of
                                       with alternative payment system (for NGOs):        performance problems and
                                       purchasing and monitoringtevaluation units         suggest corrective actions;
                                       implemented inFUNASA.                              YR3: Informationinfluences
                                     e 70% of health teams providing integrated,          resource allocation decisions.
                                       benchmark service plan.                            YR3: Dissemination of
                                     e 30% of new AIS hires are indigenous women.         performance information to
                                     e 50% of Indigenous Health Districts provide         beneficiaries.
                                       evidence that District Councils approve and
                                    -  access annual health plans.
Subcomponent B:                      e Reliable data on nutritional status, substance     YR1-2: Surveillance data
Targeted indigenous communities        abuse and suicides available in 10DSEIs            incorporated into child-growth
mobilized around child growth and      through surveillance system.                       and promotion strategy;.
mental health issues.                e At least 80% of children intargeted districts less YR3: Best practice mental health
                                       than 2 years of age weighed according to           interventions form basis for
                                       timeline specified in Health Ministry norms.       broader strategy and program.
                                     e 75% of targeted indigenouscommunities
                                       implementing interventions to address
                                       alcoholism and suicide issues.
                                     e 30% of districts have implemented activities
                                       with traditional midwives to integrate traditional
                                    -  and modern medical practices.
Subcomponent C:                      e Beneficiaries in 80% of indigenous communities     YR1-3:Determine ease of
[ndigenous communities able to         receiving grants have met stated objectives and    application /grant award process,
dentify and prioritize health needs,   50% consider that the subprojects have             and capacity o f communities to
inddevelop and implement               contributed to the improvement of previously       access grants; flag problems and
nterventions to address them.          defined health problems.                           revamp procedures as necessary.
SubcomponentD:                         75 percent of targeted beneficiaries:              YR1-2: Determine
rargeted Quilombo communities          have knowledge o f the importance of personal      appropriateness and
lave access to technologically         hygiene.                                           sustainability o f selected
ippropriate water and sanitation       have access to technologically appropriate water   technologies; feed overall
iervices and are aware of proper       supply and sanitation.                             strategy on sustainability.
ianitary and disease prevention
Iehaviors.



                                                             37

                                     Arrangements for ResultsMonitoring

 Component I:The Health Ministry i s committed to monitoring and improving performance of all of its
activities including public health surveillance and disease control. In order to receive the TFECD grants,
 states and municipalities agree to set targets for key indicators and periodically report progress in reaching
them (`pactos'). Information sources for all these indicators have been established. Many of the VIGISUS I1
indicators are identical to those in these agreements. Thus monitoring and evaluation of most of project
performance i s integrally related to the government's own process of monitoring and evaluating the
performance of the public health surveillance system at the three levels of government. Improving disease
information i s an essential part of the project, and quality of the government's performance indicators should
improve as project investments are executed.

The principal information sources for Component 1 indicators              include: SINAN (mandatory disease
notification system strengthened under VIGISUS I),       S I M (mortality data from vital registration), SIVEP-
Malaria (malaria information system), SISPNI (information system for immunization program), and SPIV
(project monitoring system). Information flow i s an integral part of a surveillance and disease control system
and improving coverage and quality of surveillance data in Brazil has been and continues to be an important
part of the VIGISUS Project. By the end of VIGISUS I,only 50 out of 5,000 municipalities were not
reporting at a minimum on a monthly basis to SINAN. For all reportable diseases SI"                 includes the
laboratory exams carried out to confirm the diagnosis, their results, and whether disease control activities
specified in national guidelines were carried out. S I M has also been improved under VIGISUS Iand will
continue to be modernized. For all of the information systems noted above data flow begins at the local level
and moves upstream through the states to the national level. Given the emphasis on states and municipalities
inVIGISUS 11,more resourceswill be invested inimproving data coverage andquality downstream.

Those indicators that are not part of the national/state/municipal `pacts' are primarily related to training
activities, or to establishment of better surveillance and disease control structures at the state and municipal
levels (e.g. for communicable diseases, environmental health, non-communicable diseases and risk factors).
The process of establishing state structures will be monitored during supervisory visits by national staff, and
municipal structures will be monitored by state staff. An evaluation at the end of the second phase will ensure
that structures, as defined by national norms (and reflectedinthe results framework), have been established.

Component 11: The Indigenous Health Component               will support the establishment of a results-based
monitoring and evaluation system as part of the institutional strengthening it i s designed to finance. This
system will complement FUNASA's new institutional roles, its resource allocation mechanisms and
management framework. Monitoring capacity building will focus on regional and subregiona1 levels with
aggregation by FUNASA, while evaluation will be a central-level function. The system will track both
implementation (inputs, activities and outputs) and results (intermediate outcomes, final outcomes and
impacts).

The VIGISUS I1monitoring system for indigenous health will build on the information system developed
duringthe first phase. Data collection for reportable diseases, morbidity and mortality is well underway in
indigenous communities but remains to be consolidated, with coverage and quality assured. This information
will be incorporated as part of the results-basedperformance monitoring being developed inthe second phase.
VIGISUS I1 will build capacity in FUNASA to promote systematic evaluation of policies, programs and
services, and most importantly, to use measurement data to improve performance. In addition to the routine
indigenous health information system, a number of surveys and impact evaluations will be supported
requiring the establishment of an institutional unit responsible for evaluation coordination, planning and
dissemination.




                                                      38

While the indicators selected for VIGISUS I1will be usedto monitor project results at the national level, they
are also key to improving outcomes at the community level. VIGISUS 11will finance capacity buildingat the
subregional (DESAI) level including the utilization of performance monitoring to improve outcomes in each
individual community.

A results monitoring process will be developed in tandem with support for the introduction of performance-
based contracts for public and private providers. The basic idea i s to shift FUNASA's management
orientation from accountability for inputs to accountability for outputs and outcomes. FUNASA will work
with DSEIs and providers to set performance indicators and corresponding targets and incorporate them into
contracts (private) and performance agreements (public). The monitoring system will be part of the to-be-
created purchasing function within FUNASA and will seek to set criteria and strategies, meaningful
performance expectations, measurable indicators to enable gauging performance against targets and a credible
but timely reportingand feedback system.




                                                  39

  Technical                  Indicator                                 Indicator                  Comments
     Area                    Midpoint                            Endof Subproject
Communicable   % ,increasein reportable disease         % increaseinreportable diseasecases      Baseline data
disease        cases investigated and files closed      investigated and                         available
surveillance   within time frame established in SVS    files closed within time frame
and control    norms                                                  SVS norms.
               9%increase in cases of bacterial      II established in
                                                        % increase incases of bacterial         IBaseline data
               meningitis confirmed by laboratory      meningitis confirmed by laboratory        available
               analyses.                               analyses.
               % increase in number of                  % increase in number of municipalities   Baseline data
               municipalities in each state that have   ineach state that have at least 95%      available
               at least 95% coverage for DPT and       coverage for DPT and HiB and for
               HiB and for children <l.                children <1.
               % increase innew TB cases cured       II % increase in new TB cases cured.       IBaseline data
                                                                                                 available
               % increase intimely reporting in         % increase intimely reporting in         Municipalities
               SINAN system accordingto SVS             SINAN system according to SVS
               norms.                                   norms.
Environmental  Environmental health surveillance       Environmental health surveillance         Baseline date
Health         system structure inplace including       system under implementation including    available
Surveillance   approved regulatory framework and       production of bi-annual reports on
               technical team.                          water quality for human consumption.
               % increase inthe proportion of           % increase inthe proportion of deaths    Baseline data
Health         deaths notified to vital statistics.    notifiedto vital statistics.              available
Situation
Analysis       % decrease indeaths that are ill-        % decrease indeaths that are ill-defined Baseline data
               defined.                                                                          available

Institutional                                          System for surveillance of                States and
capacity                                               environmental health, injuries, non-      capital cities
Building                                               communicable disease and riskfactors
                                                        implemented.*
               School-based adolescent behavioral    II School-based adolescent behavioral      ICapital cities
               risk factor survey carried out.         riskfactor survey ready to be piloted.
                                                       Strategic plan for improvement of         States only
                                                       public health surveillance and disease
                                                       control systems approved.
               Professional career plan and path for   Career plan and path submitted to state   States only
               epidemiologists developed and           legislature.
               approved by SES.
               % increase innumber o f surveillance    % increase innumber of surveillance       Municipalities
               agents trained in communicable          agents trained incommunicable disease
               disease surveillance and control        surveillance and control
                                                       Model for integrating surveillance and    States and
                                                       primaryhealth care activities             capital cities
                                                       elaborated




                                                         40

                                   Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

                            Brazil: Second Disease Surveillance and Control Project

 The proposed project constitutes the second phase of the VIGISUS Program, as described in Annex 1. The
 objectives are two-fold: (i)reduce mortality and morbidity from communicable and non-communicable
diseases and exposure to risk factors associated with illhealth, and (ii)     improve the health outcomes of
 specially vulnerable groups including indigenous populations and Quilombo (descendents of slaves)
communities. This will be achieved by:

(i)      Continuing to strengthen the national public health surveillance and disease control system for
         communicablediseases andenvironmental health, particularly in states and municipalities;
(ii)     Improvingand broadening the scope of public health surveillance and disease control, to include non-
         communicablediseases, injuries and maternavchildhealth, and the surveillance andprevention of risk
         factors;
(iii)    Expandingaccess to and utilization of health services to indigenous populations;
(iv)     Improving the effectiveness of indigenous health care through institutional development, quality
         enhancement and cultural appropriateness; and
(v)      Extending water and sanitation services to rural, Quilombo communities.

The second phase is a continuation of the first phase with minor adjustments in the program concept and
description. At the request of the Borrower and as stipulated in recent policy statements, the proposed project
will also support the decentralization of health surveillance activities to states and municipalities, raise the
level of financing directed to the indigenous health system and support government efforts to extend basic
services to impoverishedQuilombo communities.

Component I:Public Health Surveillance and Disease Control (US $144.8 million)

The activities financed by this component seek to improve morbidity and mortality and reduce exposure to
risk factors among the Brazilian population by strengthening Brazil's public health surveillance and disease
control system at the national, state and municipal levels. This will be done by supporting the newly-created
Secretariat for Health Surveillance (SVS) in its efforts to improve communicable disease surveillance and
control, strengthen an environmental health surveillance, and expand the scope of surveillance activities in
Brazil to include non-communicable diseases, injuries, and their risk factors. It will also support the SVS's
responsibility to improve vital statistics, an important tool for maternal and infant mortality surveillance and
prevention, and collect and analyze health information for the assessment and reduction of health disparities.
Finally, activities in this component will invest significantly in strengthening the currently weak, but critical
role of the states and municipalities in surveillance and disease control efforts at the local level. The
component is divided into four subcomponents.

Subcomponent A - Surveillance and Control of Communicable Diseases: (US$43.2 million)

Objectives: This subcomponent aims to continue the process of strengthening the National Public Health
Surveillance and Disease Control System. Specifically, it will: (i)expand and improve the public health
laboratory network, (ii)  improve the quality and utilization of information obtained through the mandatory
disease notification system (SINAN) to control communicable disease, (iii)improve capacity in
communicable disease surveillance and control through training and research, (iv) expand and strengthen
hospital-based communicable disease surveillance with a focus on emerging and reemerging infections, (v)
guarantee the cold chain to ensure the quality of vaccines, (vi) guarantee and expand activities to control
vector-borne disease, (vii) improve management capacity of SUS institutions responsible for public health
surveillance including ability to respond to emergencies, (viii) improve dissemination of communicable


                                                     41

disease surveillance information and capacity in social communication, and (ix) improve social participation
indisease preventionandcontrol.

To meet these objectives the subcomponent will finance construction, rehabilitation, and equippingof pubic
health laboratories; computer software and hardware; equipment for long-distance training and
videoconferencing; vehicles and boats necessary for vector control; training courses to improve capacity;
collaborating with centers with expertise in specific areas of communicable disease surveillance and control;
research activities; solar refrigerators; material for dissemination and social communication; national and
international technical assistance; and scientific and public gatherings to disseminate information. Research
activities related to items (iii), (iv),(vi)and (vii)above will be implementedthrough supply-driven subprojects
(known as Type A) as well as demand-driven subprojects (known as Type B). Capacity-building activities
related to items (ii), (iii), (iv),(v), (vi), (vii) and (ix) will be implemented through TypeA Subprojects. The
implementing entitiesfor both Type A and B Subprojects will be NGOs, universities, institutes,foundations
and centers of excellence for definitions of subproject refer to Annex 6 and Annex 8). Other inputs such as
construction and equipping of a National Laboratory, acquisition of power and energy equipment, vehicles
and computers hardware and software, and training and consultancy services in support of disease
surveillance and control will be directly implementedby SVS.

A brief description of activities includes:

Public Health Laboratory Network Construction of a national reference laboratory will assist in the rapid
identification of the causes of epidemic outbreaks and put into place diagnostics that do not exist elsewhere in
the country. Additional laboratories will be upgraded to biosafety level 3 - important to safeguard laboratory
workers' health. Multiple laboratories will benefit from improved diagnostic capability including molecular
biology diagnostics for viral hepatitis. Plans to ensure sustainability and maintenance of these laboratories
will be elaborated. An important step duringthis phase will be ensuring the quality of laboratory services in
the decentralized context. Expected outputs and results include:

0    A nationalreference laboratory and four additional laboratoriesupgradedto biosafety level 3;
0    27 laboratories equipped with molecular biology diagnostics and 30 laboratories equipped for serologic
     diagnosis of dengue; and
0    Guidelines for laboratory standards, proficiency testing andcredentialing.

Data Management Telecommunication System: VIGISUS Ifinanced the implementation of the Windows-
based S N A N in almost all municipalities. Approximately 2,000/5,000 municipalities report via the Internet.
VIGISUS I1will finance the implementation of a Web-based reporting system in order to enhance timely
disease notification. The laboratory information system piloted for two diseases under VIGISUS Iwill be
completed for all diseases and its implementation expanded. Expected outputs and results include:

0    Implementationof a Web-based S N A N system inall states andcapital cities;
0    Laboratory results reporting system that is linked to SINAN for all pertinent notifiable diseases is
     implementedinall state and nationalreference laboratories; and
0    Information systemor monitoring DOTS treatment integrated with SNAN-basedTB reporting.

Utilization of SurveillanceInformation and Control of CommunicableDiseases: VIGISUS 11will improve the
utilization of information for communicable disease control through training activities and better links to the
primary health care system. Training will be developed for all cadre including primary care providers / family
health teams that are on the front lines of Brazil's health care system. This was done very successfully in the
Amazonas region under VIGISUS Ito control malaria. Distance learning activities will be developed.
Dissemination of information obtained from surveillance to decision-makers, health care providers, and the



                                                         42

 public i s key to controlling diseases and such activities will be intensified. The project will also support
 greater expertise in and operational research to improve public health surveillance. Expected outputs and
 results include:

 0  Multiple training activities result in 70% of notifiable diseases being investigated and files closed within
    the time frame established in SVS guidelines;
 0  Four collaborating centers inpublic health surveillance created;
 0   12researchinvestigations carried out; and
 0  Contract with CDC for technical assistance signed that will support Data for Decision makingcourses as
    well as the presence in Brasilia of a CDC epidemiologist who provides assistance to the EPI-SUS
    program.

Hospital Based Surveillance: VIGISUS Ifocused on developing a mandatory disease notification system
based on local reporting. (SI").       VIGISUS I1will strengthen surveillance of emergingreemergingdiseases
and nosocomial infections through the development of hospital-based sentinel surveillance systems. 108 such
sentinel sites will be established.The expected output includes:

0    108sentinel sites established for hospital-based public health surveillance.

Cold chainfor vaccines guaranteed Immunization coverage has increased over the past five years, however
there are geographical variations with lower coverage in areas with difficult access. One of the principal
problems is ensuring a cold chain to protect vaccines in areas with unreliable or unavailable electricity using
solar poweredrefrigerators. The expected output includes:


0   Immunization coverage rates improve andinequitiesincoverage diminish.

Control of vector-bome diseases:Malariacontrol efforts inthe Amazonas region were very successful during
the VIGISUS IProgram. However, yellow fever outbreaks outside the usual habitat became all too common
and major urban dengue outbreaks occurred. VIGISUS I1will contribute to the consolidation of the malaria
control program and to the strengthening of the yellow fever and dengue control programs. Expected outputs
and results include:

0   Instruments developed to monitor, evaluate and supervise training invector borne diseasecontrol; and
0   More households familiar with actions to prevent dengue inthe home and community.

Management capacity and ability to respond to emergencies:VIGISUS 11will focus on improving state and
municipal capacity in public health surveillance and disease control. This will require increased capacity at
the national level to provide technical assistance including the ability to monitor, evaluate and supervise
activities particularly at the state level. In addition, the project will invest in developing a structured response
to public healthemergencies. Outputs and expected results include:

0   125 directors of public health surveillance completed strategic planningcourse;
    Norms and guidelines for the three levels of government updated;
0   Instrument for performance monitoring developed andtechnical assistanceto states systematized; and
0   Center for public health emergencies established and equipped including videoconferencing capabilities
    inevery statehealth department.

Improved, social communication and social participation: The ability to communicate effectively with the
public requires special training and this type of expertise i s not well developed in the SVS. In addition, the
involvement of communities and civil society in health promotion and disease control i s essential for their


                                                        43

success. Activities supporting social participation will intensified under VIGISUS 11. The expected output
includes:

0    Increase in number of public information publications, newspaper articles, and other mass media
     information on health issues.

Subcomponent B: Environmental Health Surveillance (US$5.6 million)

Objectives: This component aims to continue to strengthen the implementationof the National Environmental
Health Surveillance System by identifying and monitoring health risks related to environmental conditions
and determinants within a sustainable framework. Specifically it will: (i)      strengthen and fully implement the
National Environmental Health Surveillance subsystems for water, air and soil quality, (ii)      structure national
subsystems related to hazardous substances (pesticides, asbestos, lead, benzene and mercury), biological and
physical (radiation) factors, chemical accidents and natural disasters, (iii)     create a National Environmental
Health Laboratory Network, (iv) develop an information system for environmental health surveillance and
indicators to evaluate control activities, (v) increasescientific andtechnologicalcapacity, (vi) support national
policy development for environmental health, (vii) develop activities within primary care that help create
healthy environments, (viii) promote social mobilization and community education in highriskareas, and (ix)
improve mechanisms that promote intra and inter-sectoral activities. The final outcome of all of these
activities will be a structured environmental health surveillance system in every state.

To meet these objectives the program will finance computer software and hardware; laboratory remodeling
and equipment; capacity-building through training; operational research; establishment of collaborating
centers; educational materials; workshops and conferences; and national and international technical
consultants. Research activities related to items (i), (ii),(iv), and (vi) will be implementedthrough TypeA and
B Subprojectswhile capacity building activities corresponding to items (i),(ii), (iii), (iv), (vi), (vii), (viii) and
(ix) will be implemented through Type A Subprojects. The implementing entitiesfor all subprojects will be
NGOs, universities, institutes,foundations and centers of excellence. Other inputs such as rehabilitation and
equipping of environmental and public health laboratories, material for dissemination of information,
consultant services, workshopsand other training will be directly implementedby SVS.

A briefdescriptionof someof the activitiesincludes:

Complete implementation of subsystems for water, air and soil quality surveillance: Under VIGISUS Ia
subsystem for water quality was developed and implemented in 18/27 states. The VIGISUS 11Project will
complete the implementation of this system and ensure that information i s being utilized to ensure quality
drinkingwater. It will also implement subsystems to monitor air and soil quality. Information systems will be
developed for air and soil quality. Contaminated soil sites will be mapped. Collaborating centers with
expertise in these areas will be financed, and surveillance and control activities initiated. Heavy emphasis will
be placed on trainingat the state level, and monitoringand supervision.

Expected outputs andresults include:

0   Bi-annual reports from all state and capital city health departments on water quality including plans for
    its improvement where needed;
0   Information systems developed and piloted for air and soil quality, and cross-sectoral activities begun to
    address problems identified; and
0   Five researchinvestigations completed inenvironmental health.




                                                      44

Develop subsystemsfor hazardous substances, biological and physical risk factors, chemical accidents, and
natural disasters - These subsystems are either very rudimentary or do not yet exist and will be developed
under VIGISUS 11.Priority hazardous substances for which information, monitoring and control systems will
be developed include pesticides, asbestos, lead, cyanide, benzene and mercury. Planning and organization for
an effective response to chemical accidents and natural disasters will also be developed. This will be done
through technical assistance, development of information systems including mapping, training, and
monitoring and supervision at the state level. Expectedoutputs and results include:

0    Pilot system to monitor pesticide exposure among farm workers and other risk groups developed, and
     control measures identified; and
0    Plans for integrated emergency response centers for chemical accidents and natural disasters developed
     with cross-sectoral participation.

Createa national environmentalhealth laboratory network - A laboratory network for environmental health
will be developed including reference laboratories, several regional laboratories, and some state or municipal
laboratories of lower complexity. Expected outputs and results include:

0   Two reference laboratories for environmental health remodeled and equipped; and
0   Guidelines for specimen handling, laboratory standards, proficiency testing elaborated.

SubcomDonentC:Health Situation Analysis (US$10.7 million)

Objectives: This subcomponent aims to strengthen operational and technical capacity to carry out health
situation analysis, monitoring, prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. Specifically it will: (i)
improve coverage, quality and utilization of vital statistics (births and deaths) with a focus on maternal and
infant mortality, (ii)improve capacity to carry out health situation analyses including GIs, vital statistics,
healthprogram evaluation, and analysis of inequities in health, (iii) strengthen the nascent non-communicable
disease and risk factor surveillance system, (iv) develop an injury surveillance system, and (v) improve
dissemination and social communicationrelated to healthpromotion and risk factor prevention.

This subcomponent finances activities that will expand considerably some preliminary non-communicable
disease surveillance activities begun under VIGISUS I.It will support the newly-created Department of
Health Situation Analysis within the Secretariat of Public Health Surveillance. This department will
implement a system for non-communicable disease / risk factor surveillance and control. It is in charge of
vital statistics and uses other large SUS data sets for population-based health analyses. The department's
overall objective i s to improve information collection and data analysis in order to support health
policymaking that will reduce the population's morbidity andmortality and exposure to risk factors.

To meet its objectives the program will finance computer software and hardware; capacity-building through
training; national and intemational technical assistance; collaborating centers; studies and research; scientific
publications and educational materials; and workshops and conferences. Research activities related to items
(i), (ii) and (iii) will be implemented through         Type A and B Subprojects while training activities
correspondingto items (i), (ii), (iii),(iv) and (v) will apply TypeA Subprojects.Both types of subprojects will
be implemented by NGO, universities, institutes,foundations and centers of excellence. Other activities such
as computer software and hardware, GPS, study tours, materialsfor disseminationof information, consultant
services, workshopand other training will be directly implemented by SVS.




                                                      45

A brief description of activities includes:

 Vital statistics - VIGISUS I1will strengthen the vital registration system of birth and death notification by
improving coverage, quality and utilization of data through training and updated technology. Vital statistics
data are important to improve health policies and monitor impact of health interventions. Birthanddeath data
are fundamental to public health surveillance. They are the basis for maternal and infant mortality monitoring,
and birthcertificatesprovide information on a wide variety of important determinants and outcomes including
birth weight, prenatal care, and skilledattendance. Birth and death coverage and quality has been improving
in Brazil, but there are still geographic and cultural gaps. Financing through the project will permit improved
monitoring of all mortality including infant and maternal. Information obtained through death audits will
enhance the use of data at the local level to implement more effective interventions to reduce maternal and
infant deaths. Expected outputs and results include:


0    27 cause of death verification servicesconstructed or remodeled; and
0    Various training courses result in improved death registration coverage and quality leadingto 90% overall
     death notification and a decrease in the % of deaths poorly classified 50% of states able to calculate
     reliable infant mortality ratesusingvital statistics.

Capacity buildingfor health situation analyses VIGISUS 11will support work on improving methodologies
                                                  -
for collecting and analyzing data on health inequities, and for developing and evaluating the impact of
interventions to reduce inequities based on the data obtained. It will finance utilization of advanced analytic
systems such as GIS and spatial analysis, as well as health program evaluation. As many of these areas are
fairly new in Brazil, there will be significant investment in capacity-building. Expected outputs and results
include:

0    At least 1,000 graduates ofepidemiology and data analysis courses at various levels;
0    Increased number of papers and presentations exploring health inequities and making recommendations
     for their reduction; and
0    Increased use of GIS inhealth situation analyses.

Non-communicable disease, injury and riskfactor surveillance: VIGISUS Isupported a national behavioral
risk factor (BRF) survey that is currently being completed. Under VIGISUS I1the BRF surveillance system
will be perfected and information utilized to reduce the prevalence of risk factors such as smoking, physical
inactivity, unhealthy diet, and obesity. A school-based adolescent behavioral risk factor survey will be
developed and implemented in capital cities. Other areas to be considered include support for the
improvement of cancer registries and implementation of sentinel sites for injury surveillance. VIGISUS 11
will invest significantly in capacity buildingrelatedto the epidemiology and surveillance of NCDs. Expected
outputs and results include:

0    350 graduates of a variety of courses on NCD surveillance, epidemiology and data analysis for NCD, and
     population based surveys;
0    National planfor NCD/risk factor surveillance andprevention elaborated and implemented; and
0    Eightepidemiological studies riskfactors for NCDs andevaluationof programimpact.

Dissemination and social communication: Control of NCDs, injuries and exposure to risk factors requires
dissemination of information to decision-makers, health care providers and the public. Social communication
i s key to health promotion and risk factor prevention, however this i s a new area for the SVS and national and
international technical assistance will be financed to improve such activities. Expected outputs and results
include:




                                                       46

      18 publications related to health issuesincluding NCDs, injuries, infant mortality etc. and their prevention
     in Brazil; and
 0   Three media campaigns related to health promotion and riskfactor prevention.

 Subcomponent D: Strengthening Institutional Capacity in States and Municipalities (US$85.4 million)

This subcomponent will finance approximately 200 subprojects to strengthen: (i) capacity to lead,
                                                                                           state
organize, manage and monitor surveillance and disease control systems, and provide systematic support to all
municipalities, and (ii)municipal capacity to perform the essential functions of surveillance including
detection and notification, investigation, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, feedback and
dissemination. In an effort to support the decentralization of technical and managerial know-how, this
subcomponent provides states and municipalities both the opportunity and financing to develop and
implement complementary but innovative activities related to many of the themes outlined in Subcomponents
 1-3. Beneficiaries will consist of approximately 200 subnational entities: 27 states, 26 state capital cities and
 147 "satellite cities" within their metropolitan areas.

The subcomponent will co-finance federal grant transfers to support institutional development subprojects
proposed by participating states and municipalities. These subprojects will consist of activities requiring
inputs such as: consultancy services, operational costs, workshops and seminars, computer equipment and
software, vehicles, laboratory equipment, small works (remodeling of offices and laboratories), materials and
training. Subprojects will consist of activities inone or more of the following activity areas:

     Institutional development:This area will include modifications inthe humanresource rules and state legal
     and regulatory frameworks to facilitate the establishment and stability of a "critical mass" of public health
     professionals at the state level to capable of performing key surveillance functions.
    Epidemiological surveillance and disease control: This area will focus on strengthening capacity to
     achieve full coverage of the mandatory disease notification system, monitor and respond to transmissible
     diseases and buildcapacity for surveillance of non-communicable diseases.
0   Environmental surveillance: The area will support the capacity building for air and soil quality
     surveillance while improving capacity for water quality surveillance.
    Situation analysis: This will consist of activities to support improvement of methodologies for collecting,
     analyzing and disseminating data with a special focus on non-transmissible diseases, and for developing
     interventionsbasedon the data obtained.
0    Upgrading of technical skills: Activities in these areas will consist of "mandatory" training courses in

  ,  specific themes related to health surveillance.

Special Implementation Arrangements for Subcomponent D: Bank financing will be pooled with a federal
grant transfer, Teto Financeiro de Epidemiologia e Controle de DoenGas (TFECD) to finance health
surveillance subprojects by the states and municipalities. TFECD is the main federal conduit for financing the
govemment's National Program for Epidemiology and Disease Control in states and municipalities.'6 The
TFECD i s transferred from the Health Ministry's National Health fund to common bank accounts (known as
Fondo Municipalde Saiide and Fondo Estatual de Saiide), in each participating state and municipality. Based
on Surveillance Development Plans (PLANVIGI) submitted by the states and municipalities, a pool of
financing will be dimensioned in state and municipal Health Funds consisting of both Bank and TFECD
financing. Rules regardingfinancial management, procurement and disbursement are specified in Annexes 7
and 8. To enhance development impact, the project will work with federal government to supervise and



l6 In 2002 the government allocated R$552 million to states and municipalities through the TFECD, representing 66
percentof total programcosts of R$834 million. In2003, R$641million have beenbudgetedfor the TFECD. Regulatory
framework for the TFECD is stipulatedinNOB/SUS 01/96 and MS/1399/1999.


                                                      47

 strengthen municipal and state fiduciary processes through risk assessments, fiduciary improvement action
 plans and audits.

 Based on PLANVIGIsand approved by the MoH, subprojects will consist of a set of activities to strengthen
 the capacity of states and municipalities to perform key surveillance and disease control functions.
 Expenditures would occur against pre-defined activities with corresponding unit cost structures specified in
PLANVIGIs and included in contracts (termos de adesiio) signed between the federal government and
 participating states and municipalities. Loan proceeds will finance the costs of goods, works and services
required to implement health surveillance institutional development subprojects, representing about 11
percent share of the total pool consisting of TFECD and Bank funds, estimated at $320 million over four
 years. However, loan proceeds will be transferred as advances (against Statement of Transfers) for
expenditures to be incurred by the municipalities and states at a rate of an estimated 84 percent of the grants
transferred to finance the subprojects. In effect, the Bank will finance 84 percent of a virtual subproject pool
consisting of counterpart f~nding.'~   The latter i s drawn from the much larger pool of TFECD funds. Cost
sharing i s determined by the amount of "deemed" project counterpart derived from the overall po01.'~ Nearly
all expenditures inthe overall pool are Bank eligible.

A performance-based financing feature will be introduced into this subcomponent in which a proportion of
loan proceeds will be tied to achievement of benchmarks by participating states and municipalities. Linking
financing to performance facilitates the introduction of a new results-oriented accountability into a
hierarchical, input-oriented public system. Through variable Bank financing the proposed scheme seeks to
influence federal government allocation behaviors to the extent that a proportion of new allocations to states
and municipalities, drawn mostly from Loan Proceeds, are based on results. This scheme will consist of the
following features (see Figure 1 below):

     PLANVIGI will be divided into two phases of about 24 months each. The level of financing for the
     secondphase will depend on performance duringthe first phase.
     For each set of activities" proposed for the above-mentioned "activity areas" (e.g., institutional
     development, epidemiological surveillance and disease control, environmental surveillance, situation
     analysis and technical capacity building), outputs and intermediate outcomes will be benchmarked for
     each phase. Two or three indicators are anticipated for each activity area (see Annex 3). Targets will be
     customized for each participating state and municipality drawing on available baseline data. A (weighted)
     grading system will determine the level of performance (e.g., 4 0 low; 51-89 base; >90 high), and
     includedinthe operations manual.
     The amount of Bank financing for the second phase would be variable, and the variation will be linked to
     achievement of these benchmarks at the project midpoint. High performers will receive additional 10
    percent of Bank financing (dispersed as advances) to allow for the implementation of an expanded
     volume of activities to be specified in a "bonus plan." Low performers will receive 10 percent less
    financing and will implement an "emergency plan" of activities with the reduced financing. "Base"
    performers will receive the original level financing proposed intheir PLANVIGIs.
    Performance will be assessedthrough independent performance audits.
    Performance duringthe second phase of PLANVIGIimplementation will determine the level of financing
    for states and municipalities participatinginVIGISUS APL 111.



l7The remaining 16percent is the average tax rate, and is ineligible for Bank financing.
l8Government has declared that approximately US$49million of the TFECD would apply as counterpart.
l9 Activities can include: technical assistance, improvement in quality of laboratory analysis, studies, design and
implementation of vector-control programs, health education programs, database design, specimen collection and
analysis, workshops, school prevention campaigns, software and hardware upgrading and creation of career path for
epidemiologists.


                                                        48

The Bank will finance a share of the transfers from the federal government to states and large municipalities
basedon the expected costs of the activities that the municipalities plan to incur, as approved by participating
states/municipalities and the Health Ministry. Spending will be monitored by states/municipalities and the
Health Ministry in a way that i s satisfactory to the Bank. To this end and to permit maximum flexibility to
managers in the allocation of resources to meet performance targets, participating states/municipalities will
establish an approved or positive expenditure list and activity cost structures.20The approved list will result
from procurement capacity assessments that will focus on the definition of goods and services required to
implement planned activities and the acceptability of the procurements methods used by the states and
municipalities. Loanproceedscan be used to purchasegoods and services on the pre-approved list.

Figure 1: Schematic of Proposed Performance-based Financing Scheme for Participating States and
Municipalities (Subcomponent0)




Component11: IndigenousHealth(US$47.9 million)

The activities that constitute this component seek to improve the health outcomes of specially vulnerable
groups including indigenous populations and Quilombo communities by financing inputs to foster
institutional and financial reforms, extend coverage for basic services, enhance the quality of care, address
special and emerging health needs, and support community-driven initiatives that can contribute to improved
health status. The component is divided into five subcomponents, all of which will be implemented centrally.

The activities of   Subcomponents A and B will be implemented directly by FUNASA. The activities of
Subcomponent C will implemented by indigenous communities in partnership with NGOs and bona fide



2oAn allocation formula based on population, geographical size, number of municipalities and epidemiological
conditions will be applied to distribute financing ceilings among states and municipalities. Initially, cost structures for
proposed activities will be notional and derived from proposed PLANVIGI budgets. Unit cost structures will be
developedduring project implementation by collecting actual unit costs through financial management systems.


                                                         49

community organization selected by the communities. Subcomponent D will be implemented by states,
municipalities or NGOs.

Subcomuonent A: Institutional Cauacitv Strengthening (US$33.3 million)

Objectives: This subcomponent aims to: (i)     extend basic care coverage to unserved indigenous communities;
(ii) improve the technical quality of public and private providers serving indigenous communities; (iii)
develop and implement a performance-based management system; (iv) decentralize decision-making
authority to and strengthen governance mechanisms at the subregional level; and (v) strengthen health
surveillance systems while introducing monitoring and evaluation methodologies to systematically assess the
structure, processesand impact of the Indigenous Health System.

To meet these objectives, the project will finance laboratory and medical equipment for primary care
facilities, vehicles and boats to transport patients and health teams, computer and communication equipment
to enter and transmit surveillance data, consulting services, small works (e.g., construction and upgrading of
health posts, basic laboratories and Indigenous residences), training, workshops, seminars, software and
training materials. Activities to be financed under this subcomponent include:

1. Coverage Extension and Quality Enhancement: Achieving universal coverage and improving quality
    require a strategic approach to the organization and delivery of indigenous health services. Based on
    analyses of surveillance and service delivery data, the subcomponent will support the definition of the set
    of activities and services that constitute a benchmark health service plan. Such a plan would contain both
    mandatory services (eg, pre-natal care, well-baby care, child growth monitoring, immunizations and
    prevention and control of malaria and tuberculosis) and optional services that would address community-
    specific needs. Once the service plan i s established, performance targets can be gradually introduced by
    subregion and catchment area. Quality can be raised through implementing a quality improvement plan
    based on the results of the provider capacity assessment performed for project preparation, introducing
    protocols that define processes and materials applied in high volume services, reformulating referral
    systems, upgrading equipment, expanding supply of health professionals, indigenous health agents,
    indigenous sanitation agents and infrastructure where necessary, and developing a provider accreditation
    system. The subcomponent will also support the overall strengthening the clinical competencies of the
    health teams, but specialized inservice training will focus on improving activities related dental health,
    tuberculosis, malaria, women's health, control of infectious diseases and bio-security. Scholarships for
    medical and nursingschool will also be offered to indigenous students while culturally-sensitive training
    and communication methods and materials will be developed and tested. Expected outputs and results
    include:

    0    At least 200 indigenous health teams trained on benchmark service plan, prevention and control of
         priority diseases; public health surveillance and integrated service delivery;
    0    100health postsand 50 healthcenters constructed and equipped;
    0    Protocols for matemal-child care and five chronic conditions developed and implemented in at least
         10DSEIs;
    0    Quality enhancement programdeveloped andimplemented for all providers inat least 10DSEIs;
    0    Scholarships financed to prepare indigenous doctors and nurses; and
    0    Biosecurity systemdesigned and implementedin20 DSEIs.

2. Govemance and Pegormance-based Management: The subcomponent will support the development of
    an accountability framework oriented toward improving the performance of providers in the Indigenous
    Health Subsystem (SIS). In addition to the organization features outlined in (1) above, this framework
    will consist of the following elements: (i)    development of performance contracts and agreements with



                                                      50

   NGOs and public providers oriented to coverage extension and quality improvement respectively; (iii)
   establishment of decentralized monitoring, financing and coordination functions at subregional
   managements units; (iv) strengthening of oversight and governance role of District Councils as well as
   increasing the participation of indigenous communities; (v) development of surveillance, financial and
   service production databases, and (vi) introduction of analytical capacities in DSEIs to enable the
   preparation of realistic subregional plans and provision of timely feedback to providers and Subregional
   authorities. Expected outputs and results include:


   0    Information system for disease surveillance, vital statistics, service utilization and costs implemented
        for all catchment areas in all DSEIs;
        Performance-based contracts or agreements with NGO and public providers and between FUNASA
        and DSEIs developed and under implementation;
   0    At least 75% of members of District Councils trained on governance andparticipatory practices.
   0    Mechanisms for disclosing provider and DSEI performance to communities developed and
        implemented in 50% of DSEIs; and
   0    Definition of roles and competencies for central and decentralized levels of FUNASA.

3. Resource Allocation: As FUNASA moves to greater separation of financing and provision, resource
   allocation and provider payment mechanisms take on greater importance. An optimum resource allocation
   system should achieve policy objectives related to equity while an optimum payment system should
   stimulate the efficient use of resources, accessibility, quality and an integrated approach to health care
   (promotional, preventive and curative care). This set of activities will aim to reformulate health care
   financing mechanisms along four fronts: (i)     development of macro allocation mechanism to distribute
   resources among DSEIs that i s based on population, epidemiological profiles and other measures such as
   distance and transportation costs; (ii)   piloting of performance-related payment systems for base care
   providers that includes allowances to reward good practice;         (iii) crafting of an alternative payment
   system for referral facilities that rewards rapid and effective attention, and (iv) introducing budgetingand
   financial management systems that link resourcesto results while stressingex post review and audits. The
   latter two payment systems are closely linked to the development of purchasing and contracting functions
   described above. Expected outputs andresults include:


   0   Resource allocation mechanism approved and implemented for primary care in at least 50 percent of
       DSEIs;
   0   Alternative payment system for referral facilities developed and tested ina subset of DSEIs;
   0   Implementation of policies and procedures to streamline financial management, replacing the ex ante
       control orientation with an ex post auditing orientation; and
   0   Financial management system developed and implementedin at least 50 percent of DSEIs.

4. Institutional Modernization: This set of activities will create the institutional environment within
  FUNASA to facilitate improvements in the performance of indigenous health services. The overall aim i s
   to create a more strategic and streamlined institution and corresponding human resource skill mix to
   enable makingtimely, transparent and informeddecisions on performance, resource allocation and system
   governance. To accomplish this, functions such as planning, purchasing, monitoring and evaluation, and
  regulation require introduction or significant strengthening. The clear separation of functions among
  central, regional and subregional levels is another pressing task on the institutional agenda. Outputs will
  include:


  0    Organizational structure of FUNASA redefined with special emphasis on strengthening the
       purchasing and planning functions;
  0    Planningand purchasing units staffed with qualified personnel;



                                                    51

     0   Communication and institutional change strategy developed and implemented;
     0   Performance-management systemdeveloped; and
     0   Information systemupgraded to support purchasing function.

5. Monitoring and Evaluation: The purchasing function both encourages and requires rigorous monitoring
     and evaluation of performance. This set of activities aims to build capacity in FUNASA to monitor and
     measure performance, promote systematic evaluation of policies, programs and services, and most
     importantly, to use measurement data to improve performance. The subcomponent will support the
    establishment of a results-based monitoring system to complement the new institutional roles, resource
     allocation mechanisms and management framework outlined above. Monitoring capacity building will
    focus on regional and subregional levels with aggregation by FUNASA, while evaluation will be a
    central-level function. The system will track both implementation (inputs, activities and outputs) and
    results (intermediate outcomes, final outcomes and impacts). A number of surveys and impact evaluations
     will be supported through the proposed project as described below, requiring the establishment of an
    institutional unit responsible for evaluation coordination, planning and dissemination. Expected outputs
    and results are as follows:


    0    Evaluation plan implemented, including, quality and coverage of providers, referral systems,
         sustainability of water and sanitation systems, and performance of District Councils in at least 50% of
         DSEIs;
    0    Elements of monitoring system developed, including, monitoring readiness assessment, indicator
         definition, data collection and analysis plan and feedback mechanisms;
    0    Guidelines developed regardingthe transparency and dissemination of information and analysis; and
    0    Four evaluations completed: participation and voice of District Councils, quality and coverage of
         service delivery, referral system and effectiveness of malaria preventionand control program.

Subcomponent B: Special HealthNeeds of Indigenous Pouulations (US$4.5 million)

Objectives: Through the development of strategies and implementation of pilot projects, targeted
interventions and research, the activities constitutingthis subcomponent aim to document and comprehend the
causes of malnutrition, alcoholism and suicide among indigenous populations while reducing the incidence
of these problems among targeted groups. The subcomponent will also support research on how to integrate
traditional and modern medical practices appropriately. Financing will support consultancy services, training,
study tours, workshops, training materials, computer equipment, office furniture and scales.             A brief
description of activities follows:

Alcoholism and Suicide:        This subcomponent will support the formation and implementation of a
comprehensive, community-based strategy to combat suicide and alcoholic abuse in indigenous populations.
Given the social and cultural diversity of the Brazilian indigenous population, it i s recognized that a single
strategy or program will probably be insufficient to impact these afflictions. To this end, the subcomponent
will support a mix of activities and interventions: some will seek to generate interest and engagement among
indigenous communities and their leaders; others will produce information and analysis on the nature and
extent of the problems, applying quantitative and qualitative methods; and still others will implement
interventions to impact the current situation. Inparticular, the subcomponent will support the following types
of activities: (i)engagement with indigenous communities in the understanding of the nature and extent of
these problems, the process of arriving at a community-driven plan to tackle them, and development of
customized projects to prevent suicide and alcoholism, and early intervention with respect to alcohol abuse;
(ii)development and implementation of a quantitative and qualitative research agenda; (iii)    support for and
evaluation of ongoing projects and interventions; and (iv) design and implementation of new, community-
basedprojects intargeted communities. Implementedmainly at the community level, outputs will include:



                                                     52

    Baseline study on incidence of suicide and alcohol dependency by indigenous group;
    Surveillance system on substance abuse and suicides incorporated into existing Indigenous Health
    Surveillance System, and implemented for all communities inat least 10DSEIs;
    Research dissemination, monitoring, training and technical assistance plan developed and implemented
    by the Monitoringand ResearchCenter on Alcoholism and Mental Health inIndigenous Populations;
    Five studies on nature of alcoholic abuse and suicides in specific high incidence indigenous groups
    completed and disseminated;
    Engagement and intervention activities implementedin at least 10indigenous groups to plan, design and
    implement actions to prevent alcoholismand/or suicides; and
    Mental health strategy for indigenous populations developed and approved.

Nutrition: The subcomponent will support the following five sets of activities: (i) and implementation
                                                                                    design
of a nutrition surveillance system to assess and monitor nutritional status, identify groups and individuals at
risk, and provide information to develop programs and interventions; (ii) buildingof health teams
                                                                              capacity
and indigenous health agents to implement a nutritional surveillance system and culturally-sensitive
interventions to promote growth and improve the nutritional status of the indigenous populations, with a
special focus on young children and pregnant and lactating women; (iii)   special studies including: research on
feeding and dietary practices of a representative sample of indigenous populations; (iv) nutritional assessment
including anthropometric measurements; baseline studies to obtain data on feeding practices of children and
pregnant women, food availability, composition and allocation; and incidence micronutrient deficiencies and
anemia; (v) evaluation of innovative and culturally-appropriate strategies and interventions in targeted
indigenous communities; and (v) creation of a clearinghouse/information center to identify, catalogue and
disseminate research and technical reports on nutrition and health of indigenous populations. Outputs will
include:

0   Routine nutritional surveillance system incorporated into existingIndigenous Health Surveillance System,
    and implementedfor all communities in at least 10DSEIs;
0   Health teams implementing growth promotion activities, including counseling and community
    mobilization in 10DSEIS;
0    At least one evaluation of innovative and culturally-appropriatenutrition intervention;
0   Baseline nutritional assessment completed; and
0   Clearinghouse/informationcenter on indigenous healthand nutrition established.

Traditional Medicine: The project will support the formation of a strategy to articulate traditional health
practices with modem medical practices. This subcomponent will support research, engagement activities,
creation of a clearinghouse on traditional medicine that will be responsible for coordinating and disseminating
research and lessons learned and a demonstration project to identify options for integration of traditional and
modem practices including those related to birthingtechniques. (Specific interventions to apply traditional
medicine will be supported through Subcomponent C).Outputs will include:

0   Four research studies completed and disseminated on traditional health practices related to reproductive
    health, child care, use of medicinal plants and interpretativemodels of disease;
0   Clearinghouse on traditional medicine i s operational; and
0   Training course for health professionals on integrating traditional and modem birthpractices implemented
    and evaluated.




                                                     53

Subcomponent C: Fundfor Indigenous Community Initiatives (US$3.6 million)

The purpose of the Fund for Indigenous Community Initiatives (FUNCOMIN) is.to promote community-
driven     local development in health by transferring grants to indigenous communities through their
organizations. It will support about 150 small subprojects costing less than $12,000. Eligible activities will
include community kitchens, medicinal remedies processing, promotion of traditional healing practices,
training and equipping of.midwives, fruit tree groves, vegetable gardens, breastfeeding promotion, women
support and mutual help groups and other activities that can directly contribute to improve health.
FUNCOMIN will favor subprojects that seek to strengthen participation and capacity of women in
promotional, preventive and curative health activities. Financing will consist of subproject grants as well as
consultant services, publications, training, workshops and seminars.

FUNCOMIN will consist of the following operational features: (i)         direct financing of communities; (ii)
community identification, design and implementation of subprojects; (iii)   transparent selection of subprojects
according to specified criteria; (iv) transparent management of resources by the communities; (v) monitoring
and evaluation of subprojects; and (vi) dissemination and sharing of processesand results across participating
communities. A community can be a village, hamlet, urban neighborhood or groups of families. The access
of the communities to FUNCOMIN will be based on clear and specific eligibility criteria detailed in the
Project Operational Manuel. Subprojects can be presented through community organizations or NGOs
selected by the community members.*' NGOs and outreach agents will be contracted to assist community
groups in the preparation, implementation and management of subprojects. The subprojects prepared by the
communities will approved in a three-step process: (i)review by FUNCOMIN to ensure compliance with
eligibility criteria; (ii)
                        technical appraisal by an independent committee consisting academics and indigenous
health specialists; and final approval by a governance board consisting of five representatives of District
Councils, five representatives of indigenous women organizations, and the FUNCOMIN coordinator. A
random sample of subprojects will be evaluated. Outputs include:


0    150community-driven subprojects implemented;
0   At least three workshops are realizedin which communities share information on processes and resulted;
    and
0   Sample of subprojects evaluated for impact.

Subcomponent D:Water and Sanitation for Quilombo Communities (US$6.4 million)

The subcomponent will finance the installation, expansion and upgrading of water supply and sanitation
systems for dispersed rural hamlets and individual residences that will ensure basic access to appropriate
water supplies and sanitation facilities for approximately 3,750 families residing in 150 localities in 52
municipalities. The project will make use of low-cost and appropriate technologies for household upgrading
to tailor the designs to specific situations The only eligibility criteria i s that hamlets and households are
occupied by Quilombolas and lack access to basic water supply and sanitation. In areas where the chagas
disease is endemic, the project will also finance housing improvements oriented toward eliminating the
reservoir of reduviid bugs that thrive inpoorly ventilated and illuminated houses constructed with mud, adobe
and thatch materials. Upgrades can include wall plastering (reboco), cementing of floors and improvements in
ventilation and illumination. Since health benefits are unlikely to accrue from the simple provision of
infrastructure, the subcomponent will also support sanitary and hygiene education activities oriented toward
behavioral change. It i s well-established that the timing and frequency of hand and face washing and
treatment and disposal of household still water contributes to the control of infectious disease transmission.
Finally, the project will work through community organizations to foster maintenance and sustainability of

   An estimated 200 indigenous organizations are active, many with project experience. See web base of Instituto
Socioambiental: www.isa.org.br.


                                                     54

the investments. The subcomponent will finance water supply, sanitation and housing upgrading subprojects
(minor works and equipment) with an average cost of $1,300 per household, training, consulting services,
seminars and training materials. Outputs are as follows:

0    Water and sanitation services installedin or ne& homes of about 3750 Quilombo families;
0    Homes of approximately 1,000 Quilombo families upgradedto prevent vector-borne diseases;
0    Beneficiariesparticipate insanitary and hygiene education activities; and
0    Impact evaluationcompleted of sample of water and sanitation subprojects.

Component 3: Project Management (US$6.4 million: US$4.2 million to UGP/SVS and US$2.1 millionto
UGPFUNASA)

The objective of this component is the supervision and monitoring of the implementation of the project. To
this end, two implementing units will be created. The first unit will be created in SVS (PnrlSVS) and will be
incharge of the implementationof Component I(Health Surveillance). The secondimplementing unit will be
created in FUNASA (PIUFUNASA) and will be in charge of the implementation of Component 11
(Indigenous Health). Both SVS and FUNASA are staffed with personnel experienced in Bank-financed
projects. Most of these personnel are still working in the implementation of VIGISUS Iwhich will close by
the time it i s expected that VIGISUS I1will become effective (end of June 2004).

The main responsibilities of these units include: (i)overseeing project implementation; (ii)providing
technical and administrative assistance to the participating municipalities; (iii)monitoring project
components; (iv) administration of the project activities, includingprocurement, agreementsand contracts and
transfer of funds to implementing agencies; (v) preparingreports on financial performance and disbursement;
(vi) contracting independent technical audits; (vii) providing technical assistanceinfinancial management and
procurement to participating municipalities; (viii) preparing bi-annual progress reports of the project; and (ix)
adapting or redefiningand inputtinginto the system the informationrequiredto monitor the project.

To meet these objectives the proposed project will finance, on a declining basis, the incremental operation
cost of the two units, including PIU staff, technical assistance to ensure adequate implementation and
supervision of the project, printing materials, sundry items, office equipment, as well as operation and
maintenance of office equipment as needed. This component will also finance per diem and travel expenses
for the supervision of project activities.

This component will also finance, on apilot basis, the construction of a database of actual costs for a subsetof
activities implemented in low risk states and municipalities. This database will be used to calculate
standardized costs for these activities (for details refer to Annex 8). For the purposes of the pilot the
component will finance technical assistanceand computer software and hardware.




                                                     55

                               Annex 5: ProjectCosts

BRAZIL: SECONDDISEASESURVEILLANCEAND CONTROLPROJECT VIGISUS I1    -




Total Baseline Cost                             181.2     19.8      201.0
 Physical Contingencies                           13.2    2.0        15.1
 Price Contingencies                             -17.1    0         -17.1
                             TotalProjectCosts' 177.3     21.7      199.0
                                  Front-endFee     0       1.o        1.o
                        TotalFinancingRequired  177.3     22.7    1 200.0




                                       56

                                 Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


Estimated period o f implementation: 4 years (APL11).

VIGISUS Ii s expected to close in June 2004, while the proposed project, VIGISUS 11, i s likely to become
effective inJuly 2004.

The Ministry of Health (MoH) will implement the proposed project through its Secretary of Health
Surveillance (SVS) and through the National Health Foundation - FUNASA, in accordance with the
conditions of the loan, the project design, the monitoring indicators and the Operational Manual. SVS will be
directly responsible for implementing the Public Health Surveillance Component (Component I),             while
FUNASA will be responsible for the Indigenous Health Component (Component 11). Specific activities will
also be implemented in partnership with the Federal District, states, municipalities, governmental and non-
governmental organizations (including DSEIs, NGOs, and Organizations of Civil Society of Public Interest--
OSCPs), and with universities and researchinstitutions. These institutions will play the followingroles inthe
implementationof VIGISUS 11:

The Health Surveillance Secretariat (SVS). SVS is responsible for the formulation of policy and strategies
in Health Surveillance, with special emphasis on TB, AIDS/STDs, hepatitis and others. It includes the
Department of Epidemiological Surveillance (where the TB program i s currently located), the Department of
Analysis and Health and the Coordination of Environmental Services Surveillance.               In addition, the
Secretariat includes the Department of Health Information Management Systems which coordinates and
maintains the Ministry's information systems.

National Health Foundation (FUNASA). FUNASA is a legally autonomous executive body of the Health
Ministry and is the institution of the Federal Government responsible for promoting the social inclusion
through sanitation activities. FUNASA i s also responsible for promoting the protection of health of
indigenous people. It includes the Department of Indigenous Health (DESAI) and also the Department of
EngineeringandPublic Health (DENSP).

CNS - CONASS        -  CONASEMS CIT- CIB
                                       -           -  MoH. Decisionmaking within the public health sector
involves: (a) National Health Council (CNS), comprised of representatives of government entities, private
sector and civil society, service providers, and health care professionals. CNS i s charged with the
implementation of health policies; (b) National Council of State Health Secretariats (CONASS), comprised
of representatives of states. CONASS' objective i s to articulate and define health policies to be implemented
at state level; (c) Council for Municipal Health Secretaries (CONASEMS) comprised of representatives of
the municipalities. CONASEMS i s responsible for articulating and defining health policies to be implemented
at the municipal level; (d) Tripartite Inter-managerial Commission (CIT), made up of representativesfrom the
Health Ministry, representatives of CONASS, and representatives of CONASEMS. CIT meets periodically to
discuss and define the guidingprinciples, strategies and institutional policies to be considered by the Health
Ministry; (e) Bi-Partite Health Management Commission (CIB), comprised of representatives from the
Health Ministry and CONASS. CIB meets periodically to discuss and define the guiding principles, strategies
and institutional policies for the State Secretariats of Health; and finally (f) the Ministry of Health - MoH,
itself, which manages the allocation of federal funds, under the supervision of the CNS, and proposes
operating rules to the CIT.

Federal District, States and Municipalities. These subnational entities are the main implementingbodies of
SUS (Sistema Unico de SaLide) policies and are responsible for the development and implementation of local
government programs. The main functions and responsibilitiesof the states and municipalities include: (i)   for



                                                     57

 the States - service coordination, distribution of financial resources and certain decisions related to the
 provision of specialized (high technology) interventions; (ii)     for the Municipalities which are the main
                                                                                             -
 focus of the decentralization efforts to date - responsibility for delivering health-related goods and services to
 the population, including health promotion, preventive health care, rehabilitation and treatment.

 Government entities involved in Indigenous Health (CORES, DSEIs, District Councils). These
 organizations have a wide range of participation in the Indigenous Health Subsystem: (a) Regional Special
 Coordination Units (CORES) are branches of FUNASA responsible for coordination of high-level care
provided by SUS-financed municipal and state services; (b) Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs) are also
 branches of FUNASA responsible for establishment and management of a network of community-based
health facilities and personnel providing basic care to indigenous population; (c) District Councils are local
and district governance bodies created according to law, consisting of representatives of indigenous groups.
These councils oversee and controlresponsibilities related to DSEIand local delivery system activities;

Non-government institutions(NG0s and OSCIP).                     Non-governmental Organization (NGO) and
Organization of Civil Society of Public Interest (OSCIP) have the objective to implement indigenous health,
disease prevention and health care activities at the community level and they also play an important role in
ensuringthe social accountability of the programs.

Universities, Foundations, Research Institutions and Centers of Excellence. These institutions will
actively participate in the preparation of health professionals by providing in-service training for existing
health professionals and in implementing the training and internships and academic programs financed under
the project. These institutions will also promote operational research, evaluation and specific studies to
generatenew products to improve public health.

ProiectManagement Units (UGPs) -Due to the fact that the project will involve two distinct implementing
agencies, one directly linked (SVS) and the other indirectly linked (FUNASA) to the Health Ministry, the
project will have two implementing units - UGP. The first and larger unit will be located in SVSMoH and
will be responsible for the implementation of Component I(Health Surveillance) and will respond to the
Secretary of Health Surveillance. The second and smaller unit will be located in FUNASA and will be
responsible for the implementation of Component 11(Indigenous Health), and will respond to the Executive
Director of FUNASA. These units will work closely with the existing organizational structures (technical,
human resources, evaluation, procurement and financial management) within SVS and FUNASA. The latter
will also count on the assistance of Indigenous Health Districts (DSEIs) to monitor the activities financed
under the project. Although each UGP will be autonomous in terms of implementation, the larger unit located
in SVS will be responsible for consolidatingproject progress reports every four months. EachUGPwill have
the following functional structure (see attachment for OrganizationalChart):

1. Proiect Manager - an administrator specialist, who will have the responsibility to: (i) project oversee
implementation activities; (ii)inform authorities in the M o H and in the states and municipalities on progress
made in project implementation; (iii)    liaise with, and follow-up implementation of each component of the
project (SVSFUNASA and FUNASMSVS) to ensure consistency of the project as a whole; (iii)                assess the
project's constraints and take measures to overcome these constraints; and (iv) liaise between M o H and the
Bank. The coordinator will be assistedby the management groups listedbelow.

2. Technical Management Group - coordinated by a public health specialist (in the case of SVS) and by an
indigenous health specialist (in the case of FUNASA). This management group will be responsible for: (i)
overseeing technical project implementation; (ii)planning and monitoring project components; and (iii)
providing technical assistanceto participating municipalities and agencies in implementing project activities.
The coordinators will be assisted by professionals specialized in planning and public health (in SVS), and in
indigenous health and water supply and sanitation (inFUNASA).


                                                      58

 3. Administrative Management Group - Coordinated by an administrator/economist who will be assistedby a
 procurement specialist, a procurement analyst, a financial management specialist, a financial management
 analyst, a planning and evaluation specialist and a planning and evaluation analyst. The group will be
 responsible for: (i)administration of project activities, including agreements and contracts ("convknios" and
 "termos de ades2o"), procurement, transfer of funds to implementing agencies; (ii)    preparation of reports on
 financial performance and disbursement; (iii)  tracking project funds; (iv) contracting independent technical
 audits; (v) providing technical assistance in financial management and procurement to participating
 municipalities and agencies; (vi) preparing progress reports of the project every four months.

 4. Information Management System Group - Coordinated by a system analyst who will be responsible for
 adapting or redefining and inputting into the system the information required to monitor the physical and
 financial performance of project implementation.

Project Implementation. The project will be implemented in three different ways: (i)           activities that are
already pre-designed ( e g rehabilitation and equipping of state laboratories, epidemiological surveillance
training programs, research, etc.) will be executed according to the procurement plan approved by the Bank
(Subcomponents A, B and C of Component I;Subcomponents A and B of Component II;                  and Component
111); (ii)subprojects that will be presented by states and municipalities will be executed according to the
PLANVIGI approved by M o H (Subcomponent D of Component I);(iii)        and      subprojects for indigenous and
Quilombo communities that will be presented by municipalities, states, NGOs, OCIPs and District Councils
and which are not pre-designed, but are prepared by subproject sponsors and selected according to eligibility
and evaluation criteria included in the Operational Manual (Subcomponent C and D of Component II).The
following implementation mechanisms will be used depending on the scope and on the capacity of the
implementing agencies: (i)     contracts with the private sector (suppliers, consultants); (ii) strategic supply-
driven subprojects (TypeA) for implementingpartners (universities, institutes, academic andresearchentities,
centers of excellence and other governmental and non-governmental entities); (iii)   demand-drivensubprojects
(Type B) for implementing partners, research centers and universities, government and non-governmental
entities. These mechanisms will be described indetail inthe OperationalManual.

-Strategic Supply-Driven Subprojects (Subprojects A)
Universities, foundations, government entities, NGOs, training and research institutes, entities for training
and for researchand special studies, will adopt the following implementation mechanism.

Strategic supply-driven subprojects include activities/programs consisting of capacity building and research
(including technological development), service delivery, training and procurement of supplies and equipment
in which the scope and timing of the subprojects are defined by MoH. The selection of the implementing
entity i s basedon the need to respond to technical priorities established on the basis of the strategic impact of
the activities under the subproject. Once the need i s identified by the MoH, a technical proposal including a
detailed budget and procurement plan will be drafted by the implementing entity. The content to be contained
inthe technical proposals will be includedinthe Operational Manual. A subproject agreement would then be
signed between M o H or institution designated by the Health Ministry and the implementing partner. Funds
will be disbursed in installments, based on verification of the management of funds, and meeting objectives.
Disbursements for Type A Subprojects will be on the basis of Statements of Expenses (SOEs). The SVS and
FUNASA will assist each agency with implementationissues, resolvebottlenecks and monitor progress.
- Demand-DrivenSubprojects         (Subprojects B)
Type B Subprojects are intended for demand-driven research and training initiatives with public and private
institutions, universities, foundations, government entities and NGOs.




                                                     59

The subproject cycle has several stages:

1. Planning and promotion. Initial steps should be taken to identify areas of intervention, target beneficiaries,
type of implementing entities, selection criteria and other related policies. In the case of technological
research, needs assessments of technological research as identified by experts, will orient the open invitation
("edital"). This will permit the pre-allocation of financial resources under specific strategies. The advertising
of the availability of funds and selection criteria would be part of this planning and promotion phase.
2. Subproject Proposals. Potential implementing entities would be invited to submit proposals through open
invitation (Edital) placed in the mass media, internet or other similar announcement. Using specific formats,
implementing partners will submit a Subproject Proposal to participate in the funding cycle and to be
considered as potential implementing partners. A subproject proposal is to contain: (i)       justification for an
intervention; (ii)identified beneficiaries; (iii)description of proposed activities and outputs; (iv) cost
breakdown; (v) counterpart (local) contribution; (vi) an implementation plan; (vii) monitoring and evaluation
plan. Complex subprojects may contain additional requirements.
3. Appraisal/Approval: Proposals are reviewed and appraised by an external technical committee made up
technical experts during a one week period. They will approveh-ejectproposals according technical criteria
and availability of funds, and submit their selections to the MoH.
4. Formalization of the Agreement. Subproject agreements will be signed between the M o H (or institution so
designated) and the selected implementing entities, through legal instruments. The agreement would establish
the scope of work, expected deliverables, financial data, and other specific items. Funds would be disbursed
in installments, based on verification of appropriate management of funds and progress on meeting the
proposalobjectives.
Complementary Documents.Candidates selectedto implement subprojects will be asked to present additional
legal and technical documents.
5. Implementation. The implementation phase comprises the execution of planned activities and supervision
visits by federal team (or indicatedinstitutions) to monitor technical, procurement and financial issues.
6. Disbursements are done through SOE.
7. Completion.A legal closure of the agreementwill take placeupon termination of subproject activities.
8. Evaluation. The M o H will carry out an evaluation of the subproject activities as part of the overall
evaluation of programeffectiveness and impact.

OperationalManual The O M will include conditions necessary for implementation such as procurement,
                        -
contracting, disbursement and auditing procedures. In addition to general administrative and financial
procurement procedures, the OM will include procedures for carrying out monitoring and evaluation of the
project such as: (i)processesto be followed under the two types of subprojects (A and B), including selection
criteria and a model agreement for implementation of subprojects; (ii)      process of operation of fund-to-fund
financing mechanism including eligibility and qualification, model of PLANVIGI, model of "termo de
adesgo" to be signed by MoHand participating municipalities and other activities covered by, Subcomponent
I-D; (iii) guidelines for NGO, OSCPI and DSEIprogram activities to be financed under Component 11; and
(iv) process of implementation of Subcomponent 11-C (Indigenous Health Initiative) and Subcomponent 11-D
(Quilombo communities).




                                                     60

                                    ORGANIZATIONAL CHARTOF PROJECTVIGISUS I1



                                         MLYI~TRY   OFHEALTH


       n II                                                           I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I                 Project Manager
                                                                      I              -- Technical
     - Project Manager                                                I                          Mgt Group
     --Technical Mgt Group                                            II             - Administrative Mgt. Group

       Administrative Mgt Group                                       I              (procudfinancial/ monitoring
                                                                      I
     (procur/financial/ monitoring                                    I              and evaluation specialists)

     andevaluation specialists)                                       I              - Infor. Manag. SystemGroup
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      II         ~



                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                      I
                                                                       I
                                                                      I

                                                          I           I

I                 I                   I              I             ' , 1I
                                                                       I
                                                                      I         Dep.

                                                                       I     Indigenous                        Eng. and
                                                                       I       Health
  Department           Surveillance       Situation    Surveillance    I                                        Public
                                                                       I
                                                                       II




                                                                       I
                                                                       I




                             Secretariats           Municipal




                                                           61

                    Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements


 I. SummaryoftheFinancialManagementAssessment

 A financial management risk assessment (FMA) was carried out of the VIGISUS I1Project, and also on the
 two PIUs' capabilities to execute effectively the financial management and monitoring of this project.
 Component Iand Subcomponent A of Component I11 will be implemented by SVS.22 Component I1
 (Indigenous Health) and Subcomponent B of Component 111 will be implemented by FUNASA23.The
 assessments were carried out in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and the Guidelines for Assessment of Financial
 Management Arrangements in World Bank-financed Projects issued by the FMSB on October 15, 2003.
 Basically, the same arrangementsexisting under VIGISUS IProject (L.4393) will be used in the VIGISUS I1
Project. The VIGISUS I1Project will have, however, a differentiated subcomponent (Subcomponent D of
Component I),24       as described in Section I1 below. This subcomponent will have a high degree of
decentralization, since all States (27), plus all capital cities and a number of selected municipalities in more
heavily populated urban areas will participate. The program would reach up to a total of 200 beneficiary
Entities. Therefore, the FMA was also focused on the financial management capacity of the decentralized
implementing agencies.

11.       FinancialArrangements for Sub-component Dof ComponentI

This component will be modeled as a pooledfinancing arrangement and the FMarrangementsare as follows:

 1. The total subcomponent amount will be financed through a pooled fundingarrangement in which the main
share of the pool will be the total grant transfers from National Health Fund (FWS) to the participating states
and municipal funds under the "financial ceiling for epidemiology and diseases control" (TFEXD)25transfers.
Loan proceeds will finance 84 percent of the costs of goods, works and services requiredto implement Health
Surveillance Institutional Development Subprojects.26Loan proceeds will be disbursed as advances (against
Statement of Transfers - SOT) for expenditures to be incurred by the municipalities and states at a rate of an
estimated 84 percent of the grants transferred to finance the Surveillance subproject^.^^ Subproject costs
represent approximately11percent share of the broader pool ($320 million) consisting of TFECD and Bank
funds for the planned 200 states and municipalities. A majority of the expenditures in the overall pool are
Bank eligible.

2. The participating states and municipalities will prepare a plan specifying tasks or activities and clearly
identifying the budget or estimated costs, under pre-determined eligible activity areas or lines of action. A
chart of accounts will be developed to allocate the budget and estimatedactual costs. The amounts to be
disbursed will be determined by the cash flow of the activities and their cost per line of action.


22 SVS-Health Surveillance Secretariat of MoH
23 FUNASA-Health National Foundation
24 See more detailed explanation in par I1
25 "Teto Financeiro da Epidemiologia e Controle de DoenGas" - TFECD
26 These subprojects consist of Health Surveillance Development Plans (PLANVIGI) and other activities under the
TFECD submitted by participating states and municipalities.
27 This is the equivalent to 84% of a virtual subproject pool of $43.4 million. However, it is important to note that the
total cost of the subcomponent, US$85.4 million, is dimensioned as follows: (i) the subproject pool: -- the estimated cost
of the Surveillance Subprojects--$36.4 million of Bank Financing plus $7 million counterpart drawn from the overall
pool to cover taxes and any other ineligible expense ); and (ii)
                                                               the amount of "deemed" project counterpart ($42 million)
also derived from the overall pool and included as non-Bank-financed, as specified in Annex 8.



                                                         62

3. Each participating state or municipality will sign Terms of Agreement (T&rmo de Adesgo) committing
with the M o H to achieve certain performance indicators and includinga list of eligible goods and services per
line of action.

4. Disbursement arrangements

     The project would disburse via SOT, the Bank's share of the transfer of a virtual subproject pool to
     finance 84% of costs of the Surveillance Subprojects, net of taxes costs of each state and municipality,
     prepared and approved under the conditions statedabove.

     Each state and municipality would report back to the UGP/SVS, using the system already in place
     (Financial Management System, SPIV), in an FMR model, reporting actual expenditures by activities
     broken down by cost items, comparing with the transfers via SOT, on a quarterly basis. Each report would
     contain figures for the quarter, cumulative year and cumulative project, in such a manner that a
     comparison could be made on a cumulative basis, what has been transferred via SOT and what has been
     actually spent. These reports, will be consolidated by the UGP/SVS in a single report to the Bank and
     would also serve for audit purposes to reconcile, on a yearly basis, transfers vis-&-vis actual expenditures
     in order to detect any possible. ineligible expense. Any ineligible expenditure included in the reports
     would be returned to the special account.

111.     Conclusionof the FinancialManagementAssessment

The financial management arrangements in both PIUS'-SVS and FUNASA, are satisfactory to the Bank's
requirements and, financial management systems are in place that can provide with reasonable assurance,
accurate andtimely information on the status of the project.

IV.      ProjectRiskanalysis

The Risk Assessment Matrix2*shows that "Project Specific" and "Implementing Entities" risks are rated as
substantial. All other risks are rated as moderate or low. The major risks identified are related to the high
degree of decentralization inSubcomponent D of Component 1.

The overall financial management risk associated with this Project i s rated as moderate. A risk level
assessment will be made in all states and participating municipalities and the classification will determine the
level of support and supervision required from the UGPs and the capacity strengthening measures that will
have to be taken by the implementing agency to improve their FMcapacity. No state or municipality will be
excluded from the programdue to a highrisk level classification. Duringpreparation and pre-appraisal, a pilot
FM and procurement capacity assessment was carried out in six State Health Secretariats and the results
ranged from low to highrisk.




** seeFMA Report


                                                    63

 V.       Strengths and Weaknesses

 The UGPs and their financial staff are adequate to implement and manage the project. The system to be used
 in both UGPs for accounting, reporting and monitoring - SPIV2' - is tailor-made for the project and will be
 described in the Operational Manual. It is a fully integrated system that controls project implementation and
 produces Financial Statements directly from its database. It i s a multiuser system that can be accessed by the
 participating states and municipalities for datainput and reportingto the central unit.

 However, some potential weaknesses were identified, mostly related to the high degree of decentralization in
 Subcomponent D (Component l), the monitoring of performance indicators which will support the
                                      and
 advancing to the secondphase.




                         Weaknesses                                          Resolution
      High      degree    of    decentralization     in e          PIU's Supervision team.
      Subcomponent D                                      e        SPIV to control funds transfers
                                                          e        Audit by FNS
                                                          e        Independent audit by the Federal
                                                              Control Secretariat (National General
                                                              Controller, SFC)
      Identification of eligible expenditures in the e             Chart of accounts and procurement list
      funds transfers                                    e         Quarterly reporting
                                                         e         Annual audit by SFC
      Performance indicators, which will qualify the e Close monitoring and technical independent
      states for the second phase                            review.

VI.      Flow of Funds

Funds will be advanced by STN3' to the MoH which will transfer funds in two different ways: (a) for
Components Iand part of I11(PIU/SVS) ,funds will flow from FNS to SVS; in case of Subcomponent D of
Component I,FNS will make transfers directly to the FES31 and FMS;32 (b) for the Indigenous Health
Component (Component 11) and part of Component 111(PWFUNASA), the M o H will transfer funds directly
to FUNASA which will be responsible for implementation of this component. Detailed funds flow charts are
inthe FMA work papers andwill be includedinthe Project's FinancialManual.

VII.    Accounting Policies andProcedures, Internal Controls

The UGPs' and the project's accounting system will follow the accounting policies and procedures of the
accounting system prevailing for public Entities in Brazil (Law 4320/64), using SIAFI~~as the main tool.
Since it is not possible to monitor the physical implementation of the project or produce the required
Financial Statements from SIAFI, specific project accounting and monitoring will be done through SPIV.
Financial Statements, both the quarterly and year-end FMRs will be prepared on actual cash basis. Financial


29SPIV-Planning,financial and monitoringsystem of VIGISUS.
30STN-NationalTreasurySecretariat
31FES-StateHealthFund
32FMS-MunicipalHealthFund
33SIAFI-FederalIntegratedFinancialAdministrationSystem


                                                    64

transactions executed for all components in both PIUs will be consolidated by SVS into one single set of
Financial Statements of the Project.

A financial management manual will be prepared which will contain all financial management procedures,
instructions and policies orienting and defining the financial managementteams' responsibilities.

VIII.    Internal Audit

Internal audits will be performed in two main instances by other Departments involved in the processes and
by cross checking transactions as follows: (a) internally by the PIUs own checking procedures andor by other
Entities like CGOF34and STN, and (b) by F9IS in the utilization of funds transferred via the Fund to Fund
mechanism.

IX.      Externalaudit-Audit Reports

External audits will follow the Bank's new audit policy and audit guidelines issued by the FMSBon June 30,
2003. SFC/CGU audits all projects financed by the Federal Government. The year-end FMRs, in the agreed
format, will be used as the annual Financial Statements of the Project. The scope of the audit will be
determined by PIUs in accordance with the Bank, based on project-specific circumstances, and audit TOR
will be issued accordingly. A special opinion will be required on the Reconciliation Statement (see below)
and on the Special Account. The auditors will review the quarterly Reconciliation Statements and express a
special opinion at year end about the eligibility of expenditures under Subcomponent D of Component I.    Any
ineligible expending will be reported and the relevant amounts will be returned to the Special Account. The
Bank must approve audit TOR before negotiations take place. The following audit reports will be required:

                         Audit Report                                        DueDate
     1) Single Opinion on Project Financial Statements
     2) Special Opinion on the Reconciliation Statement       Upto six months after closing of fiscal year
     3) Special Opinions Special Account
     4) Management letter

A special item will be included in the TOR in relation to audits to be performed in the decentralized
ExecutingAgencies inthe Fund-to-Fund Category (Subcomponent D).

X.      Reportingandmonitoring

Monitoring and reporting will be done through the financial management system (SPIV), which will also
control and monitor the decentralized subprojects of Subcomponent D (Component 1) and prepare SOE, SOT
and FMRs.

FUNASA will report the figures resultingfrom the transactions of the Component I1and Subcomponent B of
Component I11 to SVS. SVS will consolidate these figures with             the figures of Component Iand
Subcomponent A of Component 111, for one single consolidated financial reporting. The project will report in
the format of FMR Financial Statements in the periodicity shown in the table below. The reports will contain
data comparing planned figures with actual figures and variances both in US$ and R$. Each report will
contain the figures for the quarter, accumulated for year, accumulated for the project. A special quarterly
FMR will be prepared for Subcomponent D comparing funds transferred via SOT, with actual expenditures.
The year-end Financial Statements, including the reconciliation statement will be issued also in the same



34CGOF-GeneralCoordinationUnit for Budgetingand Finance of MoH


                                                     65

FMR format and will serve for independent audit purposes. The following Reports in FMR formats will be
i ssued:

                                           Report                                            Frequency
      1.Sources and uses of funds by Component FMR- 1A (Grand totals)
      2. Sources and uses of funds by Categories FMR- 1B(Grandtotals)
      3. SOT & actual spending statement (Reconciliation Statement)                           Quarterly
      4. Physical ProgressReport by Component and Subcomponent FMR 3
     I5.6. Special
          Procurement FMR-Acauisitions of Goods. Services and Consulting.
                  Account Statement

XI.        Disbursement arrangements

Each UGP will prepare estimates of the funds required on a monthly basis and submit to STN which will
then make cash advances. Subsequently, PIUs document the expenditures through regular SOE, submit to
STNthat will withdraw fromthe Special Account andrequestfromthe Bankthe relevant replenishment.

The disbursements will be transaction-based using SOE/SS, except in Subcomponent D of Component I,
where the disbursement will be on basis of SOTs issued when the transfers are made from the FNS to the FES
and FMS. Supporting documentation will be retained inthe relevant UGPs', and in the case of subcomponent
D of Component.I,      documentation will be retained in each participating state and municipality. A quarterly
FMR will be prepared to report actual expenditures compared with amounts transferred via SOTs. The
responsibility of Part A. 4 execution i s of the states and municipalities, and the monitoring will be done by the
M o H on basis of the achievement of the improvements in the performance indicators. Independent audits will
be performed by SFC in all states and in selected participating municipalities to certify that the amount
financed by the Bank in this category corresponds to eligible expenditures. If the States and participating
Municipalities are not able to demonstrate the minimumestablished amount of eligible expenses, remedial
actions will apply, including the return to the special account, by the MoH, of the amounts not demonstrated
as eligible.

In Subcomponent C of Component I1- Fund for Indigenous Community Initiatives, financing will be
provided for approximately 150 small subprojects of less than $ 12,000 each, to Indigenous Communities.
Payments are made on a lump sumbasis usually in two tranches, and therefore the disbursements will be done
via SOEs, according to the CDD guidelines. The replenishment of the Special Account will be on a regular
monthly basis or, when 1/3 of the SA has been draw down which ever occurs first.

There will be only one special account for the funds to be allocated to the two UGPs. The funds will be
earmarked for each component/PrtJ, and adequatecontrols exist to control funds separately for each PIU. The
initial allocation to the special account will be based on a four-month estimated expenditure up to a maximum
of 10 percent, e.g., US$ 10 million. Retroactive financing will apply for eligible expenditures incurred from
February 2, 2004 the appraisal mission date, up to when the signature of the Loan Agreement takes place,
limited to a maximum of 10 percent of the Loan, e g , US$ 10 million. According to recent orientation from
STN(National Treasury), there will not be direct payments and/or special commitments, all payments will be
handled from the UGPs. The following will be conditions for disbursement: (a) SPIV fully implemented and
operational in all participating states and each participating municipalities, respectively (b) Financial
Management section of Operational Manual approved by the Bank, and (c) Financial Management
Assessment completed for all participatingstates and municipalities inthe Subcomponent D, Component I.

The Borrower may requestdisbursement from the Loan Account to be madeusingStatement of Expenditure
(SOE) methodology for all payments against contracts not subject to Bank's prior review, including: (a) for



                                                       66

goods for Components I, and I11under contracts of less than the equivalent of US$350,000 per contract;
                          11,
(b)for services of individual consultants for Components I, and I11 under contracts not to exceed
                                                           I1
US$50,000; (c) for services of consultants firms for Components I, I1and I11under contracts notto exceed
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract; (d) for training and incremental operating cost ,and Research
Subprojects, Training and Capacity BuildingSubprojects, Indigenous Community Subprojects, and Water and
Sanitation Subprojects estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent each; and (e) for Surveillance
Subproject Transfer (in which case the statementsof expenditures shall be referred to as statementsof
transfer).

XII.    Action Plan

Followingis the agreedaction plan to comply with all FMrequirements.

     Action#                               Item                                     TimeFrame
         1      Formalize UGPs inboth implementing Agencies,                Effectiveness
                includingthe FMstaff
        2       Review SPIV implementationin eachparticipating              Condition of disbursement
                Municipalities.                                             ineachparticipating
                                                                            municipality
        3       FinancialManual (final) as part of O M                      Condition of effectiveness
        4       Complete FMassessment of all participating States and       Condition of disbursement
                Municipalities                                              for Part A.4 (Component I,
                                                                            Subcomponent D)

XIII. SupervisionPlan

Bi-annual financial management supervision missions are proposed. One mission would be concentrated on
the two UGPs and the second would be directed to field visits to states and municipalities. Each year, not less
thantwo states and two municipalities should be visited.




                                                   67

                                   Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements


ProcurementArrangements

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordancewith the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits",publishedinJanuary 1995 (revised January/August 1996,
September 1997, January 1999 and November 2003; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultantsby World Bank Borrowers" published inJanuary 1997 (revised in September 1997, January 1999,
and May 2002; and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. The Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents and Standard Requestfor Proposals will be used for the Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant
services, respectively. For NCB procurement of goods, SVS and FUNASA will use the model standard
biddingdocument issued by SEAIN.Under the transfers fund-to-fund component, the participating states and
municipalities will use NCB and small procurement methods as per the national law. FUNASA and SVS may
use the pregzo and the electronic pregdo as an alternative for the procurement of off-the-shelf items through
shopping.

Procurement Responsibility. The project implementationwill require procurement of civil works and goods,
hiringof consultants, training activities and subprojects to strengthen the capacity of the state and municipal
agencies and indigenous communities to deliver epidemiological control and combat of diseases. There are
five types of implementingagencies under the proposed project:

    at the central level, the Project ImplementingUnit under the Secretariat of Epidemiological Surveillance
    (UGP/SVS) will carry out hiring of individual consultants and consultant firms, including training
    activities, and procurement of civil works, laboratory equipment, vehicles, computer equipment and
    peripherals, software, printingservices, educational material and supplies;

    FUNASA will establish its own UGP that will carry out hiring of individual consultants and consultant
    firms, including training activities, and procurement of civil works, equipment, computer equipment and
    peripherals, software, vehicles andboats, printingservices, educational material and supplies;

    the participating state and municipal agencies, estimated to be about 200 entities in total, will contract
    training activities, procure small purchases of equipment, hire individuals and consultant firms, contract
    civil works, and other activities under this component necessary to achieve the objectives established in
    Surveillance Development Plans (PLANVIGI) with resources of the Health Ministry (MoH) and the
    Bank's loan proceeds using the fund-to-fund transfers from the federal government to states and
    participating municipalities. The calculation of the transfers to participating states and municipalities for
    health surveillance activities, including PLANVIGIs, were made on the basis of the population size,
    number of municipalities andepidemiological profile;

    the indigenous communities and NGOs will implement local health initiatives under subprojects; and

    the states and municipalities and NGOs will implement small water and sanitation subprojects in
    Quilombolas.

The UGP at SVS will be responsible for the overall project procurement activity, including compliance with
procedures and timetables agreed with the Bank. The UGP will strengthen the administrative and supervision
arrangements and should assist the other implementing units, including the UGPat FUNASA.




                                                    68

Procurement Plan. The UGP at SVS prepared a procurement plan for the tasks to be carried out during
project implementation at the central level, which was approved by the WA's office and i s in the project
files. A procurement plan for the FUNASAcomponent was also preparedduringappraisal. The procurement
plans consist o f (i)procurement plan for the project's goods, including contract packaging, applicable
procedures and process scheduling; and (ii) a consultant and training providers selection process plan for the
project's training and consultant services, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, selection
criteria. The procurement plans and consultant selection process plan will be updated periodically (every six
months for consultants services) ,and shall be submitted to the Bank in January of each year. Such updating
shall include the (i)list of contracts completed, under execution, under procurement, to be procured in the
upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester; (ii)  costs of completed and under
execution contracts, estimated costs for upcoming contracts; (iii)schedule of bidding; and (iv) particular
methods of procurement of goods or selection of consultants in accordance to a format agreed with the Bank
and included inthe Operational Manual.

Procurement Arrangements. The project's procurement arrangements for each component are summarized in
Table A.




                                                   69

                           Annex 8, Table A: ProjectCostsby ProcurementArrangements
                                                   (inUS$thousandequivalent)

                                                       Procureme t Method'
    Expenditure Category               ICB              NCB               Other2      I     N.B.F.           Total Cost
   1.Civil Works                                                             2.0      I                         14.4
 ~~




                                                                                                                 (7.2)
 2. Goods                              26.5                                                                     41.8
                                      (15.9)                                                                   (25.1)
 3. Consultants' Services                                                                                       12.6
                                                                            (7.6)                                (7.6)
 4. Training                                                               18.1                                 18.1

 5. Miscellaneous
 5. 1Incremental                                          5.I                                                   11.0
 Operating Costs
                                                         (1.7)              (2.0)                                (3.8)
5.2 Subprojects                                                            15.7                                 15.7
                                                                                                                 (9.9)
 a. Research& Training                                                       8.7                                  8.7
                                                                            (5.3)                                (5.3)
b.Indigenous                                                                 1.8                                  1.8
                                                                            (1.5)                                (1.5)
c. WSS Quilombolas                                                           5.2                                  5.2
                                                                                                                 (3.1)
5.3 Surveillance                        0.3                                                                     85.4
Subprojects
                                       (0.2)                              (36.2)                               (36.4)
a. Surveillance                                                            20.7                                 20.7
Development Plan-
phase I(SOT)
                                                                          (17.4)                               (17.4)
b. Surveillance
DevelopmentPlan -
phase I1(SOT)
- Bonus                                                                      3.3                                  3.3

- Base                                                                     (2.7)                                 (2.7)
                                                                           15.6                                  15.6
                                                                          (13.1)                               (13.1)
- Remedial                                                                   3.3                                  3.3
                                                                           (2.7)                                 (2.7)
   c. ICB goods and works               0.3                                                                       0.3
                                       (0.2)                                                                     (0.2)
   d. QCBS                                                                   0.3                                  0.3
                                                                                                                 (0.2)
5.4 Front-endfees                                 I                                                               1.0
                                                                           (1.0)                                 (1.0)
                       Total                                              102.4                                200.0
                                     (16.1)            (14.7)             (69.2)                              (100)
'Figures in parenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Loan. All costs includecontingencies,
'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, national law, preggo and pregao eletrhico, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, subprojects,community
participationin procurement, and incremental operatingcosts related to (i)managingthe project, and (ii) re-lendingproject funds to
local govemmentunits.



                                                              70

                     TableA.l: ConsultantSelectionArrangements(US$ million equivalent)

                                                            Selection Method
      Consultant Services                                                                                  Total
     ExpenditureCategory          QCBS       QBS        SFB        LCS       CQ        Other     N.B.F.

A. Firms                          4.0                                       0.2        3.1                 7.3
                                  (2.4)                                    (0.1)      (1.9)               (4.4)
B. Individuals                                                                         5.3                 5.3
                                                                                      (3.2)               (3.2)
C. Consultant services under the  0.3                                                Sole                  0.3
Fund-toFund                                                                          source
                                                                                     or par.
                                                                                       3.19
                                 (0.2)                                                                    (0.2)
                           Total  4.3                                       0.2        8.4                12.9
                                 (2.6)                                     (0.1)      (5.1)               (7.8)

Bank -Financed Goods, Works,Servicesand Associated Procedures under ComponentZ.D.The component
 includes the fund-to-fund transfers from the Health Ministry to the participating states and municipalities and
 i s modeled under the arrangements explained below. Although not expected, if there i s any ICB or QCBS
contract resulting from the implementing of the PLANVIGI, these will require the Bank's traditional prior
review, documents, and disbursement procedures. The hiring of consultant firms will be either limited to
US$lOO,OOO in which case it will be considered as sole sourcing pursuant to par. 3.9 (c) of the Guidelines or
the hiring for the assignment must be carried as service delivery contractors in accordance to par. 3.19 of the
Consultant's guidelines as explained inthe Operational Manual.

          (a)      pool: the main part of the pool will be the total transfers from the Financial Transfer for
          Epidemiology and Disease Control (TFECD) through the national fund to the participating state and
          municipal funds. The Bank lending will be an additionality to the TFECD. The estimated size of the
          broader pool i s US$ 80 million equivalent annually ($320 million total over four years); the Bank
          share i s US$36.4 million or about 11percent of the resources mobilized through the Health National
          Fund for SVS activities implemented during the three-year project cycle, pursuant to Portaria
          1399199 of December 15, 1999 that established the Teto Financeiro de Epidemiologiae Controle de
          DoenGus (TFECD). An undetermined amount of their own resources is invested by the participating
          states and municipalities; however, such additionally i s not considered to be part of the pooling
          arrangements due to uncertainties and volatility of such contributions. The Bank will finance the
          approved PLANVIGI as an incentive to the good management and performance. These funds will
          provide the participating entity with resources focusing on additional institutional development tasks
          generally not covered under the existing transfers. Financing aims to stimulate states and
          municipalities to develop technologies, foster creativity in organizational and management practices
          and     encourage risk taking initiatives to improve the performance in health surveillance thus
          complying with the performance on the health indicators.

          (b)      Surveillance Development Plans (PLANVIGI): participating states and municipalities will
          apply for the incentive with a proposal approved by the tripartite or bipartite health commissions,
          stating specific tasks or activities while clearly identifying the budget or estimated costs of the
          activities, under five eligible activity areas or lines of action: (1) institutional development; (2)
         epidemiological surveillance and disease control, (3) environmental surveillance, (4) situational
         analysis and (4) upgrading of technical skills. The latter consists of fixed tasks related to mandatory
         training specified by the M o H and, eventually, for low performing participating entities, these tasks



                                                      71

         would consist of specialized or remedial tasks. The cost of the activities in the PLANVIGI and its
         cash flow will determine the Bank's loan disbursement schedule as explained inthe relevant annex.

         (c)       Termo de Adesiio or Agreement: the participating states and municipalities will sign a
         commitment with the M o Hto achieve the performance indicators as set forth inthe Agreement during
         the project implementation. Two or three technical performance indicators will be defined for each
         line of action as defined in par. (b) above. The Termo de Adesiio will include as annexes: (i)the
         PLANVIGI,(ii) eligible list of goods and servicesto beused as inputsof the activitiescertified by
                             the
         the MoH that the procurement procedures, methods and practices used by the participatingentities are
         consistent with the federal procurement law35;and (iii)      any amendment to the eligible list of goods
         and services as approved pursuant to the Operational Manual.

         (d)      Mid-term review: the progress in achieving the performance health indicators will be
         measured by an independent technical audit about 24 months after the signing of the Agreement, or
         approximately at the midpoint of project implementation. Under this scenario, low and middle-range
         performers will continue to receive financing during the second 24-month phase according to
         PLANVIGI. However, low performers will receive a reduction in financing while reallocating
         resources to corrective, high-priority tasks as agreed with the M o H and specified in a special
         "emergency" plan. High performers will receive additional resources to implement an expanded
         program of eligible activities. This expanded program will have two sources of financing: (i)Loan
         proceeds, provided that there are resources available from the partial cancellationof the PLANVIGIs
         of the low performers or (ii) o H from other sources. At the end of the four-year project cycle the
                                          M
         same assessment methodology will be applied to determine the entry conditions for the participating
         entities into the next VIGISUS I11APL Phase. States or municipalities who perform poorly at both
         the mid-term and final performance assessments may receive reduced financing or be excluded from
         the incentive programinthe next phase.

         of actionPerformance
         (e)                      indicators: Customized for each participating state and municipality, each line
                    will have baseline, mid-point and end-of-project target indicators that will be defined in both
         PLANVIGI and stipulated in the signed Agreements. As mentioned, two or three indicators are
         anticipated for each line of action. Each indicator will be scaled so that a weighted quantifiable score
         can be assigned. Performance scores will be assigned to each of the four line of actions as well for
         total performance. The M o H will determine the grading system to determine high, medium or low
         performance. The mid-point indicator will seek to capture progress between the baseline and final
         target performance indicators and will determine the degree of compliance to be assessed under the
         midterm review as definedinpar. (d) above. As indicatedinpar. (d) above, the performance Type A,
         B and C will be assessedand applied by line of action as defined inpar. (b) above. This review will
         be repeatedat the end of VIGISUS I1as explained inpar. (d) above.

         (f)
         may beActivities:      The activities will be listed in the PLANVIGI under each line of action. There
                   one or more activities under each line of action. The activities consist of actions to be
        undertaken within the scope of the project or the specific line of action, as mentioned in part. (b)
        above. Activities can include: technical assistance, improvement in quality of laboratory analysis,
         studies, design and implementation of special programs, specimen collection and analysis,
        information collection, transfer and analysis, workshops, seminars, media campaign, training,
         software and hardware upgrading, creation of organizational structures and introduction of


35The MoH shall exclude from the list goods and services that are subject to local preferences or procured under special
local regimes that are not consistent with the federal procurement law. Special consideration shall be given to the
procurement of fuel, printing services, vehicles, public campaigns and travel that are frequently subject to
standardization or local preferences.


                                                       72

          management techniques, creation of career paths for epidemiologists, etc. The activities will have a
          budget or a cost structure based on indicators, unit prices, historical events, standard costs, per capita
          indices, budget estimates or any other reasonable methodology that would assign an official cost
          estimate to each one of the activities. The chart of accounts will define the actual cost of each activity
          as these are implemented. Under the project, some of the low risk participating agencies will monitor
         the cost of the activities in order to feed a database of standard activities whose application under
         project might eventually eliminate the need for certified eligible list of goods and services under the
          next APL Phaseor earlier as explained below.

          (g)     Standardized Costs for Activities: the project would include a pilot activity consisting of the
         construction of a database of actual costs for a subset of activities implementedin low risk states and
         municipalities. This database will serve to establish standardized costs for these activities. Duringthe
         mid-term review, a sample of the agencies and the activities will.be assessedon an ex-post basis by a
         team of Bank and M o H specialists to determine if the procurement under such activities was
         transparent, efficient, economic and provided ample opportunities for competition. If the standardized
         costs of the activities are deemed robust, the associated procurement procedures are determined
         acceptable and the Bank's policies allow for such a change, the Bank and Client may consider
         introducing adjustments in the operational arrangements as to incorporate lessons and mechanisms
         resulting from the studies.

OperationalManualfor the Fund-to-Fund transfers. The Project will prepare an Operational Manual that
would include, inter alia, the following procurement arrangements:

1. It should make a reference to the determination, by the Bank, that the overall procurement under federal
projects is medium-low risk as statedinthe CPAR;
2. All or most of the participating municipalities were already assessed in terms of procurement capacity,
classified in terms of risk and subject to an action plan to improve the procurement performance under the
Family Health ExtensionProject. The states will be subject to the same assessment;
3. Most of the activities imply small procurement actions for which the rules of national procurement law -
including the control and supervision mechanisms - provide reasonable comfort towards economy and
efficiency;
4. Although not expected, large ticket items in the PLANVIGI, including ICB (goods over US$350,000) and
QCBS contracts will be subject to prior review by the Bank andwill apply a different flow of information and
disbursement through contracts or SOE. The small procurement of goods and services will be procured in
accordance with the procedures established in the national law and found acceptable to the Bank. These
include: (a) the invitation to bid by previously registered bidders or any interested supplier or contractor
demonstrating to be qualified within 15 days using the two envelope system ("tomada de preqos"); (b) the
similar method of "convite" consisting of an invitation to bid within 5 days suppliers or contractors not
previously registered in individual contracts not to exceed US$50,000 equivalent, (c) market inquiries
("dispensa de licitaqgo") up to US$5,000 for works and US$3,000 for goods; (d) direct contracting of utilities
(including phone, energy, water) and services (including, meals, rental of space and transport by road) when
there i s only one supplier; (e) adhesion to contracts of pharmaceuticals procured by other governmental
entities through public biddingthrough "registro de pregos"; and (f)preggo. The thresholds used to define the
procurement methods and review thresholds are defined intable A.2.
5. VIGISUS I1will assist the M o H in adopting a modern supervision and monitoring mechanism - already
tested in five locations - that would mitigate the risks of misuse of the resources committed to the activities
and actions as defined above and their procurement;
6. The Agreement as defined above will have a list of eligible goods and services under the PLANVIGI.
Duringimplementation, the low risk agencies may modify the approved list by advising MoH; the medium
risk agencies would require MoH approval for the proposed changes; and the high risk entities requesting
changes in the list will require the Bank prior review.


                                                      73

7. Inthe case of the states, the capacity assessment will include a review of the procurement practices, ineach
state, of critical items in the list of goods and services. Items for which there i s concern regarding the
economy, efficiency and transparency of the procurement may be excluded from the eligible list for any line
of action for any participant. MoH will submit the Bank a certificate of assurance that the procurement of
items in the list are free of concern. For municipalities, they will submit their lists and self certification and
the M o H will do the verification depending upon the risk as classified under the Family Health capacity
buildingand risk assessment tasks;
8. Misprocurement will be determined by the opinion of the independent auditors regardingthe compliance of
the national law. The amounts declared as misprocurement will be reimbursed to the special account by
MoH; the M o H will then trigger administrative and judicial actions to be reimbursed by the state or
municipality incurring in the misprocurement or misuse. Additionally, any participating entity failing to
comply with their performance indicators or mid term corrective measures at the end of VIGISUS I1- will be
excluded from the next phase thus minimizing the risk of non-performers inthe program;
9. The Bank will review ex-antethe PLANVIGIfor the high riskparticipating entities - MoH will do it for all
other cases and will consult the Bank as needed;
10. Although highly encouragedas a managementtool, the use of procurement plans will not be mandatory to
add flexibility in the allocation of resources, quantities and timing of the procurement to achieve the
performance indicators provided that the procurement is limited to the items inthe eligible list;
11.The amounts to be disbursed of the Banks proceeds will be determined by the cash flow determined by
the activities and their cost per line of action and not on the basis of the procurement plan;
12.Periodically, the independent procurement reviews (it may be the SFC if so agreed) will sample states and
municipalities to determine if procurement i s carried out with due diligence as an input to the mid-term
review.
13. There should be a section of procurement inthe Term0 de AdesZio model satisfactory to the Bank;
14. Independent procurement reviews will assess whether the participating entities spent in eligible items,
listed in the plan, at least an amount equivalent to the Bank portion of the transfer. If the reconciliation does
not demonstrate the consistency of the records retained by the participating entities and the actual
disbursement, remedial actions should be taken, including - without prejudice of the judiciary actions to be
taken by Government - the re-imbursement to the Bank by the Health Ministry of the money not justified,
misprocurement, warnings and suspension of the participation of the entity within this component.

Bank- Financed Goods, Works, Services and Associated Procedures. Under the centralized components of
the project, UGP at SVS and UPG at FUNASA will procure works (including national and molecular
laboratories, new construction and rehabilitation of health laboratories), goods (consisting of lab and medical
equipment, vehicles, motorcycles, boats, power and energy supply equipment, microscopes, medical and lab
kits, software, GPS, and technical services (consisting of editing and printing services, media, support to
meetings and conferences, etc) usingICB, NCB and shopping (or preggo) procedures acceptable to the Bank
inaccordanceto the procurement plan. The aggregateamounts for the Bank's loanproceedsare as follows:




                                                      74

                             Table A.2: ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review




NCB works                      Less than US$5 million      US$ 12.4million             US$6.2 million
NCB goods                      Less than US$350,000        US$ 11.3 million            US$6.8 million
3-Quotations Civil works       Less than US$350,000        US$2.0 million              US$ 1.0million
Shonninaor Prenao              Less than US$lOO.OOO        USs4.0 million              USs2.4 million
Individualconsultants                                      US$5.3 million              US$3.2 million
UGP staff at SVS and                                       US$3.6 million              US$ 1.2million
FUNASA

Bank-Financed Consultant Services, Training, and Research.             The proposed project would finance
consultant services by firms and individuals, training activities and research activities. It is expected that the
project will finance studies and research activities through a variety of interventions, consulting services,
support or technical services and training subprojects. These services will be hired through QCBS, sole
sourcing, CQ, and others. CQ hiring includes the following small cost assignments to be carried out by SVS
and FUNASA: (i)architectural designs for laboratories; (ii) design; (iii)
                                                                   web                 educational materials on
indigenous health; (iv) studies on indigenous health basic care model; (v) monitoring and evaluation models;
and (vi) health activities cost model. The other methods include sole sourcing of firms and entities, and
individual consultants, as explained below.

Training activities. The training activities under the project include about 400 training activities. About 100
of the training activities at an estimated cost of US$18.1 million will be centrally implemented by the M o H
usingtheir own administrative procedures includingthe procurement of space, facilities, travel, lodginghiring
of speakers, development of materials. About 300 other training activities at an estimated cost of about
US$5.3 million will be delivered by universities, institutes, foundations, NGOs and specialized training
entities selectedby the M o H under the training subprojects as explained above. The training subprojects will
be awarded on the basis of the technical skills of the training institution in accordance to the Operational
Manual. The selected entities will enter in an agreement with the M o H using a form acceptable to the Bank
and the entities will use the Bank's Procurement and Consultants Guidelines the procurement of goods,
generally shopping for goods and the hiring of individual consultants. The training subprojects are generally
Type A and those estimated to cost more than US$200,000 will require the approval of the Bank before
signingthe agreement with the beneficiary entity.




                                                    75

Research activities. As explained above, the research activities will be carried out through two types of
subprojects: the Type A Subprojects are supply-driven research activities carried out by entities selected by
the M o Hon the basis of the technical skills of the beneficiary; the Type B Subprojects are demand-driven and
there would be technical competition for the award of the research grants. The beneficiary of the research
grant Type A will enter into an agreement with the MoH usinga form acceptableto the Bank and the entities
will use the Bank's Procurement and Consultants Guidelines for the procurement of goods, generally
shopping for goods and the hiring of individual consultants. The beneficiary of the research grants Type B
will also enter into an agreement with the MoH using a form acceptable to the Bank; given that the entities
were selected through a technical competitive process - not necessarily as per the Guidelines but through
advertisement and negotiations - these entities will procure the goods and services in accordance to the
national law and will select their individual researchers using their own administrative procedures as
operational costs for procurement below US$lOO,OOO. The research subprojects of either Type A or B
estimated to cost more than US$350,000 will require the approval of the Bank before signing the agreement
with the beneficiary entity. The Training and Capacity Building Subprojects estimated to cost more than
US$350,000 will require the approval of the Bank before signingthe agreement with the beneficiary entity.

Individual consultants, in an aggregate as per the table above, will be hired by the Health Ministry and
FUNASA usingadministrative procedures consistent with Par. 5.1-5.4 of the Guidelines. The salaries of UGP
staff at SVS and FUNASA, in an aggregate as per the table above, will be financed on a declining basis under
the Project IncrementalOperating Costs category.

Sole sourcing. During appraisal, the UGP justified the sole sourcing of Instituto de Safide Coletiva da
Universidade Federal da Bahia (ISC-UFBA)and the Escola Nacional de Safide Mblica da FundaqBo Oswaldo
Cruz do Rio de Janeiro (ENSP-FIOCRUZRJ) to deliver a professional masters degree in health surveillance
inan amount not to exceedUS$ 300,000 pursuant to par. 3.9 (d) of the Guidelines as these institutions are the
only schools certified to deliver this type of higher education program. Seemingly, M o H requested the sole
sourcing under par. 3.9 (a) of Guidelines of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) from the
US in an amount not to exceed US$l.O million to give continuity to the long term relationship between the
M o H and CDC, particularly, in the development and implementation of two key programs: the Field
Epidemiologist Training Program(FETP) and the Datafor Decisionmaking (DDM).

The M o H maintains a long term relationship with partner medical and scientific institutions that assist it in
developingthe Sistema de InformaGlio de Mortalidade (SIM)including: CentroLatino American0 de Estudos
de Viol8ncias- CLAVES-FIOCRUZ for violence and accidents; Instituto Renee'Rachou - UFMGfor control
of disease of the elderly; Instituto Nacional de Cancer - INCA - RJ for cancer and Centro Brasileiro de
Classificapio de Doengas (CBCD) for mortality issues. Within these established relationships, the M o H will
enter into agreements with those institutions in an amount not to exceed US$ 1.0 million in support of the
knowledge sharing activities and strategic partnerships under the project.

Due to the specialized nature of the assignments pursuant to par. 3.9 (d) of the Guidelines, FUNASA
requested the sole source of entities as follows: ISA/UFSP in an amount of US$560,000 for training of
indigenous organizations; CIPSIfor researchon alcoholism and mental healthof the indigenous individuals in
an amount of US$275,000; CEMTRS on the same issues for local tribes in an amount of US$152,000;
Missgo Cauih-Guarani for suicide studies; OMIR inRoraima for the same studies of suicide and alcoholism in
an amount of US$140,000; GGTT in Amazonas in the amount of US$75,000; UFB in Bahia in the amount
US$35,000: FOIRN in Rio Negro in the amount of US$45,000 and FioCruz for food and alimentation
vigilance in the amount of US$200,000. Most of these organizations were already partners to FUNASA
under the first APL-I.




                                                     76

Procurement under the Subprojects. The project would include four types of subprojects: subprojects for
training, subprojects for indigenous associations, subprojects for water and sanitation works in Quilombolas,
and subprojects for research. The training subprojects will be granted as Type A Subprojects, The research
subprojects would be of two types A and B as detailed inthe Operational Manual. Inthe subprojects for Type
A, the beneficiaries will be selected taking into account strategic and regional considerations, will generally
use shopping and hiring of consultants as per the Bank's Guidelines and will use administrative procedures
for operational costs. In the subprojects for research Type B - in which the beneficiaries are selected through
advertisement and technical competition - they will use their own procurement rules if specified in the by-
laws or manuals of the beneficiaries or will use shopping and hiring of consultants as per the Guidelines if
such procurement procedures are not established. The indigenous associations subprojects consist of small
grants - generally managed by the Banco do Brasil - not to exceed US$lZ,OOO individually and US$1.8
million in the aggregate and will use community-based procedures for the procurement consistent with par.
3.15 of the Guidelines. The water and sanitation subprojects in the Quilombolas will be implemented by the
relevant authorities of the selected states and municipalities through convenios and the regulations of the
Operational Manual. The procurement under these subprojects will be carried out through 3-Quotations
procedures and shopping. There are no aggregate amounts for the subprojects as these are basically demand-
driven activities determined by the evolving local or regional epidemiologicalprofile.




                                                    77

                       TABLEA.3: Thresholdsfor Procurement Methodsand
                   Prior Review of Goods and Works (in US$thousand equivalent)



Goods for     >350k           100-350k          Shoppingor       All ICB > 350k;  Regular
UGP                                             preg5o< lOOk     Firsttwo NCBs;   supervision
                                                                 No Shopping
Goods for     >350k           100-350k          Shoppingor       All ICB > 350k;  Regular
FUNASA                                          pregao< lOOk     Firsttwo NCBs;   supervision
                                                                 No Shopping
Goods under   Goods>250k      Goods 100-250k Shoppingor          All ICB only     Prior approval of
Research and                                    pregao< lOOk                      the research
Training                                                                          subprojects above
Subprojects -                                                                     350k and training
Type A                                                                            subprojects above
                                                                                  200k
Goods under   Goods>250k      Goods 100-250k National            All ICB only     Regular
Research                                        procurement                       supervision
Subprojects -                                   regulations<
Type B                                          100k
Goods, works  Not expected    National          National         No prior review  Independent
and services                  procurement       procurement                       procurement
under                         regulations       regulations                       reviews
Surveillance
Subprojects
Goods and                     100-250k          Shopping<        Noprior review   Independent
servicesunder                                   lOOk                              procurement
Indigenous                                                                        reviews
Subprojects
Goods and                     100-250k          Shopping<        No prior review  Independent
servicesunder                                   lOOk                              procurement
Quilombolas                                                                       reviews
subprojects
Works under   No large works  Below 5,000 k     3-Quotations     Firsttwo NCBs    Regular
centrally-    expected                          <350k                             supervision
implemented
components
Works under   No works        No works          Small            No               Independent
Research and  expectedabove   expected         rehabilitation                     procurement
Training      500k            ranging           works no to                       reviewsand
Subprojects -                 100k-500k        exceed lOOk                        regular
Type A or B                                     will be procured                  supervision
                                               usingnational
                                               procurement
                                               regulations
Works under   No large works Above lOOk        Community         FirstNCB if any  Independent
Indigenous    expected                         based                              procurement
subprojects                                                                       reviews
Works under   No large works Above lOOk        3-Quotations      First NCB if any Independent
Quilombolas   expected                                                            procurement
iubprojects                                                     I
                                               ~                                  reviews




                                               78

Participation of UNAgencies.Both FUNASAand SVS requestedthe Bank's agreementto carry out some of
the procurement activities through UNESCO and UNDP. UNDP is a traditional partner in project
implementation and their control systems are adequate. UNESCO was recently assessed in terms of its
capacity to support Bank-financed projects and appears to be equipped to deliver their obligation in a
reasonable manner. UNESCO and the Bank are discussing an action plan to strengthen that implementation
capacity. The fees involved for these intermediation services are not eligible for Bank-financing.

Hiring of Consultants. The project's selection and employment of consultants will be carried out under
arrangements acceptable to the Bank (Table A2), using the Bank's Standard Forms and Contracts. The
project's studies, implementation, supervision, financial and procurement audits would be carried out
following Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), and individual consultants. The sole sourcing requests
were presentedabove.

Procurement Review and Methods. The Bank's procurement review will be outlined inthe Loan Agreement
as per tables A and A.1.

The prior review by the Bank of large ticket items through ICB and QCBS items to be procured by
participating states and municipalities, under the fund-to-fund transfers and subprojects' components will be
inaccordancewith Tables A andA.1.

Under the Type A Subprojects, the exact prior review process will be confirmed during the review of the
procurement plan prepared by each entity and reviewed by the UGP. The procurement documents for all ICB
will be subject to Bank's prior review, irrespective of the estimated amount of contract.

The Bank's review of selection of consultants will be in accordance with Appendix 1 of the Guidelinesfor
Selection and Employment of Consultants and the provisions stipulated in the Loan Agreement. Consultant
contract documents to be reviewed will include TORs, shortlists, evaluation reports, and contract forms. A
review process similar to individual consultants, will apply to training and workshops. Since the beneficiary
entities under the Subprojects are not identified and the selection would depend upon the application of the
selection criteria, there are no aggregate amounts for less competitive procedures to be used by the
implementing entities under the Subprojects.

Independentprocurement reviews (ZPRs).The UGP at SVS will provide the Bank, no later than six months
after the end of each year, the reports of independent procurement reviews audited by procurement experts,
acceptableto the Bank. FUNASA will furnish PRs for their two types of subprojects. The terms of reference
for the procurement reviews should be based on internationally accepted standards. The number and
periodicity of the reviews will be determined by the risk assessment. In general, the low risk entities will be
subject to one audit during the project implementation; the average risk will be reviewed annually on a
sampling basis and the high risk entities will be reviewed systematically. SFC and the internal audit units of
FUNASA and SVS were assessed as sufficiently independent to carry out the reviews if they agree to the
TORs acceptableto the Bank. The periodicity resources and reporting requirements will be established in the
Operational Manual.




                                                     79

 Project Incremental Operating Costs. Incremental operating costs refers to the management and supervision
 of the project, including UGP staff at SVS and FUNASA (estimated amount US$3.6 million equivalent),
 maintenance and supplies, communication services, office equipment and vehicles, procurement of small
 items, printing materials and sundry items, per diem, and travel expenses. These services are estimated to
 include Bank's financing of US$3.8 million equivalent, to be financed in accordance with bi-annual plans
 approved by the Bank. Identification of suppliers of sundry items and minor services will be made through
 market inquiries in the local market as in shopping. Once the suppliers offering the lowest cost of lists of
 items are established, a purchase order will be issued using regular administrative procedures. The market
 inquiries will be updated periodically. Internal travel will be procured through NCB using biddingdocuments
 acceptable to the Bank. The travel services as well as other common services (printingand transport services)

 Projects - financed by the Bank - and others from the IDB, may be procured centrally through NCB umbrella
 and items that the M o H used in VIGISUS and other projects, including the Family Health and the AIDS I11

 contracts acceptable to the Bank.

 Advertising. A General Procurement Notice for hiring of consultant services, and the ICB procurement
 shouldbe published inthe UnitedNations DevelopmentBusiness,no later than May 2004. The Notice will be
 updated annually for outstanding consultant services and ICB. In addition, detailed consultant services and
 assignments will be advertised, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of a large
 circulation. The agencies may also seek "expressions of interest" by contacting embassies, professional
 organizations, or firms that it knows or that are registered in DACON (paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelinesfor
 Selectionand Employmentof Consultants).

 Procurement Records. Detailedprocurement records, reflecting the project's supply of goods and consultant
 services, including records of time taken to complete key steps in the process and procurement activities
 related to supervision, review and audits, will be maintained by the UGP at SVS and in FUNASA. These
 records will be maintained for at least two years after the project's closing date. The records for goods will
 include public notices, bidding documents and addenda, bid opening information, bid evaluation reports,
 formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related addenda and amendments, records on
 claims and dispute resolution, and any other useful information. The records for consultant services will
 include public notices for expression of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and financial
 reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts, addenda and amendments, records on
 claims and dispute resolution and any other useful information.

 Procurement information system. Over the years, SVS developed a management information system (SPIV);
 at the central level, the procurement module should be improved as to produce the procurement plan; at the
 state and municipal level, the SPIV should collect the information on procurement and interface with the
 financial modules. The monitoring of cost of activities as discussed above should also be developed in the
 SPIV.


'Procurement Risk Assessment. The Government of Brazil approved the Country Procurement Assessment
 Report in January 2004, which included an action plan to improve the federal government procurement. The
 review indicates that the judicial protests or recurso continue to be a major difficulty in the government
 procurement. Another finding indicates that the use of preg6o and other modem procurement methods will
 add efficiency and transparency to the government procurement.

 The overall risk assessment of the project i s high as presented in the Capacity Assessment approved by the
 RPA on February 2004, due to the highly decentralized nature of the implementing actions.




                                                     80

The risk of the participating entities was not possible to be established duringappraisal due to large number of
participating entities. All of the participating municipalities were assessed from procurement and financial
management viewpoints under the on-going Family Health Extension Program. A capacity assessment of a
sample of state implementing entities of the project prepared in December 2003 and January 2004, revealed
that the procurement risk of the state agencies varies greatly as presented in the summary table below. The
M o H has agreed to complete the capacity assessment, including the development and monitoring of an action
plan for improved performance inprocurement, of all the participating states and confirm the list of goods and
services for all the participating states and municipalities by the signing of the Termo de Adesgo with each
participant. The risk assessment, selection of thresholds for prior review, use of independent reviews and the
supervision plan are justified in the agency's capacity assessment presented and approved by the RPA
concurrently. The capacity assessment developed an action plan for the improvement of the implementing
capacity in SVS and FUNASA. The plan includes: gaining autonomy for procurement actions and the UGP
and state and municipal entities, filing and supervision improvement, updating of the procurement plan,
development of manuals, etc.




                                                                 hired through CORCU~SOS
UGPat FUNASA inBrasilia                             High         Newness

Frequency of procurement supervision missions: The Bank will carry ex-post supervision missions on
procurement twice a year. One of the supervision missions will focus on the procurement actions carried out
by UGPat SVS and FUNASA and the other one will visit participatingstates andmunicipalities.




                                                     81

                                  Table B: Allocation of LoanProceeds


    Expenditure Category           Amount inUS$ million          FinancingPercentage




4. Training                                    8.2                            50
5. Incremental Operating Costs                 3.5           65% untilthe aggregatedisbursed
                                                             under this category reaches
                                                                    $1,500,000; 40% untilthe
                                                             aggregate disbursed under this
                                                             category reaches$2,500,000; and
                                                                              20% thereafter
6. Subprojects
a. Research & Training                         4.8                            60
b. Indigenous                                  1.5                            84
c. WSS Quilombolas                             2.8                            60
7. Surveillance Subprojects
a. Surveillance Development                   17.4                            84
Plan- phase I(SOT)
b. Surveillance Development
Plan- phase I1(SOT)
-- Basic
   Bonus                                       2.7                            84
                                              13.2                            84
- Remedial                                     2.7                            84

c. ICB                                         0.2                            84
d. QCBS                                        0.2                            84
Unallocated                                    5.6
              Total Project Costs             99.0
                  Front-end Fee                1.o                           100




                                                82

                                         Annex 9: Economic AnalysisSummary


This annex presentsthe summary results of the cost-benefit analysis of the VIGISUS I1Project (2004-2013),
based upon the program's costs and the measurable economic benefits flowing from the successful
implementation of the proposed program. The project will potentially save over 193,000 lives through
improvements in the healthcare system, reductions in disability and mortality. Additionally, it will contribute
over 11 million productive life years (DALYs) to the economy. In general, the project would yield a net
present value of benefits, after investment and recurrent costs, of over $ 1,427.3 million and produce an
internal rate of return (IRR) of 124% over ten years.

The main results include:

                                  Table 1: Summary of EstimatedCostsandBenefits


                                                                              10vears time snam
                                         NPV Benefits (US$)                      1,427,265,448
                                                  IRR                                  124%
                                         Benefit Cost Ratio                             5.14
                                                  Source: Author's elaboration

The VIGISUS I1Project will produce substantial savings for the health sector, primarily through reductions in
hospitalization costs due to the reduced morbidity burden from better control of infectious diseases. The cost-
benefit analysis, which gives the project a BenefitKOst Index of 5.1, will yield significant health and
economic benefits to the Brazilian population. Projected recurrent expenditures generated by the project and
the estimates of future healthcare spending show that the project would be financially sustainable.

Assumptions

The following parametersare considered relevant inestimatingthe economic benefits of the proposed project:
the length of the project horizon and the time to impact the health of the population, the size of the target
population, the existing patterns of morbidity and mortality, the number of years of productive life added as a
result of the percentage decrease in mortality, and the existing cost structure in the health sector. Given the
medium-to-long-term effect of the changes, the estimates presented in terms of reduced morbidity, which
assume a project horizonof only 10years, are very con~ervative.~~

The economic analysis i s based on a comparison of key indicators in a with and without project scenario.
These assumptions are based on estimates of historical trends in Brazil, international literature and expert's
opinion. The analysis of the VIGISUS Project uses the following assumptions to measure the direct and
indirect benefits:

            1. Maternal mortality would be reduced from 50 deathsto 25 deaths for each 100,000 live births
            2. Infant mortality rate reduced from 29 to 21deaths per 1,000 live births;
            3. Dengue incidence rate reduced to 137 cases for each 100,000 habitants.
            4. Malaria incidence rate reduced to 53.5 cases per 100,000 habitants
            5. Discount rate of 10%.


36The additional costs of increasing the maternal and child health care services are reflected inthe investment costs.


                                                               83

In the following sections, these assumptions will be used evaluate the benefits of the project and to assess,
from an economic perspective, the impact of the project on public finances. Target reductions in morbidity
and mortality will vary according to the aspect considered and its historical trend, but for some of the
elements evaluated, the study assumes that benefits will start gradually from the beginning of the project.
However, the full impact of the project will be achieved 4 years after the project commences, or 1year after
the project i s targeted to end, depending on the element considered. The non-zero benefit assumption flows
from the fact that the project continues some of the policies started duringthe VIGISUS I,so it reinforces the
trend already experienced during previous years (i.e child mortality programs among indigenous
communities).

Dengue

Brazil has experienced a dengue outbreak over the past three years, with the incidence rate increasingto 408.6
cases for each 100,000 habitants (2002) after a 141 rate during the 2000. This rapid growth i s one of the
reasonswhy dengue was chosen for the study.

The main assumptions for the dengue analysis were:

    a.   Final incidence rate: 137 cases per 100,000 habitants from a starting rate of 450 cases during the
         2004.

    b. No benefits during the first year and a 10 percent reduction during the following three years. From
         year four onwards, the rate of reduction i s 15 percent annually.

    C.   Non-project decrease rate: 5 percent.

    d. Hospitalizationsrate: 3 percent for new cases

    e. Average length of stay: 6.3 days (the average rate for infectious diseases inBrazil)

    f. Cost of hospitalizations: due to the absence of pertinent data, the cost per case was approximated by
         dividing the total budget of the dengue control program (MoH, 2000-2001 average) by the total
         number of cases and a 5 percent increaseevery year.

    g.   Benefits sources: savings in hospitalizations and disabilities and budget reductions due to a reduction
         of the number of cases.

Malaria

The number of cases of malaria exceeded 637,000 cases during 1999, showing an incidence rate of 390 cases
per 100,000 habitants. After 2000, the rate began declining with the support of the Programa Nacional de
Prevenpo e Controle da Malaria (PNCM), so by 2002 it was 171.4 (300,000 cases, approximately). The
guidelines of the PNCM establish a gradual reduction of the rate: a 25 percent decrease during 2003
(regarding 2002) anda 15 percent from 2004 to 2006 (annual). This study assumes that, after 2006, the rate of
reduction will be 5 percent each year. Savings from malaria control would come from two sources: a
reduction in hospitalizations and a fiscal saving from a lower budget for the Malaria Control Program. Also,
indirect benefits from a reduction of disabilities are estimated. Due to the lack of data for certain particular
aspects, the following assumptions were considered:




                                                      84

     a. Cost per hospitalization: R$266 (2000), growing at 5 percent per year

     b. Cost per case (for the MoH): R$ 171 (ZOOO), growing at 11 percent per year (mean growth of the
          program's budget)

     c. Average length of stay: 6 days

     d. Without-project rate of decline: 5% peryear

ChildMortality

The child mortality rate has been experiencing an unstable up and down pattern from. 1999 and 2002,
fluctuating between 29 and 31 deaths for each 1,000 live births. The target rate for 2013 i s 21 deaths. For the
first three years of the project, a 0.5-point reduction i s assumed (regarding the previous year), while for the
last 7 years it is assumed a 1-point steady decline. Without the project, we assume that the same rate would
be 30 deaths by that year. Additionally, the value of a saved life was estimated in US$ 17,464, with the
productive life beginningat the age of 14.

Maternal Mortality

For maternal mortality, the final goal was established at 25 deaths per 100,000 live births, a 50 percent
decrease, with a value of a saved life estimated at US$9,106. Currently, the mortality rate i s almost 50 cases.
Other assumptions for the analysis are: (a) average fatality age: 30 years old; (b) without-project decline rate:
0.5 points per year; with-project rate: 3.7 points reduction.

Investmentsand Recurrent Costs

The VIGISUS 11is a US$200.0 million program, covering 2004-2008. The government contributes with 50
percent of the funds while the other half comes from the Bank's loan. The analysis estimates recurrent costs at
15percent of the nominal value of the investments, growing, from 2008 onwards, at 10percent per annum.

Summary of Costs andBenefits

The cost-benefit analysis distributes the benefits over this time horizon into two major groups: direct and
indirect benefits. The direct benefits are the expected tangible benefits accruable to the project from the
reduced hospital stays, eliminating unnecessary discharges and reduction of funds for particular health
programs. Indirect benefits are related to the potential life years saved by the project and a reduction of
disabilities. The cost-benefit analysis assumes that the strengthening and changes in the health care system
will be targeted to 175 millionpeople, that is, the whole population.

Among the most important direct benefits of the project are savings in hospitalizations, mainly through a
lower dengue and malaria incidence rate. The project targets a reduction in the number of dengue cases from
900,000 in 2004 (incidence rate equals to 500 cases per 100,000 habitants) to almost 285,000 in 2013 (an
incidence rate of 137.5 cases), saving more than 60,000 hospitalizations (assuming a 3 percent rate of
hospitalizations for new cases) along the ten-year time spam. In terms of malaria, the total number of case
would be reduced from 190,000 to 111,000, saving 7,800 hospitalizationsduringthe time horizon.

There are some other sources of savings, not included in the Cost-Benefit analysis. For instance, reduced
administrative costs, increased efficiency of health networks due to improved management practices and
increased primary-care coverage are some of the potential sources of savings not considered inthe analysis.



                                                     85

The indirect benefits were estimated by analyzing the effect of Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs),
usingthe GDPper capita as the index for the productive value one year of an economically active citizen. The
GDP per capita of Brazil for the 2000 was US$3,539. Another source of indirect benefits is the total number
of disabilities. By considering the average length of stay of dengue and malaria patients (6.3 days), reductions
inincidenceratescontribute to almost 350,000 working days. The final saving, by taking the minimumsalary,
equals almost US$4.3 million for the total project.

It is estimated that the project will potentially contribute to save over 193,000 lives (DALYs) as a result of
applying the aforementioned assumptions to the pattern of mortality in the country (infant and maternal). The
reduction in mortality i s taken as the base line assumption to calculate the indirect benefits of the project. To
do that, the discounted life years saved attributable to these reductions are then converted to monetary terms
by usingestimates of the discounted life time earnings lost from each death, as reflected by the use of mean
income, adjusted for labor market participation, and the number of years of life lost for each death. The
following table summarizes the results of the analysis.

                             Table 2: Summary of EstimatedCostsandBenefits


                                                                                                 Total Net
   Year          costs         IndirectBenefits DirectBenefits           TotalBenefits           Benefits
     0           100,000,000          51,802,534                               51,802,534 -         48,197,466
     1           45,454,545           72,907,049           4,733,760           77,640,809           32,186,264
     2           41,322,314           91,110,500           8,235,403           99,345,903           58,023,589
     3           22339,444           127,959,856          10,023,709          137,983,565          115,444,121
     4           22,539,444          160,315,554          13,489,617          173,805,17 1         151,265,727
     5           22,539,444          188,033,022          15,978,141         204,011,163           181,471,7 19
     6           22,539,444          211,571,361          17,686,171          229,257,532          206,718,088
     7           22339,444           231,350,275          18,774,380          250,124,656          227,585,211
     8           22,539,444          247,753,109          19,373,690          267,126,799          244,587,355
     9           22,539,444          261,129,702          19,590,583          280,720,285          258,180,841
  Total         344,552,968        1,643,932,962         127,885,453        1,771,818,416        1,427,265,448
                                                                           Benefit-Cost
                                                                               Ratio                5.14
                                                                               IRR                  124%

Source: Author's elaboration




                                                     86

As shown in the table, benefits outweigh investments 5.1 to one. Over ten years, the net present value of the
project would yield benefits of approximately US$ 1,427 million. With the exception of the first year, the
project i s expected to generate annual savings to the system that outstrip the investment cost, thereby paying
for them. The internal rate of return (IRR) for the project i s estimated at 12496, reflecting the extremely high
benefits relative to project costs. This ratio can be used to demonstrate the value of this project relative to
other projects in other sectors; any number lower than the discount rate (10%) would imply that the project
shouldnot be carried out.

According to the major morbi-mortality factors evaluated, the distribution of the total benefits i s presented in
the following table. Reductions in the child mortality rate contribute with 92 percent of total benefits; Dengue
and Malaria together comprise 7 percent and the maternal mortality reduction contributes with less than 1
percent.

                                Table 3: Total Undiscounted Benefits by Factor

                                      Total UndiscountedBenefits          Participation inBenefits
             Child Mortality                     2,895,447,544                        91.9%
             Maternal Mortality                    26,148,333                         0.8%
             Dengue                               201,875,226                         6.4%
             Malaria                               28,730,817                         0.9%
                                             Source: Author's elaboration

Interms of the costs of implementation, the analysis considers the total investment cost, that includes the loan
and the local contribution plus the recurrent costs that will be borne by the Brazilian Government. The
external financing component amounts to US$ 100 million; the government provides another US$ 100
million. Recurrent costs accounts for US$ 157 million (discounted), or 46 percent of both investment and
recurrent cost expenses.

Sensitivity Analysis: Risk Analysis

While the above results are conservative, it is important to test the robustness of the results with regard to
reductions in benefits, modifications in final targets and delays. This i s done through the use of sensitivity
analysis assuming a reduction in benefits of 20%, 30% and 40%, a shift in mortality goals and a 1-year and 2-
year delay inmortality rates benefits. The following table summarizes the results of the sensitivity analysis.

                                    Table 4: Summary of Sensitivity Analysis

      Type of Sensitivity                      Case                     NPV           IRR    Benefit-Cost Ratio
            Analysis
  BaseCase                                                          1,427,265,448     124%          5.1
  Benefits Reduction                           20%                  1,270,123,441     95%           4.7
                                               30%                  1,068,288,890     78%           4.1
                                               40%                  664,619,788       50%           2.9
  Shifts in goals                 Child Mortality Rate= 24.5        965,019,461       114%          3.8
                                 Maternal Mortality Rate = 35       1,420,226,869     124%          5.1
  Delav                            1-year delay inMortalities       1,373,841,882     76%           5.o
                                   2-iear dela; in Mortalities      1,008,899,696     45%           3.9
          Source: Author's elaboration

According to Table 4, movements in expected benefits considerably impact the summary indicators. For
instance, if benefits drop by 20 percent, the IRR will experience a 29 percentage point reduction. Overall,
each percentage point reduction in benefits means a 1.5 decrease in the IRR, the Benefit-Cost ratio falls 0.02


                                                       87

points and the NPV decreases around US$ 10 million, None of the cases yields an IRR below the cutoff rate
of 10percent.

Changes in final targets yield mixed results. On one hand, if the ChildMortality Rate at the end of the project
i s 24.5 (instead of 21 deaths, as considered), the impact on the general project i s less significant than the
previous cases: the IRR drops ten points and the benefit-cost ratio falls to 3.8, the lowest of all the scenarios
estimated. On the other hand, movements in the maternal mortality rate do not impact the NPV considerably.
If,at the end of the project, the final maternal mortality rate is 37 deaths (instead of 25, as originally planned),
the IRR i s practically unaffected.

Finally, if the expected benefits from mortality reduction come one or two years after the original plan, the
impact on the NPV would be significant. For instance, a one-year delay yields an IRR of 76 percent, a case
quite similar to a 30 percent reduction in benefits. Similarly, if the delay lasts two years, the IRR would be 45
percent, the lowest of all the cases considered.

FiscalImpactandSustainability

The first step in the analysis of the sustainability of the project was to establish the base level public
expenditures prior to the implementation of the project. After this evaluation, estimates were made on the
additional costs, which result from this project. In 1997, total health expenditures in Brazil account for 6.5%
of the GDP, or approximately $64 per capita, while public health expenditures accounted for 48.7% of total
health care expenditures.

For the current year (2003), the public health budget for the Health Ministry i s R$ 30,593 million (US$
10,197 million). Duringthe 1998-2003 period, the budget has grown at an average rate of 9.7% per annum.
By assuming a similar steady growth for the next years, by the 2013 the same would reach R$77,212 million,
or US$ 15,407 million (estimated). Recurrent costs, estimated at 15 percent of total investment, correspond to
around 0.3 percent of total M o H budget. Thus, based on the former projections, the continuity of the policies
derived from the project will have a fiscal impact of less than 0.5% of the budget, starting from the tenth year
of the project, which i s the startingpoint to analyze its sustainability. Even by assuming that the same pattern
of investment is followed (new investments each three-four years), new expenseswill not represent more than
1% of the budget.

These figures indicate that the project i s sustainable. In addition, the project i s likely to improve future
government tax revenues as a result of better productivity, reduced premature morbidity and mortality.
However, its sustainability also depends on the political will of the Health Ministry to raise health care
expenditures to the required levels inorder to obtain and sustain the benefits of the project.




                                                     88

                                       Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues


I.IndigenousPeoplesDevelopmentPlan

Background

Brazil's indigenous population i s estimated at 702,000 according to the 2000 census, doubling the number of
people who declared themselves indigenous in the 1991 census. This population consists of 210 ethnic
groups, speaking 170 languages. The National Health Foundation (FUNASA), the government agency
responsible for the Indigenous Health System (SIS), estimates that about 395,000 live in defined groups or
communities. They reside in all but two states (Piaui and Rio Grande do Norte), mainly in 579 indigenous
reservations that occupy about 12percent of Brazil's territory.37Contact with the rest of the population began
with the Portuguese arrival in 1500 and continued at different rates for different ethnic groups. It is estimated
that only 55 groups remain relatively isolated. Eachethnic group i s unique.

An estimated 50,000 Indians reside in Brazil's largest urban areas particularly in Manaus, Manacapum,
Campo Grande, Dourados and Aguas Belas. Migration between urban settlements and rural, isolated hamlets
i s common. In some cases, movement i s temporary to seek work or health care. Inother cases, settlementsare
permanent resulting from the disintegration of tribal life, culture and livelihood.

Changes in the health profile of indigenous groups have occurred over a relatively short period of time.
Medical anthropologists hypothesize that Amazonian Indians suffered a reversal of the epidemiological
transition with the arrival of Europeans. Forensic data suggests that prior to colonization Indians' health
problems resulted mainly from chronic and degenerative disease. With colonization came the arrival of
"induced" transmissible disease such as tuberculosis, smallpox, malaria and yellow fever. Currently,
Indigenous populations suffer from all phases of the epidemiological transition combining infectious diseases
with degenerative illnesses. The latter are associated with an increasingly sedentary lifestyle. Communities
also suffer from problems such as alcoholism and suicide caused by disruption of social networks,
environmentalpollution anddiminishingnatural resources that are detrimental to subsistenceactivities.

Available data suggest huge variations in disease profiles of indigenous population^.^^ For example, among
the 34 Indigenous Health Districts (see below), registers show variations in infant mortality rates of 160
percent and tuberculosis incidence of 500 percent. Groups located in isolatedareas of the Amazon basin (such
as Vale do Javari, Kaiapo, Medio Pums and Yanomani) report infant mortality rates over 100per 1000 births.
Less isolated groups riding in the Northeastern region generally display infant mortality rates more in line
with regional and national averages.

Policy and Legal Framework39

Law 9836 (1999) created the legal framework for an indigenous health subsystem, mandating the federal
government to directly finance all public health, preventive and medical interventions for indigenous groups.
It also mandatedindigenous participation in the development and implementation of the subsystemas well as
a system design that is sensitive to social and political organization, customs, languages, beliefs and
traditions. Decree 3156 (1999) created the institutional framework, delegating to FUNASA responsibility for
the indigenous health subsystem. Encompassing the major features of the Law 9836 and Decree 3156, the
Health Ministry approved the National Indigenous Health Policy in 2002 (Regulation No. 254). The policy


37 DESAI, March 2002
38 Although disease surveillance has improved considerably, under-reporting`is still wide-spread.
39 See project files: Molares, Marta. Brazil: Legal Framework for Indigenous Health" April 2003
                                     "




                                                       89

recognizes a differential model of health service organization and delivery through the creation of special
health networks in indigenous lands to supplement the SUS service system. The major features of this policy
and legal framework include:


    0    Transfer of institutional responsibility for health care, including health infrastructure and personnel,
         from the National Indian Foundation (FUNAI)to FUNASA;
    0    Creation of 34 Indigenous Health Districts (DSEI: see map on page 99), a dependency of FUNASA,
         that are responsible for: (i)establishment and management of a network of community-based health
         facilities andpersonnel providing basic care to indigenous populations; and (ii)  coordination of higher
         level of care provided in SUS-financed municipal and state services. The law also mandated the
         creation of local and district governance bodies, knows as conselhos locais e distritais, consisting of
         representatives of indigenous groups. These councils have oversight and "control" responsibilities
         related to DSEIand localdelivery system activities.
    0    Implementation of federal grant transfers (incentivos/Fundo a Fundo) to finance the provision basic
         and hospital care to indigenous populations.
    0    Specification of areas of special focus including articulation between modem and traditional
         medicine, community participation, gender issues at indigenous people governance, communicable
         diseaseprevention, mental health, nutrition, violence, and rational use of drugs.

Needs Assessment

This section describes issuesaffectingthe healthstatusof indigenous groups and problems inthe organization
and delivery of health care. VIGISUS Ifocused on upgrading and expanding the service delivery system,
creating the institutional and governance framework for oversight of this system and implementing the
essential features of a public health surveillance system in indigenous areas. Supported by investments
through VIGISUS I,     many communities currently benefit from regular access to basic care and a functional
surveillance systems collects and analyzes information on the health situation of the indigenous population.
VIGISUS I1 aims to consolidate these gains while addressing current and emerging health needs and
strengthening institutionalcapacity.

The issues presented here are drawn from the following sources!1        (i)consultations with indigenous groups
during implementation of VIGISUS Iand as part of preparation of VIGISUS 11; (ii)          capacity assessment of
FUNASA-financed public and private providers responsible for health services and activities for indigenous
populations; (iii)  institutional assessment of FUNASA to manage, monitor and evaluate the quality and
effectiveness of indigenous health services;        (iv) gap analyses drawing on lessons learned from the
implementation of VIGISUS I;     and (v) special needs assessments (nutrition andmental health).

Health issues:


0   Elevated rates of malnutrition: Infant and child malnutrition remains unacceptably high in many
    indigenous communities. However, reliable data i s often lacking except for small, localized studies which
    indicate average height-for-age deficits of 45 percent for young children, with a range of 10to 50 percent.
    This compares unfavorably to national rates of 10.5 percent. In general there is little information on an
    appropriate and culturally-sensitive set of interventions to combat malnutrition in indigenous
    communities.



40SeeAnnex 1for more detailed description
41See project files: Hahn (2003); Encontro de Mulheres Indigenas da Amazonia Basileira (Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 2003);
Encontro de Organiza@o e Intercambio de Mulher Indigena do Nordeste (Oct. 24-26, 2003); Coutlinho, et al. (2003),
Sanigest, (2003), Coloma (2003,a,b), Ferrazand Ribas (2003), FUNASA (2003a); DESAIFUNASA,2003) .


                                                      90

    High incidence of alcoholism and suicide: The incidence of alcoholism among indigenous men ranges
    from 22 to 32 percent. Incidence among young men, less than 30 years age, i s even higher. Suicide i s the
    leading cause of death among adolescent males and young men.
    Maternal/infant Mortality: While infant and maternal mortality has decreased during the last five years,
    indices are still well above national averages. Underreportingremains problematic, especially for isolated
    groups. However, little is known about the determinants of infant and maternal mortality in indigenous
    communities or prenatal and infant care practices. A study is currently analyzing infanumaternal mortality
    and care practices in a sample of indigenous populations. It i s generally accepted among health care
    practitioners that lowering maternalhnfant mortality rates among indigenous populations will require
    special interventions to increaseuptake of preventive care services.
    Communicable Disease: Available evidence suggests that much of the burden of disease results from
    infectious and transmissible diseases such as diarrhea, acute respiratory disease, malaria, and tuberculosis.
    Diarrhea and ARI account for over 50 percent of all contacts with health providers and are the main
    killers of infants and children. The incidence of tuberculosis among indigenous populations i s double the
    national rate. No information is available on cure rates. Malaria still afflicts most indigenous groups and
    i s endemic in the Amazon Basin. The disease has been perpetuatedby deforestation.

Institutional issues:

    Low quality and discontinuous care: Although this problem is symptomatic of SUS, the municipalities
    and NGOs responsible for delivering care to indigenous communities generally provide discontinuous
    and culturally-insensitive care. Training of indigenous health workers i s often sporadic and isolated. The
    health care package i s ill-defined while treatment protocols are not applied. Delivery i s also fragmented
    through an array of uncoordinated vertical programs. The high rotation and dearth in the supply of
    indigenous health community agents i s another problem that impedes coverage expansion and threatens
    sustainability of government policies. Referral systems appear uneven. Often patients are referred to a
    nearby urban center for further diagnostics and treatment, but have to wait weeks or months for an
    appointment. Many are referred for conditions that can be adequately resolved at the primary level.
    Lack of a results orientation: Indigenous health providers are not accountable for results, however
    defined. The performance of 54 NGOs and over 200 municipalities under contract (through convenios)
    with FUNASA to provide basic care to indigenous communities i s unknown. Infact, performance targets
    are rarely specified in part because the set of services and interventions for which providers are
    responsible i s ill-defined. Available data on production i s not analyzed while feedback from users i s not
    systematically collected.
    Weak oversight capacity: There is considerable confusion regardingthe roles of central and decentralized
    management levels of FUNASA. The functions of planning, management, monitoring andevaluation are
    diffused between centralized (FUNASA) and decentralized (DSEI and CORE) levels. Lines of
    organizational accountability are blurred. Most management i s oriented to solving short-term supply
   problems and logistical bottlenecks. Strategic functions are non-existent. Finally, little i s known about the
   functioning and performance of the District and Local Councils.
   Inability to respond to demand Although the Local and District Councils are the nominal platform for
   community participation, FUNASA has yet to establish institutional mechanisms to systematically
    support community-demanded initiatives that can contribute to improved health. Consultations with
   indigenous groups together with the VIGISUS Iexperience suggest a need to form alternative
   partnerships with indigenous communities through direct financing of community-initiatedprojects.
   Little articulation between traditional and modern medical practice: Traditional practitioners including
   midwives are key caregivers in indigenous communities. The use of medicinal plants is also common.
   Although these practices have been researched, there has been no systematic attempt to explore options
   for linkingtraditional and modem practitioners.




                                                     91

Consultations

Inpreparation for VIGISUS 11,aconsultative processwas carried out underthe guidance of an anthropologist
contracted to seek inputs from an array of NGOs, research institutions, indigenous organizations and
representatives of DSEIS.~'Also, the preliminary VIGISUS I1 concept and design was presented at two
meetings with indigenous women groups.43 The following matrix presents main problems and
recommendations from the consultation process:


                      CONSULTATIVEPROCESS: MAIN               PROBLEMS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

                     ProblemsIdentified                       RecommendationsIncludedinProjectDesign
         1. Populationsstill sufferfrom transmissible 1. Strengtheningof capacity of indigenous healthteams to conduct
         and vaccine-preventablediseases.             surveillance andaddresstransmissible disease with aspecialfocus
                                                      on malariaandtuberculosis.
                                                      2. Evaluationof providerperformance.
                                                      3. Introductionof performance-basedcontractingof providers.
         2. Low quality of indigenous midwives.       1. Researchontraditionalbirth practices
                                                      2. Training programfor indigenousmidwivesusingculturally-
                                                      sensitivepedagogic methods.
         3. Lackof indigenoushealthprofessionals      1. Creationof scholarshipprogramto train indigenousphysicians

         4. Somegroupsstill havelittle access to      1. Extensionof basic care serves to all indigenouscommunities.
         basiccare.                                   2. Evaluationof providerperformance.
                                                      3. Introductionof performance-basedcontractingof providers.
         5. High incidence of malnutritionevidentin   1. Introductionof nutrition surveillancesystem.
         many indigenouscommunities.                  2. Researchon traditionaldietarypractices.
                                                      3. Introductionof nutritional inventionsapplyingculturally-
                                                      sensitivecounselingpractices.
         6. Mentalhealth problemsmanifestedby high    1. Researchon causes andculturally-appropriatetreatments.
         incidence of alcoholismandsuicide.           2. Specialprojectsto address alcoholism, drug abuse and suicide.
                                                      3. Evaluationof special mentalhealthprojects.

         7.Differential treatment of indigenous       1. Evaluationof referral systems.
         patients referredto SUS facilities.          2. Designof new financing systemto provideincentivesto SUS
                                                      facilities to treat indigenous populationswith quality anddignity.

         8. Low participationof indigenous women in   1.Selectionof amajorityof women as indigenoushealthagents in
         govemancecouncils; few indigenoushealth      VIGISUS 11.
         agents are women                             2. Promotionof the participationof indigenouswomen in
                                                      govemancecouncils.
                                                      3. Favor women-developedprojectsinthe Fundfor Community
                                                      Initiatives.
        9. Lack of integrationbetweentraditional and  1. Researchof traditional medicinepracticesand potentialfor
         modernmedicine                               integrationwith modem medicalpractices.
                                                      2. Includetraditionalmedicineas an eligible activity inCommunity
                                                      Initiative Fund.




42 See report in project files prepared by Robert Hahn. Organizations include: Conselho Nacional de Mulheres Indigenas
(Manaus), Instituto Socialambiental (Brasilia), UNI-Acre (Rio Branco), Universidade Federal de Acre (Rio Branco),
Coodina@o das OrganizaGdes Indigenas da Amazonia (COIAB-Manaus), Instituto de Esudos Socioeconomicos
(Brasilia) and the AssociaGHo de ProduGHode Cultrua Indfgena (Manuas).
43Seeproject files: Encontro de Mulheres Indigenas da Amazonia Basileira (Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 2003), and (ii)            Encontro de
OrganizaGHo e Intercambio de Mulher Indigena do Nordeste (Oct. 24-26,2003).




                                                            92

Action Plan

The Indigenous Health Component ( Component 11) was designed in response to the health and institutional
issues outlined above. The activities constituting Component I1(identified in consultation with indigenous
organizations) together with this Annex constitute the Indigenous Peoples Development Plan for the proposed
project (see Section 3 and Annex 4).

Monitoring and Evaluation

Health surveillance together with monitoring and evaluation of service delivery will be a major focus on the
proposed project. Evaluations including baseline data collection and analysis are planned for nutrition, mental
health, traditional medical practices, functioning of Local and District Councils, and performance (quality,
efficiency and coverage) of FUNASA-financed providers. The project will also support the establishment of a
permanent monitoring system that links inputs, activities, outputs and outcomes for specific technical areas
such as maternal-child health, infectious disease control, nutrition and mental health. Possible monitoring
indicators include:

    Percent increasein immunization coverage;
    Continuous surveillance of c5 nutritional status;
    Increase in percent of pregnant women receiving at least four prenatal consultations according to
    established protocols;
    Increase in percent of infants receiving at least four well-baby consultations according to established
    protocols;
    Percent of referred patients that receive attention within two weeks of referral;
    Increase in participation of women on District Councils; and
    Increase inthe percent indigenous healthagents who are women.




                                                     93

                             MAP SPECIALINDIGENOUSSANITARYDISTRICTS
                                   OF




              LOCALIZACAO DOS DlSTRlTOS SANITARIOS             ESPEClAlS INDfGENAS
                                                                                                                          ,
                                                                   01  .ALAGOAS                ESERGIPE    - AUSE
                                                                   02      ALTAMIRA PA         -
                                                                   03 ALTO RIOJURUA
                                                                       --
                                                                   04               ALTO RIONEGRO      ..AC
                                                                                                         AM
                                                                   05      ALTO RIOSOLlMbES                -AM
                                                                   06      ALTO RIO PURUS AClAMlRO     .
                                                                   07               M P hE NORTE DO PARA AMPA  -
                                                                   08      ARAGUAIA G01MTtTO    .
                                                                   09               BAHIA. BA
                                                                   10               CEARA
                                                          28       11               CUIABA  -- CE
                                                                                               MT
                                                                   12               GUMTOCANTINS. MAQA
                                                                   13               INTERIOR SUL   -   PWRSlSClSP
                                                                   14               KAIAPODOMATOGROSSO          -MTPA
                                                                   15                       DO PARA    - PA
                                                                   16  ....-.----...KAIAPO
                                                                                    LESTEDE RORAIMA RR    -
                                                                   17               LITORALSUL    .PWRJ/RS/SC/SP
                                                                   18               W U S        -
                                                                                              ~AM
                                                                   19  ---          MARANHA0 MA
                                                                   20               MATOGROSSO DOSUL         .MS
                                                                   21               M h l O RIO WRUS    - AM
                                                                   22                 h I O RIOSOLlMdES EAFLUENTES AM -
                                                                   23  ....MMlNASGERAIS              E ESPIRITO SANTO-ESMG
                                                                   24               PARINTINS W  -     A
                                                                   25               PAROUEINDIGENADOXlNGU         -MT
                                                                   26               PERWBUCO           PE
                                                                   27                                --W T I R O
                                                                   28  ....PORTOVELHO-
                                                                   29               RlOTAPAJbS
                                                                   30  -.POTIGUARA- .PBPA
                                                                                    TOCANTINS      P M O
                                                                   31  ..VALE             DO RIOJAVARI AM  -
                                                                   32
                                                                   33 XAVANTE
                                                                       --           VlLHENA    .MTlRO

             FONTE: DESAI/FUNASA/MS. SETEMBRO DE 2003.             3 4 . YANOhWAl              - -MTAMlRR



11. Environmental Assessment

With the support of SVS and FUNASA staff, an environmental specialist performed an assessment of
potential adverse and positive environmental impacts of the proposed project along with recommended
actions to minimize these risks during implementation. This section summarizes the findings and
recommendations. The full report i s available in the project files. Appendix 1 to this annex presents a
summary of the legal and regulatory framework relatedto environmental protection and medical wastes.

PotentialEnvironmental Impacts Associated with VIGISUS I1

VIGISUS I1will mainly support the financing of training, technical assistanceand goods to buildinstitutional
capacity for health surveillance at the state and municipal levels, and for delivering quality health services to
indigenous populations. Most environmentalimpacts will be indirect andpositive.

Potential direct and possible negative impacts will derive from biological and chemical wastes produced by
health posts (bandages, syringes, vaccines, etc.) and small laboratories (chemical wastes) constructed and
expanded with project financing. However, visits to health centers and laboratories demonstrated that these
facilities produce a low volume of waste products, and laboratories adhere to regulations regarding the proper
separation, identification and disposal of health residues. Since health posts in indigenous communities are
used by itinerant teams, most medical wastes produced during a visit are collected and removed by the teams
and disposed at acentral location, usually a health center locatedin a towns.

The major risk identified in the EA is the low institutional capacity of the Borrower to effectively implement
the country's robust environmental legal and regulatory framework, particularly at decentralized levels.
Although national surveillance policy and oversight are the responsibility of the National Sanitary



                                                     94

Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) and the Secretariat of Health Surveillance-SVS, many activities have been
delegated to the states and municipalities. However, most municipalities, particularly the smaller ones, lack
the capacity to fulfill surveillance mandatesand are dependent on the support from the states. Unfortunately,
a number of states lack the capacity to provide regular support to the municipalities.

Project EnvironmentalClassificationand EnvironmentalManagementPlan(EMP)

Given the interventions contemplated for VIGISUS 11, the project has received an Environmental Category B.
The project does not contemplate large-scale engineering projects, rather it supports the expansion of
relatively small facilities, health posts and laboratories. The potential for negative impacts resulting from
increased generation of waste materials i s low. Waste management plans are available for most public
laboratories, but application i s inconsistent. To mitigate any potential adverse impacts, the following activities
are proposed:

        Application of environmental licensing regulations for the construction of laboratories and health
        centers;
    0   Training on risks related to waste management in laboratories and on preparation of a waste
        managementplan drawing on regulatory framework and best practices inBrazil; and
    0   Development and implementation of a waste management plan in all laboratories constructed or
        expanded with project financing.

Several potentialpositive impacts will be derived from project-financedactivities. These include:


    0   General capacity building at decentralized levels for health and disease surveillance: A major
        objective of VIGISUS I1i s to improve the institutional capacity of states to oversee and monitor
        health surveillance activities and provide leadership and support to municipalities. Health data that
        are the subject of surveillance and monitoring include: health status conditions, diseases, risk factors
        and behaviors and health interventions and outcomes;
    0   Institutional capacity building for environmental surveillance at all levels: Here the focus will be on
        creating capacity to track, collect and analyze environmental indicators and events associated with
        hazardous substances and environmentalprocessesandconditions in air, water and soil;
    0   Development of a biosecurity strategy for areas inhabited by indigenous populations: VIGISUS I1
        will support the development of a biosecurity strategy and regulatory framework aimed at protecting
        indigenous populations from risks to their environment and health.




                                                       95

                                                   Appendix to Annex 10
                                            EnvironmentalLegalFramework


       DESCRIPTION                                                        INTERPRETATION

  Brazilian Constitution of       1. The issueof solid waste related to health and the environment is a constitutional matter.

I
    Declares health to be the     2. The following are federal, state and municipal responsibilities:
    "right of each person and the
    duty of the state".                 ..  protection of the environment

                                            control of pollution

                                            participationinpolicy formulation andinexecution of basic sanitation actions.

                                  3. Govemment (federal, state and municipal) i s responsible for inspecting and overseeing
                                  polluting or potentially polluting activities, and for establishing standards, directives and
                                  procedures.

                                  4. Municipalities are responsiblefor the following:

                                        1   Organizing essential public services at the local level, and providing them directly,01
                                        .   under concession or permit.

                                            Provision of public sanitation services, including sweeping, collection, transport anc
I                                           final disposalof solid waste generated by the localcommunity.

 Federal  Decree     76,973    of I'his decree regulates and standardizes projects for the construction and installation 01
 December 31,1975                 buildings destined for the provision of health services, as establishedby the Health Ministry.I
                                  also regulates facilities for proper final disposal of excrement.
I
 MINTER          Administrative First federal legislation to deal specifically with hospital waste material; requires compulsoq
 Order 53 of 01/03/79            incinerationthereof and prohibits the use of other methods.

 Law No. 6938 of 1981             I'his law establishes the National Environment Policy, setting up the National Environmen
                                  System (SISNAMA), together with its consultative and deliberative body, the Nationa
                                  Environment Council (CONAMA), and executive body, the National Institute for tht
                                  Environment and RenewableNaturalResources (IBAMA).

                                  I'his decision revokes the exclusive requirement to incinerate solid health-service waste, an(
                                  Jermits the use of other processes for final disposal, including autoclaving, chemical treatment
                                  eadiation, microwave and sanitary landfill (septic trenches). It requires the Environmen
                                  Secretariat of the Office of the President of the Republic, in coordination with the Healtl
                                  Ministry, the National Sanitation Secretariat and the corresponding state and federal bodies, tc
                                  iresent to CONAMA, within 180 days, a proposal setting out minimum standards for tht
                                  reatment of solid waste other than by incineration.




                                                                96

CONAMAResolution05/93         This decision requires the health establishment to take responsibility for managingits own waste
                              from the moment of generationuntil final disposal, incompliance with environmental and public
                              health requirements. It calls for presentationof a SolidWaste ManagementPlan (PGRS) to be
                              approvedby the environmental andhealthbodies. The plan would include recycling principles and
                             require entities that generate health-service waste to appoint a technical officer responsiblefor
                              managingthe plan, duly registeredinthe ProfessionalCouncil. The Decision classifies healthcare
                              waste into the following four groups:

                              Bio-waste and sharps;

                             Chemical waste;

                             Radioactive waste; and

                              Common waste materials.

                             It also defines appropriateconditions for containerization, transportation, treatment and final
                             disposalof waste materials.Insituations where segregation is not guaranteed, the Decision requires
                             all waste materialsto be consideredinfectiousexcept for special (Group B) andradioactive (Group
                             C) waste, which must always be separated.

Federal Law 9605 of February This law makes actionsharmful to the environment a criminal offence, and establishes
11998                        correspondingpenal and administrative sanctions. The dumping of solid, liquidor gaseous waste,
                             detritus, oils or oily substances, contrary to the requirementsestablishedinlaws or regulations is one
                             of the actions sanctionedinthe law.

CONAMA Resolution No. 283,   This decision aims to clarify, update and complement procedurescontained in CONAMA No. 5 anc
of July 12,2001              establishes the following:

                                       The operating procedures to be used should be defined by the bodies comprising tht
                                  .     National Environment System and the National Sanitary Surveillance System.

                                        Liquid effluents from health service establishments should comply with the directive!
                                  .     established by the competentenvironmental bodies.

                                        Solid health-service waste must be treated in systems, facilities and equipment that arc
                                       duly licensed by the environmental bodies and subject to periodic monitoring. Thc
                                        formation of consortia i s supported.

                                       Chemical-hazard waste, including those arising from chemotherapy and other medication;
                                       that are expired, altered, prohibited, partly usedand unsuitable for consumption, should bc
                                       returned to the manufacturer or importer; these will be jointly responsible for thei
                                       handlingandtransportation.




                                                             97

1. ABNT STANDARDS  > NBR 1000487 - Health-service waste - Classification in terms of environmental and public
                     health hazard.

                     NBR 12807/93-Health-service waste: Terminology.

                     NBR 12808/93 - Health-service waste: Classification (this is at odds with CONAMA
                     Decisions 05/93 and 283/01, and therefore should not be used).

                     NBR 12809/93-Handlingof health-service waste: Procedure.

                     NBR 12 810/93- Collectionof healthcare waste: Procedure.

                     NBR 7500/00 - Symbols o f hazards and the handling, transportation and storage of materials.

                     NBR 9191/00 -Specification of plastic sacks for containerization of solid waste.

                     NBR 9190/85- Classificationof plastic sacks for containerization of solid waste.

                     NBR 13853/97- Collectors for healthcare waste: sharps. Testing requirements and methods.




                                           98

                                    Annex 11:Project Processing


                    Brazil :Disease Surveillance and Control Project I1(VIGISUS 11)


 Time taken to prepare the project (months)                        7               9
 First BankMission (identification)                          03/12/2003        Q311212QQ3
           APPRAISAL MISSIONDEPARTURE                        01/26/2004        01/26/2004


                    NEGOTIATIONS                             Q312612QQ4        Q4IQ612OQ4


         PLANNEDDATE EFFECTIVENESS
                          OF                                 Q71Q112QQ4



Prepared by: Jerry L a Forgia

Preparation Assistance: Bank, Secretariat of Surveillance inHealth and FUNASNHealthMinistry andCDC.

Bank staff who worked on the project preparation:


Name                                             Specialty

Jerry L aForgia                                  Team Leader, LCSHD
MariaMadalena dos Santos                         Sector Leader, LCCSC
IsabellaDane1                                    Health Specialist, LCSHH-CDC
Marta Molares-Halberg                            Lead Counsel
EfraimJimknez                                    Procurement Specialist
Claudio Mittelstaedt                             FinancialManagement Specialist
Regis Cunningham                                 Disbursement Officer
Ademildes Dantas                                 Operations Officer
DanielaMarques                                   Operations Analyst
FabianaImperatriz                                ProgramAssistant
Marize de FBtima dos Santos                      Team Assistant




                                                      99

Local CounterpartTeam:


FromSVS:                  FromFUNASA




                            100

                                Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File


Arouca, SCrgio - "XI1Conferencia Nacional de Safide", FUNASA,25 de setembro de 2003.
Banco Mundial - A questgode &nero no Brasil. Banco Mundial, dezembro 2002.

COIAB - "I   Encontro das Mulheres Indigenas da AmazBnia Brasileira", COIAB, 26 a 29 de junho de 2002.
mimeo.

Coloma, Carlos - "Estruturaqgo de Aqdes Voltadas para Atenqiio a Safide das Populaqdes Indigenas.
FUNASA, 2003b. mimeo

Costa, Vera Lficia A. and Meireles, Jorge - "Relatbrio Morbi -Mortalidade 2002"- FUNASA, Brasilia, 2002.

Coutinho Jr., Walter, etc. al, "Segundo Borrador - EvaluaciBn de organizaciones no gubernamentales que
tienen convenios con FUNASA para la prestacibn de servicios de salud a, poblaciones indigenas",
consultant'sreport. FUNASA, noviembre de 2003.

DESAYFUNASA - L aAtenci6n a la Salud de 10s Pueblos Indigenas en el Brasil, FUNASA,Brasilia 2002.

Dufour, Darna L.- "Diet and Nutritional Status of Amazonian Peoples." in Anna Roosevelt (ed.). Amazonian
Indiansfrom Prehistory to the Present. Tucson: University of Arizona Press. 1994

"Encontro de Organizaqiio e Intercambiode Mulher Indigena do Nordeste." Out. 24-26,2003. mimeo

Ferraz, Lucia and Ribas, Dulce L.B. - "Componente I1- Indigenous Health, Subcomponente I1-Nutrition",
Consultant'sReport, October 4, 2003.

FUNASA - "Agenda de Compromisso das CoordenaGdes Regionais da FUNASA com a Safide Indigena",
FUNASA,julho 2003.

FUNASA - "Tuberculose nas comunidades indigenas no pen'odo de 2000 a 2002", DESAWUNASA, Brasilia
2002.

FUNASA- Relat6riode Gestiio 1999-2002, FUNASA, marqo 2003.

FUNASA- Reunigo de Avaliaqgo do Projeto VIGISUS -2002, Natal 2003

FUNASA. "Relatbrio Morbimortalidade 2002", FUNASA, Brasilia 2002.

FUNASA.Elaboracgo de Projeto de Melhorias Sanitfirias Domiciliares, FUNASA, abril2003.

FUNASAMOH.Politica Nacional de Atenggo 2 Safide dos Povos Indigenas. FUNASA, Brasilia, dezembro,
2000.

Hahn, Robert - "Consultation RegardingIndigenous Health Component of VIGISUS 11", August 13,2003.

Hem, Warren M. - "Health and Demography of Native Amazonians" in Anna Roosevelt (ed.). - Amazonian
Indians from Prehistory to the Present.Tucson: University of Arizona Press. 1994
indigena Maxacali". (mimeo) Universidad Federal de Minas Gerais, 1997.



                                                     101

Kohatsu, M. Oliveira - "Relat6rio Annual sobre o Programa de atendimento aos KaingAng do P.I.
Apacaraninha de Londrina" - Pr. Secretaria de AgBo SocialPrefeitura Municipal de Londrina 1998-1999.
mimeo.

Prado, Sheila G. - "Programa de Vigildncia Nutricional - Retrospectiva 2001/2002", FUNASA, Campo
Grande 2003. mimeo.

Ribas, Duke L. B. - "Vigildncia Aiimentar e Nutricional de Comunidades Indigenas", Consultant's Report,
Brasilia, 2003.

SANIGEST- "Evaluacidn del Programade Salud Indigenade Brasil-Diagn6sticoY',October, 2003.

SANIGEST - "Evaluacidn del Programa de Salud Indigena de B r a d - Propuesta de Accidn", Noviembre,
2003.

Simdes, Eduardo - "State Capacity Assessment and Capacity Building." Preliminary consultant's report,
2003.

Souza, J.A. e Albuquerque, J.I. -  Prevalgncia do alcoolismo na popula$io   indigena da nagb Terena do
Complex0 Sidroldndia ColGnia Dois IrmZios do Buriti". in MinistCrio da Saiide: Anais da Primeira Oficina
Macroregional de EstratCgias, PrevenqBo e Controle das DST/AIDS para as Populagdes Indigenas das
Regides Sul, Sudestee do Mato Grosso do Sul. Londrina, Brasil, 1997.

Suazo, Jenny E.- "Evaluacion Ambiental", Consultant's Report, Octubre, 2003.

SVSEUNASA. VIGISUS I.       "Lesdes Aprendidas." 2003. mimeo

SVS/MoH - ModemizagZio do Sistema Nacional de Vigildncia em Saiide: Vis50 do Futuro e Fortalecimento
Institucional, July, 2003.

SVS/MoH - Necessidadesestaduais e municipais na Area de Vigildncia em Saiide." 2003. mimeo

Torreta, 0.- "Us0 e abuso de substanciasalcodlicas ao interno do gmpo

World Bank - "Amazon Health Report -Indigenous Peoples of Brazil", MCdicos Pelo Ambiente (MEPA) and
the World Bank, Rio de Janeiro, October 1994.




                                                   102

                                     Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits


      BRAZIL: SECONDDISEASESURVEILLANCEAND CONTROLPROJECT VIGISUS I1                                  -

                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                    Original Amount in US$Millions                      expected andactual
                                                                                                           disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                           IBRD       IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO58503    2003 GEFBR Amazon RegionRot Areas       0.00       0.00      0.00    30.00    0.00   27.50    0.00         0.00
                (ARPA)
PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFEURBAN UPGRADING           46.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   45.54     1.54        0.00
                PROJECT
PO70827    2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.               60.00      0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   60.00    0.00         0.00
                EDUCATION PROJECT
PO54119    2003 BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )               30.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   29.70    -0.30        0.00

PO74777    2003 BR-Municipal PensionReformTAL       5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.95     1.72        0.00

PO76977    2003 BR-Energy SectorTA Project         12.12      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   12.12     1.05        0.00
PO78310    2003 BR-CAIXA Water                     75.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   75.00     3.33        0.00
PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 111         100.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  100.00     0.00        0.00

PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION         68.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   59.22    30.41        0.00
                PROJECT
PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLA IIIA               160.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  178.34   -18.30        0.00
PO55954    2002 GOIASSTATE HIGHWAY                 65.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   47.18    37.24        0.00
                MANAGEMENT
PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL          62.80      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   60.64     9.48        0.00
                RESOURC & POV.
PO51696    2002 SA0PAUL0 METRO LINE4 PROJECT      209.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  206.38   116.81        0.00
PO74085    2002 BR SergipeRuralPovertyReduction    20.80      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   16.01     5.38        0.00

PO73192    2002 BR TA FinancialSector              14.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    9.30    -1.31        0.00
PO70552    2002 GEFBR PARANA BIODIVERSITY           0.00      0.00      0.00      8.00   0.00    8.54     2.81        0.00
                PROJECT
PO66170    2002 BR-RGN2ND RuralPovertyReduction    22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   20.27     5.39        0.00

PO60221    2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN             85.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  111.47    35.68        0.00
                TRANSPORT PROJECT
PO50880    2001 BR PemambucoRuralPovertyReduction  30.10      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   23.87    12.92        0.00
PO50875    2001 BR Ceara RuralPovertyReduction     37.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   24.27    10.02        0.00
                Project
PO50881    2001 BR PIAUI RURAL POVERTY             22.50      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   15.35     9.26        0.00
                REDUCTIONPROJECT
PO57649    2001 BR BahiaRuralPovertyReduction      54.35      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   29.23     9.06        0.00
                Project
PO59566    2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION          90.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   79.01   -10.99        0.00

PO73294    2001 BR Fiscal& Fin.Mgmt. TAL            8.88      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    7.23     5.74        0.00
PO50772    2001 BR LAND-BASEDPOVRTY               202.10      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00  208.53   172.30        0.00
                ALLEVIATION I(SIM)
PO35741    2000 BR NATLENV 2                       15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   2.32    7.64     9.45        8.53

PO62619    2000 BR INSS REFLIL                      5.05      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    0.36    -0.14        0.67

PO39200    2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY                  43.40      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   42.97    41.40        1.03
                (ELETROBRAS)
PO39199    2000 BR PROSANEAR 2                     30.30      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   29.21    28.21        0.00

PO06449    2000 BR CEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH        136.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   91.62    50.47        0.00
                S I M



                                                         103

PO50776    2000  BR NEMicrofinanceDevelopment           50.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      33.11    -16.89        0.00
PO47309    2000  BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY(GEE)               0.00     0.00    0.00    15.00     0.00      15.19      13.15       6.14
PO58129    1999  BR EMER. FIREPREVENTION(ERL)           15.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       6.38      6.38        2.68
PO43874    1999  BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE -             100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    25.00      25.71     50.7 1       0.00
                 VIGISUS
PO48869    1999  BR SALVADOR URBANTRANS                150.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      94.23     93.40         0.00
PO50763    1999  BR- Fundescola 2                     202.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      17.58      11.75        0.00
PO38895    1998  BR FED.WTR MGT                        198.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    40.00      61.30    101.30       101.30
PO38947    1998  BR- SC. &TECH 3                       155.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    88.80       7.38     96.18         0.00
PO06559    1998  (BF-R)SP.TSP                           45.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       3.88      3.88         0.00
PO51701    1998  BR MARANHAO R.POVERTY                  80.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       0.64      0.64         0.00
PO06474    1998  BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)              55.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      49.48     45.48         3.73
PO43421    1998  BR RJM.TRANSIT PRJ.                   186.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     17.17    118.25    135.42         0.00
PO57910    1998  BR PENSION REFORM LIL                   5.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       2.50      2.50         1.83
PO43420    1998  BR WATER S.MOD.2                      150.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    125.00     20.86    145.83         0.55
PO35728    1998  BR BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                 51.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      13.14      13.14       -2.43
PO42565    1998  BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                   60.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      17.42      17.42        0.00
PO06532    1997  FEDHWY DECENTR                       300.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    30.00      95.90    125.90        79.55
PO06562    1997  BAHIA MUN.DV                          100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      16.99      16.99       16.99
PO34578    1997  BR RGS HighwayMGT                      70.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      46.77     46.77        46.77
PO43873    1997  BR AG TECHDEV.                         60.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      19.28      19.28       19.28
PO43868    1997  BR RGS LANDMGTPOVERTY                 100.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      31.68     31.68        31.68
PO06210    1996  GEFBR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                0.00     0.00    0.00    10.00     0.00       2.40      3.24         0.20
PO06554    1996  BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM-            300.00      0.00    0.00     0.00    21.12      32.64     53.76         0.00
                 REFORSUS
PO37828    1996  BR (PR)R.POVERTY                     175.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      57.52     57.52        57.52
PO06436    1995  Ceara UrbanDevelopment& Water        140.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     3.00       5.83      8.83         8.83
                 Resource
PO38882    1995  BR RECIFE M.TSP                      102.00      0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00       9.23      9.23         0.00
PO06564    1995  BEL0 HM.TSP                            99.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.00      12.70      12.70        0.00
                                              Total:  4,658.90    0.00    0.00    63.00    352.41   2,449.44  1,674.82     384.85


                                                            BRAZIL
                                                  S T A T E M E N T OF IF'C's
                                              H e l d and Disbursed Portfolio
                                                  InMillions of USDollars


                                                            Committed                             Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                     IFC
     FY Approval   Company                  Loan         Equity   Quasi    Partic. Loan         Equity      Quasi     Partic.
      1997/98      Guilman-Amorim           0.00          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
      1998         IcatuEquity              0.00          19.60     0.00     0.00      0.00      12.48      0.00       0.00
      1999         InnovaSA                  16.25        5.00      0.00    45.00     16.25       5.OO      0.00      45.00
                   Iiranga
                    p                       0.00          0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
      1980/87/97
      1999         Itaberaba                0.00          5.34      0.00     0.00      0.00       5.34      0.00       0.00
                   Itau-BBA                 40.00         0.00      0.00     0.00     30.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
     0/00/02
     1999          JOSAPAR                  7.57          0.00      7.00     0.00      2.57       0.00      7.00       0.00




                                                               104

1995         LojasAmericana     8.00    0.00    5.00   0.00    8.00  0.00    5.00  0.00
1987/92/96/99MBR                20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   20.00  0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         Macae              68.61   0.00    0.00   0.00   68.61  0.00   0.00   0.00
0            Macedo Nordeste    1.58    0.00    5.00   0.00    1.58  0.00    5.00  0.00
2002         Microinvest        0.00     1.25   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
0102         Net Servicos       0.00    5.OO    0.00   0.00    0.00   4.65  0.00   0.00
1975196      OxitenoNE          2.50    5.oo    0.00   0.00    2.50   0.00   0.00  0.00
1994         ParaPigmentos      15.05   0.00    9.00   0.00   15.05   0.00   9.00  0.00
1987196      Perdigao           8.75    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.75   0.00   0.00  0.00
1989195      Politeno Ind.      1.46    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.46   0.00   0.00  0.00
1994100102   Portobello         0.00     1.15   0.00   0.00    0.00   1.15   0.00  0.00
2000         hras               3.67    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.67   0.00   0.00  0.00
2003         Queiroz Galvao     40.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   10.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1998         Randon             5.13    0.00    3.00   0.00    5.13   0.00   3.00  0.00
1990         Ripasa             0.00    5.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   5.00   0.00  0.00
             Rodovia            0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1997
1983         sococo             0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1987197103   SP Alpargatas      30.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1994195197   Sadia              8.23    0.00    5.17   89.93   8.23   0.00   5.17  89.93
1997         Samarco            8.10    0.00    0.00    1.33   8.10   0.00   0.00   1.33
1998         Saraiva            6.92    3.00    0.00   0.00    6.92   3.OO   0.00  0.00
2003         Satipel            25.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   25.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
0            Seara Alimentos    0.00    3.88    0.00   0.00    0.00   3.88   0.00  0.00
2000         Sepetiba           27.00   0.00    5.00    8.00  12.00   0.00   5.00   8.00
1997         sucorrico          3.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1999         Sudamerica         0.00    15.00   0.00    0.00   0.00  15.00   0.00  0.00
0            Suzano             0.00     1.27   0.00    0.00   0.00   1.27   0.00  0.00
2001         Synteko            18.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  18.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1996         TIGRE              7.69    0.00    5.00    0.00   7.69   0.00   5.00  0.00
0192         TRIKEM             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998         TeconRio Grande    5.41    0.00    5.50    9.89   5.41   0.00   5.50   9.89
2001103      Tecon Salvador     0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.55   0.00  0.00
2002         UP Offshore        11.60   10.00   0.00   30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
0188102103   Unibanco           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1999         Vulcabras          11.67   0.00    0.00    0.00  11.67   0.00   0.00  0.00
1999         Wiest              0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   8.00  0.00
2001         AG Concession      0.00    15.00   15.00   0.00   0.00   4.29   0.00  0.00
1996197      Algar Telecom      0.00    8.17    0.00    0.00   0.00   8.17   0.00   0.00
2002         A"i                30.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  30.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
2002         Andrade G. SA      40.00   0.00    0.00   20.00  40.00   0.00   0.00  20.00
2001         Apolo              8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   5.50   0.00   0.00   0.00
1998         M e b              20.00   7.00    0.00   18.33  20.00   7.00   0.00  18.33
1999         AutoBAn            27.60   0.00    0.00   23.72  21.60   0.00   0.00  23.72
1993194196   BACELL             0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00  0.00
1998         BSC                6.59    0.00    0.00    3.53   6.59   0.00   0.00   3.53
1993196      BUNGE CEVAL        0.00    8.06    0.00   0.00    0.00   8.06   0.00   0.00
1990191192   Bahia SUI          0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00
1996103      BancoBradesco      10.00   0.00    0.00   60.00  10.00   0.00   0.00  60.00




                                             105

1988103       Banco ltau                   25.00      0.00      0.00       175.OO  25.00     0.00       0.00   175.00
1997          Bompreco                     10.42      0.00      5.00        0.00    10.42    0.00       5.00    0.00
0             Bradesco-Hering              7.50       0.00      0.00        0.00    7.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
0             Bradesco-Petrofl             7.50       0.00      0.00        0.00    7.50     0.00       0.00    0.00
1994196       CHAPECO                      17.85      0.00      0.00        5.26    17.85    0.00       0.00    5.26
2002          CN Odebrecht                 51.78      0.00     20.00       113.57  51.78     0.00      20.00   113.57
1973178183    CODEMIN                      0.00       0.40      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.40       0.00    0.00
2003          CPFLEnergia                  40.00      0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1992          CRP-Caderi                   0.00       0.5 1     0.00        0.00    0.00     0.51       0.00    0.00
1995          CambuhyiMC                   i.88       0.00      0.00        0.00     1.88    0.00       0.00    0.00
              Copesul                      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1997
0197100       Coteminas                    0.00       0.53      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.53       0.00    0.00
1980192193    DENPASA                      0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1995196198102 Distel Holding               0.00       0.00      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
1998          Dixie Toga                   0.00       15.00     0.00        0.00    0.00    15.00       0.00    0.00
1987196197    Duratex                      8.33       0.00      0.00       25.67    8.33     0.00       0.00   25.67
1999         Eliane                        25.60      0.00     13.00        0.00   25.60     0.00      13.00    0.00
1998          Empesca                      5.00       0.00     10.00        0.00    5.OO     0.00      10.00    0.00
2001102      Escola                        0.00       0.28      0.00        0.00    0.00     0.25       0.00    0.00
2000          Fleury                       7.7 1      0.00      6.00        0.00    7.71     0.00       6.00    0.00
1998         Fosfertil                     6.82       0.00      0.00       30.68    6.82     0.00       0.00   30.68
1998          Fras-le                      8.00       0.00     10.00        0.00    8.00     0.00       6.70    0.00
1994         GAVEA                         3.75       0.00      5.50        0.00    3.75     0.00       5.50    0.00
0            GPCptl Rstrctd                0.00       9.67      0.00        0.00    0.00     9.5 1      0.00    0.00
2001         GPC                           9.00       0.00      0.00        0.00    9.00     0.00       0.00    0.00
                          Total portfilio: 779.52    145.67   142.17       659.91  640.42   111.04     123.87  629.91
                                                                        ~~




                                                                  Approvals PendingCommitment
              FY Approval     Company                          Loan         Equity    Quasi     Partic.
              2003            Amazonas Water                0.02             0.00      0.00      0.00
              2002            Andrade                       0.00             0.00      0.00      0.10
              2000            BBA                           0.01             0.00      0.00      0.00
              2002            Banco Itau-BBA                0 00             0.00      0.00      0.10
              2001            Brazil CGFund                 0.00             0.02      0.00      0.00
              1999            Cibrasec                      0.00             0.01      0.00      0.00
              2003            Duratex IV                    0.00             0.00      0.00      0.01
              2002            Macae                         0.00             0.00      0.00      0.28
              2002            Net Servicos 2                0.05             0.00      0.00      0.00
              2002            Suape ICT                     0.01             0.00      0.00      0.00
              2004            TermoFortaleza                0.06             0.00      0.01      0.11
              2004            UBB Swap Gte                  0.02             0.00      0 00      0.00
              2002            Unibanco-CL                   0.00             0.00      0.00      0.15
                                  Total pendingcommittment:    0.17          0.03      0.01      0.75




                                                           106

                                                  Annex 14: Country at a Glance

BRAZIL: SECONDDISEASESURVEILLANCEAND CONTROLPROJECT                                                                     - VIGISUSI1
                                                    PROJECT VIGISUSI1-
                                                             Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America   middle-
                                                    Brazil & Carib.  income     Development diamond^

                                                     1745      527      2 ~ n              Lifeexpectancy

                                                                                                  T
GNI(Atlas method,US$
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(77                                          13        15       10
LaborforcePA)                                          17       2 2       12    GNI                               Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                           per                               primary
                                                                                capita                          nroiiment
PovertyWofpopulationbelownationalpovertyhe)            22
Urbanpopulation(77of totalpopulation)                  82        76       49
Lifeexpectancyatbirth(years)                           69        71       69                      I
hfant mortality(per /OOOlivebirths)                    30        27       30
Childmalnutntion(%ofchildrenunder5)                     6         9        n         Access to improvedwatersource
Accessto animprovedwatersource(??ofpopulation)         87        86       81
lliteracy("%-ofpopulationage E+)                        e         11      a
GrossprimaryenroIiment (%of school-agepopulation)      162      Bo                -Bradl
                                                                          in
                                                                          in
   Male                                                166       0 1              -Lower-middle-incomegroup
   Female                                                       P8        1x)

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TER
                                             1982    1992     2001     2002     Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            28     390.6    509.0     452.4
GrossdomesticinvestmentlGDP                    211    1B.9      212      193
Exports of goods andServlceslGDP                7.6   x1.9      t3.2     6.6                    Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                     20.4    214      20.2      215
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                       6 3    20.1      16.6     18.0
CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                      -5.8    16      -4.6      -17    Domestic
InterestpaymentslGDP                            3A     0.7      3.0       3.0   savings                       investment
Total debtlGDP                                33.3    33.0     48.3      51.3
Total debtservicelexports                      819     211     76.4      702
Presentvalueof debffGDP                                        52.6      58.4
Presentvalueof debffexports                                   3342                           indebtedness
                                   1982-92 1992-02   2001    2002 2002-06

                                        2       2.7     14       15       3.4      -ERZll

                                        0       14     0.1      02        2 2         -  Lower-middle-incomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                             1982    1992     2001     2002     Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(%of GDP)
Agriculture                                     9.0    7.7       6.1      6.1   15 T
Industry                                      45.6    38.7     22.3      21.0
  Manufacturing                               34.6    24.7      14.0     02
Services                                      45.4    53.6      716      72.9

Privateconsumption                            69.6    615      60.6      59.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                   x1.0    i7.1     192      B.3
imports of goods andservices                    8.3    8.4      14.2     D.6

                                          1982-92 1992-02     2001     2002
(averageannualgrowth)                                                           Growth of exports and imports (%)

Agriculture                                     2.5    3.5      5.7       5.8   20
Industry                                        1.6    2.3     -0.7       1.5   M
  Manufacturing                                 0 5    18        14       1.4
Services                                        32     2.8       1.9      1.5   0

Privateconsumption                              0.7    3.9      0.8       0A   -XI
Generalgovernmentconsumption                    7.1    0.9       10       1.0  -20
Grossdomesticinvestment                         4.1    2.1       -1.1    -52
Importsof goodsandservices                      3.9    7.6       t2     -P.8           -Exports        -Inports




                                                                     107

                                                                                                                       Brazil

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                           1982    1992    2001    2002       1Inflation (%)                                c
Domestic prices
   change)
Consumer prices                            '00.5   9516      7.7      7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                       x34.8   968.5     7.5      8.5

Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                             22.7      24.1             97      98       99    w     01     0
Current budget balance                                       3.0       3.1
Overallsurplusldeficit                                       3.6                       ----GDPdetlator       -CPI


TRADE
                                           1982   1992    2001     2002
(US$millions)                                                                   Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                              35,793   58223   60,362
 Coffee                                           2,534   2,932     3,049     Po    T                                       I
 Soybeans                                         2,696   2,726     2,89
 Manufactures                                    23,787   32,901   33,001
Total imports (cif)                              20,554   55,572   4728
 Food                                               850     1169    1,085
 Fueland energy                                   3,069    6276     6,281
                                                                                                                            I
 Capital goods                                    6,335   14,808   n.593

Exportprice index(1995=X)O)                   73     92       94       95              96    97      98   99  00

Import price index(895=X)O)                   65     63       114      115                        Exports        Imports O2
Terms of trade (895=X70)                      re     147      82       82

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1982    1992    2001     2002
(US$millions)                                                                  Current account balance t o GDP (%)

Exports of goods andservices              21,967 38,999   67,545  69,968
Imports of goods andservices              24,761 25,7l7   72,653   61,863
Resource balance                          -2,794  13282   -5.m      8,105

Net income                               -13,510 -9,382  -8,743    -13,Bl
Net currenttransfers                           2  2243     1,638    2,390

Current account balance                  -13,302   6,143 -23213    -7,696

Financingitems (net)                       llxll  8,926   8,795    -3,570
Changesinnet reserves                      5201  -15,069   3,413   n266

Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$ miliions)     3,994  23,754   35,866  37,823
Conversion rate(DEC, local/US$)         6.52E-11 1.64E-3     2.4      2.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982    1992    2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                 Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed      93,932  P9,060  245,844  232,075
  IBRD                                    2,694   7238    7,963     7,7x3     I              G.       A 7.710   P.
  IDA                                          0      0        0        0

Total debt service                        8215    8,647   54,322   51,636
 IBRD                                        4n    1913    1,362    1,518
 IDA                                          0       0       0         0

Composition of net resourceflows
 Official grants                             24      38       81        0
 Official creditors                         966    -936   2,742       916
 Private credtors                         7,580   5,888   -1781    -9,541
 Foreigndirect investment                  2,9%   2,061  22,636        0
 Portfolio equity                             0                               1
                                                   1,704  2,482        0                    F
World Bank program                                                                        152,327
 Commitments                               1,090  1,344    1,624    1,276      A IBRD                          E- BilateraJ
 Disbursements                              623     581    1.639    1.384      B IDA
                                                                                --         D Other mltilateral
                                                                                             -                 F Private
 Principalrepayments                        215   1266      828     1,063   I C - I M F                        G Short-term
                                                                                                                  --




                                                                 108

