                      Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS)
Section I – Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: December 22, 2003                                               Report No.:AC468
A. Basic Project Data
A.1. Project Statistics
Country: Brazil                                          Project ID: P083013
Project: BR DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -                       TTL: Gerard Martin La Forgia
VIGISUS II
Total project cost (by component):
Appraisal Date: January 26, 2004                         Loan/Credit amount($m):
                                                         IBRD: $100m.
Board Date: December 16, 2004
Other financing amounts by source:                       Gov.($100m.)
Managing Unit: LCSHH                                     Sector: Health (100%)
Lending Instruments: Adaptable Program Loan
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency recovery?             Yes? [ ]             No? [ x]
Environmental Category: B                                Safeguard Classification: B
A.2. Project Objectives: The objectives are two-fold: (i) reduce mortality and morbidity from
communicable and non-communicable diseases as well as exposure to risk factors associated with ill
health, and (ii) improve the health outcomes of specially vulnerable groups including indigenous
populations and Quilombo (descendents of slaves) communities. This will be achieved by:
(i)       Continuing to strengthen the national public health surveillance and disease control system for
          communicable diseases and environmental health, particularly in states and municipalities;
(ii)      Improving and broadening the scope of public health surveillance and disease control, to include
          non-communicable diseases, injuries and maternal/child health, and the surveillance and
          prevention of risk factors;
(iii)     Expanding access to and utilization of health services to indigenous populations;
(iv)      Improving the effectiveness of indigenous health care through institutional development, quality
          enhancement and cultural appropriateness.
(v)       Extending water and sanitation services to rural, Quilombo communities.

A.3. Project Description
Component 1: Public Health Surveillance: The activities financed by this component seek to reduce
morbidity and mortality and exposure to risk factors associated with ill health among Brazil’s people by
strengthening the public health surveillance and disease control system at the national, state and municipal
levels. This will be done by supporting the newly created Secretariat for Health Surveillance (SVS) in its
efforts to improve communicable disease surveillance and control, strengthen environmental health
surveillance, and expand its scope of activities to include non-communicable diseases, injuries, and their
risk factors. It will also support improved vital statistics, a tool to monitor and prevent maternal and infant
mortality, and collect and analyze health information for the assessment of health disparities. Finally,
activities in this component will invest significantly in strengthening the currently weak, but critical role of
the states and municipalities in surveillance and disease control efforts at the local level. This component
consists of four subcomponents:
Subcomponent A – Surveillance and Control of Communicable Diseases: This subcomponent aims to
continue the process of strengthening the National Public Health Surveillance System. Specifically, it will i)
expand and improve the public health laboratory network, ii) improve the quality and utilization of
information from the mandatory disease notification system (SINAN) to control disease, iii) improve
capacity in communicable disease surveillance and control through training and research, iv) expand and
strengthen hospital-based surveillance including emerging and reemerging infections, v) guarantee the
cold chain to assure the quality of vaccines, vi) guarantee and expand activities to control vector-borne
disease, vii) improve management capacity of SUS institutions responsible for surveillance
includingresponse to emergencies, viii) improve dissemination of communicable disease surveillance
information and capacity in social communication, and ix) improve social participation in disease
prevention and control.
Subcomponent B: Environmental Health Surveillance: This component aims to continue to strengthen the
implementation of the National Environmental Health Surveillance System by identifying and monitoring
health risks related to environmental conditions and determinants within a sustainable framework.
Specifically it will i) strengthen National Environmental Health Surveillance subsystems for water, air and
soil quality, ii) structure national subsystems related to hazardous substances (e.g. pesticides, asbestos,
lead, cyanide), biological and physical factors (radiation), chemical accidents and natural disasters, iii)
create a national environmental health laboratory network, iv) develop an information system for
environmental health surveillance and indicators to evaluate control activities, v) increase scientific and
technological capacity, vi) support national policy development for environmental health, vii) develop
activities within primary care that help create healthy environments, viii) promote social mobilization and
community education in high risk areas, and ix) improve mechanisms that promote intra and inter-sectoral
activities.

Subcomponent C: Health Situation Analysis: This subcomponent aims to strengthen operational and
technical capacity to carry out health situation analysis, and monitoring and control of non-communicable
diseases. Specifically it will: i) improve coverage, quality and utilization of vital statistics (births and
deaths) with a focus on maternal and infant mortality, ii) improve capacity to carry out health situation
analyses including GIS, vital statistics, health program evaluation, and analysis of inequities in health, iii)
strengthen the nascent non-communicable disease and risk factor surveillance system, iv) develop an injury
surveillance system, and v) improve dissemination and social communication related to health promotion
and risk factor prevention.

Subcomponent D: Strengthening Institutional Capacity in States and Municipalities: This subcomponent
will finance subprojects to strengthen: (i) state capacity to lead, organize, manage and monitor surveillance
and disease control systems, and provide systematic support to small municipalities, and (ii) municipal
capacity to perform the essential functions of surveillance including detection and notification,
investigation, data collection, data analysis and interpretation, feedback and dissemination. In an effort to
support the decentralization of technical and managerial know-how, this subcomponent provides states and
municipalities both the opportunity and financing to develop and implement complementary but innovative
activities related to many of the themes outlined in Subcomponents 1-3. Beneficiaries will consist of
approximately 200 subnational entities: 27 states, 26 state capital cities and 147 “satellite cities” within
their metropolitan areas.

Component II: Indigenous Health : The activities that constitute this Component seek to improve the
health outcomes of specially vulnerable groups including indigenous populations and Quilombo
communities by financing inputs to foster institutional and financial reforms, extend coverage for basic
services, enhance the quality of care, address special and emerging health needs, and support community-
driven initiatives that can contribute to improved health status. To meet these objectives, the project will
finance laboratory and medical equipment for primary care facilities, vehicles and boats to transport
patients and health teams, computer and communication equipment to enter and transmit surveillance data,
consulting services, community-driven subprojects, small works (e.g., construction and upgrading of health
posts, basic laboratories and Indigenous residences), training, workshops, seminars, software and training
materials and water supply, sanitation and housing upgrading subprojects. Key outputs for each
subcomponent are presented in Annex 2. The Component is divided into four subcomponents, all of which
will be implemented centrally.

Subcomponent A: Institutional Capacity Strengthening: This subcomponent aims to: (i) extend basic care
coverage to unserved indigenous communities; (ii) improve the technical quality of public and private
providers serving indigenous communities; (iii) develop and implement a performance-based management
system; (iv) decentralize decision-making authority to and strengthen governance mechanisms at the
subregional level, and (v) strengthen health surveillance systems while introducing monitoring and
evaluation methodologies to systematically assess the structure, processes and impact of the Indigenous
Health System.

Subcomponent B: Special Health Needs of Indigenous Populations: Through the development of strategies
and implementation of small-scale projects, targeted interventions and research, the activities constituting
this subcomponent aim to document and comprehend the causes of malnutrition, alcoholism and suicide
among indigenous populations while reducing the incidence of the these problems among targeted groups.
The subcomponent will also support research on how to integrate traditional and modern medical practices
appropriately.

Subcomponent C: Fund for Indigenous Community Initiatives: The purpose of the Fund for Indigenous
Community Initiatives (FUNCOMIN) is to promote community-driven local development in health by
transferring grants to indigenous communities. It will support about 150 small subprojects costing less than
$12,000. Eligible activities will include community kitchens, medicinal remedies processing, promotion of
traditional healing practices, training and equipping of midwives, fruit tree groves, vegetable gardens,
breastfeeding promotion, women support and mutual help groups and other activities that can directly
contribute to improve health. FUNCOMIN will favor subprojects that seek to strengthen participation and
capacity of women in promotional, preventive and curative health activities.

Subcomponent D: Water and Sanitation for Quilombo Communities: The subcomponent will finance the
installation, expansion and upgrading of water supply and sanitation systems for dispersed rural hamlets
and individual residences that will ensure basic access to technologically appropriate and sustainable water
supplies and sanitation facilities for approximately 3,750 Quilombo families residing in 150 localities in 52
municipalities. In areas where chagas disease is endemic, the project will also finance housing
improvements oriented toward eliminating the reservoir of reduviid bugs that thrive in poorly ventilated
and illuminated houses constructed with mud, adobe and thatch materials. Upgrades can include wall
plastering, cementing of floors and improvements.



A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis:

National


B. Check Environmental Category A [ ], B [X ], C [], FI [ ]

Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered

                                                                          Yes                        No
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                  [x ]                        []
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                              []                        [x ]
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                  []                        [x ]
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03-)                             []                        [ x]
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                      []                        [x ]
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                              [ x]                        []
Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                       []                        [x ]
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                []                        [ x]
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                []                        [x ]
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                        []                        [x ]




*
  By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
claims on the disputed areas
Section II – Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
D.1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe any
potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
No large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Environmental: Potential direct and possible negative impacts will derive from biological and chemical wastes
produced by health posts (bandages, syringes, vaccines, etc.) and small laboratories (chemical wastes) constructed and
expanded with project financing. However, visits to health centers and laboratories demonstrated that these facilities
produce a low volume of waste products, and laboratories adhere to regulations regarding the proper separation,
identification and disposal of health residues. Since health posts in indigenous communities are used by itinerant
teams, most medical wastes produced during a visit is collected and removed by the teams and disposed at a central
location, usually a health center located in a towns.
The major risk identified in the EA is the low institutional capacity of the Borrower to effectively implement the
country’s robust environmental legal and regulatory framework, particularly at decentralized levels. Although national
surveillance policy and oversight are the responsibility of National Sanitary Surveillance Agency (ANVISA) and the
MS (Secretariat of Health Surveillance-SVS), many activities have been delegated to the states and municipalities.
However, most municipalities, particularly the smaller ones, lack the capacity to fulfill surveillance mandates and are
dependent on the support from the states. Unfortunately, a number of states lack the capacity to provide regular
support to the municipalities.
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)
Not relevant
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of borrower capacity
to plan and implement the measures described.
Project Environmental Classification and Environmental Management Plan (EMP)
Given the interventions contemplated for VIGISUS II, the project has received a Environmental Category B. The
project does not contemplate large-scale engineering projects, supporting the expansion of relative small facilities,
health posts and laboratories. The potential for negative impacts resulting from increased generation of waste materials
is low. Waste management plans are available for most public laboratories, but application is inconsistent. To mitigate
any potential adverse impacts, the following activities are proposed:
      Application of environmental licensing regulations for the construction of laboratories and health centers;
      Training on risks related to waste management in laboratories and on preparation of a waste management plan
         drawing on regulatory framework and best practices in Brazil;
      Development and implementation waste management plan in all laboratories constructed or expanded with
         project financing;
Several potential positive impacts will be derived from project –financed activities. These include:
        General capacity building at decentralized levels for health and disease surveillance: A major objective of
         VIGISUS II is to improve the institutional capacity of states to oversee and monitor health surveillance
         activities and provide leadership and support to municipalities. Health data that are the subject of surveillance
         and monitoring include: health status conditions, diseases, risk factors and behaviors and health interventions
         and outcomes;
        Institutional capacity building for environmental surveillance at all levels: Here the focus will be on creating
         capacity to track, collect and analyze environmental indicators and events associated with hazardous
         substances and environmental processes and conditions in air, water and soil;
        Development of a biosecurity strategy for areas inhabited by indigenous populations: VIGISUS II will
         support the development of a biosecurity strategy and regulatory framework aimed at protecting indigenous
         populations from risks to their environment and health.
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies,
with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Consultations for Indigenous Health Component
In preparation for VIGISUS II, the consultative process was carried out under the guidance of an anthropologist
contracted to seek inputs from an array of NGOs, research institutions, indigenous organizations and representatives of
DSEIs.1 Also, the preliminary VIGISUS II concept and design was presented at two meetings with Indigenous women
groups.2 [A third consultative meeting is planned for early December]. The following matrix presents main problems
and recommendations from the consultation process:
         Consultative Process: Main Problems and Recommendations
                     Problems Identified                            Recommendations Included in Project Design
         1. Populations still suffer from transmissible   1. Strengthening of capacity of indigenous health teams to conduct
         and vaccine-preventable diseases.                surveillance and address transmissible disease with a special focus
                                                          in malaria and tuberculosis.
                                                          2. Evaluation of provider performance.
                                                          3. Introduction of performance-based contracting of providers.
         2. Low quality of indigenous midwives.           1. Research on traditional birth practices
                                                          2. Training program for indigenous midwives using culturally-
                                                          sensitive pedagogic methods.
         3. Lack of indigenous health professionals       1. Creation of scholarship program to train indigenous physicians
                                                          and nurses.
         4. Some groups still have little access to       1. Extension of basic care serves to all indigenous communities.
         basic care.                                      2. Evaluation of provider performance.
                                                          3. Introduction of performance-based contracting of providers.
         5. High incidence of malnutrition evident in     1. Introduction of nutrition surveillance system.
         many indigenous communities.                     2. Research on traditional dietary practices.
                                                          3. Introduction of nutritional inventions applying culturally-
                                                          sensitive counseling practices.
         6. Mental health problems manifested             1. Research on causes and culturally-appropriate treatments.
         by high incidence of alcoholism and              2. Special projects to address alcoholism , drug abuse and suicide.
                                                          3. Evaluation of special mental health projects.
         suicide.
         7. Differential treatment of indigenous          1. Evaluation of referral systems.
         patients referred to SUS facilities.             2. Design of new financing system to provide incentives to SUS
                                                          facilities to treat indigenous populations with quality and dignity.
         8. Low participation of Indigenous women in      1. Selection of a majority of women as indigenous health agents in
         governance councils; few indigenous health       VIGISUS II.
         agents are women                                 2. Promotion of the participation of indigenous women in
                                                          governance councils.
                                                          3. Favor women-developed projects in the Fund for Community
                                                          Initiatives.
         9. Lack of integration between traditional and   1. Research of traditional medicine practices and potential for
         modern medicine                                  integration with modern medical practices.
                                                          2. Include traditional medicine as an eligible activity in Community
                                                          Initiative Fund.

Action Plan
The Indigenous Health Component represents the response to the health and institutional issues outlined . The

     1
       See report in project files prepared by Robert Hahn. Organizations include: Conselho Nacional de
     Mulheres Indigenas (Manaus), Instituto Socialambiental (Brasilia), UNI-Acre (Rio Branco), Universidade
     Federal de Acre (Rio Branco), Coodinação das Organizações Indigenas da Amazonia (COIAB-Manaus),
     Instituto de Esudos Socioeconomicos (Brasilia) and the Associação de Produção de Cultrua Indígena
     (Manuas).
     2
       See project files: Encontro de Mulheres Indígenas da Amazonia Basileira (Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 2003), and (ii)
     Encontro de Organização e Intercambio de Mulher Indígena do Nordeste (Oct. 24-26, 2003).
activities constituting this component were identified in consultation with indigenous organizations constitute the
Indigenous Health Development Plan for the proposed project (see project description above).

E. Safeguards Classification (select one)
[ ] S1. –The project has significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; where there are significant potential
impacts related to several safeguard policies.
[ X] S2. – One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited to their impact and are technically and
institutionally manageable.
[ ] S3. – No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. – Financial intermediary projects

     F. Disclosure Requirements           Date
     Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
     Date of receipt by the Bank                            12/22/03 or Not Applicable
     Date of “in-country” disclosure                        …/…/…      or Not Applicable
     Date of submission to InfoShop                         …/…/…      or Not Applicable
     For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
                                                            …/…/…      or Not Applicable
     Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
     Date of receipt by the Bank                           Not Applicable
     Date of “in-country” disclosure                        Not Applicable
     Date of submission to InfoShop                         Not Applicable
     Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
     Date of receipt by the Bank                            12/22/03 or Not Applicable
     Date of “in-country” disclosure                        …/…/…      or Not Applicable
     Date of submission to InfoShop                         …/…/…      or Not Applicable
     Pest Management Plan:
     Date of receipt by the Bank                            Not Applicable
     Date of “in-country” disclosure                        Not Applicable
     Date of submission to InfoShop                         Not Applicable
     Dam Safety Management Plan:
     Date of receipt by the Bank                            Not Applicable
     Date of “in-country” disclosure                        Not Applicable
     Date of submission to InfoShop                         Not Applicable
     If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.


     Section III – Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
     OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment:                                                          Yes         No
     Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?                              X
     If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report?
     Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the credit/loan?
     OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats:                                                                Yes         No
     Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical
                                                                                                               X
     natural habitats?
     If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-
     critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures acceptable to
     the Bank?
     OP 4.09 - Pest Management:                                                                    Yes         No
     Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?
     Is a separate PMP required?
     If yes, are PMP requirements included in project design?
     Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property:                                                Yes         No
     Does the EA include adequate measures?
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse impacts
on physical cultural resources?
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples:                                                                Yes          No
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation with
                                                                                             X
the Indigenous People?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and
approved by the Regional Social Development Unit?
OP/BP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:                                                       Yes          No
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan /
policy framework / policy process?
OP/BP 4.36 – Forests:                                                                        Yes          No
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been
carried out?
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these constraints?
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include provisions
for certification system?
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams:                                                                 Yes          No
Have dam safety plans been prepared?
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE)
been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been
made for public awareness and training?
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways:                                               Yes          No
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then has
this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared and
sent?
What are the reasons for the exception?
     Please explain:
Has the RVP approved such an exception?
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas:                                                        Yes          No
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of the
project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for dealing
with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to the RVP?
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP?
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure:                                                                Yes          No
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local
NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies:                                                                      Yes          No
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been
                                                                                             X
prepared for the implementation of the safeguard measures?
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost?
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation?               X
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of
                                                                                             X
safeguard impacts and measures?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and the
                                                                                             X
same been adequately reflected in the project legal documents?
Signed and submitted by:                                       Name                                Date
Task Team Leader:                       Gerard Martin La Forgia
Project Safeguards Specialist 1:
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:
Project Safeguards Specialist 3:
Approved by:                                          Name   Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:   Juan D. Quintero
Comments:
Sector Manager:
Comments:
