Documenot of
The World Bank
FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :P- 6065-ALE   Type: (PR)            Rejot No. P-6-ALS
Title:  AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
Author: DETHIER, J.J.
Ext. :32510 Room:H11045 Dept. :EC2AW
REPORT AND RECOMMNIDATION
OF TUE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A }PROPOSED
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMNr CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR14.2 MILLION
TO
ALBANIA
June 4, 1993
Agriur nd Water Supply Opeatons Division
Centra Europe Department
Europe and CentalAsia Region.
This doment has a rsticed Adstribuon Nd may be used by reiients only in the perfonmae of
their offial duls Us contets may not otewise be discosed vithout Word Dan authorizakon



CURRE1CY EQUIVALEIS AND AVERAGE EXC1ANGE RATES
Cuq Unit a Lek
le.. - AD. Sept. D. Jan. - Jnos JX  - Do.   My
129O  m2   1221   ma   ma
Lek per US$   8.00       10.00     25.00     50.00    100.00   110.00
WAGND AN MEASRMEENTS
Metric System
ALBAM A FISCAL YEAR
Ianuary 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB   Agricultural Bank                      IWAD  Iterational Fund for Agricultural Deveopment
Al  Artifical Inseminadon                     IFC   nterational Finance Corporadon
APO   Agricultural Program Office               JLU  Independent Lding Unit
ASAC   Agricuture Sector Adjustment Credit       IM    Iternatdonal Monetary Fund
BAD   Bank for Agriculture and Development     KfW      dttalt  r Wledeufbau
BOA   Bank of Albania                         MIGA  Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agey
CC   Coordang Committee                       MlS  M       ent In ation System
CEO   Chief Executive Officer                 MOA  Mitry of Agrture and Food
C1P  Cost Insurance Freight                   MOP  Ministry of Finance and Economy
CIP  Critical hIpors Project (IDA)            NAP  National Agency for Prvaizaton
CIS  Commonwealth of Independent States       NCB  National Commerci Bank
CMEA   Councl of Mutua Economic Assistance        OD  Opational Directive (IDA)
CPF   Coupart Funds                          OE      Overseas Ecowmic Cooperatio Fund
EC   European Community                      PICU  Project Ilemeion and Coordination Uni   )
ECU   European Currency Unit                    PFP  Policy Frmeork Paper
EFSAC   Enterprise and Financial Sector        PHARE  Assistamce Program for Eastem Europe ( C
Adjustment Credit (IDA)                RCA  Revolvlg Credit Accunt
ERA   Enterprise Restrucring Agency              SB  Savings Bank
ESAF  Extended Structu  Adjustment Facility     SBA  Standby Agreement  M)
ESU   Enteprise Support Unit                   SDR  Special Drawing Right
FAO   Food and Agriculture Organiaton          SFA  State Farm Agency
FY   Fiscal Year                             SITC  Standard International Trade   icato
GDP   Gross Domestic Product                   SME  Small and MediumScale Enterprise
G-24  Group of 24                              SOE  State-Owned Enterprise
IAS  Intetio  Accouting Stndard              SSND  Social Saf  Net Deveopment Poject (IDA)
lCDB  Intrnational Competiive Bidding          TA  Te ical Assistamce
IDA   Iational Development Association        WHO  World Health Organization



FOR OFFICL  USE ONLY
&GRICML SELCTOR ADJUND= ON=
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY  .................................
PART1I. THE MAC&QEC ONOM             FRAMEWORK    ........................ I
A. Recent MacroeconomicDevelopmenu  ............................. :
B. Entrd Accounts andFinancingRequirement   ...................... 4
PARTI. BANK OPERATIONS AND WORKPROGRAM    ..................... 4
A. LendingandSectorWork .................................... 4
B. ASAC Links with Other Operations                   ..... 9
PART m. THEAGRICULTURAL SECTOR ............................. 10
A. Strucure and Performance of the Sector  .......................... 10
B. Economic Potental and Factors Constraining Gowth  .................. 15
PART IV. THE GOVERNMENT'S SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPOR   EBY ASAC  ................................... 16
A. Introduction            .......................................... 16
B. Objectives oftePogan  ......tI..e............................ 17
C. ProgramComponents ..................................... 17
(t)    Agricultural Price ad Incentive Fram ork  ................ 17
(ii)   Restructung of the Rural Crdit System  .................. 22
(iii)   Privaization ofStateFams  .......................... 26
(iv)   Development of the Legal and Regulstory Framework
for Land Policy  .................................. 28
(v)    Privadzaton of Stat-wned Marketing and Processing Entrpriss
and Enabling Environrment for Private Sector Development .... ... 31
PART V. TH PROPOSED  and U..... 36
A. Credit Objectives, Amount andUseofFnds  .          ..................... 36
B. CredikConditions            ....................................... 36
(i)    Quick-disbursing Component Conditionality  ............... 36
(ii)   InvestmentComponent  ......         ....................... 38
C. Procurement, Disbursements, Accounts and Audit  .....         .............. 40
D. Coordination, lmplementation and Monitoring  .................   .....       42
E. Technical AssistanceProgram  .......        ......................... 43
F. BenefitsandRisks            ....................................... 45
PART VI. COLLABOPATION WfTH IME, EUROPEAN COMMUNITY AMD
OTHER DONORS  ................................................ 46
pARTVI. ECImM            ATIQON                    .    .                              46
This document has a estricted distdbution and may be used by  rcipients oly in the perormane
of thowir offecial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dbclosed without World Bank authoriation.



ASK
ANNBX 1: Ecownomc                                   i                               r ...........*47
ANNEX 2: letter of Sector Policy  .......................  . .0. .. S t1
ANNEX 3: PolUcyXMates P. . ..........             ........    ........    .....teat *44*   63
ANNEX  4: TISeablof eyProjeet?ro P       ss1ngEo n.................. 67
ANNEX6:  Stas of BankroupX Opi zto a InAlbua ...***.....
ANNEX7:  pnlplenen oaPan ..................... - ; a      ..                     77
ANNEX8: SupervilonPIa  .. ..............  .    4  -...SS * a.  *..* SS i
ANNEX 9: Organizatn          Chart of the WMiistry of Agrilurand Food
andoftheAgtirculuralProgamOfflce a.aS a............  83
ANNEC 10: Technical Assistan Proga   .......... .              a
ANNEC 11: Appraisal of the Agricultrd Bani. .         a                   .   SS .  87
ME  IBRD 24850 (folowIng pag 108)                                                  i
.4



ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Ieiowrv an
Beaefida ~   Albania
Execatla Aesdk: Misty of AgrIcaulre and Food, Mistry of Fiac and Eoo} ,
Misy of Tra(e, Bank of Albania, Agicultral Bank, Nadonal A cy
for Prvatiatlon
Amrnt.             SDR 14.2 mIllon (US$20 allon eqAvalent)
Terns:             Forty years mauity with a ten yea grace period. Crdt prceeds wM be
let to the Government at the standard IDA service cage.
FrJcI Okcl         Mm Credt is desed (a) to support a sectoral progm of rcal
stucturl refom  over a period of 18 months, (b) to provide a Min of
edt to th Govenment for onlendiag to rral entrpreneurs thro th
new Agc rald BDank, (c) to provide fd   r thnicad atc to
suppot the m           of the program.
3escrldou:         The sectoral form progm Is based on the strateg  framework
by the Govment  collabo   with IDA and the Euopean
Community. it addes  four by areas of poLcy and itdtutona rform:
(a)   Ceatng an appropria  agrkculal prfck end hew
(     lealizing the priCes of gicur outp  and
hput, and esin&g t  priclng of food aid does
not constIt a disncentve for domec producton
and markeSt;
(I)   setig up the enabling environment and  aitng Xe
condidons for the development of the privae sector
In Uagcur maketg and processing.
(b)   Provide   n      reneurs with access to reit and
retrcun of to ,rzrJJntal  sw
(I)    lqudating the Bank for Agriculte and
Develomen by wrig down unrecoverable sot
enterpre debt, and creadng an adeuely



capiized new Agiculwtral Bank operatg on
comeri baking principles;
(11)   revItalizing the proviion of rura fical servies
through  ompreive ation  development of
te Agrultura Bank.
(c)    iqidate state frms, distrbue their land and develop to
legd andpolk yfamework In order to accelerae
consoldation and develop the market for land:
()    liq     g all stae fams, wih the eacepton of
thos bavin joit ventures wih foreig partners;
diseatrbtn their land to workers; and seling thei
asst;
(H)   enactig lad l    legislatn;
Ol)   iementg the Land Market Acdon Pla,
Includn titling, lnd regiation and caasr, and
land poliy.
(d)   Improe the perfrman  of fte (crerAy state-owned)
antepris  in die agrcultural mnuuedng andprocesrg
sector.
(I)    pvtzngsmall and melmsaeenterPrises
quicky and estabHlshig a timetable for the
p.rivztln of lar  enterprie;
(U)   enforcng a budget constraint on furtier subsidies;
Ill   prmot  prvat sector devlopme  trugh
support servies for SMs, busns avsory
srvices and sn     ebling enAe
for the pivat secr.
Proceeds from  e credk wil be used to finance (a) under the aj_um
componen, the CIP cost of general Import of goods and services (US$11
miion equivale), exdWing goods and services financed by other
bila l agencies, luxury goods, military equiment and ote gmods
specificaly prohibited; (b) ude the Investment compoent, viable
vesan  sub-project (US$S miion equivaL) of privae frm    and
othr rural entrePrneurs; (c) services for technical assistance (US$4
mion equivaent).
Disbursements:     The fir UTane of th adjustment component woud become avaibl
upon crdt effSctdveness, expet  in September 1993 and the second
trnce, expected for June 1994 upon fulfimeta of specific conditons



'IpgIRI                 II. 't u
1 ffg1 1fiIhig
l ~ ~     0 lI@| X 1§               'IS ii E
3Z  s>t3l3l   !15lll'3
o s i   t o o o M    X   g    t s   8~~~~~I



INTETIONAL DEVELOPbMEN ASSOCITION
REPORT AND REOOMMENDATION OF TIE P DENT OF IDA
TO TB EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PIROPOSED
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREIT TO ALBANIA
INTRODUcION
1.    I submi the following eport and recommeaon on a proposed credit to Albania for the
equivalent of SDR14.2 mmilon supporting a program of radical refoms In the agcutura sector.
The Agiulr Sector Ausbent Credit (ASAC) will have a term of 40 years, including ten years
of grace, at the standard service charge. The IDA operaton I expected to receive collnwlg fomm
the Govenments of Japan (US$15 million equivalent) and the Netherlands (US$2 million equivalt)
and parll financing from the Eurpean Community PHARE program (ECU8 million).
2.    The Credit would be a hybrid operation desgned to (a) support Implemetaion over a perlod
of 18 month of a setral reform progm with a quick-dibursing credit to finance a negative list
of imports (US$11 mdlion from IDA and US$17 til1ion fom cofinanciers); (b) provide a credit l
to th Government for the resctured Agriclural Bank for onlending to farmers and other rur
entrepreneurs (US$5 million from IDA) over a three year period; md (c) finamce key techical
assistn  programs nked to the I ntion of the program (US$4 million from IDA and ECU
8 milion from EC-PHARE).  Five poliqy and intiutional reform  areas ta ae of crucial
ortnce to obtain ealy suply response n agriculbre would be supported by the ASAC. These
ae (a) reform of the price and ncentive fiamxnk  for agricultue; (b) eoganlton of the
Aricutural Bank to set up a viable nu  fical institon; (c) dibution of stat farm land; (d)
deveoment of th lgal framok to reat a makt  for land; (e) quick privatza;on of ate-
owned agricultral enepiss ad private seor development in agriculture.
3.    lhe reform program has its origin In the strategic framework developed as a Jint effort by
the Albanian Government, the World Bank and dt  European Commnt. In the Spring aM
Snmer of 1992, a short and medium term stra     for agriculre was pr ed smulaneously wth
the preparation and i mplemetion phase of the Cdtical imports Project, IDA's fist operation
In Albania. A report etitled An4Anubw   Sraegyhfor lbanta was published by the World Bank
In October 1992. The report's recommenadons were officialy endorsed by the Governme  and
presented to donors at a meeting of the  -24 In Tlaa In November 1992. The doment Is
currently serving as tie bass for fomult   agricultural polic in Albanhi
PART I. THE MACROECONOMIC FRAMEWORK
A. RDCEwr MAcCRloCONOiwJc DZVEWPmEN
4.    Albania, havig sufeed from perhaps the  ost cemalzed and re sive regime amwng
former commus coutries, has moved rapidly to participate in the great economic and political
transformation sweeping EasternEurope. The demie ofcommunsm over 1991-92 was accompanied
by economic and political chaos after 45 years of an Implacably tWaria regime, no alternative
political or economic institudons were in place once the ancien regime crumbled. Public order was
gravely disupted and control over sWe enterprises vitally disappeared. For decades central



.2.
planning had decided, allocted, and distributed eveything In all sectors. When it was abolhed the
rs  was a gnera collapse of production. GDP declined by 27.7 percent In 1991 and 7.8 percet
In 1992 after a fall of 10 percent In 1990. With a 1992 5DP per capita of about US$250 (Ata
methodology), Albania -which has a populatlon of 3.3 million-   by far the poorest country In
lEurope.
5.    Wih this dramatic supply coUqpe, Albnia was plunged hito a fiscal crisis of unprece
dimensons even In Eastem Europe. State enterpises had constittu ootu a tax base and a ax
handle; fiscal revenues therefore decred drastically with the collapse of the state enterpries. At
th same tine, control over most categories of expendurs virally disapputred and the fiscal
deficit exploded to 60 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992. Monetary fiacing of the deficit
pushed nonthly in on IUo the 10 to 15 peent range. The high Iflation and th collapse of
producdon in exporL earng sectors led to the virtual exhausdon of foreign exchange reserves
Lastly, Albania that used to Le a net exporter of food products, became heavily dependent on food
aid as a result of the collapse of agricultur&I producdon. In 1990-91, agricultural production fell by
more ta 25 percent. The decline resuts from a combination of factors nluding te dismalg
of agricuvtal coopeatves, the scarcity of Inputs and lack of foreign exdhamge, a breakdown In
public dstrlbton cnls  nd work stoppages in the food industry. The supply of farm products
to Govemen collection center fell 60 to 80 percent and public food industties and related sectors
were unale to suly sufficient food fo the population.
6.    After the fi fly democratic eleons that took place in March 1992, Albmaia took dec
stps for the restoradon of public order and macroenomic stability. With a very high rate of
ticipation of 90 percent, the elections reslted In a nearly two thirds parliamentary mority for
th Democatc Party  a is comnmied to an open, libe  market econmy. In April 1992, amIdt
vere economic, social, and admnistatve dislocation, the Governent embarked on a
comprehesve program  of reforms. Quick mobilization of Intenaional aid supported the progm.
By ml 19 t  IDA CrW  Imports Project, a Stadby  angement wih the   , and lag
extena finning from the EC and other a-24 dons were In place.
7.    The Governmens reform program Included drasc stabilizadon measues and sictr
reform  to initiate the move towd a market economy. ITe budget deficit was cut in half, mainly
though shp Curaent In expeaditu  as the scope for raising tax revenues i lmied in the sbort
term  Budgetary subsidies to stat enterprie were abolished. Strict monetary targets were enforced,
in   rate were sharply increased, and the automatic extension of bank credit to state enteprses
was soppe. The first seps toward the devOe!pment of a two tier banking system were tae wit
the implementation of laws on cer and commercial bankig operations. All prices wre freed,
save for a few basic consumer items, whose prices were sharply increased. The currency was
floated, private exchange ansactions legalized, and al CUrent accoun transactions libealized.
8.    After 6 months of implementaton of fte program, Albania Is In many regards doing wel
compared to other counties In dte region although the sition remains fagile (see Table 1).
Thlrghout the year, all IMP perorniance criteria have been met: a first' In the Region.  he
dramatic dcanges imblemented at the stat of the program have visibly taken root, most wtably in
the areas of price reform, the exchange ad trade system, the budget, central bakidng, and
agieulurse. Industrial output aea  to have bottomed out, agtictal production, followig an
earl land reform, has rebounded and tere are strong signs of nascent private sector actvity,
althogh formal satistcal data are not available. Infation has fallen from 14 percent a month at the
bqeging of the year to less ten 3 percen in the Winer and Spring of 1993. While the financial



.3-
suadon remains fragie In view of the limied domestic tax base, the success in stabiling prices
Is speular, although it bas come at considerable cost Credit from the banking systm to non
vble s    enterprises has been stopped, but about 40 percent of the stte enteprise work force have
had to be lid off. Official foreign exchange reserves Incrased from vitually zero to about three
weeks of imports. The lek has appreciated by about 30 percent at the start of tile program and since
then has remained fairly stable In the freely floating exchRnge market. Equally Wortant, the socal
consen  appoar to have held in th critical period. Many obstacles remain, however. before rea
recovery can take hold. Policy Implementation is not facilitated by the weak admnistrative capacity
of the Govenunent.
9.  ,he economic collapse andte Implementation of the adjustmet program have caused high
unemployment highlighting the need for a social safety net MTrder the communst regime soial
programs Included generous, and almost universal, work-relatea ocial insurance benefits (pension,
disability, sickness), as well as free health care and education, and highly subsidized prices for
largely radoned commodities (food, housing, fuel, utilities, etc). However, there were hardly any
provions for those faling through the cracks in the system. Democrzaton, the economic crisis
and the ensuing econoic reforms unIeashed a process In which mass unemployment emerged, and
price leralizaon along with abolition of subsidies reduced real incomes drastically. At the sme
tme, the tax base supporting the socid safety net shrank drmatcaly. Responding to this situation
te Government devised a policy which alms at restructuring and strengthening fte social saft net
trying to bring it in line with the requirements of a democratized society and a transitional economy.
t has abolished the system of sheltered wages for Idle workers, introduced contibutions to sup
an unemployment bereflt scheme, and replaced part of the price subsidies with wage compn ons.
t has taken steps to tghten elipibility conditions for most benefits in order to reduce the overal cost
of th safety net. The reformalans and measures clearly separate contutory social insurance from
non-contributory social asistance ad merit schemes. While social insurance is Inasingly liked
to Individual contribution records, the Government eims to develop a legslative, institutional,
adminisive and flnancial fework for a targeted, family based, need-oriented social assisne
-stem to mltigae th poverty of those who are most in need. In June 1993, broad-based
wage/compensation increases in line with the current restrictive budgetary conditions will be used
by the Government to mitigate the costs of adjustment At the same time, the Govem t will
introduce a policy which provides mems-tested social assistance benefits (ndfim  ekonomlte) in the
form of block grants to be distributed by local governments and this will be expanded over the next
24 months to provide for a more efficient use of subsidies. A large Increas in th  nber of those
In poverty, due to price rises, long-term unemployment and expiration of unemployme  beneits,
requires the redirection of a subsntial part of resources freed by subsidy reductions to support a
taged social assIstance scheme. The weak administrative capacity of the Government  erlines
te need for proper sequencing of the following refonn steps: the abolition of the remaining
subsidies should be closely coordinaed with the development of the targetng capabilities of the
cenal and local govermnents. The developmt of these capabilities needs to be supported by
substaal Iational tecnical assistance such as that proposed under IlDA's FY94 Social Safety
Net Development Project.
10.    he medium term (1993-95) nuaoeconomic framework envisages growth of about 3 to 4
percen over the period and annual inflation of about 20 percent at the end of fe program period.
Grwth is expected to orighint from the agricultural sector and from the development of the serviee
sector, while the industria sector is to contract fiurter. It Is expected that the ASAC could play a
crucial role in helping the economy recover. Towards the end of the prograt period, industry is
expected to pick up as the restructring of the public sector Is completed, and foreign direct



-4.-
will requie a fundamntal reform of puolic fiace: a reliable tax base has to be established to
capture the segments of the economy that will grow in the medium term, and tax dinstion has
to be totally overhaled. Budgetry control and management flmctions have to be developed.
B. EXTERNAL ACCOUNTS AND FNANCiwG R EQMIEENS
11. Despite the potential for a signiflcant improvement of the fiscal position over fte medium
term, Albania will require significant amounts of concessional external fcing to rebuild is
dilapidated infrastructure. Ihe current account deficit excluding official transfers would improve
from an exrordinary 67 percent of GDP in 1992 to 27 percent of GDP in 1996. Extenad finmcing
requirement over 1994-96 are estinated at US$868 nullion of which US$115 million would be
provided by IDA together with significant bilateral aid and modest amounts of direct investments
(Tabk 2). The finacing gap of US$261 million over 1993-94 is expected to be covered by donors.
Prospects for the mobilization of such aid are good in view of the track record of the country and
of the high level of commitments already made by donors. This is the currenty agreed IMF/World
Bank/EC base case scenaio. As the agricultural sector recovers and its marketed surplus increases,
the composition of aid is expected to shift from food and emergency supplies to project finance. If
weli coordinated, and delivered in a timely mmner, this international assistance could bear fruit and
deliver higher rates of growth by the end of fte decade.
12. The main risk in the scenario outlined above is that of an interruption in the implementation
of the reform program. Ibis scenario is predicated on the consolidation of the excellent early results
of the stabilization program through demand management and strucural reforms. Should the
Albania society fall to mainain the effort of domestic revenue mobilization, public expedies
restraint, and tight monetary policy, growth and viabiLty prospects would be seriously endangered.
Thbis would result in higher deficit and inflation path and in a loss of balance of paymet support
from the Bank, fte IMF and the EC. Over time this situation would lead to strong decP;ies In
output, high inflation, and to a balance of payment crisi that could lead to a reveral of trade
liberalization.
13.   The resolve of the Goverment h_  however already been tested under difficult
circumstances. Significant efforts in domestic revenue mobilization have already taken place.
Decisive steps in enterprise reform have also been taken, and efforts to cap social safety net
expenditures in a context of rising unemployment have been commendable. Lastly, while the
Government faces tough questioning on te implementation of the reforms, there is a widespread
consensus across the polidcal spectrum on the general direction of the reform program.
PART II. BANK OPERATIONS AND WORK PROGRAM
A. LENIDNG AND S3CTOR WoRK
14.   Objectives. Albania joined the Bank Group in C  .ber 1991. Since then, the Bank has
entered into a close and effective dialogue with the Albanian authorities. There is agreement on main
elements and objectives of economic reform. Specific measures and the tmefran  for action are
being worked out



15.   The short- and medium-temr objeive of IDA assisace Is to alleviate the economic and
fincial crisis through anavs and advice on the reform program and investnents in critical sectors
where IDA has a compmratlve advantage. Agriculture, given its domnant role in employment and
productive potendal - demonstrated in the quck supply resporse :o price liberalization - Is a priority
sector. Thus IDA will ain to:
(a)   support the proces of economic reform by helping in the design and ilemntat
of macroeconomic and sector policies needed to stabilize the economy and stml
production, particularly in agriculture;
(b) provide, where needed, quick disburs4nV support to critical sectors of the economy
such as agriclture, and the financil and enterprise sectors;
(c)   assist in areas related to poverty reduction, such as the design and implementon of
a social safety net that would protect the most vulnerable groups during the period
of transition, rural employment creation, and upgrading the role of women in lhe
economy.
(d)   support inftucu rehabilion;
(e)   build ntittional capacity in economic mavagement;
(f)   support the development of private sector activkies, and,
(g)   accelerme effort to address environmental degadation.
16.   Lending Sraey. Asuming good performan  and sustned reform, IDA is plaing to
support Albania with an inital annual lending program level of SDR30 million, projected to decline
to SDR1S million In 1996. Thi  would allow abou three to four operations a year and would be
tailored to the implean of reform programs. TM  first emphasis has been on relieng the
critical sccity of Inputs. As the economy picks up and expor revenues to fnace critical Imports
increase, IDA resources would gradually be chamelled into invesments aimed at reabilitating the
country's dilapidated i ctue, and providing long-term investment resources to the emerging
private sector. The early stabilizaton successes would not be sustainable over the long run in the
absence of a resumption of growth. Albania has significant mineral resources, large water reserves,
good prospects for the development of tourism, and above all a strong agricultral pot 'al, as
descAibed in this report However, for this growth potential to materiaHze, sustained inve' .ent In
public infrastructure are required to restore public senices to a level consistet wivththe reqiemens
of a market economy. At the same time, after tsw years of precipitous fall in outut, te remains
much productive potential that can be better udlized, particularly In the stat enterprise sector.
Therefore the lending straegy concentrates on the rehabilitation of ifrastructure through projects
in the social sectors, housing, transport, water supply and the promotion of a supply response
through the present project, and through an Enterprise and Financial Sector Ad3sntent Credit.
17.   Albania has attracted strong support from other foreign donors: aid commi   for 1993
amount to US$420 million Including food aid. In this context, the comparave advatage of the
Associion is is expertise In project preparation, rather than the scale of its intervention. Therefore
the strategy has consisted in using projects as vehicles for aid coordion and calyst for ihe
mobilization of funding. Coordination wiffi other donors has been excellent, both formaly during
aid meetngs organized by the G-24 and informally among staff working on Albania (para 170-171).



.6.
Table L   Alba     adkatosa  Ta rgus IM-96
1991   1992   19      1994   1995    1-
aPe  dW asP*Eowpwid
GDP and price
Red GDP                                 -27.1   -7.8    3.5     3.     4.0      5.0
Rt pricm (averg)                          36    226    105       2S     23       17
(ed-f-peiod                              104   237      45       2S     20       is
(In puoat @f GDP)
EXt,A curmr  accoaot1                         -22    47    -57       45    -35       427
Exot                                       6     10    10        11     12       13
impot                                     25     80    68        60     S1       4S.
Savins and investmen
Fouulgp savins                                   462    -52     40    -31       -23
Of wbi: N etbIort of amFS                      44    -71      48    -47       -38
*           PrlvatefVIS   fe8s                 22     19       18     16      15
Naionl savIns                                   -55   -3S       -19     -S       4
Of whic:    Govenment                         -24    -10       -2      3       6
Non-government                   -31    -25      -16     .9       -2
Gas doesic I                                      7     18       22     25      27
Of wlcb:    GOvment                             4     13       14     15       15 .
Non-fovmmua                        3   S    8   10   12
ocend gvwmnm
Revee                                     31     25     33       33     33      32
Of whiLc    Tax _vm.                    27     17    26        29     31      32
Expenditures (comitnend Ws)               62     47      S       50     45      41
Oeral ba e (casb)                        -44    -22    -22      -17    -12       -8
Domeasic finncinS                         44     22     11        7      2       -
Of wdck      Pinkh fmnoeng               44     22     11       6       1       -
Btd MIAWY 2                                   104   1153     37       26     21       17
Domestic cit                                  ...   113     67      40      29      24
Of Wi     Cuit to        mma3             ...   110    41        22      4       -
(in miom if U.& doU.t)
Own aunal ewrves.
(oxcludg goild)                           11     35    121      138    14      156
(va" of impots)                            1      3      9       11     13      14
Exted debt                                    498    610    745       ...
o/w Anuts                                414    432    r..
11 B _xddg oficialrses
2  Endyer. pperen chn  from prio  peio.
Y  C.ngeIn peret of boed  omycns   kstok atpedof rviouybaL



.7
Tabl 2. AIlban   Exlral Fr      g R       _     193-96
1992    1993      1994    199S    199
(In miio  of US Dol.)
RUqwne&                                           638     805       710      648      me
Ipmport                                           524     560       S43      S14      sm
Svi¢es oxcl. itet                                 102     105        82       62      53
Scheduloed debt srvico                             30      68        60       66       St
Of w       Aiclu                                          30         9       9       10
dnrest                                 30      38        54      56       60
DAP Repurlse                                                       1      10
Chop in  0i   1                                   .40     -30       -15
Resewr bui-                                        22     102        40        6        5
Own Reeaoare                                      228     296       339      371      420
Expwb                                             *7(      91       114      136      154
Nvae a s                                          148     160       171      179      18
Dire INvestmn                                      19      30        45       50       60
Oer Caia (Net)                                     -9      15         9        6       18
fbacng8 Oap                                       410     509       371      277      220
_ Jm             8 ilo" lwsft  cawaumi410       400       157      64       35
Gmts                                              345     282        47       16       -
Losm;                                              65     118       110       48      35
Of Wizich: Bilteal.                              45      68        70        a
20      50        40      40       3S
Of ieic  IlP                         14       5
WoddBtk                      5      35        40      40       3S
EBIID1O                      1      10
Ewcf New Comaun_                                           11        51       53       48
Ddt Redf                                            -       -         -       -        -
)(ultilatelal                                              11        36       33      23
Prvate Credo                                                         1S       20       25
Reduad Fwlagp G                                     0      98       163      160      137
v  Nogave ndw  demotn  inrs in s;res.



-8 -
The good results of this coordination are evidenced by the high leverage of the current project wher
the Association's funding has been more tan matched by bilateral donors.
18.  In FY 92 the Cridcal Imports Project has focused on providing essential goods many for
agriculture and the power and transport systems. In FY93, in addition to the proposed Agriculure
Sector Adjustment Credit, a Rural Poverty Alleviation Project, a Technical Assistance Project and
a Transport Project have been approved by the Board of Directors. The Transport Project consis
of the rehabilitation of main roads, port facilities and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Transport The Technical Assistance Project minly supports urgendy needed institltional reforms
in banking and administration. The Rural Poverty Alleviaion Pilot Project. approved in February
1993, aims at rehabilitatng rl infra ture and creating enployment opportunities in rural areas
through rural works programs and at developing a network of Village Credit Funds to provide small
loans to poor farmers. In FY94, the proposed lending program includes two small twin projects for
Social Safety Net Development (SSND) and Labor Market Development, a Housing Project and a
Water Supply Project. The SSND project would support the reform of the social insurmce system
and would create a targeted social assistance scheme. The Labor Market Development Project would
support the payment and administraton of unemployment beneft and would provide employment
services and taining. The Housing Project supports the privatzation of state-owned housing and
the competion of units that were abandoned during the collapse of 1991. Ihe Durres Water Supply
Project would support the rehabilitation of the existing water supply Infastructure and improve the
qualty of life for the population of Durres both by incrasing the reliability of water supply and
reducing the contaminaton of water. An Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit is also
under consideration, although its preparation requires more time. It will address some of the most
difficult problems Albania faces, including drastic downsizing of many industiad actvities.
19.  Pborf    Management. Supervision of ie pjects menon  above will be given ide
attenion but will require substantial amounts of resources  Useful lessons, applicable to fiutue
operations, have been obtained from the Critical Imports Project (CIP), the Bank Group's first
operaion in Albnia, mainly dth strong instiuonal arngement have to be put into place to ensure
adeuate proJeu management in the country. Despite many difficuldes, Implementation of the CIP
has been a success with bidding underway or completed on 100 percent of the credit and contracu
awarded for 60 percent less than one year after Board presentaton. Adapting the experince of the
CIP should facilitate the management of fumre projects, in palar In terms of procurement and
disbursements, two areas where Government staff have gained valuable experience during the past
year. Sharing with other donor organizations both the costs and the mangement of fte technical
assistance proams associated with project implementation will also reduce superision requirments
by Bank staff. Adapting the lessons learned from the CIP to other projects and burden-sang with!
other donor- are two principles that wfll be built into the design of the above mentioned projects.
under preparation and that should facilitate portfolio management
20. EconomIc and Seaor Wort Planned economdc and sector work would provide the analytical
underpinnings for IDA's policy discussions with the Government and future lending. In very close
coordinatIn with the IMF, European instiuons, USAID and otier bilateral donors, IDA's work
focuses on the sectoral and structr elements of the reform program, taldng into account the unique
crcumstances in Albania. The objective Is to help prepare a sequence of reforms for IDA and Bie
support. Ihe Government has already adopted Xt Agricultural Sector Strategy of October 1992 and
the Heal  Sector Strategy Paper of February 1992. IDA is also supervising an Italian-funded
Enviroanental Review. Other sector work planned includes an Enterprise and Fiancial Sector
Strategy Paper and an Energy Assessment.



-9-
21.  Ipa  of S&rateg on Poveily Issues. IDA's stateg will addrs poverty Issues and help
midgate the social costs of adjustment In several ways. Improving agriculture will alleviate nrual
poverty and creae rural employment Ihe proposed social sector projects (FY94) would help refonr
the social safety net, the unemployment compensation merchanism, the education system and th
hat care delivery system  A Health Project under preparation would improve the health care
market and ocus on matenal and child health issues. The proposed Water Supply Project wiR
reduce water-bor  diseases for the poor In the port city of Durres. The ASAC and the Rural
Poverty AllevWon Pilot Project address issues of poverty in nur areas by Improving access to land,
increasing frm Incomes and employment opportunities.
22.  Alough Albim women have access to all levels of educaion and employment (49 percen
of th work force are women), women have been concetated in lower paid and less prestigious
occupations and are under-represented In managerial and higher level positions. It is expected ta
the tansition period will inpose added hardships on women: the share of women among fte
unemployed may Increase substially as men are rehired and leave the ranks of de unemployed,
and that women may eman  unmployed for longer periods of tme. IDA will help to protect the
welfare of women through the design of the social safety net, and the provision of enployment
services and tg. Other projects, such as one under discussion In the energy sector, will also
be deigned to eanc opportuites for female employment and allviae women's worklo ftrough
the prison of fuels that can serve as ateratves to the wood now used for most cooldng and
baf.
23. IFC and MIGA. IFC fces a particularly difficult challenge in Albania and an Imiediate
program Is unlikly In industry. Minig and the servic sector, however, could attract early IFC
Investm. So far IFC has foacsed on a joint vente project in chromium and furher opeilons
In mining and he tourism sector are under onsideration.
24.  MIGAs guarante  program   fly available for Investment In Albania. I has akeady
extended a guarantee for a turism project. MIGA is currently reviwing te egislation on foreign
nvtmes t.
B. ASAC LIu   wrm Orm0 OpBRTONs
25.  lhe prposed ASAC would support the reforms undertan by the Govnmt In agriculre
and would thus form part of IDA's overall stregy. The ASAC contiues efforts sarted under the
FY92 Crical Import Project (CIP). Half of the CIP funs went to the agriculural sector for
repaiing the Irrigion iructure and adapting It to the new land tenure situation, and proviig
urgenty required imported inpt for famr. The CIP also financed a technical assistance program
for the Agricultura Bank to provide credk for h purchase of IDA-financed Inputs md to reorganize
the bank. The ASAC Is complementary to other projects In the agricultural and rural sector, In
partcular the FY93 Rural Povety Alleviation Project and two FY95 projects under preparation, the
Irrigation roject and the Forestry and Natural Reurce Maagement Project which foc  on
improvements in the irrigaton ifsructure and on naural resource management.
26.  The design of the proposed ASAC, and In pardcular of Is pivatizadon and nurl credit
conponents, is also closel lined to the proposed Enterprise and Fmnancial Sector Adjustment Credit
(EPSAC) which concentrates on reformig the enabling environme for the financial and enterprise
sectors. The EESAC would support restructng and privtzaton in the state enterprise sector,



- 10-
including resoludon of Itr-enterprise arrears, through the recently created Enterprise RestructrIng
Agency (ERA) and National Agency for privatization (NAP). It would also support the leal and
financial reorganizton of the banking system, Including coa bamlnk   and commercial banki.
27.  The proposed ASAC has been prepared In close coordination with the Policy Framework Pae
(PFP), prepared by the Goverment jointly with IDA and the IMP, ad with the IMF's prposed
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAP) supporting the reform package.
PART M. TH  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. STRUCTUE MAD PB JORMANCE OF TM SECIOR
28.  Alaia is predomiantdy a agricultural country. The sector's contribution to GDP, which
was close to 35 percent during the 1980s, Is epected to reach about 50 percent In 1992 (with
livestock accounng for half of that) due to the sharp decline in industrW and service sectr outp
Abou 50 percen of the labor force (705,000 people in prima  production and an additional 100,000
in related sectors) is employed in agriculure and forestry, and two-thirds of te popuaion Ive In
rural areas. Albania is mountainous, and only about 32 percen (700,000 ha) of its 28,000 kh  are
arable. Populadon density (4.7 per ha of arable land) is high. Ihe most important field ctops are
wheat and maize. Irrigation facilides cover 60 percent of arable land. Some 430.000 ha ae used
as pastrelands.
29.  Prior to the recent reforms, the agricultre sector In Albana was one of the most actreme
examples of the application of marxist ideology to be found anywhere. All the land Wa sttewned
or clustered Into stat dominated agricultural cooperatives," IpUt ad ouput marketng was flly
controlled by the state, labor migration wfihin rural areas or to urban areas was basically priited,
and prices and subsidies were set by the ste In a way dudbore no relation to costs so thagreat
inefficiencies in production were maintned and nurted. lhe result was self sufficiency at a hJg
cosL However the cost of this policy eventualy becam unbearable. his coftbuted greaty to Ihe
collapse of Albania's economic system at the end of the eighties.
30.  While a somewhat similar pattern was found in other Eastern Europea and CIS coutre, fte
tntatve reform efforts that took place in most of these countries during the eighties did not tak
place in Albania, so that the country has been faced with the need for a very abrut agrarn
tranition. Another distinguishing feaure in Albania compared wth its ex socWlst neighbors Is the
unusually high man/land ratio in Albania, which has created special problems for the desin of the
reform. With 1.5 ha per worker (compared with for example 10.5 In Bulgaria), there is only a
limited amount of agricultural land available to support the ra  population, but also limitd
opporunides outside agricultre because of the wideveloped stae of the nural economy resultng
from the past economic policies. Thus if workers are displaced from agriculture, the nmor ecnomic
sector, there is even less hope for finding gainful employment than in most of the other coutre
in the region at least in the near term.
31.  Over the last 12 to 18 months, Albania has achieved extraordinary progress towrds retming
the agricule sector along market economy lines as descrbed below. Indeed, these reforms have
already oupaced most of the other reforming countries in the region. Already 90 percent and 56



-11-
percent, resectively, of the land previously controlled by state-run cooperatives and state famshave
been fully privatized, and major refoms In price and trade liberalization have been achieved. i
addition a good start has been made planning and prpaing for agricu    enterrise prvtatlon.
Banking sectr refom  are howev  lagging so that financig for the new private farmers remis
a problem.
32.  Land Ron. in the partculr cas of lmd reform, Govenment policy has, in the Inter
of speed and equity, been to distribute land to all members of cooperatives and state firms rather
than try to pre ma farm sizes for moden mchanied agicultre for distrbution to
a selected fw as is bei  proposed in some other countries of the region. This has resulted in the
creaon of a large nmber of sma farms wih a limted Income potential. While controversial, it
is likely that, on balam:e, this policy wHil lead to stsfacty  efficiency gains In the sector provided
land sale or lease arrangements can be put Ino place quickly.
33.  Lard distribution in forner av8ikWal Cooperade stated in 1991 and has been radicaL
By Jauary 1993, 90 percent of th land previousy owned by cooperatives      75 percent
of arable land) had been distributed to Inidual farmers. Once the distribution process Is
completed, there will be some 380,000 faly am  wih an average size of about 1.4 ha, often
subdivded into two or three separate plots. In the hort term largse productvity gains can be
epected as a result of th switch to family farming. Already In 1992, agricultural production grew
by more than 12 percent  nthe long term, It is expected that the development of an active land
maket will facilitate consoldan  Land priza    b an irreversible Process and the sector will
be cd by sma fam  for the next deces. The viabilit of these small fam  is however
greay enhmced by the Importance of lvestock, which accouts for more tian half of farm income,
ad fthe access of vlges to communal pasrenlad. During the reform period, the new small farm
sco wi  face serious changes In tems of hp  supplies, mating dmnels and access to
credit, especially in isolated ral areas. P em , he al ir cture and tr      t systems
needed to spo the development of privae maret  channels a  grossly Inadequt.
34.  State Fams are situaed mainly in th coplapins ad cover 25 percent of good arble lnd.
Until 1989, st  fams accounted for 30 perce  of he vale of agricultural output, and wee th
main supple  of dairy products, fut, and vegetables to the urban population. In 1991 their
marketed surplus dropped to almst  o. The 250 eisting ste fim  employed 155,000 wore
bi July 1992 and farmed 160,000 hecta  (24 peLect of arable land. The National Agency for
estructuring and kehabilhtatlon of State Fam (ceabed in July 1992) under the Misty of
Agriculture and Food is legaly in charge of executg th  Gove ent's policy regardi  s
farms. be Agey   has cut dt labor force in half (from 150,000 in July to 75,000 In November
1992) but the laWnm    ratio Is st  very low (about 1.5 hectare per worker). Given ta the
Government-run am  have proven to be inefficient and would requir large amoun  of fisca
resources to survive In an undistorted maet edvironment, the Govemment has decided to tur he
land over to te private sector through lak bas  to family farmers. By May 1993, some 56
percent of these state  rms ad been prvatized (pra 94).
35.  Agricu1wal Price and Trade Policy. Agrclural output prices have been libezed In
vadio  sta  from lat 1991 to ely 1993. Before 1991 the prices of all fbod items were fixed at
very low levels. In Novembr 1991 the GoverMent sred price refom by libalzing the prices
of vegetables, fruits and eggs. In Agust 1992 the rail, wholesale, and producer prices of domesdc
meat nd milk were feed but regulaed pres for bread, sugar, cooking oil and rice were
maintained. However, tes prices wer Increaed about 200 to 400 percent. Ceilings were Imposed



-12-
in September 1992 on reil prices of some privatly Imported products competing wit smlar food
aid ttems but were mved In early 1993. Finaly, since Januay 15, 1993, vIry all Prodcr,
wholesale and onumer prices we  lealzed. Tlhere are only a few exceptios. On the consumer
sidl, the only product with an amistred price is bread. On tie producer side, the prices at which
wheat and sugarbeet are purhd by pubic enterpries are still set by decree. All other farmgae
prices, in thory, can be frely demined by the mket. in practice, te level of market prices Is
fuenced by fte prices at which food aid imports are sold (para 37) and by th purchasing policy
of m polisic sta enprises which are the only buyers of significa  quantities of fam products
(pa 40).
36.  Reval of cotols on domestc prices has buen accompanied by external trade
The floating of the lek has been acomp d by a fuil libealiaon of imports. Export by private
traders is alwed, but exort licening      m      In effe  for some agcultu d     to
avoid diversion of food aid and expor taxes are in effect for a few selected commodities (para 75).
37.  in 1992 Albania becae heavily dependent onJbod id Md food aid price polIcy ha bad
a critical influence on te level of domestic prices. The domestic production of wheat fell from
613,000 tons in 1989 to 270,000 tons in 1992 and iheat imports from food aid have made up the
balance of needs. Food aid stments include not only wheat and flour but also sugar, rice, cooking
oil, meat, mil powder, butter,  ee  and eggs donated by the EC, Italy and otier counto.
Domesdc production of vegetable oil and sugar are estimatd by he Govement to cover only 6 to
15 pect  of domestc needs. Statwned trading etepse  are in charge of ditriutng donor-
spplied food aid. An estimated 62 percent of concessional wheat was delivered In 1992 tD state-
owned mills and the rest was distuted by the Italian Army to rural areas. Around 70 percent of
food aid flour is sold to  ed bakeries and the remainder to the state-owned pas industry.
Wbeat is sold to ste-owned entrse at 1.3 lekJk compared with an Import parity price of about
18 lekkg. This greatly diorts e wbheat marloet and reduces the amount of counterpart renes
going to th budget
38.  Foreign tade was conducted by a few foreign trade state enterprises until 1990. Domestc
pnces wer decoupled from foreign prices by a system of Implicit subsides and varable levis Al
se enterprises were authized to conduct foreign trade in August 1990 and private eemprises and
person In Aprl 1991. In 1991 customs duties ranging from 10 percen for food to 30 percent for
new machinery and equipm    were enacted. The Commrcial Bank, founded in December 1991,
took over the commercial foreig exchange transactions of the State Bank. Enterprises were
permited to retain foreign echange from trade.
39.  Albaat agrua expots over 198-90, maylvestkbeveragesand tobacco, avged
about US$24 mitlion to non-socialist counries and about US$81 million to socialist countries. Tbis
represented about 37 percent of the value of exports. Trade with fonner socialist countries has
declined sharply since the CMEA colapse and small quati   of melons and other iems are
exported to convertible currency markes. Since 1990, (often illegal) export of sheep, goats and
cattle to Greece is playing an Ieasing role.
40.  State-owned Agrcudar  Ma*edng and Processing L)erprlse include some 265 mostly
mediumsize procesn Plants (mills; bas; slaughteruses and meat plus; daires; oil pressing
plan; canmries; wieies; cotton gins and tobacco processig plan) and some 160 marketing and
service enerpises for te agricltural sector. The most important are: NFIU (Nd&rmarrJe F trn1b
IndstL Ushqmre) which imports and ditrbutes food aid wheat (para 62), the 35 large gndn



*13 -
eterprses (Orbiswm  which ae purhasing centers coupled wifth lage milling and storage
facilties, the sugar mill in Korge, some large dairy plan  and bakeries In urban merters, and the 27
dict-based enteprs  (Agtregwre) disrbutg frtilizer ad othr agricultural Input. All the
agrculital enterprises ae under the control of the Ministry of Agriculue. Some trade enrpries
under the contol of the Ministry of Trade (e.g. cold storage enterprises) are responsible for
Inportng and distributig food aid.
41.  The endr stt-ownd agricultural marketing and processig secr Isin a ditressed situation.
In 1989 there were about 50,000 employees in agmindustry. About half of the work fore are now
under a soci assis e shem  and enterprs  we  unil recenly borrowg from the Agricubral
Bakn to pay wages. Facries work at 5-20 percent of their 1989 capacity.  Thek operations are
highly inefficient, they are ncing large losses and have a large stock of debt. The declie In
out  and increasing subsistence orienion of hrmers have cut delveries to these emterprs.
Whea, flour, meat and mik flows trough public processing and distnbution chameis were 70-80
percent lower In 1991 compared to 1990. Sinmlarly, in 1992 only S percen of privat farmer
delvered part of their whe  to the grwnbzu     and kept mt of the harvest for household bread
production  ivate farmers provided only 20 percent of he total tweat deliveries to the grmbmi
despite accounting for 70 percent of the wheat producdon In 1992.
42.  Prvate sector activty is developing at a rapid pace In agriculture-related actives such as
output market, food processing, rental of tracor services, input supply, workshops, etc.
However, privae busiess comtes on an uneqWal footi with state-owned enterprss whih, until
ren, had a privileged access to ste guaranteed credi and continue to receive the bulk of food
aid sipme  and donor-financed agriulural Inputs. Lak of capital and of managemen sk also
put pdvat firms at a disadvantge and is slowing down the development of the private sector in nru
areas.
43.  Rral CSedU. The provison of financil services In Albania b severely cntained by the
inabiliy of the tree existing sbte banks to respond to the growing credit demad by the new private
secor. Bankers in the centrly-planned economy were mere bookkeepe, trsfering budget funds
to ste entrpries  without hard budget constaints nor any need to assess borwers'
creditworthiss. Banks now face the challenge of radical tnforionInto independen decion-
makers operatng on commecl banking principles. With most interest rates at positive red levels
(see Annex 11 for the   ret  sucture  of interest rates) and key banking regulion being
introduced, the banking sector s undergoing major reforms. The overall reform of the financial
secor, including resoluion of the issue of non-performing assets, recapitalization of the banks,
setting up of a payments system, and development of a suitable lega and regulatory fram rk, is
a prirt  issue bein addressed by the Govermet
44.  Rural credit demand by private farmers in order to finace urgendy needed inputs (rtiizer,
seeds, ad pesdcides) and   niaon equipment is strong and inrsing. Most of this demand
Is cumndy satsfied by te informal sectr: traders, farme  and small  eprenes receive short-
tenn credit from relatives, neighbors, and friends, generaliy without Interest charges. Due to Is
network of 27 branhe and 160 rural agencies and its experience with agriculturd credit, the Bank
for Agrulture and Development (BAD) is, after lifting of the burden of non-pformig assets and
conversion into a new Agricultural Bank, expected to become the predominant nal banl TXhe
bans clientele will comprise medium- and large scale enterprises In variour sectors of the rural
economy, iudig trade and transport services, commercially oriened farms, emerging private
fame' associations, millers and other agroprocessing entrpris. Small loans to Idividual farmers



-14-
and ma eneprneurs will be extended through a dd  nerk of Village Credi Funds
curren  beeng set up under the mDA-financed Rura Povet Alleaon Pilot Project (Y93), with
an epected total lending of bout US$ 10 miion over fur years
45.  An Impoant sh  of agiculturil crdt Is expected to be nud alable by I     nal
donors. Under te IDA-finnced Critical Imports Project (CIP), an agreemet wi Govement ha
been reached to commit Lak 1 billion (about US$ 8.8 millIon) of budge funs trough the BAD
network for credb to fames and tads purching CIP-laced Imorted ag l     inputs.
Agricura lenig under the Revolving Credit Account (RCA) of th EC-PHApE program, set up
wihin BAD, Is excted to eq  about ECU 3.5 mllion during the      three yean. Bilateral li
of credit for aiculural impot, hneld through th Ntonal Cmmercd  Bak (NCB) md
finaced by the Govnmen  of Greece  d Gem        wil potally add fh    US$ 30 mil=lon
In loans to the agricultural sector sting in lft 1993. However, since most of te  intraonal
lines of credit involve short-term financing, there wili be a considerable lack of medium- and long-
term credit for invesment projects In agriculte ove the nex ath  to five yea.
46.  Together with two ote state bnsb, BAD has been sn off fo  the fnrner Sa Bank of
Albania in 1991, wit an authored cptal of LXk 450 mlon held by the Stat. Howeve, BAD
has to dat been exempted from te provions of the Apr  1992 BaniIng Law, pend    a
Government geermt wh Parliamen to enable the bak to contne ditbutig subsidized redit
to state en rses  Ie agricltual sectow. After the dSm tng of he forme agrultad
cooperate, Governen stepped in and relieved BAD fom Lek 1.95 bion of non-perfrming
loasS to these cooeaves as of mid-1992. When Government decided to asume dional
reonsib    for anoter Lek 2.87 biMlion of unr bl debt by stat fam  and other stat
enterise as of June 30, 1992, BAD stared to tak a pro   role in lending to the private
aricral sector and In colbectg rural sav    deposi. Nevertheles, BAD Is still oblied to
ONne leng to raning st  fam, backed by a guar e from the State Farm Ageny wihin
MOA. After the distribution of all st  fam land, this lendig wil come to an end.
47.  The skl stucr of BAD*s curent staff of 400 renec  the compleXt Isolation frm any
western baking practdes un-der the communis rl. Whie staff at the brah and agenc level
appea well acquainted wth lechial Is    of ailtural production, t    little knowledge of
appraising procts on lfia l and commercW goud. Staff in the Tra head office alo lack
basic exper  in the areas of credit review, ffnancl ma, and accrual-based accounting
Since Feuary 1993, BAD has received tecncal a     In these fields financed under he CIP.
Data proessing systm and  ter-branch communicaons are In obvious need of massve upgradig,
and most of BAD's branche and agencies, includin the ead office, have no adquate facilities or
office Space.
48.  BAD's net loas outandng as of December 31, 1992 Inchlde Lek 3.34 billIon of short-rtrm
credit extended to 270 stat enterprises (95 perct of which are    farM s) of which Lek 500
million has been appoved since July 1992. New lending to state entprises has slowed down
conieably durng the fkst quart of 1993 to about Lek 25 million per month, with BAD largely
resing occasina ps       to contin   s support for state  trrse. Lan to the privt sector
compie Lek 25 million to 60nw fmers' asociatons, lk, 500 mmion to about 36,000 individual
borrowers, and Lek 120 million of housing lons aovWed and disbursed in t  past by the former
Stabt Bank. Loans to the privaf sector aveage US$450 for indis farmers and US$9,000 for
farers's associations, with a maximum matuty of three years. BAD I aigly requires th
provsion of collae  such as buildings, many and equpent, livesck, worig capital, and



. ISO.
personal guarates. Inforal  morgaes on land are raely acoepted due to t'he lack of land
regstraion and tling, thus consining the acoe to crdik for many armers.
49.  Loans to the state sectr have been flnanced though bonwin from NCB, on order of th
Bank of Albania and at an aAve   cost of It percet. BAD ha been remakably successfiil In
aract  some Lsk 400 milion im deposits from private deposio  by end-1992, and deposi growth
has remined strng in early 19M with a net Increase of about Lek 20 mlion per month. However,
fte bank's new lending to th priwte ecor   stiU severely constaid by acking liquidity Ooans
to deposit rato of 6:1). Ihe spread between deposk interest rates (whic reach up to 32 percet)
and th bank's itest revenes from loans b nrowing. Altugh lss tha    20 percent of BAD's
privae sector loa  ae reported to be affected by ar s, there i a clea need for an improved loan
coltion performance. A comprehonsiv picturo of BAD's loan portfolb quality, te need for lo
loss proviions, and the bank's profitability wi  become avaiale after completion of the on-going
credit audit undertaken in preparation for the facial liquidon of BAD and the legal establishment
of the new Agriculta Bank (see para 77-90).
B. ECONOM[C POrENIAL Am FACrORS CONSIBARMG GRtowx
5.  Supply respone In agriuue, both in the short and medium term, will come from small
family farms. In 1992 agrcitral producon grew by a healty 12.7 perce  (after a declne of 4.4
peret In 1990 and 20.9 percent i 1991) but the copping patterm waU oriented toward satsfying
family needs as the newy established priae farmers sought to pr     their food securty. Most
farmers have become subsisce odented and markted surplus Is limited. Refaoms are urgently
required In order to encourage smal frmers to Incres production and mat tir surplus. In the
medium term, there is potnti for growth in th best agriulura area. Agricual growh Is then
ikely to come from the most profitabl and cor cdaly-oriented farms operat  on the good
lowland sois. Sbe rur popultson will diversify out of agrulure; while th lan  id livetc
they posess wil provide some Income, most rua Inome will come from off-fan  eanployment in
trade, serces, handicraft and mall-scale hdusty.
51.  Agricultur production patterns In the medium term ae unlikely to return to the pattr of
the 1980s and will be att by an open trde poli  and by the abilty of  put and processing
Industries to rebound fom  ir present daotic st. Over the longer tm, compaive advatage
will dictate cropping mixs. Whe will not retun to Is ibrmer dominne wheat area is likely to
stabilize at about 40 percent low  ta In the 1980s dwugh yield ineas  may mean a smaller
reduction in output. Given Albaia's   itis  for producing higr-value crops, it   iis likely that
wheat, vegetable oil and oilcakes will be impored in larg quties in the fture. Producers of
fruits, vegetables and tobacco will cover domestic weeds and are expected to be able to develop
signifiant ers. The nadonal  r  deficit is expected to pers, as Albania aot economically
produce sufflcient sugar to meet domesdtc need. Te inreasing demand for feedstuffs, espcally
for producing eggs, poulry meat, and pork is ikely to keep demand for maie above production.
e livestock sector wiU be in a positon to meet tbe main r     of the pop   n in the
medbm term, although weaknesses in dte retd prceing idusties and the availability of feed
concentrates may be constrai
52.  Given their dominant role in the economy, agriculure and the ural economy are the key to
recovery In Albana.  I    expected t   a significant suply response could come frm the



- 16 
smallholder secr if major contraints to its development are urgently addressed.  W,  t  physica
infrasructe in rural areas needs to be rehabilitaed including repairing the Irrigation networs
building roads and the market  r.  Ihis will creae employment and It=o   opportunities
in construction and services in ural areas. These issues are being addressed by sevea  projects
financed by IDA and other donor. Second, the agricultural knowledge system (educatIn, rech)
needs to be thoomughly reformed and gicultural extension md support services noed to be adapted
to the noeds of the snall fanr sector. These issues are being paruly addressed by projects under
preparion financed by several donors Including USAID, IPAD and the Goemet of th
Netherlands but there is a lack of coordnaton of fte approaches being adopted. 7hid, policy and
inshtiuonal refoms inidated In 1991 need to be puse with priort given to the price and trade
policy fnework, esuring tha prices give correct market signas to producs, toat fod aid does
not act as a disincentve for doniestic production, that marketing channels for agriculu  inputs ad
outputs are functioning, and that the enabling enviroment Is condudve to the development of the
private sctor. Fow*, the Bank for Agriculture and Development must be liqul@bed and a stUng
new Agricultural Bank be creted  hi1ch, after completon of a comprehensive program of
istiuonal development, wil provide credit to mral entpreneurs. PFlaly, state-wd enterprises
must be ptivat ed quickly, unviable units must be closed down and the capacity uilizati  of the
newly privatzed enterprises in agricultural marketing and procesing must be Inceased.
PART IV. THE GOVERNMENTS SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
SUPPORTED BY ASAC
A. INTtODUCIION
53.  The Govenment has prepared and Is ipleeng a medium-term program of refrms in the
agriculture sector based on the stegic framework presented In the Agrurald SraeVyforAlba,
report (October 19) prepared by the World Bank and the EC with the Governmen  Mm repor's
recommendations were extensively discussed with Albania policy-maker and officialy endorsed
by the Goverment in November 1992.
54.  The medium-term adjustum  program is being operaionalized by defining time-bound actions
which IDA proposes to support ftough the ASAC. This radical program of change addresses the
severe scraL  Isbutional and policy constrails (para 52) which are limAg producton and
marketed suplus increases In the smialholder sector and preventing the development a competkive,
market-oriented econonm in nuWal areas. Other key constaints are being addressed, in paral, by
projects financed by IDA or odter donors.
55. The design of the ASAC alms at achieving irreversible results in these areas over the period
of 18 months while streng ing the insdtutional capability of the bey institutions involved in the
program's implendion through technt  asssance (para 153-165). Significant amounts of TA
are required in order to implement fte Government's program. Some Initial TA programs finaced
by USAID, EC-PHARE and IDA are already underway. The TA program under fte ASAC alms
at complementhing     first efforL



.17 -
D. OBJIEC  OF TIM PROGRAM
56.  The obJectives, mean agnd actions of the Governme's medium  merm sector adjustment
ptogramn are described in the Lever of Sector Poliy (Annex 2) and in the related Poity Matries
(AnMnx 3). The prog     has five main compnent, with readed set of policy objectives ad
actions. lhe specific obJectives of the program are:
(a)  to reform tfie agrlc ral price and Incentivefamwrk In order to increase the marketed
surplus from farms and to ensure tht pricng of food aid does not act as a dincendve for
domestic production and marketig;
(b)  to cay out the liquidation of the Bank for Agricute and Development  AD) and to
cae  a new sustinable Agricultur Bank providing credit wider maret condtons to
fizimers and other rural enerprenaus;
(c)  to fialize the disdtr on of fonmer cooperative and state-fam land; to privatize state
farms, and to sell off their asset;
(d)  to implment a Land Market Action Plan on tfting, land regisraton amnd developmen of
land policy; to develop the lease market fbr agrcutra land and to filitate land
consolidation;
(e)  to priva    state-owned enterprie la the agrtuk   maetlng andprocessngsecor and
to support private secto development in nru  areas.
C. PROGRA  CO1ADONENu
57.  The objectves, Insumen, and specific measu  developed by Govemment under the five
componen of the sector adjustment program are described in detil in the following pararaphs.
1. Ari l Price and Incentive Framework
58.  The medium term objective of agricultural price policy Is to enure an efficent allocation of
resour  awhieved by progessively adjusting Albanian agrictue to world market conditos,
increaing the competiiveness in domenic agricultural markes and inproving the peformance of
marketng and processn entprises. The main objecdves of the policy to be put in place before
the 1993 harves are to inre  farmgate prices close to world market levels as an icentive to
increase marketed quantites, to improve the management of the food aid program, to reform the
pricing policy for food aid products and to malme k conatible with budgety contraim.  his
requires reforms In the pricing of food aid and strong meaues to enurage St  enerpri  to
purchase from farmer. For the medium term, the policy objecdves for the gain sector are to set
up the enabling envioment for the development of a folly operaional network of prive traders
(collec  at farm level, storage,  nport, etc), to prvte  all s-owned enrpris  and to
estblish competitive conditions in the marking, milling and baking subsectors.



18 w
Food Ald Pricag
S9.  Food aid, while providing th urban popaon wih food, canh a e rong discentive effect
on domestic agculural production and prices. Pficing policy reforms to be introduced have th
objectie of bringing prices to levels consistent wih economic icendtves and budgetary resoure
while paralel measures are taken to mitgat the reduction In real Incomes so as to moderat the
soci coss of adjusmen  The objectve of naining the compeItiveness of local products woud
be achieved by settng the prices at wihIh food aid sipme   are sold marginly higher th  ho
price of the domestic products with which they compete. In parallel, reftoms In fte management of
the food aid program are called for: Ievls of food aid need to be more carefully brought in lN  with
actal needs; at the regional level, food aid wheat should be dbuod in diricts where local whea
is not available at affordable prices, ad disrution shud not ac as a disincent  for prvte grain
marketing and processing and depres prices received by farmers.
60.  Prking of Wheat and Bread. Bread s the mai stple of Albanan households. At preset
there is a dual pricing system for wheat: fariers receve 8.5 Lek/kg for domestic wheat and wheat
given by donors is credited to ctrpat fmds at 1.3 Lek1k. There is a flied consumer price of
12.5 Lek/k for stnard quality bread (aver   extraction rate of 80 percen) called bue maslve.
Under the acrrent system, wheat from food aid i to be used for all tp  of standard quality bread.
The quality of the bread depends on the ecology avaibl in publicly-owued mils in th major
cities (te extcion rate varies from 75 to 90 percen). Leaks are bard to control in practe and
they result in implicit consumer subsidia becoming explicit profits for some mills or bakeies
producing higher qualit flur or bread. Futhe m , under such a systm, counterpar funds
rceipts are low bece concesional wheat h sold at a low price, Irspectve of Its use
61.  Over the July 1992/June 1993 period, donos will bhae supplied Albania with        460,000
tons of wheat compared to a harves estmated at 270,000 to. Total needs are etmad  at
730,000 tons by Albandan officis (luding household conution and losses) but they are based
on a geneos figue of 220 kg of wheat per capta Actul  pme  for July 1992/June 1993 wi
exceed coitents made by food aid donors by 130,000 tons.
62.  The urrent retail price of bread includes an Inplt sbsidy equa to the diffeence between
the world price and the counepart funds (CPF) price of weat The price at which donor-supplied
whe b   credited to CPF In th budget is detemed by  tractn from the fixed consuer price
of bread (12.5 Lekkg) the margins chged by public entpris to cover tort, storage, milling
and bead bakig taking into account he appate uheaflour and flourbread conversion ratio.
he stat-owned company in dharge of storae, twport anddistrbn, NFI, which is controlled
by the MOA and employs about 100 workers, has larg Inter-enterprise debts and tax arrears. Mm
transport/storage/procesing margins are  lly  demined  d adjusted periodically. In
Aupst 1992, the sum of all margins amounted to 4 Lek/kg so tht food aid wbeat was priced at 8.5
LCk/kg for counterpart fund puroe. By January 1993, indutial ard trade margins had inased
to 11.2 ILek/k and, as a result -in order to keep th price of bread at 12.5 Io/g- wheat was
priced at only 1.3 I..kg  for counterpart fid puposes. Magins for distribudon, nilling and
baking have therefore tripled in 7 monts.
63.  Under the dual pricing system, sa-owndills bave an inetve to purdhase food aid rather
than domes ly produced wheat becase of the low food aid price.  About two third of
concessional wheat was delivered In 1992/93 to stae-owned mis and the remainder directy to poor
rural ae  through the Pelican operaton' (distrution by thoe  lan Army). Ptivate milers are



19
of two tp: on the one hand,  meo s loc mllers nstlled at the village  el d ppied by
neighboring  mrs; on the ohr hand, priva entrepreneurs who have bougt mms from fmr
coopetves and who are In a poshlon to work moe ntenivey, un lrger capaciti. A bowor
picin and distribution poly woUld help eliminate th discrImInaIoI agaist t  pivae mili
sor, whdch has very lmited accoss to food aid whet by allwng t  entry and expansin of th
more efficit privatemi   In t he mar  for Imported vheat
64.  The Governen  as dided tD Wtoduce subnta refoms in s prcing poicy for  et
and bread. As a first stp, in order to proide incves for frmer to  n    hir mared
productk  of wt     1993, the Governmn has decided to re the farite price to 14 eklk
(whic amous to aoimely 75 peroent of theo im   part price). Mm new producew pric
was not annunced in time for die October 1992 plang seaon, howsev. The officialyd
producer price consut a floor price atl w     Government4 ed purcing enters (pwn )
agree to pur e the wheat. Privat buyers a  fre to purchase at a higher prce. Pva  grain
market are sdtl undeveloped but k can be expected dua whea pries wll rs above 14 Lekl  In
wheat defcit areas.
65.  As a second mnor step,, th Govenmet wil Inrduce In June 1993 a new pricn polcy for
food aid wheat and bread. This prcn  refom has two objectves:     as orpat wA
receit and make a major step towd bringi  the bread price closer to cost Wih a faoga prio
of 14 Lekfk, te cost of bread producdon (wh   mket, four mg   and broad bakn)
including profit margins under competitie codition, s ao  25 LekIkg. The price of food aid
wea cedited to  uterpart fids wil be raised to 16 Iakg, I.e. hghrthn the proe of
domesial produced wheat and close to te CIP Import ice. The Governmts medium tm
policy is to mantn th CPF prce of wha, In al tm, bove 16 Leklkg ad above te dometi
producer price. At the sme ime, the Goernment wi hcease the consur pdce of bread kom
12.5 L1kk to 25 Lei. The margin for domedc distiut  reied by the state d
enteie NFU will be lmied to 3.4 Lekg ad th  efficie    of NFU wil be enhne by
ubig k to he fsand   ontroloftentrprs  e uc               Agc (pa  116). Any subsidy
tate may be requid for NFIU will ome ut of h ERA budget alocato  Any wndf   proft
ardsng from wheat tade or flour milg wil be taxed.
66.  Wage   ve remained appimaey osta  In a n  over th Augs 1992 to My 1993
period. Ihe nomnal iincrease in the consum   price of bmd would trlat hno a 20 percet
ee  In real s.  n order to mod       the sodal cost of *  price adjusuet, d  budgetwi
compensate the      d    sgments of the populaton by  ceasing wagIes In te public sector
d In stae enerpriss, psions ad social aste beeft. Concurenty, he tp of soci
progrms ta are most ap         to Albanian conditionswill be examned on the ba  of a revlw
of household expenditres and mntdonal status, and of the cacity of the I  to Imp
tgetting trugh Its social asstac prgram (ndgure ekomlke) In connecon with ot  propostd
IDA Social Saety Net Delopmen Projec (am 18).
67.  Pring of 0*te Food Aid Commdies  Oder food products provided by donos incud
vegetable oil, sugar, rice, meat, powdered mik, butter, deese and eggs. July 1992June 1993 don
rato (110 Ldc Per M3. addin a q=Uall puuium for impoutad wbeat (o *over bowte moawiu%s gIuWn Gmatmat
dria nm d bagglas, thi wadd pt doe impos PsW1~ Pe  In Oi I1-20 Iaklk =sp.



-20-
impr are also epected to exceed the needs of the populaton so that carry-over sock will be
available In the latter half of 1993. In addidon, since Janay 1993, priva  Imports are availale
on the market, and retal prices of sugar and rice have been decreasing. The prices at which those
donor-supplied food commodkies are credited to counterpart Amds (CPM) and the margin of
distrbtion entrprises have been set in January 1993 in such a way that consumer prices are close
to import parity levels. While consumer prices of food id sugar and rice were set htgher than
import parity levels, prices of meat and dairy products (which account for bss hn 10 percent of
the value of food aid) are about 10-20 percent lower. Mhe Govemment alms at achieving  e
objective of setting food aid prices at import parity levels so as not to discourage private impor but
want to reach this objective gradually over a period of two to three years for health and nutrion
reasons. Over the medium term, the Governent is committed not to let the CPF price of food aid
declie in real tm  below their Januy 1993 level.
68.  Auctoning of Food Aid. In order to obtain efficiency gain In food aid proceme  and
distribution, the Governent will introduce private participation at al levels of distribution ad
processing of whe  and other food aid commodities. The nmnopoly position In  orge, bulk
handling and tasport of food commodities that NPU Lid other sta-owned entaprises hold wM
be abolihed, and auctions wil be orgaizd for the sale of food aid. State eteprises wi  conta
with private tran ters and distrbuton, with contas awarded through open  nders. In practice,
the system wil work as follows: food aid will be Imported by state-owned foreign trde entises,
as under the current system, or by private Importers acdng as agents for the Goverment The
Governen will ensure that food aid is channeled to each disrct according to needs. Food aid
commodities will be auctioned to distributors or millers with a mnmim auction price (e.g., 16
Lek/lg for wheat) and bulc handling, storage and tasport will be contracted out to the privae
sector with contrac awarded  rouMgh bidding procedures. he Goverment will need to ene tat
the quantities allocatd to each dierict's popWulation reach the beneficiaries.
Farmgxe Price Poll
69.  Opqut Priig. As mentoned above (pam 35), all agriculura output pices hae been
liberalized with the exception of wheat and sugarbeet Ihe price at which wheat wi be bought fom
fimers by public purcaing enteprises is fixed but has been increased for the 1993 harvest from
8.5 to 14 Lek/kg. Private purchaser are fee to buy at higher prices. The price at which sugarbeet
(produced only in the region of ICore) is bought from farmers by the only existing sugar mill is also
fixed and has been increased for the 1993 camwaign from 1.8 to 2.7 LebkKg. All other farmgate
prices wifl be freely determcied by the markle In practice, the level of market prices is influenced
by the prices at which food aid imports are sold and by the purchasing policy of monopolstic sta
enterpries which are the only buyers of significant quanties of farm products.
70.  In the medium term, purchase prices paid by processing enterprises for tradeables wM
ulftmately depend on the competiiveness of the domestic Industry vis-avia imports. If the
processing industies are viable, farners should receive prices that are close to te world market
prices of corresponding tradeable goods in domestic currency, minm domestic processing and
tanport costs.
71.  Iizing          ate prices per se Is not likely to result In marked ineas in prices paid
by stat     nd nterprises given their lack of resources and low level of efficiency.  Price
beralization will therefore be supplmented by meaues to encourage enterprises to purche from
farmers including privatizaton of public enterprises (para 115-120) and private sector development



.21.
(para 121-123). In order to creat de conditions for the acceerd development of a prvae cereals
marking  etwork Wgn collecn from famer, storage, bulk hanlg and wholesai, the
Govenmen is cuely assesing (with tecnical assitc from EC.PHARE) the credk and othr
nreds of private grin market perors. Priva  persos interested in partipatng In graln trade
would be screened ad licensed on the basis of professional experien  and fiancIal standing, during
the period of Implemntaon of ASAC.
72.  Ipt Prkcng. Almost all agiultra Inp  have been imported under vaious aid finaced
prognms. he  ar also larg stoc of Inputs (especialy pesicides) still available in the country.
Ihere are viualy no private impotu of agricuturl hps (with the exception of tractors) and t
Is unlibely that significant quantities of inputs will be imported on commercial erms in the nemt few
years. There Is a sk that ipts could be smuggled to nighboing counties If domesc prces ar
significantly below world lvels. Curreny, agricultural inputs are sold to farmrs through differen
schemes. These supplies (conmmtted in 1992) wil increaw considerably In 1993. Some donors (EC,
lDA) fnance pstdcides, seeds, spare parts and other Inpt sold through exist  state-owned
cels at their lek cost at the prvaling exchang rate. mported ftlu  has been sold In 1992
by USAID, through auctions, at prices which were below world market prices. Imported frtilizr
stil available In the country Is now compeing with dotnest production which has restaed in
October 1992. As far as mechanzrd equipmret I concerned, several donor have plans to hIport
ttrs and inplements. Some 170 trors wer rect sold by KfW (Germany) and more donar-
financed imports are planned.
73.  Ihe policy of the Goverme  Is to sell donor supplied inputs to privte traders using auctIons
wih a minimm price equal to the CIF cost of Imports at the prevailng exchag rate, Including
transport and handling charges. A ltur I    are exempt from axes and tariffs. However,
duing the asitio period, some flxibibity In applying Im   priy prici  rule for lputs wM
be required so as to salw fam   to purchae and use modern Inputs. Pilot aucdtons wi  be
organied by the Governmt with te a aance from don.
74.  The emergenc of prive trades sUing Inputs to famer and compedig with the a ed
Agroregtare network will depend on progress in privalzing ta network, on availabit of credi
and on setting up the enabling environment for private comme. Once competie condltions exi
hI market for ricultural Inpus, it Is exet  that domesidc prces will sabilze around Import
parity prices. Trade margins  uld graadaly be reduced as conmetiive condition develop.
AgricituliTrade Polky
75.  Trade policy meaures wil complement the measus desribed above. In some importnt
subsectors, such as meat and dairy, In which retall, wholesale and producer prie have been
iberlized and competiive condtons could develop rapidly, recowvery will be geaty faciliated by
trade measures. Tariffs will be set so as to generate Government revenues and proct domesdc
producer again unfair compedtion (dumping) from abroad  In order to increase revenues, the
Goverment has deCI  to Impos a 5 percent surhag on private Imports, Including food,
beginng in June 1993. Price ceflings on priaely Imported goods which have been removed In
Jamnury 1993 would not be  itced  Export licensg or related restrictons wili be phased out
once the risk of ilegal export of food imponed under concsonal tem  is elmnaed. Export
taxes, currendy in force for tobacc, wood, fish, Uve anmals, hides and medicinal pla  will not
be exuended to other products.



-22-
76.  Mih pecc neuaes to be Implemented by the Government unde th AgricusuuralP   and
ncentve Framework are tie following.
* LberalzatIon of al famgate, whoesale and retl pdor   of agricultural snd food producs
except what and bread.
* By June 1993, Increase official purchase price of locally produced wheat to 14 L.kAkg
Cabinet deciion to increase the countpart fund (CPF) pice of food aid whe to 16 LekAkg
and the consumer price of bread to 25 Leklckg. Mainan tto CPF pdce of wheat, In ra
em, above 16 Lek/kg and above the domestic producer pdce. Limt NFU margin to 3.4
Lek/kg ad subject NFIU to the financial control of hA  Any stusd for NFIU to come
out of the ERA budget allocation. Any windfall pofits aising ftom wheat trade or flou
milling to be taxed. Control marshs of sta-owned mlling and breasaking enterpises.
* By IJe 1993, Introduce auctions and conve biddib g procedures for tranport w holeale
and distibution of food aid commodities.
* Car  out by March 1994 a household expendiue survey and a reiew of the nuttional status
of the poplation and improve targeng mecasms for vurable population growps
folowing stting up of the social safety net (ndftm eoWnoite).
* Develop finandal and logistical arangementsto enable grw?bulln to rase cers from
privaefarms. Set up the enabling envionment and crate th conditos for te development
of a privat cereals marketng network (grain collection from farmes stog, buk handlW
by SpIg  1994.
* Govnme agencies to sell agricu  Is  imOrte  izer, pesticdes, maines, tec)
throgh auctions and other compete procedures.
* Rewogn  the Stastical Deparment of fte Miniy of Agric
* Set up and staff Price and Markets Monitoring Unit in the M sy of Agriclue
* Creat and staff Policy Analysis Uni In the Mini  of Agricltd
2. Ret      r f the Rural Cedit Sstem
77.  Mhe Govermen, recognizing that the development of a ral fh i sytgem adaped to a
market economy and the provision of credit for farmers andt  pivat entrepreneurs ib a key
pdority, as decided to follow two parallel approaches. Frst, liquidation of te isovet Bank for
Agdrcute and Development (BAD) and creation on July 1, 1993 of a new, finacally sound
Ag4ricwl Bank (AB) dta will provide loans under market         to private ames nd
fmer' associtons, agrprocessing and tnsportenpises, tades and oierrra enteprnurs,
tupgh the Bank's network of branhes and agencies. Second, craion of Idedet and
deetralied vil based credit unds which offer smll loa  to Indlvidual frm and otr small-
scal entris  in rural areas. Village Credit Funds are cuety bein  set up under the
Go vmnts Rural Poe   Alleviaton Program, suppored by IDA. With epect to BAD,



-23-
Govenmen and the Bank of Abaa (BOA) are commied to actvely support te liquiaton of
BAD andthe creaton of the new AB a a commercially operatng ra ficial nermediary.
lquldon .f BAD
78.  BOA and th MOP bave fnld a comprehensive plan for the Uquidadon of th exing
BAD. Th plan provides In on on the methods and tming to be used for writing-down al
unrecoverable debt by stat enterprie, and of housing loan, as of June 30, 1993 (se Anex 11).
Govemet wi prov  the rWired fncial support to the bank In order to carry out thi plan.
Hower, sne  is unctain whethr sufficient budget funds - namely proceeds from lqidating
at f     and from rivatiins pubic asset- will have been made avalable to BAD by June 30,
1993, it Is the Govenmens intento  to separate these bad assets, together wit the bans
co   ponding liabiies with NCR, from the remainder of the bank's assets and liailmes. BAD's
performng loans  the private sectr, all deposits, capital, and physical assets will be tnsferred
to a new Agrultud Bank, Including some savings deposits In rural branches of the Savings Ban
(SB) to be shifed to the new AD. This creaion of two legaly Independet banks alows for a
transoy perod to reolve th bW  debt ptoblem of the BAD In liquition while enablig the new
AD to start opet    with a clean balance sheet. Once al bad loans in BAD's portfolio wil have
been replaed ith ew valuable assets, t  latter will Immeditly be utlzed to repay BAD's debt
with NCB, and Overnment wl liqu        te f er B AD as soon as posible.
79.  BAD In Lidion. The DAD In liquidation wid inherit all outs            debt of se
enepris  as of un 30, 1993, xpected to equa about Lek 3.5 billion,  cluding some Lek 2.9
biion pdor to June 30, 1992, and some Lek 110 million of housing loans. BAD's tWal assets of
Lek 3.6 bion will be balaced by some Lek 350 million in state sector deposs and Lek 3.25
bili  of liabilities wit NCB.
80. Loas to Ste BEnprises as of June 30, 1992. As a fhrst step, the Counil of Mibters
dcided to reJieve BAD and NCBR   m aU outs ing debt by stae entrprs  as of June 30, 199
(Decision No. 1033 of Apdl 8, 1993). The amount conceng BAD is equa to Ldk 2.87 bMon.
Currenty, MOP is working out detais wit BO.4 on the mechanism to be used for writ  dow
ee unveabl debt, to be completed by the end of June 1993. Govrnment envsages tO frst
clear herbk debt betwn    BAD, NCB, SB and BOA, and to issue Govrnment bonds covern
the net loss.  Ihe orm and md_sm for issing bonds will be addressed under t  proposed
EFSAC (Pra ;6).
81. Lons to Sta Eiueprles since Ju& 1, 1992. Loans extended to state entrpri  since id-
1992 are mainly loans to ste farms, made at the request of the Stme Farm Agecy with  MOA.
Govem t ntends to cover all of hes bad loans by June 30, 1993, through proceeds from sellng
assets during te process of lquidatg state frms. As of March 31, 1993, BAD had extended a
total of Le 850 miio In new whort-term loan to state fam. Repaymen  by the Stt Parm
Agenc as of ta same date equa Lek 500 million, leaving a net outstanding baance of Lek 350
million. Based on projecdons by th Stae Farm Agenicy, Goverment expects that addomnl short-
term  oas to rmng state fam  bwe  April and June of 1993 will equal about Lek 400
million. Durig   se  me months, repayments by tat Agency to BAD will offs  some of ths
additonal lending. Hovr, as a conservative assumption, Goverment estimas       the net
ou_tsta    balance of loans to st  enterprlses.made since July 1, 1992, including stat farm loans
and los to ste-owed trers and some agroprocessing entprises, will increase to about Lek 630
milli  by the end of June, 1993. Together with ste sector loans of Lek 2.87 billion as of June



*24-
30, 1992, these loans will be transfrred to the BAD In liquidaion as of July 1, 1993, and
Govenment will cover tornm through the state budge
82.  Houasg Lan   Before the creaon of BAD, the agricult    darment within the former
Stt Baak of Albania   tnded long-term housing loans to private Individs, which were
transferred to the loa portfolios of BAD and NCR upon thir caton in 1991. Outsanding
amounts as of Decemr 31. 1992, are Lek 118 millon fr BAD and Lek 55 millon for NCB. By
Article 15 of dte Privatzon Law on Stt-owned Houses (LAw No. 7652 of December 23, 1992),
Governmet dcided ta borrowers are empted from repaying their ouading debt as of June
30, 1991, up to an awunt of Lek 15,000 per loan which, In the cae of BAD, covers the enti
outstanding amount of housig loans. Gover nent nnds to repay thee loanm through proceeds
from privatiig sae-owned apartm    and other rea est. In cae the repayment does not occur
by June 30, 1993, Govenment will tae over the expcted resetiv  ouS_t debt of Lek 110
milHlon as of July 1, 1993, which wil remain In te BAD In liqudaon for subsequent coverage
through th se budgeL
83.  Tnvner f Depsom  Svings Bank  During h diw lution of he vaous departments
of the former Stae Bank of Albania, SB has received all saving deposi whfle BAD and NCB
Inherd he respectie loan portfDolis. Govermnt Is awar ta t  Imbalae beween souces
nd uses of fmds In th ftree bank can eithe be orected throgh developmet of an Intbank
market or through a merger of SB brnlches with BAD nd NCB. Based on the reconations
of a recent cosul   study, it is GovermWet's Intion to pres  the   e       of the three
bank  nd not to enge In trer bak merge. Th  wld enhanc compettion Int  banking
scor and avoid placing additional  ional caenges on the ban  during the prese phase
of bank r           However, the finacl benefts of cosolidatng some ural braches and
agences of SB with those of th nw  AB have been evauated by the maOgement of both SB a-nd
BAD. hn cprtn vith consln  finaced under the CIP, both bansh   reached areement,
in May 1993, on a short-ls of 28 branches and agences of SB whih wil be merged hito the new
AB. A total of Lek 500 mllion of deposits wi be  ansfrred, and Impe      itto  wil be
completed by the end of 1993. Ihe plamed branch consolidatons were confirmed by Government
and BOA durig negotiations.
84.  FinandI Strce ofthe New AB. Iheoe     balbce sheet for AB as of July 1, 1993, wM
contain somse Lek 960 millon In private sector lans and about Lek 800 mllon in deposits
Govennt will ereh there will be adeqate provsous agaist possible loan losses and
sufficient capita to fulhl a conservative caphil adequcy rado of 20 percent of risk-weightd assets
Legal Esab       ofde new AB
85.  Bank License. Tne new AB wIll come under Ol provisions of the April 1992 Bankng Law,
and BOA will Issue a license to the new banlk  Accord   to Article 8 of the Baning Law, an
application forlicensing needs to include the Charterof the new bark. Granting of a license is also
conditional, liter aln, on evidence of adequate capital and quahled bank     Duing
negodaon, BOA has confimed        se conditis wi be flfied and a license Isued in July
1993.
86.  Ba*  Caifr. AD's By-Laws will specify he type of banking  aions that AB can engage
in, and will set out that the new bank will focus its lendg on the priate sector. Governert
recognizes hat the f cial safety and soundness of t new bank hinges upon the Bank's autonomy



.25-
In day-to-day credit decisions. If AB judges a prospective borrower not to be creditworthy, and
Govement nonetheless wishes credit to be exteded to tt borrower, the Bank can provide credit,
but only as an agen of Government, which will provide the required facial resouces, assume Xt
full credit risk, and reimburse the bank for Its adniestrative expenses.
87.  Captk and Bank Ownership. The bank will be set up as a joint stock enterprise, and
Govenent Is committed to itdally hold all of the Bank's equity and to provide additional fiuds,
as needed, to sadt  exn capital adequacy requirements, which are based on BIS standards and
ar st forth by BOA.  Accordingly, the bank's Board of Supervisors will be composed of
rerntatives desed by the Ministry of Finnce, which will hold effective ownership of the
bank and will ense strong govemamce ftrough fte Board of Supeisors. These designated
representtives would be chosen based on their technical qficatons In the area of baking and
finance, ith an emphasis on specfic expertie of agricultu  and oter rura finandal servIces. It
Is ultaely the Intention of Government to privatize the bank, possibly wih a cooperative
ow     p sucure.
88.  Q       Manag        Govermnt Is wel aware that, accrdig to the Banking Law, at
least two niDvduals, wilh qualifications and experience required for the maagemet of the bank,
mst be appointed members of the Board of Directrs. Governint will ensure that the requhred
fundamental change of the new AB towa    commercial bandkng principles Is impnlemented by
qulified personeL
InsAtdloana Devdopmn of AD
89.  Inldevepent of the new bank will req    long-term suppot trouh ext l
asstanc, Intee traning of bank staff, and iallation of urgently required offlce equipment
Governtm   will actively support the requed histional devebpmen program for the bank
hrough provion of donor-fined tecical assistance, eqWpment and exensve trang. Dudng
te first two years after AD's creation, starting in Agust 1993, Goverment Intends to concentrt
tecdufal assistance for AB In ihe following key areas: credit policy and procedue, loan portfolio
supervision and credit review, finanial management, accounting and MIS, branch magement and
rehabiliation, resource moblzaton, human resources development, and  tenaional baking.
Govenment wil constantly monitor the progress of this instional development program for AB
in order to ensre high efficiency and speed in Improving the quay    of AB's fiacial
Interediation. (For details on AB's intttional development refer to Annex 11). Govermnmet b
also aware of the need to guarntee the transparency of AD's operations and to stengthen depositor
confidence in the new bank. The bank's annual  cial stateme will be audited by inendent
extal auditors.
90.  Ihe speci meres to be Implemented by the Government under the Restrucuring of the
Rural Credit System Component are the following.
The Govenment and te Bank of Albmana (BOA) will liquidate the Bank for Agriculte and
Development (BAD). A new Agricultual Bank (AD) will be created as of July 1,1 993,
contaning BAD's privue sector loans, physical assets, savings deposits, and capital. AB will
ate on commercial principles and will provide services to individud frnmers, pnvate
fwms associations, the agroprocessing sector, traders and tansporters, and other enterprises
within he rural economy. A Technical Assistance Program for tasformig BAD into AB
has strted In Febray 1993.



.26-
* BOA and the Ministry of Fnance and Economy (MOF   ae fialnid a plan fDr th
f quwadoa 4lfAD. his plan incles: (a) w rte-w  of unrveablestate enterprise debt
as of June 30, 1992, equa to Lek 2.87 billio. On April 8, 1993, Governent decided to
plae these loas thuh fresh asses Non-covered bad debt by July 1993 wM remain with
BAD for subsequn resolution by Goverment; (b) wredown of ste  enterpre loans
oeended between July l,1992 ad Juno 30,1993. Inthe event that proceeds from liquidaXt
st  farm assets will not cover the out      balance, tese loam will remain wkih BAD,
after July 1, 1993, for subsequt resolution by Govenent; (c) wre-down of housing loans
made by the former State Bank of Aban  The outstandig balance wlll remain with BAD,
after July 1, 1993, for subsequent coveage by Goverm     tougb proceeds from to sab
of statowned rea este.
* Legal ernb         of the new AB hIvolves to baks placement under t  Aprl 199
Baddng Law. Ths will be acheved through Issuamce of a license by BOA, which s
conditonl on falfllnen of three cey conditions: (a) drafting of bank Charte fr te new
AB, agreed beteen Goverment, BOA, and IDA, provding for th bank's autonomy In day-
to-da credit decisons, and r ing budgeta fancig and Governm  guarantees when
lendig to boffowe  at the reque of Govement; (b) proof of aequae initial capital for
A). Govenment I commitd to Intaly hold al equt ad to put e bank on a solid capita
bais, as requiret by existing capital adoquacy standards. An assment of provisions
requred an AB's privwe sector loans, and tir Impact an AB's I     capital, is cureny
bing curied out by expaiate experts. Mme pening balancesheet of AD as of July 1, 1993
wfll be approved by AB's Board of Supervios; (c) appointment of experiened bank
management by Governe, qualfied to mpleent the chag of AD towards a commerll
operati  bak
* Imtzatonal Developmen of AB wil be Initiated through a two-year program for insution
reform, stardng in Augut 1993. Govment Is committed to support ths program though
finacn of teical asssta, equimen and extwve  tg    In key ara, ncuding
credt policy and proceres, loan portfoHo supervision and credi rview, tfan
acountg and MIS, brch manageet and   bil                  resource
mobilizadon, human resources develpmt, an intrnona bankig. Gove         t will
constantly monitor the progress achieved in   peig this program.  To enure
taspa-grency of the Bank's operations ad o steen depositor confidence, the Bank's
anal financials em   will be audied by idendent exral audtor
3. Pdvad   d  of State Farms
91.  By Decbon No. 452 dated October 17, 1992, the Govment has dcded to lquidate all
statR fIrms and to proceed as quikly as possibl to disibut e hld and sell the assets of thes
fams The Nadonal Agency for Reructuring and PAivatzaton of State Fam  (hereafte, 'S
Fam Agenc') has prepared an impleentation timetable for the liquidon of the existing ste
fam, sal of tir assets ad setee  of their clams, and ditrbtion of their load to worker
and ter famiies.
92.  Dlhabon of Lad  Ie total at fam area (147,517 ha) Is composed of lnd origally
acured from cooperatves (6,232 ha and of stae farm builton reclmed land (111,285 ba). Ihe
Goverment wi  dstut de land of ex-coopeatve sae fam by givn propety rights to foner



workers. Most of the non-cooperative stae tuna lnd (92,165 ha or 63 percent of tot land) wiM
be dstibuted to worrs through assignment of rghs to use of the land. The remaing land (37
percent of total land) will remain stat property and be maaged by eng joint-ventures wfi
foreip  companies (10 percent) or by aiula specialt   o proviously worked on te state
93.  Mie State Farm Agemn  has omtd Wdators foral tato farims. Entied for recei
landre all workers registered on pay-rolls as of Augt 1992 and members of their family, and
slected other persons that contributed to the ceon of st  fam  at ter founding. Land wil be
disuted on an egaian basis to aed peron. She average Ild holding per capita wil be
between 0.2 and 0.3 ha. As In te ca of distributing fore cooperate land, a local commision
will be ormed for each state fm with a cman elected by workers. This commission wil submit
a proposal for land dibuton to comnissios at the commune level, to be approved by th land
commission at the district level.
94.  As of 14 May 1993, 6 percent (63,840 ha) of all land to be distuted to wke has been
released through ismce of a preliinay land title (tq. Government expe  tha  the renaid
wi  be distributed by the end of June 1993. The fact tha the klw on the compon of former
land owne  has been passed by Parliament an 21 Apri 1993 should accel     te process of land
ditribution sie restuti  clahms wil no be allowed.
95.  Sake ofAsset. Fixd assets and workin capial of stae farms ae being sold, with sales
revenues being uzed to repay loa exended by the Bak for Agricultu  and Development (BAD)
to st  fam  since July 1, 92. Assets ncxlue mainly       (mosty cows, she and goas),
t-oors  andher o     agrlcUaW  gumt, stables and other buiing, and he smmer 1993 wheat
hare  on e fields. Thre are also 30 state farm  which own no agricull land, but with
sifcant vales of macine and is,tlon, ncldn pouity fas, me pxocessig fm and
geenhouses, which wil be treated and privatzed as  a       enterprises.
96.  Asset wM be sold by ian of a pubfic auco ope to those persons t  are eligible for
receiving state fam land. Tv  week before dte aucdon, SPA will amunce     minimum price
of assets, based on he hisic book vale at the dme of consucton, orted by the increase of
the price index and takng ino account 2.5 pacent of          on. It necessay, a secoid
auction wil be held, allowing ote domestc indkidual   plto e bids. In the event of a third
auction, foreiges wl als be admttd to pardcpate In   aucdton  If no buyer can be fund after
ihe trd round of suctions, SPA ihtns to give away asse     crd a  nkind to agricutural
specialists, who would be requied to repay ter lons wtin one to the  years, wih a positve real
Inerest rate on th outstadn portion of the credit.
97.  SFA has estabhed branches In each district to supervise asset sale auctions and to provide
nenries of ste farm asets. As of end-March 1993, th aset of 160 out of 270 st  fam
have been evalted. The value of aes  of the renaing ste fam will.have been estmated by
July 1993. SPA esmiates      the combined tot valus of ste fam  asset  equals about Lek 2
billion, of whih only up to Lek 1  bilion I exectd to be treived from auctions to itersted
buyers. As of ead-March 1993, state farm asset worth Lek 400 million have been sold, of whih
Lek 385 million have been collected In cash by SPA and tanferred to BAD to cover losses from
uncoverable se farm loans. The sale of another Ldk 300 of assets i expcted by July of 1993,
with the rmng aset worth Lek 300 miMion to be sold by the end of 1993. Actual paments



. 28 w
from these sales will be received folly only aftr about he  years due to credit in-kind arrangemens
for some sales of assets.
98.  The speecc measures to be taken by Government under the Stae Farm PrivaLtIon
Component of the programn are the followmig.
* Tbe National Agency for State Farms wil continue Its program of land ditribution and salo
of assets of all state  ms  iniated In October 1992. A detailed plan and an implementaon
tmetable for the liquidation of al existing state fanns, for the distrbution of user rights on
land to beneficiaries and for the sale of assets will be adopted before June 1993.
* The liquidation of all stae farms, distribution of land rights and sale of assets wil be
completed by March 1994.
* Stae fam  having already signed a joint vente agremt with foreign partn  wil be
excluded from te liquidadon and land distibution scheme. Joint ventur  will not receive
subsies or credit gaantee from the Governmet but will be eligible for credit from
commercial banks.
4. Developmt of the Legal and Regultory Framework for Land Policy
99.    The Legal Framework for Land Privatzon. Article 11 of Law No. 7491 of April 29,
1991 provides the constitional basis for natural and legal persons to own property. The two mai
land prlvaizaton laws, namely Law No. 7501 of July 19, 1991 and Law No. 7512 of August 10,
1991, are derived therefrom.
100.   Law No. 7501 dlvds land Into tee categories: agriculual land (including orhards and
vinyards); frest and pasture lnd; and non-agricultal lad, such as urban areas, parks, roads and
beaces.  his law gran  weship rghts without payment to former members of agriculural
cooperave mad their households. Use rigbh  are granted to ot'her qualifyig residents of former
cooperative vilaes. The law makes no provision for rights on the grounds of ownership prior to
1946, nor provides for privaization of state fas, pasture and forest. By Article 2 of this Law,
the purchase and sale of agric al land is prohibited, although the voluntary exchange of
agricultural lad auong new owners is pemied. Othrwis, the law is unclear on the rights and
obligations of owner" and *users".
101.  By the ten  of Law No. 7512, agriculue is a sector of the economy open to private
activity. However, foresty and water resources generaly remain state activities although joit
ventues with fign capital are possible. Legal and natal persons who own buildings own the
land onwhich th buildings stand. Land with buildings can be purchased from the ste and bui-up
ura land can be purchased and sold privately, but not by foreigners, who can meely hold leases
for up to 99 years. (The original term of 49 years was extended to 99 years by amendment to Law
7512 in January 1993. The law does not yet fidly define the rights and obligations of such urban
leasehold interess). When an enterprise or business is sold to a foreigner, the latr acquires
ownership of the entrpre and its buildings, but not the land.
102. Decision No. 255 of the Council of Ministers In August 1991 detailed the process of
dis4tit  cooperative land. When a cooperative was composed of severa villages, the land was



^29-
first divided among the villages, baud on population. Within each village land was ditbuted
proportionally on a per-aita basis. AU household members courted equally except for those with
permanet jobs in the public or private sector, who received only a half Ae  of land, the total of
which has not exceeded 0.1 hectare. Rural residents who were not cooperatve mems recelved
half the per-cita de  of former cooperative members, the total of which has not exceeded 0.4
hecte per household. Furthermore, these non cooperative members have only received use rights -
not ownership - for an undefined period. Again, agricultural land within village residential area
boundaries has becn assigned for use" only. Where land Is of limited producdvity and a recipient
fmily has So requtested, distributions which would otherw    have resulted in ownerip have been
made "in use' only. Orchards and vWineyards, Including the trees, have been distnbuted like any
other land.
103.   Some 160,000 certificates of allotmnent (tap) have been issued under the coopertve farm
privataton program. ITese are made out to heads of households and each describes two or more
parcels. As stated above, the fmili  receiving such certificates have acquired possession in all
cases and legal ownershp In most.
104.   Ifnte terms of Decision No. 45A  ctber 17, 1992) regarding stae fms, former members
of stae fam  are receiving their allotments exclusively "in use".  The lgi  meaning and
Implications of the word 'in use' are, once again, unclear. All recognize dth the State retains
ownership of former state farm land (unlike most forner cooperative land) but the rights and
obligaions of each 'user' remain unspecified. Possession is for an undefined period, without
easehold or other contractual rights and obligations on te part of te State and the 'user". The list
of those entted was fixed as of October 1, 1992. No more than the amount of land distributed per
person under the cooperative fanr distribution programn (being, on average, a maximm of 1.4
hes) my be distributed per personL Where state farm land remains undistiuted as a result,
kt is divided equally 'in use' to 'agronomist specalists', with up to 8 hectar  each per specialist.
Certificates of allotme are being issued to heads of households, wih eac certifiate describing two
or more parcels.
105.   Compenradon of FormrAgrlckaLand Owners. The Parliament hsvoted on21 April
1993 law No. 7699      ng           land owne  who have received none or onDy part of the
agricultural land that was in their possession prior to 1946. Restion, as such, is not being
contemplate for agriculural land. Rather, in the dft law currently being discussed by Parment,
previous owners of up to 1,000 hectes are to be conpensated by vouhers dewminated both in lek
ad value units, tradeable for cash or, at face value, in sales of t-be-privatized stae-owned
enterprises (SOEs). The former owner (or his heirs) of any parcel of 15 hectr  or less is to receive
'full comn       for these .ectem. Prior owners of additional hectares, up to a maxmm of
1000, ae to receive compnation on a decreasing scale basis, so tdat no prior owner or his heis
may receive ful compensadon on more than 46 hectes. The value of each voucher is to be fixed
by fte Council of Ministers at some fure date. A Stat Council of Compensation wh dsrict
offices is to Implement the compensation process.
106.   Th Reegdaory FVmewo* for the Iplemation of Lod Refoin  For  roses of
distributg agriutua  land, the Govemment has established: (a) a National Land Comnmission
chaired by the Miter of AgriculNre and repordng to the Council of Minist; O) Distrct Land
Commissions to organize and supervise the process of distrting the new rihts; and (c) a hird
tier of elected village level commissions. The actual distribution process is caried out by the village
land omsion, consisdng of village notables, a topographer, a srveyor, and a state agronomst



.30 -
The viage commision Is assisted by die D is   Commission, which also has togphers and
agronomiss, and a cadastral officer. ThM disticts help prepae and implement vll.ge distrbudon
plans and provide cadastal mp.
107.   no parcel distrbuted to each household, whether In ownershp or use, I calculted by
referenceo tD de total arable area In queson and the number of fily members. Tho vlage
commissios then demarcate the land In the presence of all concerned. A record I prpared, cross-
refernced wherev  possibl to fte pre-1946 parcel-based cadate, acconied by a sketch plan
(although not always). Ihis record, wbich ists th various parcels allotted to each fmUy, the aea
of the parcels and  etpe of land, is then signed by the household and the commission. Ceficabes
(tao of ownerhip or use are granted, wih copies retned In th distct cadastrad officeL
108.   Each of th laws refred to above has been prepared hasty In a rpidy changing polic
en*iro_ment. Witout excepon, they are sketchy and rudhmenta, often only proviig staments
of polcy lnent They do a as yet provlde a body of reaproperty law, definlng ther rhtand
obligaons of owners and those having other rights I land, such as leasehold and mWrtge rights,
as well as luser rits. Th legal stu of *user right i  obscure. Without th dright to transfer.
lea  or inheri thes rihts, user are unley to have sufficin Incenives to improwve &e ld
A real pro     law sdll needs to developed.
109.   Restctons on user dghts and land ransfers also precude the use of land as a ganty for
credt  Farm credt to users Is difflcult to secure on file, possesory Iterst As a result,
unless ote adequate collaeral can be made avablo by the user, no such cred will * or ought to -
be provided. In the case of privately owned agiculural land, no fnanci hituto would - or
ought to - provide credit on th  stength of such land as guaty sie mortgage foreclosr
procedus, whih ena  th transfer of owmesp rihts, are, In the present conteax, not yet
possible. Ihe pradct  of financial instiions, so far, when lending to privat persons, has been to
use dwellings, bidi   or ote asses colaral
110.   As yet, no tde docments, as such, exist and o system of land registraon Is In effect,
althoug, in dme, the inmaon on eah tap will form the basis of regisred titles. To dat, ere
eds no local eperts I reoording, displaying and protetng propet  gt.  The creaion of
an ordedy land market depends on effectve Ind regiation and, at the teiy leas, leasing laws.
apprpriat development wtrols and the esblent of a land regtry where rt in land can
be u      ly  and a             recorded.
111.   Sls of agricultural land will be lowed when fe system of lmd re8bovlon ls In place
andaU camsor consalon byjbfnner owners have been resolved. The reasoning for the ltte
is duat the market price of land may well be higher ta the level of compensation the Govenment
Is prepared to pay. As land registry sysm  are   bleand land tl documents prpery
recorded, the Govenmneutplans to sancdon sales on an everwideing basis, ditict by district, until
tafers of agricultal l   throughout the entire couny are pemitted. To do otherwie would
result In a chaodc, unregulaed market which would be open to abuse and unending confoli  over
who realy owns what.
112.  Me situon Is diffrent, howev, concering the iming of permissible kasehold interest
on forme st  farm and agricultural cooperative land. Pending ttal feedom to sell and lease all
land, Iterim legisaon will tum all in use holdings of certain defined types ino Goverment
leases of reasonable, fixed duraion (3 years). All of the terms ad condiion of such leases would



-31 -
be defined In the law (thus obvating th need, durn hs traniidonal ste, for individual lease
cons). Th forner users (henceforth a lessee) would pay a nomnal ren to the Govment,
as leor, In accordace with a simle statory formua bsed on tho area (and perhaps locadon) of
his or her plo. The right to ub-lea  would likewise be proided by law with the ftem  ad
condions of all such sub-leas  set fth In the law. Mhm org    and opy of eah relea .$
might then sinply be stmped appr  ely, w       words *Lessee* (and possibly *Sub-lessor" or
"Sub-lessee") ater the "user's nam  to Indica the formal  ange of statu sad rights. If the "user
Is to becom  a  lessee, sn additonal refewnce to the descrdpon of the land In queton would
be required as well.
113.   LegIatIon equiveat to a Landlord ad Tenant Act will also be enacted to provide the basis
on which the leasing of former cooperative land by existig owners may be raizd. In both cases,
consideraon must be given to providing ndes concin the auomatc wansmission of rts on
the ocenc of an even, such as the dea or bankruptcy of the lessee or  lessee. Addionaly,
tee hold be provisions dealing with valuation of lad and the mortagig of leshld Inte
114.   The spec#* kneares taken by Government under tie Legal and Regulaory Fmework for
Lad Polcy Componen ar the follwing.
- A Land Mae Acdon Pla providng the basis for a modem land registion system has
bmn adopted. It ahms at developing over a period of 4-5 years suveyig  and mapping
capabilities; developing a land register and land registry offices In all 36 discts of the
counry; and provig oes to all owners of land.
-  A Law on Land Regisation containing deiled provisons regardng t fer, le  and
mortgagin of land has bee drfted and b being reviewed by the Mistries of Jusdoe and
Agrcultr. A Civil Code (Volume I, Book 2) has lo been dfted. The proWisions of
both legisae bodies wi be hmonized and presed to Parliamen
*  The sale and purchase of agriulra land will be atorized whie te stem of lad
registraon Is In place and ties are pperly reorded. Pen the actmt of legisladon
allowing for the sale, lease and mortgaging of land, nm    leglaion will be adopted no
later dtan Decmber 1993: (a) to allow for the leasing and subleasing of land by existing
ownes on fom  cooperative land, and (b) on former state farm lod owned by the State,
to tam 'in use" holdings Into Govement leases of reasonable, fixed duan and allow for
sub-eases
5.    vat ifioA  of Staeoed Mrketi   and Prcessing Enterprimes and EAbing
Evhonment for Privt Sector Detdopment
11S.   Privadzaon. Stae-owned entpises involved in agricutural mrket  ad processing are
mosly small and medium scale enterprise (M  of less thn50 empyes. There are 442
entrpris under fte Mnist of Agriculture and seveal inport  domic or foreign trade
entuprises under fte Ministry of Trade (para 4). Trade enterprises are maiy Invlve  In
Imort, storing, wholesali  nd dutin fod aid. Other importan Industrial assets t  ha
a strtgic Importance for urba fod supply ar the dirict-based grnb l  (grain milng and
se), a few modern bakeries, daries and cming fiories located in large cties.



-32-
116.   The Government will fnaliz fthe formlation of Its privatzaton saegy for the state
entepdrs sector as a whole in the next few months but is commiWed to quick privatizadon. It has
already anounced the folowing elements of ht strategy: (a) resolution of inter-enprise  ear wil
be carried out first; (b) piivazation wil be carried out by the Nadonal Agency for Privaizavon
(NAP) with the help of line Ministdes and acceleraed procedures wil be used; (c) techical ad
financial support for resucuig of a selected number of large loss-making enterprises will be
carried out by the soon to be created Enterprise Restructuring Agency (MRA).2 Control,
restructuring and privazaton deciions concerning the stae enterprise  ectr  will be th
responsibility of the NAP. ine ministries will have the responsibility to cary out the preparatoty
work for privatizatlon of small and medium scale enteprises (including evaluation of asset) and to
formulate soral policies to faciitae privatzaon.
117.   The Government is committed to improve corporate govemance In ste-owned entepises,
to achieve rapid Increases In cpacity udlization and production in viable enteprie, and to close
down unviable enterpdses and sell off their assets. A signlficat step was  kn  In July 1992 when
the Government elimnated a program of paying 80 percen of their former wages to wuemployed
workers in favor of an unemployment insurace system. Other Government _me s, which should
prove corporae governance, will be taken in the next few months Including (a) Improving the
lega framework (a Law on State Enteprises permitting effective management d reebishing
effective ownhip and control of the enterpries by the state is In prepaion); (b) Improving the
financial sitation of the public sector, including writing off fte stock of accumulated debt of ste-
ownd enterpriss (as was done In state farms, see para 78); (c) helping prhvzed SM  to prpare
business plans and providing imported input together with technical assistae services to promote
business-oriented management in fte private sector.
118.   Many st  enterprl  are In a very weak f cial position, especily as a result of th
recent explosive growth in inter-enterprise arrears. In order to fid ways to top this growth and,
subsequently, to reduce the stock of arre, two options are disused: ether a geeral work-out
between Government, banking sector and eterpse sector or measures to move aggressively to
settle, largely through the baniruptcy mechanism, the facil posiion of SOEs as reqired for their
privazation. As privatizaton of a large number of entrprses places a considerabl burden on fte
NAP, in order to pritize quickly a large number of SOEs, a signfican decentralzation wi be
required.
119.   For the agrfcuAural  .  r (mruleting and processing entrpries), fte Governm   bas
decided to cay out prvaizaton using accelerated procedures.  Under current procedures,
privazation commissions are set up In enrprises and at the district level. Ihe Depatme  of
Privaization of the line mistrie then review the proposals, togeher with the Commission on
privatfizin in the Ministry of Finance and Economy, which are then tansmitted to the NAP. Out
of the 442 enterprises under the control of the Ministry of Agriculure, thie valuation of 10
enterprises and negotiatons with managers and employees has already been completed. The
Government has also moved quickly to separate some units previously belonging to large kombins
and to privatize them. Some 125 such units have been sold In 1992 and 65 so far in 1993. Quick
Z/ A lhmitd umube of WAgzolura muarktig and prowesng e*ntemie hav lkWg Iter-axterpris dbt and ax am=a
and are expetd to be submitted to tho colal of MRA for .auoring. Tey aoleud.Nenneajd FsuaI*m In&WP
UslaW  (Duns), Ndeawanfe IaWd Uhqo (Pir), dawwrje Gnmtbai Ddr Pames) anA Ndmnft
GwmP P.p. D*/ (Shbode).



-33 -
privzatlon of the rmainng state enterprises will be carried out hrough a deetalized
prvatizaton process. Enterprises would be Invited to present their own privaizaton plans, widt
considerable incendves to mager and employees to pardcipae, wh the purpose of transferring
enterprises rapidly to prvate ownership.
120.   For the state enrprises belonging to the gicuur scor tht ae under the conrol of the
Ministry of Agriculture and of the Ministy of Trade, the Governet i committed to cay out the
following actions. First, privatizatlon or liquidaion of al small and medium (i.e., employing Ie
than 50 workers) agicltur  marketing and processing enpi   by March 1994. Second,
adoption by March 1994 of a tnetable for the privtizadon or liquMation of lare stat-owned
agriculural maretg and processing enterprises (Including trade enterprises under the Minstry of
Trade). Third, during 1993 and 1994, ste entpises in the agriculudr sector wi  not receive ay
subsidies except for those included In the overall budget allocadon budgeted for state enterps
restructuring (Lek 4.5 billion In 1993).  Stabt-owned distrbution etpri   such as NMU
(Nd rmmre PuiwW i ndwWal Ushkqmore) which have larg Inter-enterprise debts and tax arm
will be subjected to the finial contol of ERA. Fourt, the Ministry of Agricultu  and the
Enterpse Support Unit (ESU) wi prepare a propgrm to prvide bu    advisory services
(accouni.ng and financial managemepreparation of business plas, etc) to smand mediusce
agrcultral entepises after their privatiton. Fmally, the Mistry of Agriculte will also prepa
a framwork for commeciW negotations between growers/suppliers and food industes, wit  the
contet of the price/trade l iation ad the private market economy.
121.  Prvate Sector Development. The Minstry of Agriculture and Food will be responsible for
faciliting the development of the pdvate sector In agricultume. In order to piordd  the legal d
regulatory acdons that the Gov ert would need to take In matters of prvazaton and suport
to the privae sector, technical and economic assessments will be caried out in each susctor
including, as mendoned above, help In pwang businss pla, advice on economic nd financial
sse, ad technology training for mketing and procesing enterprses). Given th  Imortac
In terms of farm income and production, die priority sectors are cereals, ollseeds and feed, and
livestock (dairy, meat).
122.  In addiion, the Minstry will prepare measures to hnprove the enabling enviromnent for
private activity in agricultural production, maketng and prcig. The piories are In thtee
areas:
(a) Public Invesmnte Program for A4 uctw"al Marketdg. lhe deeJlomt of agricultural
wholesale markets in the districts Is an urgent priority to enable firmen to sell teir
products and reduce marketing costs.  A public Inestmet program  for mket
infrastucture for fresh produce, livestock. and grains will be developed.
(b) EnvIronmental S ads. The Government will prepae actions to ensur env
safe use of Inputs in agroidustdal plan  -s .d measures to certify compliance wih
environmental stadards. Water, soil and air pollution by the food industry results from
outdated technological processes-mail  in th e sugar, meat and dairy prcssn
idustry-ancd from the iU-adapation of the enviromn   reguory frawrk to the
changes taking place In the economic structwe. This pollution represents a thr  both to
the environment and to dte health of consumers.



.34 -
(c) Food Inspecdon, Qudly Control and CownrPr*oecdon  An acton program to dedop
legiaton proteting consmers of food and to adapt the untons of the st  organizations
supervising food safety ard inspeci,   -If                                and
laborat    alyzing food products w   be required. t wi be necessary to crfy te
scope of atvhy, product coveage and  Ip eon IInsruments of th Isiutin ad
prepare th necesy legislation and Imro  euipme        labotories.
123.  hnrovlng  Sapoa Ser'ce* Jbr Farmen   Support servnis for prate  rn  mu  be
progresvely adapt  to t  new maket eonom  to Increase on-farm producivity. Agcultra
research must be reponive to the needs of farms and consum   and develop market-orine
programs and itr     prgrm  for Its staft. Ihe rearch system mus be progmrsily   ted.
but a coordiuatd reorganizatIon of th system should not be Implemed until a few years fom
now, when the areas In which Almb  will develop a comparative advana  In the medium tm
emerge. AdvisoLy services for crop a  animal producdon, Including extenon and business advie,
urgently need to be adapted to provid fmers infoaon on new research results, tehology, and
marketing and bushiness praices. Such sevis  hld be based on cost-recovety medms for
services provided by the public sctor. Some of these svices could, however, be party provided
by the privae seor. Support services for te livestock setr (vetny sevices and artificial
seinaton)  wMI also need to be restructured along the lies idiated above.  Artif
inseminaon (Al) services should be pratzed, and privat insemnr should be allowed to charp
famrs the fun cost of Al servi. The restruct     of vet      y servies wi need to be
approached In a projet coet toget  with other ImproveMet tn lvestock puction.
124.   An urgent s  Isto review th possbity of remorieft th exiti  exesi  system In te
light of the new conte  created by land diributon and th  emerence of privat farmer
"as    ons. Once the baic arienton as been ageed, taing ad  nica assiste prgram
for extnsion emloyees should be developed and tsted In pilot programs with dem
fariem   Land dhitibution has created np10     for may a ultura scld
agronomists, agrdcu    ecomists, and accountan. Technical assia    and utinig program
for ese former coopeatve employees sbould be developed to adapt their skils to the techolog,
mrketng and busis prcties of dhe new economic order. In order to ia  th reform of the
rcultual extension systn  and support sevices for prve famrs, the Government wi prepare
a study ad rm        ons for the Reform of Agculturd   Etesion Servies. Detailed
recommendations would be presented by March 1994.
125.    he Govment will soon be fnalizng its pdvatizaton sra      and adopt the polcies and
procedures necesary fof beter goverc in the st  entrprise ser and for the transfer of
ownehip of state ase  In private hands.  hese include Imp   g a plan to deal wih Inter-
enterpris arrears, eitier dtough a general work-out bewen Government, baking sector and
enterprise sector or tough measures tO setle     through banruptcy mehnims or other
means; clarifing ow   ip responsib    for lcal ente_prises;   ovement iIn the state entpris
law; policies for apponting boad members ichuig exta drectn; reorganio  of the
ownerip responsibiies witin te parent mistries; dividend policy for prftable stte
eeprises; fiancial mnitoring system for all st  nd locl entwep      by the Already exist
Enteprise Support Unit (ESU); sete monitor   system byhe lme mnisties; program for te
sforinnof ate: entepdses      companies udr te Company La  and liquidaon of non-
viabb state enterpris.



*35.
126.   n smmay, th spe    meaw'nto be mpliemented by Government  nd    AgIltra
Marketing and Processing Sector Statowred Entrpse Pivatizaon Comoe   e th followig
Prvaitlon or quildaon of all smal and medium (empoyig less ta SO wores)
agiculura marketg an pro i  stat entepis by Marh 1994;
*  Adoptio by March 1994 of a tieabl for th privat o or quidton of larsem
owned agrcultutal marketg and procesgtis  (Incudig trade ent errender
the Mistry of rade);
*  Any subsidis eamred in ft 1993 and 1994 budgets for st enteprises  ently iMw
the purview of the Mnstry of Agricultu  sall be dmra  exclusiely fom th ovra
budget allocation budgeted for staw enteawis restruatg (Lek 4.5 bilon i 1993). Sto
owned entrprises which have lge  er    iso debts and tax arrears to be ubed to
the financil control of ERA.
*  TheMinistry of Agriculture and Food, I  oabolion witthe         s   t  a*
(ESU) to prae mees to support pdratzd small gnd                         to 
:atural proesn  and market   sector ltouh busis advlce, a             ai d
fnancial m g      traing and preparation of bus     plans.
The M nstry of Agiculue and Food to prpare befo  March 1994 a stu  nd
recommendions  or the Refom of A 1grulr  Ension and Suo  Servis fr
Farm.
- The Ministry of Agiltue  and Food to prpar befre Marc  1994 a  smmoc fior
commrca negotatons between gr   rlppri and  roi           e   d a prkicbr
policy frmework to f tt pfvon fot  cereas  d               dairy, muat clee_s
tobacco and sugar subsecors.
*  Tbe Mistry of Agriculure and Food to develop befe March 1994 ike
enabling evironmen for prvat sctor deovapment In agdrc         dludi  heft
inpection, food quality control consumer protcon and e o    l standa
*  TIn Ministry of Agriculte and Food t develop before Mach 1994, in cwodnn wit
the preparation of do Public Investment Program, an acton plan for agricultural and fod
market Infucture dveopmet



.36 -
PARr V. TIlE PROPOSED CREDlT
A. CR I OUBCTJVS, AMOUNr AM USE OF FUDS
127.   The ASAC prooses to sppt the radW  acto progm  developed by he Govment
de3cribed In part IV. The actions contabied In the 18-month action progm  will be monitored by
IDA and release of quick-dibursing fds will be condional on thir timely Iplm on  i
addition, IDA and cofinacldems would provide tnds for cre  and for tehical aistance.
128.   The proposed operaion Is a hybrid project with tr  componts.
(a) a ba1we-fpaqme  sWou cownwonem  In two equal tranes, which would fne   a
negative Ist of Imports. Tnh fist tranche would be available upon Satfactory compliance
wih the agreed conditions by Board presentton and the second ranche followin a review
of the program about nhie months aftr first tranche release.
(b) an hveme  cnent consisting of a credit lin to the Govenmnt fbr onledilng to
farmers, taders and otr mral entreprensthrough the new Agrculural Banlk;
(c) a tecuncal assitance capone  aid ea strengtenng  e capabilt of he W  Istitions
Involved in the program's Implemation sh u the Ministry of Agricue ad t  newly
reructued Agricutra Bank.
129.  MDA &edit. The proposed IDA Crdt would  be SDR14.2 million equivalet       proceeds
of the credit would be used for finang (a) a negaive lst of Imports (US$11 milion equC ile,
to be supplmentd by US$17 million from cofiacles, over an 18-mont period disbueded in two
equal tranches); (b) a credit line for onlendbg to rural erener (US$5 milion over a thee-year
ped), (c) tcnical asstce for the Institutions involved in the I        of the secor
reform program (US$4 mill  equvalen over a thre-year peiod).
130.   Coftnancig and Parall Finang. Two baeral donors have pressed herest in
co acing this proposed operation  Te Ovea Economic Cooperaon Fund (OECM  of Japa
bas exprssed itre  in proviUng US$15 million equivalkt, md te GoVerment of the Neerlands
has expressed interest in providing a contribudon of Dutch Guilders 3.5 million (US$2 million
equivalent) to the project Both cofianc   will fance the balance of paymen  support component
of the ASAC. In addion, EC-PHARE wil provide approximately ECU 8 million in parallel
finacing In support of the ASAC technical assistmce program
B. CUzrM CONDTONS
1. QuicdIs-bursing Component: Condon
131.   Mhe quick disbursing componen of the ASAC would spport the 18-monh acdon program
described in part IV. The deiled lst of actions to be monitored uider the ASAC is presented in
the PolY Matices (Annex 3). Import  polcy reforms have already been acheved. Te AAC
would be brought to the Board for approval on the basis of tse achievements, plus the key actins
listed below.



-37 -
132.   Condlons of Board Presenaton
*  Satacy prossw   the   lMenI  of the ovall medium term reformp
(Policy Framework Pape)  reed with IDA and IMF demonsd by adhrence to the
conditons established under the DMF program.
*  Cabin  decision to price donor-suppUed wheat at 16 lellkg (with cespondig  s
In die price of donor-supplied flour).
*  Inroduct  of auctions and competve bidding procedures acceptable to IDA fortranspor,
wholesae and dsribution of food aid.
*  Pla for h liquion of BAD and cation of the new AB fnaUized by Govenmet, BOA
and bank m, under conditions satisfactory to IDA.
*  MIe condiins for Isue of a lien  by BOA to the new AD have been flWMd by
Government and bank management, under condiions satisfactory to IDA.
*  A plan and an   plemention timetable, acceptable to IDA, have been adopted by
Goverment for te liqukdaon of all state fans, ditibution of lease ig o bene,
sale of assets and settlement of all claims.
- Subsidies eamarkd In the 1993 budget for staenepri  under the puview of the
Minit  of Agriculbte are being drawn exclusively from the overal budget allocatio of
Lek 4.S billion bueted In 1993 for reshucuring se enteie.'
*  The Agriculral Program Office (policy monitDrig and aid oun for  e rfm
progw   in ature) is staffed and operating; and operaia prom gudei  for
the project have been fnzed.
133.   CondWons it Second 7c  Release
*  Sadsfctory progre  with the implemeion fthe ovall medm term reform progm
(Policy Framerk Paper) agWeed with IDA and IMP demond by   ence to the
conditions established under the IMP program
*  Price of food aid wheat credited to counterpart finds not to decline, in rea tm, below
16 Lek/g or below domestic producer price.
*  Price of other food aid commdities credited to counerat mnds not to decline, in rea
terms, below their Janary 1993 level.
*  Agremet with DA on apprpriate margins for dibution, storage and milng of weat
and for bread producto In state-owned entrpries.
yCMm  asug refA u in GAe finani and etqri. maim Mw been Iu=Wd udo poq=
NMupui ad Ilash Soft A4uanat Cret  CPSA).



-38-
*  Adopion and imple ti   of te frt phas of a comprehensv  nu          developmn
plan for AD, acceale to IWA.
*  Complete liquidadon of all st  fau, ditribton of land rights and sale of asso ad
slemen of clam.
*  Passage by Parliment of a law, acceptable to IDA, allowing leaing ad sibleasing of
aricua  land ad convertng fte user stam to Omt of lsse In repect of forme st
farm lnd.
  Ptivatizatlon or liquidaton of all smal and medlum (Oes hn 50 employees) asEultud_
marketng nd processing s   enterpriss and adoption of a timetable agred wt IDA for
prha on or liquiation of large stat-owned entepss.
*  Any sbsidies earmked In th 1994 budget for state entprises under the purview of th
Miny of Agriculture mt  be drm  exclusively fom the ovral budget alaon
budgeted in 1994 for rtructig st  enterpr.
2.   estment 
134.  TheonewAgricuturalBankwiiundergo a       e     s    utonal developmtprorm,
with a paricula focus on nncent, credit policies, and on lon araisal and
supervision tehnques. However, the bank's skldl base and financial sength will oly delop
gadualy, and i i expected dt AB wl not qualify for direct borowing and onledn of IDA
finds durn the next swveral ys.  ebfore, under this operation, AB's role wil be srictly
limbed to that of a service-provig agent to Govermt, passing on proceeds under the Investme
co_mpoent to fin  benefciaries, with Goverment carrying th entirecit risk  lt cm be
esaed that, afer a period of svera years of instutinal development, AB will evenuly quafy
for on-lending under IDA-C      and will then borrow from Govament  der sh subA
operatn In order to lend to beneficiaries in the rural sector at ts own ris
135.  Inep eneLenbg  Unt. Iially, and fordtie nearfiuture, AB I notexpectedtobaveny
medium- and long term resources for investmet lending at is disposal, and ths type of lending will
be a new acdviy to AB's staff. To ensure soundnes of lending decisions under the investme
componen of the ASAC, f    sub-loan appraisal and approval will, therefore, be caied out by an
Independnt Lending Unit (ILU). LU wil icle selected AB staff under the supervision and
resonsiility of qualified expatie experts that are part of the team of consulan finaned under
the MSAC  ILU will be placed wWitn AD's head office and wi use the pbysical iuctu   and
staff In the banks braches ad agencies. AB will act as an agent to ILU and the Goven.
receiving sub-loan applicatons, po-appraisig projects, disbursing fuds, collecing    u , and
keeping al sub-loan records. There will be no visible difference for borrowers between sub-loan
finned under the ASAC or out of AB's own resouces.
136.   Cedft Giddellnes. For shrt-term lending at s own risk, AB wi have accwe to vaios
fnancial resurces Inclng term deposits, rediscount faciies provided by the Bank of Albani,
and ies of credk made available by Inenaional donors. In order to enre sound tendin
decisions by AD and to protect the    strength of the new bank, Government wllt cae AD
to prepae detailed credit guidelines, to be appled to all nding involving a ret risk to the bk,
readless of fte sowurce of hids. These credt guidel, acceptable to IDA, must be preped by



-39 -
December 31, 1993. DuIng ngodatons, Govenment and MIA agreed an th conte  of these
Guidelinse. AD's staff will graduslly gain experience In applyig the credi guelines to its lending
operations. Once AD wilU be able to demonstrate Its expertise In makin consistently sound lending
decisions in conformity with these guidelines, IDA wi be prepared to consider transferring the
authority for sub-loan appraisal and apprva wnder the Investment component from ILU to AB
137.  Subsidlay A8rcment. Govement will pass on proceeds from the investnt component
to fna beneflciaries by engaging AD as a fiscal agent on the bash of a Subsidiary Agreement,
specifying that ILU wil sign off on all respective sub-loans. re Subsidiary Agreement wi be for
a period not exceeding ten years. AD wil receive a servce fee to cover its adminisative costs.
his fee wil be set at a level such as to cover he bankc's act cost of prcesslg and administering
sub-loans, but will not be less  a 2 percentage poit per am. Revisions of the fee will be
made following extena audits of the bank's annual fancial stments which wil reveal
infomaton on the bank's act  cost structure. The credit risk and the freign urreny risk for
sub-loan will be entirly born by Governmen  Hwever, in order to provide an incendve for AB
to actiel engage in the colecdon of overdue amounts, the bank's cumulaive administrative cost
margin will be cancelled for each sub-loan that b classified as non-collectible. Sub-loans will be
nsidered non-collectible il case of areas in princal or iterest dating back more than 12 months.
Since AD serv  as an agen with    carying any credit risk, outsti  sub-la  wi be off-
bane  sheet Items to AB, erefore not afecting the bank's provisions for loan losses. Sub-loans
wi be made in local currency.
138.  The Subskiday Aemt will specify eliblty ca, eauaton standards, and principal
erms and conditions for sub-ans. Eligible beficaries wi be pivate ectotcusoe  of AJ
seeking credit financing for Inestment projects Includg Incremental working capital. Private sector
enterpris  will be defined as those enterprises where the mjoriy of capital is held by Individuasi
or other no-public legal etits. Benefes must demonsta  thdir crdIO       s based on
thei capaciy to repay sub-loans out of projected cah generaon or eity Increases. They mut
be able to corntne to maintain a debt to equt rato of not more than 70:30, a debt service coverage
ratio of not less ta 1.5:1, and a ratio of current assets to curent liabilities of not less man 1.3:1.
Eligible sub-projects shall have a finncial rate of return In real ems of at least 12 percent
139.  Sub-projects will be eated on ihe basis of their financial, commercial and economic
viability, supported by a business plan. Further evahation criteria are available collateral and the
environmena  Pm  of sb-projec. The nmaium term of sub-loans wi be limied to sen
years with no more than one year of grace. Inerest rates on sub-loans will be In line with general
conditions applicable for AB's investment loans, but will In  y event be posidve in real terms.
Beneficiaries must finmce at least 20 percent of total sub-project costs out of their own resources.
Individual sub-loans will be limited to US$ 150,000 equivalent, the sum of sub-loans outaing to
one single borrower hall not exceed USS 300,000 equivalent at any time. Proceeds from sub-loan
repayments may be reallocated for new sub-loans withn  the 10 year term of the Subsidiay
Agreement between Goverment and AB, fol1owsg the same criteria nd conditions for sub-loans.
140.   The condidons of dsbursement of the investment component are: (a) AD mus have been
duly established under the laws of Albana; (b) a legal apinion of counel acceptable to IDA
confirming such establishment shall have been provided to IDA; (c) the Subsidiary Agreement nust
have been  cAted an behalf of the Borrower and AB in terms and codions stfactory to IDA;



-40 -
ad (d) te  depdt Lnding Untl must he be establied wih fom and saffing acceptable
to 1DA.
C. PRoculEMENT, DqmiM& M, Accowun AM AUNT
141.  Procmn . For the quk-disbursng coponent, th proposed Credit of US$11 million
would finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of general imports, excluding luxuy goods, military
equipment, tobacco and tobacco production machiny, and envionmentally hazardous produicts
defined under the Stadad Inteatonal Trade Cassification (SIC. An initial oountry procurement
assessment has revealed hat the curent prowurement pracices In Albaia, both in the public and in
the private sector, are not in conformity with the World Bank Procurement Guidele so that these
prourement proceres will not be used. Imports for both the private and public sectors would be
procured In accordance with simplifled International Cometitive Bidding (ICB) for contas in
excess of US$1 million equival  each. IDA's simpfed Standard Bidding Documen  applicable
to policybased lending would be used. For conacts below US$1 million each, international
shopping procedure would be used based on three quotatons obtained from two different countries.
Direct contrct  (single source purchase) would be albwed only for proprietary items or where
the need for compatibility with existing items calls for   dizaion. The purchase of commodities
would be carried out through inteational conmmodity markets in accordance with procedures
accepble to IDA. For the quick-disbursing component as well as other goods finmced by the
Credt, any goods purchased under ICB which are ma ed in Alnia may be granted a margin
of preference of 15 percent or the customs duty in force whichever is less, consitent with IDA
procur       udelines. A General Procemen Notice would be published in Development
Bushiess' to alert exporters from World Bank-member cowntries to export opportunies offered by
this operation.
142.  For the Iesme component, the average investmnt cost of sub-projec  s expected to be
about US$ 30,000 equivalent. Individual consac  for prou nt of goods and services through
famers and traders, finaced under the investment component, will not exceed US$ 150,000. Goods
esdmated to cost under US$30,000 per contract may be procured under local shopping procedures
based on comparison of price quotaions obtained from at less three local suppliers. Goods
estimated to cost over US$30,000 per contract but under US$150,000 per contract may be procured
trugh Inernational Shopping based on comparison of price quotos obtaied from at least three
eligible suppliers from three different countries. Contracts above US$150,000 per contract wil be
procured through ICB, ushig BankDA stadard biddin docme. All ICB contracts will be
subject to IDA's prior review and all other contracts will be reviewed ex post.
143.  PR rement for tecncl assitance conrat would follow IDA guidelines for contct
consultant services. The total amount allocated to this component is US$4 million equivalent which
is broken down as follows: consultant services for approximately US$3 million, and office equipment
and other goods for about US$1 million. Ihe provisio  of he IDA Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior IDA review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation,
proposals, evaluation reports and contacu  shll apply to contracts esdmated to cost more than
US$50,000. Moreover, such prior IDA review shall also apply to the terms of reference for such
contracs, to the emplomt of individuals, to single suce selection of firms, to assigmnents of
a critical nue as reasonably determied by IDA and to amendmen  of contracts rasing the
conract value above US$50,000. Procurement of goods wil be carie out, in accordance with IDA
procuremet guidelines. Goods estmated tD cost under US$30,000 per contract may be procured



-41-
under locl shopping procedu  based on compaison of prce quotations obtaind from at leas thee
tocal supplirs. Goods estimad to cost over US$30,000 per contract but under US$150,000 per
co    t may be procured through bn aional Shoppin basedon comparison of pric quotations
obtained fom at las thre eigibl suppls from  hee differen countries. Contracts abov
US$150,000 per conact will be procured tough ICB, using BankA sndad biddig
doc_um. AUl ICB contat will be subject to IDA's prior review and all other contracts w  be
rvkwed ex post
144.  Paremm CoordWon. Supvsion and Reiew Process. The Project hmplen
Unit fr the CrW      orts Project, currty locaed in the MinWstry of Finance  d Economy,
would be responsible for coordinatg pocuem   ativities under *e quick disbursing componea,
for prvid, on request, pcment advisory sevices under te invetmet component ad for
handling dibsements for both component. Tbis Unit, which has gaied considerable experience
hi prcem        and diseme  would provide the necessary assismce to project-related entitles
and would ure dt agreed procuremnt procedur  are followed by them. I would be necessy
to         the }PIU to undertake these addidonal reonsibilties. Furthermore, to safuard
prpret in procment and to fcilthe the procuremen process, procawrm  procedures agreed
wit  IIDA would be included in Operational Guidelnes for all project-reled enties.  The
prepratio of these Guidelines, which was a condition of Board presentation, has ben cobmd.
Any sbseque  changes in these Guidelns woule oe subject to IDA approval. Trang  would be
provi  to staff in procaur , disbursement, pioject management and supevion, a necsay.
IDA staff, durig supersion missions, would review procaemen actions to ensure a thy are
cied out In acace with the aetd procedures.
145,  ?lnsdng Plan. For the quick-disbursing component, the proposed Credit of US$1 mnillion
wod finance 100 percen of the CIF costs of genr  Impo  excluding luxry goods, military
eqppmnt, tobacco and tobacco production machinery, and enviromentally hazardous products
defned under STIC. For the Inestmet component, the proposed Credit would finamce 100 percent
of goods nd services, including local costs except taxes and customs duties.
146. 4lshneme. To facilitate disburments, separate specal account would be opend for
each component and Iital deposi of US$I million (quick-disburing component) and US$0.5
mnllon (credi component) would be made. These accounts would be opened in bank(s) acceptable
to  IA. The speci accounts would be managed by the PIU. Mhe Government would receive
intert wd bear Ihe foreign exchange risk on the accounts. The repeim t would be made on
the basis of docmented dimnt applications except for entures, below US$500,000 under
the quIck-disbursing component and US$150,000 under the credit component, which would be made
on tho basis of stame  of ependitures. ITe ste    of expendiures would indicate the origin
of goods, mvoices, customs, declrations and evidence of payment, and would be available for
review by IDA supervision missions and eenal auditors upon request. Disburement for
expendtues under the credit line and for consultant contracts would also be made on the basis of
semen of expendiures. The specia account may be opened in the Bank of Albia but not by
dte Bank of Albania.
147.  TAcu. lhe Government would keep the accounts on the operations under ths credit
compising (i) a record of drawin  on the cedi with copies of all db     requests and
underling d  cumenti,  including detile  lists of sub-loans made by AB (type and tot
inm  cost for each sub-project, loan amount, maturity, outsnding debt, disbu   and
repay1me); and (i) a record of transactions on the specia acount and copies of te State Bank of



* 42 -
Albnia stae         of hO   accoun. Ths rewords would be updated weeMy, ad monthly
saemet of tasctions ad balam  togeher wilh thie necssart reco                     for
disburset, and n      nfmatio on claIms in proes would be fo rded to DA.
148.  Ad&. Ihe Governmet would arrag fr an extn  anna audi by auditor acceptabl
to IDA. The audto  report would Include an opnio on the operaton of the Specill Account and
the use of stament of expendi. Mhe accots and audio  report would be submied to IDA
within six months of the ed of the fnncIal year. Th  annual financial stements of the
Agricuual Bank would as be audtd by Independent, e al audito, acceptabb to IDA and
accordig to twms of rerenc acceptbl to IDA, strng facIal yea 1993. This aui report
would be submitted to IDA wit  six months of the end of AB's financlal year. Assuranc  on the
above arran        for accounts and audit hav been obed during Negottons.
D. CoORDlNA¶llow  &Wm          N AND MNING
149.               a of do progm  would be nitored by a project montoring and
ImpleIenpatIon uni called Agrfcuul Progmm OfW  (APO) bctd In the Mnstry of Agture
(see Annem 9). The APO would not duplicate th func      of the Ministry of Agriculure. The
specific task of APO are (1) policy coordnation and monitring of the program's performace and
(2) coordintion of all foreig  aistn  progms. While projects and programs financed by donors
(IDA, EC-PMAE UVSAID, PAO, IFAD and bilater progrms) are managd by ni operating
In the Diectrates of the Mistry, the APO Diector, with the astn  of Is Albaian and foreign
staff, b responsible for th executi  supervision and coonaton of all foreign-fnamced assnce
progrm. Mbe deils of the APO funcons, coordnation wilh the Genal Dedoates, staffing
* AV--   M- 1, shortilong tem consulant reqirements, tg    needs for Albanian staf, operat
costs and equipment needs would be described In the APO business plan to be prepared by July
1993.
150.  The APO would be headed by a Director having th rnk of Vice Mnister and reporing
directly to the Mnte.    U AJPO  locatd In the Mistry of Agrutue, would operae with
Albaia and foreign staff Incbldn a Chif Advie and an Aid Coordinon Advr (boh  fign
consultat). Upon approval of the Minister, additonal foreig advise, fiaced by donon, will
be recutd for short term or long tem  assignments a pat of the APO but located In the General
D       lewrates of-ft he it  (cbmfo land policy; privatnzaton; pring for agricul    and
agroindsty; credit policy; etc). Additiona staf Albani or forelgn will be recnied as and whO
need  to accomlsh specific  s. Th extg Project Impl naton and Coordan Unk
(PICU) I heo Minstry of Agiuur would form the basis forthe APO. Setftng up fte APO and
appointng Its Director are condito of Board presenatio.
151.  Me APO would has a         loodin Committe (CC) composed of repretves of the
Misty of Finace. Ministry of Agriculr, Mistry of Trade, Mistry of Justice, Nationa
Agency for PrVt an d odher agencies ta a           e      for the ImplementIon of the
sectoral progra. The CC would meet, at te working group level, at regu t  as and when
neded for the purposes of progrm coordoin      I  CC would also meet at lea twice a year at
th Ied of Mise  to assss progres  made In te   pl Intton of the agcual refm
progrm and recommend remedial actdonL       secreta   of e CC would b ensured by dte APO.



-43 -
152.   Key sctr peformace Idicators will be developed by the Govenment joindy with IDA
dsff to monitor the Ipac of the ASAC-supported program. Te Indicators will focus on (a) the
formal acdons agreed under he ASAC program; (b) paraltel actons contabied In the Letter of Sector
Development Policy; and (c) sector! idicators of economic performance such as inu supply;
output; commodity trade and food aid flows; agricultur credit; aiculural prices; purchases and
sales by st    tg entepises; as well as the pace of the privation of st  farm  and
agroindties. Reports would be submdtted to IDA and to EC-PHARE by fte APO on a quarterly
basis.
E. TEcmacAL AsrSSrAwC ftOGRM
153.  In order to ense ft  successful Ilemenion of the Medium Term A4jusment Progrm
whie  s          the Institutional capability of the key instiautions Involved in he program's
Imple    tion, large amounts of tehncal asistace (TA) vill be requkied. Some TA programs
financed by IDA (Critical Imports Project), EC-PHARE and other donors are aheady underway in
the Mistry of Agiulre in the Bank for AgdrIulue and Development and In other I  o
154.  Fegn conuants will be required for the position of Chief Advie and Aid Coordinaon
Adviser In the APO (para 150). AdditIonal short term or long term consultants will be required for
the APO or for the General Dierates of the Ministry to ensure the timely imlematio;i of the
program. Th    consulat will be recruited as and when needed to accomplih spefic tasks. ]DA
would share the costs for odter consultants with EC-PHARE and other donors. Terms of reference
would be prepared and ageed jodntly by IDA, PHARE (or other facie). It is expected that the
posion of Chief Adviser would be fnaced by EC-PHARE; dtat of Adviser on Privatzation for
stae entprises In the agricula  sctr by IDA from ASAC funds; and tha of adviser on Aid
Coordinaion by FAO under financing from an Italian Trust Fund.
155.   Tree major tecnal   stance progrms would be finnced under ASAC.
156.  hfm wa ofAVculftro Eae7prises. Under ASAC, consultant services and equipment
would be provided to dt  Direcras of Privadzation In he Mnistry of Agriculture and in the
Ministry of Trade and to the Nationa Agency for Privatizaon to support the privatzation program
for agrculura marketng, trade and processing enterprises. lle consulta  would help In caryin
out all actiom neceary to ensure the quickprivatization or liquidadon of al small and medium-scab
agdcultal enterpises (such as aepri valuadon; organaon of auctions for the sale of assets;
financial negtions; etw) and to peare a timetable for the prvaization or liqudation of large
agculural eerpri. The tot  cost i estmated at US$420,000 for consultant services (24
man/monthw and US$80,000 for office equipment, computers and vehicles.
157.  Land PolIy. The Govemnt will hire an expert (3 mnm) to prepare both drafts of the
relevt land lease legslabon. The commencement of the necessary work is expected soon after
ef ctivenes of the ASAC Agreemet with the iitial review of the prelIminary drafts scheduled for
not later than September 1993. Such legislation, sadsfactory to IDA, b to be enacted by second
tranche release (expected nine months after effectiveness). In addition, support would be given to
the Land Markt Action Plan (project executed by the Land Tenure Cenr  of the University of
Wisioni and financed by USAID and PHARE). The total costs for consult servies under
ASAC (20 Win for Albanians and 20 mlm for outside experts), including training and some small
euipment, is esdmated at about US$0.6 million. The TA program would support the Directrate



*44-
of Laud In the Ministry of Agriculture to Improve the bgal and regatory ramework regag
pivate and public land manam    (meadows mad pastures. fort, natural resource m
d use plnnng, et). Ts program would be closy linked to th eistng Land Market Acdon
Pla (executed by th Universiy of WisconsinLand Tene Center wih fTncin from EC-PHAR.,
USAID, UK Governnt, etc) and supervised by the APO.
158.  Intkuiaz  Delpmenot of th Agrlzao. Bant  Insttond development of the new
AB wlll require compehense and long-term support of AB's management through a tem of
patrit advors; usfe of banking know-how through study trips of bank staff abroad; md
provision of ugl needed equmentr The to  allocation for consultant services, equipment and
oter technical asisace for AB is estdmatd at US$ 3 mlon. Thib progam would be finaced
in two phaes, each est_iad at US$ 1.5 million per phase, with a reviw of progress made aftr
fthe fit phase. Te fir phase of the chnical assitac progrn would Inchude: (a) an estated
US$ 0.7 million of consutant sevices (total of 36 mn/mont) I  ort of the ir 6 months of
biution  deelopnmnt of the Bank In the areas of fianial manam  (6 m/m), cri polics
and procedures (6 mlm), credi review and portfolo qualiy (6 mhn), ac tig and MIS (6 mnm),
human re     s develoment (6 m/m) and eional banking (6 mn/). Terms of referen  for
ese consultant services have been drafd and wi be finalized, for review by JDA, by June 1993.
In order to ense contn  of the ongoing tehnical assistance progm In BAD, procement for
these  rvies wll be  itiaed by the PIU within the Ministry of Face and Economy In ealy June
1993; (b) an estmated US$ 0.8 millon for offio equipment, fie and vhcles for the BBans
head ofice and branes (USS 650,000 equIvalt), study trips abroad (USS 100,000 equivalen),
and he cost of te 1993 extra audit of the Bank's financial atm n (USS 50,000 e alent).
Me secnd phams would Ilude an estmated USS 1.5 mIion for consulnt servis (tots of 84
mim), to suort dt  flowng 18 mondt of istional development of te Agriactural Bank, In
h areas of financil management (18 mlm), credit policies and proedu  (12 mm), credit review
and potolo quaity (18 mlm), mource mobIlizaon (12 m/m), accout  and MIS (12 Wn/) and
huma resources delopment (12 m/m).
159.  Other technical asstce progrm  will be required to ere the succefull and tmey
Implementation of the progra  and to strengthen the Institutiona capabity of the Govement
Thes progms wi  be finaced by EC-PRARE, USAID or othe bilaterad or mutilal donors.
If 'necessary, DA fids could be made available for finaing of cical assistance if reourcs
camnot be mobied quickly from other sources.
160.  SrN8*enbng ofhe Mlnsy of4grdcdubre. A five-year USAID program will finance TA
for the Mistry of Agricue and related instions in order to sheir capabiites In the
areas of agricultural stastc, policy analys, price and markt formaton system and agricultural
resah. An In-depth Lvestock Sector Review and the preparation of bseurao  policy frmeworks
will be supptd by TA prom  from PAO, EC-PARE and odter donors.
161.    whie Advsozy Series for the Private Sector. EC-PHARE will fiance a TA program
to support private small and medium-scale etrpris  In th agdcural sector  ough the provison
of bne advsory services, taining in accounting and fina l        t); (c) preparion of
busin  pas for selected enteprie;
162.  AIgrfuW raEnion. Consulnts (12 man/nutths) will be required to prepare a sudy
for te Reform of Agricultural Extenion Services which will formulate  ens fbr the
reform of the agricul  extension system and support seVIces for private &rmers (     124).



di~~~~~~~~   i
I1
~~0 ~~~            j~~~~LiI!I~~~



.46-
169.   Giet    i mited              capcy of dho Mlsty of Agriculure, of th new AB
aN  of or key inszitut    Involed in *e prorms Ip ntion, delays could ocu.
HoweverI the technical        prorms rovie to tas   itutions under ASAC  huld
Improve prospects of succosful Imp    n.
PART VI. COLLABORATION    IMFI EUOPEAN COMMtUNITY
AND OTHE DONORS
170.   Th preptonof hsopertinha been carried out Id icos coiatdon and collab
wih tde IM,P the Euop     Commnty PHARE Program, USAID and other donors.  >he
famework for the proposed opertion s   report entitled An Ag4rkll SreVfor Albaia
which was prepared In 1992 by  v        jointy with IDA and PHARE fnancd stff and
consunsn ad subsequentl publihed by ihe World Bank In Octber 1992.  M  report 
prted to donors at a G-24 meti  In  ana  In uly 1992 and dise mnore extebnvy at
ather 0-24 dmetg on aiulu  in lra  In November 1992. In paralel, al donor, sice
1991, bao  cbsely coordiatd their agricutur  prorms, In patcular  tmport of criicall
needed inpt for he sect. The close ood        wih EC-PHARE on policies and program,
which has bn etemely ut , has ban formalized In a recnt agome  to opea  accordn
to a jointy agreed policy firmwork, to joiny staff tho project unit for the ASAC, to coordinae
and share the costs of astma   programs, and to jointy pre  tem  of referen  and sek
consultt for ASAC tehcal asstce program.
171.    he IMP and DA h    worebd cloey together an the prparation of a Policy Framework
Pape (PMP. The propsed ASAC has been preared In close coordbinaio  with the PFP and
conultatiowith ah IM  durg the disusons on th Proposed Eveded Struct  Adjstent
Facility (ESAP) supportig  e PPP reorm packe bave been freqn
PART VRECOMM ATON
172.  I lm satfied ta the proposed credit would comply wit he Arles of Agrment of IDA
and recommnd that tho Elecutve Direco  approve the pposed creit.
Lewis T. Preston
Presidest
Attahets
June 4, 1993
Washingo  )D.C.



-47- 
Pape Io 3t
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIr
a9*mi t.alo¶ V  1s4   3.34                    ECONOMIC IDMICATORS
A. ShNm of -we" 01amoi mda                      6. PeAth bulSpuav
Cftm cm. o  PMbs &ta)                         cf'm svwen  pu',    et
i~~   ¶m    igst  sew   i"D   im"   ig1m        "Weu Ion-"   "It   io   un   i
0000   000   .00.  ft'so,  o0oft  *so   000s       se.oo',saft no o's      soo   a..       .
Pm bus~Io pro4gt so.    100.  10.0  l00*  100.0  100.0  10.0  100.0            2.0    24    VA   -12A   -.?7.    -7.4
Ptbt.tTAM              o         so               .04.0  00 *0   .                        .0            as    .o
AWqAtw*ur                 3L6   34A6  31.3  333   35.9  41.1    .o               26    6.3   14.31  .C4    3.9   12.
kmav                      45.   a3.   42.   444   414   37.5          .          14   44       6.   -1.6  -3L0  .41.9
COO SCud IbftlF~~tbW)  0s    00            0     o      .      *                 **     es      we
=  bvlm                  21.4~~~~~~~M    IL1   34    22.9  22.   21A  ..              Li 0.1 1515.1111 -211.    3.6
b~~se   UaIa.e        0.1~~L   .0L?   -1.7  -1IJ   -?A   -20.6  46.3        *o     o     0.0    .1   44-3.4  39
fTGWalpsw1tww  V1           99.9  100.  10.?  101J  107    WA   186               23    IL?    9.7  -44  -V-    11114
4Tois  m S1               OA4   a.9  1M.   69.   74.   115  11.                   .    40      I      3.      .      .
friwee bwagtm.    5~~6A   3.6   63   £1.0   64A   94.   152.A            5.?    43    fiA    -4.7  -0       92
burnt bu'mW        9.0~~V     9.3    93    811l*  10A    3.    3.A      24   2L0    33    4.2   41.0   16.6
Pu  SofemI. uesu          34.5  3L8   21169   31.7  32.6   6.1   10.1            1.3  -4A    31.31  -7.6  4411.4   I.1
F1   Oweemus      33.9~~iL    33    31.5   31    34.    6.1   10.1       IA4    LO    9.4   4*   -N2   35.1
@a.ue fSto           0.6    OS   -2.A   0.  4 .20        .     LO          as,.   **    *.    *.    ..        -
arm  Demlo ulltm            34.   12.1   VA.   30    17.1        0OA@  -10A  2VA   -49.1 
Not Pe0005 hwy             0      0. Li 0.0   0.0  40.1        0       *a                o      a      o      0
Poemt NedaAowI     t        35.3  32.   27.   30.6   17.7    ..         ..2    -10.3   231.  -43:1o
in blittaww of 150l        1"B5   "a    150   113   199   19M    19M
Cat oa'0  iaw   M    t4)    a..   .o      ...   .-      --     .       0
Orose uemOOtbo Pofu       14.9   14.   17.0   16.?  16.    12    112            2.0    @4    9.9  -10.   -NJr   -7
C"wt to 199wt               .00     0     0       0     0       0     0           0     0       0      0       0
TOM et ?V MSr                     . to    o 0b0                0 Ad   *o         .       .      *       .     o
&WinitI   IS                                            so00  0  0    0          00      0      0 00          : .
moss vibW.1 pr.mt         14.9  163   17.0   16.7 116.9                         La*9.it                       a
Pm SetismI hWy  00    00    00    00    00    00    00     00    00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s    00o,0 
iblloset "utu              M"w  1100.0  00.0U- 10      I 100.0  lN*_  44Z                                           a- o 
*    mpict MP Deao"~          1O.4  105.  108.  100.0  100.0  13.5i  442.0           o*111o                o   55    4.
implict      1Uwseu Deft.    101.3  1W2.  100"  100.  1W.u        .     0           0      0     0      0       0
fliam PetagS p.a.)s                                                            V13Om f. 1M9 ad 19M vs pr.U*wy
2.2    Li1   2.0                                 ad  as Su  hiVty avimlial
3.9    3.1   2.7                                 V. 3wArfblc6t wo6.
Pegs 3.21. bteam p.s.       0  04.1   -135S 3AlIS    ieehnfteil  e
PrcMt caeeApttmn pa.              LS0.    2.O
bouto ("M IF    UOPO)                                                         IN .    .  w   OAstutv wdsfao  MOW S aea .
swim ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ mtmS                 tb~iEamiW
-     -Mf swo                      , -s
I=. Ipirad avarparn:.   17.2   734
ii.'. at Tautal10                    W    1      1999 191 11
ASHOAlture                49.0  49.7  494   47.3        *
1a~~~~suy ~~~~112   21.6  13.7  23.3 
smvtam             ~~~~~~~29.    28.7  V79   29.4 
Total              100.0~~~~la  160.0  102.0   10  .________



ANIULI                                                  .48-
Pape 2 of 3
ECONOMIC IDWICATORS (coa&hAued
P. xwdwwise IV"99.f..
5. Nwdindh. pwta  195   liP   193   193   1990   13 1  1390  1W?   193   1  196    99   1
fl....999.9 9.99 999 99  * ...   9.99.. 99*99  99*99   *.9.q9999*99    9999 *99.'.  499999   9999.   9..9     .99.99   .9
4Lfot                        **    99 T9m*at*web*in*                             * I99    *9    **"Pt              9
laldal                      *.~~laidttm  o      99m      99   9          *9     99     9    9
To~~1 Spits  190.0  111.6  91.6  80.0   0.-6 *,V                   o 311.(31 d.   ad8.  UL    ?3,  Li'
P. Raidmindas I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~,eo                            c atI"I.
of s. mb a w           399.9   3A9-          -   3.        3 7J            1
Its          3M.1~~9  399.  399    997   99L   Ml   AM              99    99dw"m  9t of        .9    .
CII".-    --MsA            VA      *94   99   49    9IA              99         99J    99o"   99re    9r 9  99    .
bwt  tso aWs           XL U??   0 1104a 99               14    699 avldo dM 
3. Mu s of             LaV  N  6.P   7WI0  .191 "A        9    1WtIsOl tMAa1a
999999999999wi  93L           -   -U       A -   9999  9999  999 W9 0f
31.1    0.  14.   1.0  31.?   La    55          ofUnp1
Be ILI LW*           L7    L 311.23    -L.     Vol. 36 1 I0   t. to    Cmldmd~ o    ~     4
xal    sa, LT             16.9   3.7  410'  I5.        so.  31.4440        3  uemiaoflI  udr g*
Iota   w W er Itms 1U"3A.1  23.1            -me 57. 9.3 -??.I  115
IsO ftmae            ~~~15.3   0.4  VA2  .0.    -1.9  0.3    u
ILI    0.? -0.-7" 0.5    .9  83.9   30.0
UseSuwO Treofe             6.4   W.    704    9.1  15A  eff1  1M9
CuwAo  3.1 sfesff.m  Sot -3 1.7         MA  .5.    .55 6 13   MG19 -1457.
ase *ofltu *Wufe to M.                  ..    ..    *.  512   1.
Sulu .?lonse             -L2?  -20   2 -ZS    2   0 57.1  410 60.
Sitard I  wttau  t           .     .      .      .      .     *
total- Uad. Zw *at.        21.8i   3.3  NU5.  .13.  -119.31 .3   S3
Stsw, lfrt. Tur  eats1  1WM5       '.3 0.    9.    .5   0.2 3.
p11,Xftst                 AAs114  .   -2.  -59.  S14. A17.   MA9.    NJ
snat ledi Ofus     3..    ..             ..     ..     .     ..   1.0
ofma  Daurw   @ugm  f *WA  W"  M"           99M  MA  110.  dWA



V.   ..     9. .9      .    .9   99                          Ifsw  *
CM   IL    9       0 1       Vs £          .  gWb.   Ws
99  ~~~~.   9                11 ~~~~~~~S~~k  S41~~M   IV~
PW,M~ I Dn 6O
to" vs, a   rs   sm   i-s   i's             d6   Jez4  IV
Vt   @t  Zs    0s re   re                               a
EM    6t   Er0   IV   r99   CO9  A'S         6SsSi1d4l
i-w        outs  VW   sn           Vt ~-   ~ItsuiJ~
5901        O    Ve   99                       ussWWaa
1'wS  LU t V'  o   5&t          Vt39                      OsIJWj'
00   00   00  v99.9 . VU44 9
*                                                     SA ~~~~~~~~msg ame.a
090     so    00          .                     oxa99I
99999909 9    099  99   .9 019tMP           
Ws Si          Mtsw    m    a Jm              Omp  wiP  W
-    99   99   9.         .9   .9 ~~~~~~~"   .9   a9     -                  1
0m                                                        99 9Os-'O*   OW
i'1      O'S                                          99    *    99,99passimi
SW       we         9-               Ws   0.                                     a.a~ £ FPsv e
U- ~~~56y bW0                          LW'&1)P 30      S'UV0      0S
99    9     99   99   99         too   00   So3  so0 fl   090M ip
.10106060   10 V1                   ea"   V*   0561         al   01   US               mi s
1.=ir  VW6Po nf



-51 -       -                          ANI    2
Pae 1 of 12
ALBANI
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUS1r3SMT CREDIT
LEITER FROM THE GOVERNMENT OF ALBANIA ON TS
MEDIUM-TERM POLICY FOR THE AGRICULTURAL SETR
May 24, 1993
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Preston,
Folowing the democaic elecdons of March 1992, our Govenment has take
decisive steps to restore economic and soca stability and has enbarked an a comprehenve
proam of reforms  cuding drasc salizaton measures and struct     f    to initia
the move towd a market economy.
Our budget deficit was reduced to 20 percent of GDP, mainly through sbarp
curilment in  etures as the swope for aising tax revues is lmited in te short tm
Budgetay subsidies to state enteprs wer abolished. Stdct monetary argets were
enforced, itere  aftes were sharply increased, and the auomac extension of bank credit to
state enteris  was stopped. Laws on central and commrial banling operations wer
implemented. All prces have been liberalized, with the excepton of wheat and bread, te
main staple of our popaion, whose prices were sharply inased. The curency was
floated, private change tauctions legaized, and all cuent account trsctions
lalized. The progmn has received the support of the IMF through a sqtn   ageement
siged In August 1992 and of the in  al communit.
We are pleased to inm you that, after nine months of mplementation, the
progm  is on track altbough the  tuaion remains fragile. All IMP performance crteria
have been meL   e dmac cages impl        ed at the start of the proam have visibly
taken root, most notably in the areas of pdce reform, the exchange and trde system, the
budget, cental baning, and agriculue. Industial output appears to have botomed ouL
Agricultural productin has rebounded and there are strng signs of nascent private sector
actvity. Inflaion bas fillen from 14 percent a month at the beginning of 1992 to      tham
zero percent in April 1993. Our curren   has appreciated by about 30 peet  at the start of
the program and since then has remained stable. Equally important, the social conseus
appears to have held in this critical period, although the economic and socl situation
remains very difficult



A11X                                       -52-
Page 2 of 12
Our medium team program for 1993-95 alms at a susained economic recover nd
further progress tward  etal viabilt. We Intend to achieve ti tough rapid
Ittutioal change and a lastig reduction of maceconomicmba es while, at the sae
te, protcting the most vulneble income groups dung the t tansit. Our
macroeconomic famework envisages growth of about 3 to S percent onan annual bai oer
the period and annual Iflation of about 20 percen at the end of te program pedod.
Growth is epected to odginate from the agiculturda sectr and from the delopm   of the
serice sector, while the indu     sector is to contract fther. It is exected that the ASAC
coud play a cucia role in helping the economy recov. Attning the infltion obcdve
will reqir a fundamental refm of public finance: a eliable tax base has to be estabished
to cature the segments of the ecnomy that wil grow in the medium term, and tax
adminiration has to be totly overhauled. At the same ime, the level of public westment
has to be aied to susinable level to allow for the bung up of Inascte and th
de p    of human capital. Budgetay contol and ma       t fnons hae to be
devoped. Given the dficult ini  conditions, our sategy must also rely on lrge and
exceptiona amounts of foreig asstance Towards the end of the program period we expect
feign direct investment to increase substantally. As the agicuml setor recoves and its
maketed suplus ineases, the composto of aid is expted to shift from food and
emergency supples to preject finance. If well coordinated, and delivered in a timety
manns, this intonal asositce could bear fuit and deliver igh   ates of growth by
the end of the decade.
Our count is predominany rural About 50 perent of the labor force is
empyed in rc         and rdated sectors, and two-thrds of the populatin ie In rud
areas. Agriultur and the ual coonomy play a dominant role in Albania and ar the lay to
economic      y. Over the last 18 months, a true rvoludo has tn ce in rur
Albaia: a major land refom has been caied out and we hmae achieved enonnous prog
towrds reformig the agcult  secto along market economy line  Our farmes have
responded swiftly to the new incentive structure. In 1992 agilual producton grew by an
asniing 12 percent. However the craing pattn   si oriented towd satsfying
fmly needs as the newly established private farmers sought to pect their food secudty.
Most farmers have become subsistence oriented and marketed surplus is limited. Our
Overnment theef  intends topu    relentessy the rerm edffrts
To that effict, our Government has prepared and is imenting a medium-term
program of reforms in agriculure. Our progm Is based on the sategic framwork
pre ted in the report eadded An Agdcukrda SrVjegyfor Aana that we prepared jointly
with the World Bank and the European Commumity and that was endorsed by G-24 donors
It addres  the main strucul, instutdonal and policy constainu which are lming
prwducton and mareted suplus incmases in the smallolder sector and are preventing the
developnd a compettive, market-orented economy in rural areas. Our program will be
made operational by  pecfying a tmetable of imeion for the actions it contains
Such a timetable for bey actions is in the at nt matrices.



Pagp3oat Z
The prioity aeats of our medium tm agricultur reform program are the
*  F,  ensrng  at he pice and  ade policy framework in agriculture i
adeq   for the depment of comeitive coxdions and tht the enabing
enviro    Is conducie to the devepment of the pivat sector. We have
made grat prog   already by feeing almost all prices but we want to enue
that prices give corrct mmt sga to producers and that food aid does not act
as a diincentive for domesdc production. We also want to ensure that markedig
caels for agdrctural inputs and outputs ae finctioning and that prvate
acdvity can dewf  rpdly In marketing, proessing and distributin of
agrcutualproducts.
*  Second, we wl give pority to the caton of a rualfincal system adapt
to the needs of a pfivate maket eoonomy. We are carrying out a fudaiental
restructurin of the rural credit system through liquidation of the Bank for
AiculWe and Development and ceation of a new Agicltural Bank, tereby
developg mechanisms to ensure that private rural entepeeurs at all income
leves, whether farmers, traders or procesos, have access to credit.
* Tbird, we are detemined to finalize as quickly as possile the land reform
process, both on fmer coopeave land and on former state farm Wl, and to
develop the legal framewk for land. Our objective is to ensur securi of
tenr for the n   landown   and to feili  legal land tranctonL In order
to Increase the   ducdvity of our scarce agricultural land, we want to encourae
th procs of lnd co ugh frely negod     market tanscto
and troughbettr a mt of natural eourethat are in tbe piWc
domain
* Fourdh, we are committed to privaize as quicldy as possible the stat&,owned
enterprin ae   ic      urketing and procesg wsc that are now unde
the Mnistry of Agricltue and the Ministry of Trade. We are curetly
developing a c   hensive a tion strategy for stateowned entepise
As most ag4icual Smrket  and prcesn entris  ae smal or medium
in scde and prepartory worc has already begun, we expect the procs of
ownership tansfer to be completed very soon.
* Fifth, we want to impwve the admiae cacity of the Goverment so that
it can better ser  the needs of the rural population. The ad Is   of the
sector needs to be refrmed and adapted to the market economr; our staff needs
to be tained to acieve these goals more efficny; and our serAvices need to be
Imprve:d whether to prepare and lmpleme't enabling lgislation; to  paie,
evuate and execute public Investments n the sector, or to opeate and maitn
the rural in    e  in an effcient and economic ashion



Page 4 of 12
In trm  of publicinvesm , we intend to give prioty to the     t          of t
phya  f       c in rurl are  Incuding Irrigan, roads, and market I te; to
the ceation of emloymet and income ppIn rade,, services and smal-scae
industry In rua  areas; and to the rfrm of agriual educaton, reseb, extenio and
pport serivices, adaptig tm to the needs of the prit farm sector. Projects In each of
these areas have arady begun or are at an advanedage stpof prepaion.
Agric ltural Pie and Trade Polley
Our Govrment has already  a  grea ss in                prc  of
agritural and food products. On Januy  15, 1993, the Council of Ministers passed a
Dee   b          all prducer, wholse and retail pc  with the excepn of wheat and
bmd
ne mndium term obJective of our agriutural Pice policy I to ensure an effice
allocaon of res   s  aie by p            sy adjusting he sbctor tworld market
conditions increasing t  c  i     s    domest agiutal market and Impoving the
pe imne o of mareting and pwrcessig enteises.
In te case of wheat, by the 1993 havest, we1 bIIn creasthe pie of food aid
whut paid to countepa fods and the consumer pric of bred so as to bring pices at
leves constwitf ecomomic incentie and budgeay  se s, while mitgting te
reducton hi eal ncom  and modeating the soial cost of adjustm    As for the produc
prce of wheat, we wa  to giv famesIncentives to hicrea  the quatity of wheat hatIs
markeed. By Decsion No. 526 (11 Deceber 1992), the Coumcil of Minists has aready
Inud t  pice of wheat to 14 L.k  effective Ju   1,1993. This offi producer
prc constts a floor prie at which stateond purchasing center agree to pm ase t
what Prvate buy  are fe to pubas at a  iprice.
By mid-1993, the pdrc at whih food aidwheat Is craedited to counterpart fmds vil
be raised to 16 LekIg  The pic of bsrlmai  will, be set at2S Ickk. We esdmate
tat a maurgin of 9 Lek/kg il be sufficent to cover thecost ofhading, storage and
dirbion of wheat, milling and bread bng duing t  second half of 1993. Thi is
becue we are taking concrete msurs to effect suctu  changes and introfdc priate
competin the wheatlbread subsctwr these measur  are cxp d to yied mojor
effidec  ains and to restrain magin of statenterpises which are now dominant in th
subsector. The Govemment will monitor wheat and bread pices, as well as margins of state
enterprses, In order to avoid a decine In the rel price of food aid wheat, to mainin
suffcient margins to attrct priat participaton In the walbadsubsector at all leels,
and to ensur that the price of fbod aid does not fail below th domestic producer price.
At the conser level, in order to moderate the socw   cost of the bread pike
increase, the budget will compensate for a one year perod the most afficted segmen  of the
pvulti  The m          ton  wi  be gradally phmsed out over a one yea period. During
this year, we will review the type of program that Is most appropate to Albaxan conditions



-55-                                  IZiRZ2
Page S of 12
Wsed on a rview of the nutiton  stu and Income lel of the pop  ti, and on the
capiy of our admi n to handle our socia astance program
Por other food products Imported by donors, our policy sice January 15, 1993 has
been to set the price at which impors are charged to countrpa funds at impot parity ev
kldmg into account quaity differeces and market condidons, and we intend to continue with
this polcy. In no case wil the prices of food aid products creited to counterpart fund fl,
la real tms, below the prices set in May 1993. Prvat Inm   of'these products are
allow, retail prices hv been baized and no consumer subsidies wi be applied.
Ihe Govm ment will Introduce pivate pa -ci't at al levels of impoft
distr on and pressing of all food aid coi. ln pacul, we wi abo   fte
monopoly position now held by stae entprises In the storage and distribution of foW aid
and ranize acdons for the sal of food aid.
Given the present siton and low level of effidency of the food Industry,
frmgate pdes per se is not likely to result in madkd increases in prices paid by
ste-wned entrprise  Price libe on wl thfore be  lem d by measures to
en     eenterps  t purchse domestically,  eifically pon of enterpise which
woud create a diffent Incentive struct  in p asin enterprises. In the medium tern,
purchase prie paid by state-owned  s     ete          for tded products will depend
an the competitvs ofthedomestic industry  sa-vis imports and   m  hould receive
pics that are co  to the world mae pries  Private grain markets are     d.
Our cbjectv  for the wheat sector are to encorag the develo nt of the  sector In
lection of gan at the fum level, sage, transpor, wholesae and retail of wheat
lwductL
Our trade policy for agdrculal products i aimed at eusuring the development of an
open and competitive economy, free from restrctons to private actvity. Tarfs an
agric1tuax  products will be set at modeate leves with two objecdves in mind: generating
goveniment renues linked to the development of foreig trade and protecting domestic
produce  againt unfr cmpeition from abd. AU prc eilings on privatly imported
goods have been removed. Expaot stons will be imited to the need to avoid illegal re-
export of food aid. Export l;wes whih est for a limited number of products, such as
medicina plas, have the objectve of preven    the excessive degrdatio of out natura
evrnent
Agricltural inputs finaed by donor oganization wi be sold to farme  at
auctions with a rervatwin price equal to their CIF pric at the prvailng exchange rate plus
handlng and trnport charges except when there is a case for selling the inputs at prices
below cost, such as below-cost sae of vaccie and drugs for publhc health reasonL  Donor
lied Inputb wil be aeempt from taxes and  riffs. We will enre that private ads
selling iputs o farme  do not face unfair comtition from the statowned Agrorgtare
network  Once competiive condiions are estabshed in agriculul input markets, we



pa6 of12
ecpect dome pie to abilze arond their Import paty prices. Tra  mas shold
grdvUay be educed as compedtie condions deveo.
Together with land distribution and enterpri  n, creation of a moder
nurat fina l system adaptd to the needs of th new market economy and of prvate
fa s s an ureat prioi. Farmers and othr pivatep_h eneprneurs must have aces to
credit to Snane ther working capl  d Invesmt needs. Given me urgent nature of ths
Ie, our Government has decided to follw two parle apprches: (i liqudat  of the
xlsdi  Bak for Agricul    and Deveopment (BAD) and creato of a new, financily
strong Aiuladl Dak that will pridons to frmers and fme'                 to the
agropracessing sector, to transport entmprs  and traders, and to ote rur etpnr
thogh th exist  network of branches ad ae    ; and CA) creato of independent and
ecend Allagebased credit cmmit   wbich will offer smal loans to Individual
irms and oth  small-scAe enterpises In rr aa  Viage Cedit Funds are cuntly
bdig se under the Goverment's Rugal Pot Alleviation Program suppoted by IDA.
With aspect to BAD, Govemment I ommitted to actvely  port the required
lqudation of BAD and the creation of a new Agriculul Bank as a commneally opera_
-ruralfinci        in y. Under tbe Ivestment Compont of the ASAC, Govement
il ounXd IDA fuds thrugh the new Dak to the pivate rural sector.
qudton of BD Invle lifting th burden of nogloans to State
m ad othe sae enterprs  made durig   e pas ad financed by t  budge. These
n ar not arewverb  and will be written down. As a firs and Importn step, the
Concil of Miisters decided, on Apr 8, 1993, to cover BAD's outaunn state enterpie
debt as of Jue 30, 1992, though clearance of Inter-bank debt and issuance of bonds.
Socoad, Govement is committed to cover all aew loan to s"t  enterpri that have been
e_nded between July 1, 1992 and June 30, 1993. through proceeds frm liqidatig at
fam ast  Third, all housing la, made by the fmer State Bak of Albania and
tamned to BAD in 1991, wi be written down through proceeds from privaetn stat
hosing property, folowng the provions of the Law on the Pvaticzaon of State Housing
o December 23, 1992. As of July 1, 1993, the ew Agrcultul Bank will start off with a
de   balane seet by Ihiting only those Ioans extended to the prte sctor. All
mainb g stae enteis and housing loan, not replaed and written down by that date,
wiM stay on BAD's book. Goverment wil quia BAD as soon as posile.
Le      blisment of the Agrcull Bank (AB) wil involve the issace of a
ba g licene by te Bank of Albania, us plcing AB uMder tie provisions of the Law for
the Bakig Systm  Under the Banldng Law, In order to obin a license, the new financial
Istuo wi need to be adequatly capitalized, be managed by quaificd  of, and
hw  a Charter and By-laws.



Page 7 of 1l
Sine it i the objective of Govenment to privatie the Banks AB wil be established
as joi-stock company, initialy with al shares being held by Govrnmt. The Bank wil
be esabished so as to satisf extg capt adequwy              In the inteim pior to
prvatation,  overnment intends AB to opete an the basis of strictly commeial criteria
Hence, AB will etaend loans at its own ris only to thosv borwen who the Bank judges to
be creditworthy. Govenment will enforce strict govnance over AB, and will establish a
Board of Supevisors composed of qualfied idividuals, to eonsue that the Bank adher  to
these oommercial priciples. In addition, Government wMll ensure that the management of
the Bak Is fully qualified to opeate the Bank on a profesional basis, and meets the
lcensing crtera of the Bank of Albania.
Concerning the new Caer, Govemment strongly endorses the Bank's intention to
focus its lending on the private sector. Govenment recognizes that the financial safety and
soundns of the new Bank hinges upon the Bank's autonomy i day-to-day credit decisons.
Specifically,f the Bnk judges a prospecive borrower not to be creditwothy, and
Government nonets wise credit to be eatended to that borrower, the Bank can provide
credit, but only as an agent for the Government, which wi  provide the required fimds,
asme the credit risk, and reimburse the Bank for its administive expenses.
Insttuonal development of the new Bank will be caried out over sevel yean
based on a comp    ive insti a reform program  Govenment is committed to
support this progimn through financing of teccal aitanc and exe   training in key
eas suh as credit poly and procedures, loa portfolo supevio and credit review,
financial management and acountg, brch mnagemet and rehabil, and human
Iresorcae development, To asse transpar c of the Ban's opeto  and to strngthen
d o dence, the Bans annual financial statemets will be audited by indqedent
eternal auditors.
Te new Agric    Bank will bave a small, though  pWidly epanding stock of
saings depost which will enable it to engage in limited lending for imvestment projects In
order to expd lenng to pve ivesto, GoVmet will make availe to the Bank
funds which we expect to receive from the lIvestmeat Component of the ASAC and from
other sources such as EC-PHRE  With reet to ASAC, the  funds will financergly
needed medium- and long-term loans which are currenly not available in the country.
Govrment is aware tht, for the near fuure, the Agricultural Bank will not be in a postion
to asme the credit risk reated to hese loans under the ASAC, which will therefore be
guarante by Gment. However, proper incentives will be designed for the Bank to
make sound lending desions and to  rcise diligece in colectig on the  loans.
Stae Farms
By Decision No. 452 dated October 17, 1992, the Council of Ministers has decided
to liquidate the  isting state fms, sell their movable and immovable assets, settle their
claims, and distribute hir land to worker and tir families All workrs registred on
pay-rlls as of August, 1992 and members of their family, and selected other persons that



A                                          -5s8 -
Page 8 of 12
contributed to the craon of stat fam at their founding are entitled to receive land. Land
wil be distributed on an egaiaian basi to aU entitled persons, regrdes of age and s.
The avge land holding per capa wil be between 0.2 and 0.3 ha.
Th. tota sat farm l    ea is composed, in part, of land originally acquired from
coopertives and of recimed bnd. The Goverment is distributing the land of ex-
cooperative state farms (24 percent of total land) hirough propety rights for former work.
For the remainder (65 pecent of total land) user rights will be given to the work  and their
familes. Another 11 percent of total land wi  main state property and wM contne tD be
manged by exsting joint-venture.
The Naionl Ageny for Restructuring and Privatzation of State Farms created in
Jiuy 1992 witi the Ministry of Agricuue and Food is in charge of the execudon of  s
pogm   The Agency has nominated liquidaton for all state fms. Land com s  have
beon formed in each state farm, at the commune level, and at the dt    level
As of Way 14, 1993, 57 percent (63,840 ha) of the land bad been distributed. We
expect da, following the enacment of the law on the cn   of former lad ownrs,
themaie will be distributed by the end of June 1993.
Fixed ass  and workng capt of state farms are sold, with sales reveues being
utlized to   y loans extended by the Bank for Agdcultur and Dev ment (BAD) to stae
fm  si  July 1, 199. Asets are sold by means of public auctions with a minimum
price, with pref ce given to person eligible fo receiving land. We etmate ta the
combind total val  of s   farms a    equals about Le 2 bilon, of which only up to
Lek 1 bllion is epected to be reived fom auctions to intersted buyes. As of end
Mrch, 1993, state farm assets worth Lek 400 million have been sold, of which Lec 385
million have been tansferred to BAD. The sale of another Lek 300 of assets is epected by
July of 1993, with te mning assets worth Lek 300 miion to be sold by the end of 1993.
Actual payment from dtese sales will be received fully only after about three years due to
credit In-kind a gements fo some sale of assets
Land Reform and land Poley
Our Padiament and our Goverment have given a great priority to land reform.
Threenportant pieces of legisi  have been passed. First, the Land Law was passed on
Juy 19, 1991. It stpulated th  lad previosly belonging to agrdtual coopera  should,
be ditributed toworkers and their famili. As of today, close to 95 percent of the land has
been allocated to some 370,000 resident famili with approxiy 1.2 milLion parcs
beig distbuted. Some 160,000 cetficates of allotn  (tapa) made out to heads of
houeholds have been issued. Second, as mentioned above, the decision bas also been takn
to distrbte sta farm land. Third, the Parliament has passed on April 22, 1993 the IAw of
Compatin of Fm Owners of A          talLand, which allows for tie      ato of
ptevius land ownen of up to 1,000 becae by vouches. The former owner or his hein of
any parcel of 15 hects or less is to receive full compensaton. Addidonal hecar, up to a



-59-                                          2
Page 9 of 12
ma-imum of 1000, are to receive compensaton on a decreasing sce bass, so tat no prior
owner or bis heirs may receive fll compenion on more    46 hecares. The value of
each voucher will be fixed at some fiture date by the Council of Ministers. Ibe new
legisatn o compeon will ensure tht delays caused by diputes about rtutton of
previously owned land will be reduced to a miimum and that investment on the land can
tabe place in a secure eonent
Our Govnment's poicy regarding land reform has been to distribute bld to all
members a cO   p        and state fm, In the interests of speed and equity, ather than try
to prd mine ioptmal fam s for modem mechanized agricultre for distribution to a
seleted few. While our policy has resulted so far in the creation of a large number of small
rm  with a Lmited income potential, we believe that it will soon lead to productivity gains
in the sector.
In spite of the great progress     has been achieved, thee are sti lacna in our
lega famework. The rights and obligdans of owners and users are not yet clearly defined.
Ie law abo needs to define the meaning and implicaons of the rights of users of ex-stab
farm land owned by the State. In tem  of land titlg, although the inFmation on each ht
wil form the basis of registe  titles in ime, as yet, no titles as such exist and no system of
land regisaon is in effecL Meover, we have fitfle expertise in   og, dispaying and
proci  propertyrights.
We have prepared a Lad Market Acdon Plan and a draft Land Registation Act
which coains deiled provions regaring the ansfr, ease and mortgaging of land. Our
Aco Plan is cpreh v and aims at developing over a perod of 4-5 yeas  v g
and mag ap         , opeaing land ritr offices in the 36 Distis of our comtry,
and developing the approprate legl and  gulatory famework for land. We are committed
to the eady enmSent of relevat provisio  of the Land Regtatdon AcL
In respect of legislation permitting the sale, leasig and mortgaging of land, we sha
soon comple our review of the draft Land Regsraion Act and of the draft Civil Code
(Volume I, Book 2). We recognize the need to harmone the tms of fte two drafts in
substntie pvin regarding the sale, lasng and mortgaging of land.
In the near futre, we do not intend to permit the sale or purcbase of agricultu
land which is prohbited by aicde 2 ofte law of July 1991. Sales of  rulura land will
not be allowed uwl a modenn sysmn f land reg8radion   In place. As land   y
systems are establied and land tide documns propedy recorded, the Govement wi
anction sales on an vr widening bas, district by distict, unil tansfers of land
throug t the entre  ountry are pemitted. We beieve that to allow otherwse would
relt: in a chaotic, unregulaktd market which would be open to abuse and unending disputes
over land.
Pending the enactment of general legilation allowing for the sale, leasig and
mortgagig  of land, we saI pre  lslin  pemit  leaLhold interests in all



ANNEX z                                      60-
Page 10 of 12
agricultul land, on an appoprit Interim basis, as soon as possible. We Intend to enact
appropiate   ilation In tis respect no later than end of December 1993. For land which
has been distributed In ownership, we shall en  a I*ndlord and Tenant Act providing the
basis an which the leaing of fomer cooperative land by exiting owners may be
accomplished. For "in use* holdings we shall enact legiaon aimed at turning all "in use
holdings of certa defined types Into Government leases of reasonable, fixed duration;
defining all terms and conditions of such leases In the law, thereby obviating the need for
individual lease contract during this tansitional stage; allowing sub-leases, agan on fte
terms and conditons provide by law; reordig the relat changes to stu and rghts on
the tap of eah Individual 'user, peig  the oficl recording and registration of leases, in
accordancewith the Land Registration Act, once enactd and mplemented; providing ndes
rednghe ath   ometcans son  fleasehold rghts on the occurrence of an event, such
as death or bankrptcy of the lessee or sub-lessee; and introducing provisons dealing with
the valuain of land and wh the mortgagn of leasehold intrests.
It is our intention to hve such transitional legislation repealed and superseded by the
atm    of a sepat Land Law and relevant povisns of a Civil Code, which woud be
opertive as soon as the land registration system is in ple.
Prvatzation of State-owned Marketig and P_ocessng Enterpis and Enablng
Envirnment for the Private Sector
For the state entprs sector, we are committed to a stategy based on dtee pilars
Fit resolution of int r    e arrears. Second, quick  oiva n t be caried out by
the Naiond Agency for Pdovatizatlon (NAP) with prepataty work done by the entrpises
and tie lne minisie  We are stl reviewing the opons to car  out small-scale
prvatzatio as rapidly as possible and we expect to finalize our pva ion famework in
th next few week. Third, technica and fcial sot for restuctrg of selected
enterises, which would be caid out by the som to be creatd   pse Restcing
Agency tERA).
Prvatzato decision concerning state enrprses would be the responsibiity of hie
National Agency for Priatntion. Line ministries would bave the lesponsibilty to formulate
sectl plici    facilitat vati
The oveall objectve of our policy with respect to the enteprise sectr is to
radicaly reorgnize the pbic sector by impoving coqrprae governance and achieing rapid
increases in capacity utlization and production in viable enterprises, and by closing down
unviable e   ises and selling off their assets. We have alady  k  signficant steps h
this direcdon inudig creaing an appropriate legal framework permitting effective
management and reestlishing effecive ownerip and conrl of the entepises; impwving
dte fianc siation of the public sector, including pln for wing off the stock of
acc=urLule debts of statowned farms and enftewises; establishng an unemployment
insuan  system; prepaing buiness plans for the viable state entses and providing



- 61 -                                AN NiX
Pape l of 12
inported inputs and tnical asstance semices to impeoe efficiency and introduce more
buinss-reed  magent.
lhe steowned eitprises belongi  to the agriual mareing ad procesg
sector th  are under the Ministy of Agriculre and the Ministy of Trade are mostly smal
or medium scale enterprises. Moreover, preatory work for their privatzation has already
begun. We theefore expct the process of ownership transfer to be completed soon. We
are commited to priatize a sma  and medium aiclua enteses by March 1994 and,
for large enterprises, to adopt and implement a tmetable of pion.  n the agriutural
trade and processing sector, enterpie restructr-ig befe pa n will be mited to a
very small nunber of cases that will be bandled by the Entepi  Res i  Agency
(ERA). We do not intend to use subsidies for entprise reucing over and above what
will be earmarked for the ERA in the 1993 and 1994 budgets.
Role of the Goverment I     A icut
The aministaIon of the sector needs to be refmed and adapted to ttie market
ecmomy and the role to be played by our Govemment in agricultu  wil need to be
redefined over the medium t  Sm ultaneouisly our administrative capacity needs to be
improved and our staff wil need to be trained. We wi require large amounts of technical
assistnce to achieve our goals.
The main tas  of the public sector In agriculue are the prodauon and
dissemition of staical information on agricultual pductin, prices and markt; the
formulation and implem     of policies for agdriule and natur reources; agricultural
supportseic  for farm    (educaton, research and extension); the appraisal, evaluation
and eecutoin of the public nestment progam for the secr, the opeation and mitance
of the rural infuctur; and developing the legl regulatory and    ie  amework
for human and animal health, hygiene, food standards, pest nmet and eninmental
protecx.
In tfie next two yeans, we intend to concenhtabe on fcilitating the development of hie
private sector in agrcle through leg  and reguatory actons. An acdon plan for public
investment in in        (mainly irrigation and madst and fresh produce, lvestock and
other wholesale makes) will be developed. Specific actons to ensur         safe
use of inputs in agroindustrial plants and measres to certify compliance with vi l
sandards w  be ta. An action program wi be adopted for stat   izations
supevNising the andarization, safet  and inscton, and export and import certfication of
products. It will be necessary to clarify the scope of actvity, product coverage and
implementation instruments of these institions and to prepare the neessary legisation and
Improve equipments and Ldabratries.



Mj.  -~.                                 * 62.-
Pag 12 o 12
Coodinato,  pleento  and Molntoring of the Pgram
In order to coordinate and monitor dt implemenaon f our medium tem progam
of arctu  refom, we will set up in the Ministry of Agictr and Food a special uni
called4grku t Propgn QOfce (APO) under the direct esponsibility of the Minister.
Mh two main fincdons of the APO would be, on the one hand, coordiion, mnitoing
and evauion of the programs pe    ance and, on the other hand, execudve suervision
of the tecical astance programs fmanced by intenatonl donors. no APO wM
coordinatewidi the Dirctorates of the Mistry of Agriculte and with other Minisie and
agencies and seek their Inputs. The APO will be headed by a staff member of the Mistry
having the rnk of Vice Mnister and wil have staff in  rana, suppoted by exteml
consults, and regional teams entsted with the good execution of the program at distict
leveL. The APO will have a Coo ag Committee composed of pesentatives of th
Mnistry of Finance, Ministry of Agriclture, National Agency for nPon, Miistry of
Tade, Misy of Justie and other agencies that ae remn le for the implemenion of
the sctoral progmm.
Your sincerey,
Mfinibtr of Aguicltur and Food                              NO&MGc ad fonommy



ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECrN)R ADJUSTMENT CREDIr
EnIca MIeaw - Aetlo  to be  oitred
L                Boom du* po sirsm        L      dp ofC* dab ld, *                  to heprske a-f *r       o f    oe _ _ s      d
1 da dot,   "  a id does  watoquet fnd   -                            tf fd    dmVaa&d roo ted &  a  (o)w cedto t0  Nab
Fl_ domd p      t ad is  dbmoiep fo                               lia t kif L        Cuvwbes          ol bd tol. de)I In red g= dbe bw
cabfo to         Sm    'ois_f &mWiO p** of }  Se regp*akWa 2S L**
8aot" =Pw                wbdo 14 1Wkg.                         *deo otbwdoewersu                                hd
pdm~ t_r  er   t     a    _dk to a&frI&ntg
Jmay 1993, aslqmto set  OSp               gde 1l diddo_   01m ** ^JONM  M3 
a_d fiom. kpRd of foodfoed _t
4" ~ ~ ~ Xg F*dObk td di5_ v6
* Cotf_m P
(   Cu _dtmof Secoand Trancbe Relse



AL  A        l  * I i tthe Bank               * Council af finid decid    * [(ak  _         r    _      o<f BA,    * Cam o lt *W       of a
tad Ait                                   an      S, 1993, " to                                                  budin"01011    vac t Ot
(BAD) ad creat te           banko autsanb* bad hlm  to               of            e s11 tbe new Aa
ApIculftuutBack as a vible  "s  aitopis  as of 1ue 30,    .Orp&e det as d   ns. 30,1992; ob)              e 
mini Financial Intenm  OA 2.87 bio m) und                                  sae sterpe loansIsd_p   al(           d
paviding csdita thinwa      clea   of hebaok debt aid    e   dea  bee Ja4 1,1992 MId Sum            Pd        n   _
ma adi rua                  Imance of bafbs.               30, 1993; (c) wadwn of beaig
a*op*_m                                                    lm  mAe by de famser Sat-e MDI- of
F,.um Mne e)         w     to a          _sc_   S
sance ol daL ese by do Bank et         trainng  (
Bai4hs on   nsas oflsl 1,193
fina "Wb  d  a
(S)k ,                 l D    G
* TechnIcal Assistame Psiole AM
btarte ha Fgor te tw.
haZ sin .aleo branc Wasdo
_b - _ & . '
* T aconing
rA6w*d nd                                      Shodd 13_i 
* Todi4 of to  of Boa dR fi    aa o                             a
in_(0_ Cod on.    kn  oid
* NO   seom a ed _ul-X 
Smt&Wfr dBtl b  bond  bond 81 "Worso 
COCo_nof Ibard Phkoto
Coufb of Seon TIhe Rdret



L4ddwm   SW$ hm bad a   * Ngatkm mn" a Juyi*
kmmnudot )             ko                                                      s ut  mat be
U~~~~~bI                     Dwli#  t_o dEJ a soft    atwDXlwolpl_  t l_   fE
.~~~~~~~~irW  d 3         a 0  1O *#sf_b
* Dis*hadSpumiof
*.e Iau of bmm ii. ha
*  _bi  suM by adi.
IV. flm  m  * a        st.adm    * Dr         Ch <umu    f                                 * E    at tkadoim
ad                                  d b   hdh                                                           fawer          .
Psimwaak  * Aflsw Inr do pon"il  D* t1Law .t lAnd                                                   ofWdIU OIu5S" I
*f amd     oomosddide it                                                                  due tbin  hhof
Fon ar Owner af   It
0   CmUumElsuwdbmm.idl.m          Jded i
~ COMiMO of Owmi 1kumk Sde



.01
v. hwa_zfi       Pridva  Ia1 qpiadul       N81on A      X*  bf 4oitlg    oa4wdn  b                               do w- er14       t ON
of 986               oldpmomw                                        "go W    ^__ 41010,41mo_   ,       _bs
*Wd                                                                9Mia_                                ^_ km gm 
Aukubag      way.                              law                                 Gsdu              * C olplJaihstaf
0LawanSI*                                                            N  Sto            mbik           l     le in       IDA lbe
_ "09mbs                                mmobd in Jum Oft              6V W P .                 do
V* Vaoa of sIiN.g umbrn
of a( piaksi aui  and   * A        wbhMdu uaira lm .do.1993
.rocmainp aut AM-0 emf ird.d     for otWe equbs Made 1b9 1              l*            M
.obeamlulveq bD         b de  m al   eqr cbm pdnlew of LII  s"
* A eZd of 190 Mka,% SA ON 1-- siado. at la4. bhn                        &Au to be dr
*ivo bw  hon* %                    lab d 19  tar __      d     e       * Ior m  b_
ph-        in                  paa. b t     19* t,r
* MefAuraiulUmiako
Trado t   Do on so"   orn     k _ _dnr
V*rd eeMis            ht of . PenEdiz    aE
.            .                    ~     ~ ~~           ~~~~~~agdulti _ .etr  .w .o~diSsa
Moalloufug   of  Urn 1Suh andes
CS)CAndihanof Sea"mi Tra       Re.eut



pap lof 1
AGE~gnu3 ftr Ai  n V3WA
OLr xx  rO              POcg   zm
1. f TnMll      pWlol m. .........*.... *e                    wo*s
2. Pzep$ad by ......... ....qy of AgtcIuMsu      Food &
.......    ....... SMh y oioa    nd Umomy wit IDA AdNM
6. PkDlae S. fBUwm  ................ . . N. bvngb lm
7. LApp  ow Dva                    ...
7. Istof _e Z 1 lCRod         ! A



-69-                                       J&ZL
ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SEYR ADJUSTMEN CREDIT
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
(As of May 25, 993)r
USS llla
cam    Find                                                       (AS ~aCufliiom)
NO.    Yew       Borrow                   Pnd                           Unid
2404    1992 I  GovL of baa  Citdcal Impo  PojMect                41.1         35.4
2461    1993   GovL of Albm     Rural Pwerty Allaion Plo Pject    2.4           2.1
2492    1993   GvtofJAbnia TlechnicaAstmncPo  onomic              4.0           4.0
Raibms b
1993   Govt of AJba     Tanort Priect'                   18.0          1.0
ToSLd  6s5
Of which Rad:   0.0
Toaldnowhelddby do Baur   65.5
Totl Amo  Sold:   0.0
Of which Rad:   0.0
Total undidbuiM                59.5
a  T*     a of Gm proet is durlbed in a  peparate pot on al Bak/IDA financed poject i  utla.
whi I up*dad twice yeaIy and cibuld to tdo Execuiv Dizct  on Aprl 30 and     31.
b  Not yet eftv&
4:s3.^' -*.v.. .FC".* ¢



-71 -                                  . 6
Page l of S
ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSIMENT CREDIT
IST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
Govemment of Albania, Mnter   l      Monetary Fund and World Bank, 'Medium
Team E    mic and Facial Poliy Framework Paper, 199396," May 1993
-     World Bank and Euoe  Communty, An  gig1Ifl S== for Albani&
pubihd by the World Bank, Washington, D.C., Ocoaer 1992.
-     Government of Albania, "Albana's Mc     mi Reforms," report prested by
Mr. Genc RuJi, Minister of Fnance and Economy at the 0-24 Conferce on
Agriculte, Tirana, November 18-19, 1993.
-  Govenmentof Albania "L Cadre politique do d6veloppement de l'agricWultre,*
rport preeed by Mr. Reaxep Uka, Mbister of Agriture and Food at the 0-24
Confence an Agriculture, Tuaa, November 1849, 1993.
-         {Govennt of Albania, External Assnce Needs for Agricultue," report
pented by Mr. Llazar Kora, Vlce Minister of Agricuire at the 0-24 Coferce
on A, 1a, November 18-19, 1993.
-     Commission of the Eurpean Community (0-24 Secretai), Fia Declario   of te
p ants at the 6-24 Meftg of the Pfincipal Donors on Agriclture and Food Aid
In Abania, Brussels, F}uay  26, 1993.
-    law No. 7491 oan the M4jor Constutional Prwisions, 29 April 1991;
-    Law No. 7501 on the Land, 19 July 1991;
-     Law No. 7512 on Sanctioning and Protecdon of Private Propr, Free  itiatve of
Indepede  PriPvae Actvities and Privaizain, 10 August 1991;
-    Law No. 7520 an the Bank for Agriutre and Devdopment, 16 October 1991;
- Law No. 7S60 on the Bank of Albania 28 Apr 1992;



6paggx                                     072-
*    law No. 75M on  e Oon and Functiovng of Local Goverment, 10 June
-    law No. 7582 on Sat Ederpdrs, 13 July 199;
Law No. 7594 on Forei  Invesment, 4 August 1991;
-    law No. 7631 on the Bankuptcy of State EnterpIses, 29 October 1992;
-    law No. 7652 on the Privataton of Stae HosIn 23 December 1992;
*    law No. 7672 on an Addition to Law No.7652 on t  Psiv  on of State Housing,
11 Fbmy 199;
-    law N. 7699 on the Com ation of Former Ownes of Agriculural Land, 21
A.V  1993;
Ber  No. 22 of the Presdent of ft  Republic of Abania onFtal
Disposits, 15 Augus 1991;
*    Deroo  No. 38 of the Pesden of the Republic of Albania on Some Anment to
law No. 7377 (B May 1990) on the Albaian Stae Bank and Law No. 7378 (8 May
1     on the Ag*ctul Bak 20 Stmber 1991;
ikeec  No. 266 on Law on the State Budget of the Republc of Albaia, 22 July
3M;
-    Deer.e No. 7493 on the Albaian Comei Ban  1 December 1990;
-    DeisIos  No. 230 of the Council of Mniste  on the Co tlo of Land Commi
23 Jry 1991;
-    Deosio N. 255 of tbe Counci of Mini  on he Ctria for the Distribution of
de Ariutual Land, 2 Augu  1991;
-    Doddon No. 256 of the C£ouni of Mnisters on Reguai  for the Registrto,
Nificinsin the land Situation and Cadaste Duties, 2 Augus 1991;
-    DedsoW  No. 266 of the Councl of Mnies on the Division of the Prety in
Apicuitmi Coopeatives, 8 August 1991;
M    Dedsion No. 282 of the Council of Mini    on the Cdtera of Valuing te State
P gpmty to be Pdvatzed and the Leasing of the Assets which are given in use to
7W PtIes, 25 June 192;



- 73                                   MM A N
Page 3 of5
-     DoDeison No. 307 of the Counci of Minsts an Duties and Rights of the National
Agency of Privatiation and the Prpanatory Commission of the P zation Proces,
29 August 1991;
-     Deci onNo. 362 of the Council of Ministers on Citeria of Evaluation of the Stae
Property to be Privatzed, 23 Setember 1991;
-    Decision No. 364 of the Coundl of Miste  on the Rent for the Land that s given
for Buildn  to Legal and Physical Persons, Albaians or Poreigners, and for th
Price of the Non-Agcutural Land that is sold to the Albanians, 5 October 1991;
-    Deaddon No. 4S2 of the Councl of Mlsen on theestRucturing of Agrcultu
Enterprises (State Farms), 17 October 1992;
-    Deciion No. 526 of the Council of Min s an the Purchs Pric by the State of
Ariculturl Products, 11 December 1992;
-    Decision No. 116 of the Conmcil of Minsters on the Purchase Price by the State of
Sugarbeet and the Lberli   of Agricltual Pri, 13 March 1993;
-    Decsion No. 1033 of the Councl of Miistr on fte Coverage of Outsanding State
nterprise Debt with Bans, 8 April 1993;
- iinstcton No. 2 of the Councl of Mnisterson the Functioning of Lad
Commissions in the Executive Cmmittee of the Districts and Villages, 2 August
1991;
-        Qnstructio No. 3 of the Council of Ministers on the Work Oranizai  and
mplemtation of the Tason fom State Ownehip to Private Ownership though
Auctin, 30 August 1991;
-     Instruction No. 16 of the Ministry of Finance and Economy on Resuion and
Compensaton of the Confiscated Prperty of the Ex-Polidcal Psns and Poitcal
Depoted that have been freed, 8 August 1992;
Addm  P-Lces
-    Mnistry of Finance and Economy, Price Directorate, Countrpart Fund Prices and
Stat Enterpis Mgins for Food Aid Products, January 1993.
-     Commission of the Euopean Commun, -24 Food Asessment Mision R;poz%
JuirfJuly 1992.



A~flhIZ1                                   -74.
Pae 4 of S
1EC-PEARS Consultant, Food Aid Commodities: Needs, Stocks, Shipments and
Donor IoImit ents by food product for July 1992-July 1993, Food Aid Moitoig
(Miniry of Trde), Marc 1993.
*      Stmucure of the Alaian Banidng System and Orniion of the Banks in a Marbet
Eonomy*'; study by Price-Watrhouse to te Albanin Govrnmen 1and the World
Bank, Wasinglon, Apdl 1993
-      Albadan Bankr Establ4sn an Accounting Framework'; report by Coopen &
Lybrad to EBRD, London, Marc. 1993
-     StudWy on the sturan of the Bank for Agriutr and Deveopment as of November,
1992; consultant report to lhe World Bank, January 1993
Ils of Ranches and Agences of the Savings Bank with cing deposits
offered for tr-nsfer Into he new Agdrculaal Bank, haua, March 1993; Respone
and              Proposal by Bank for Agitm   and Development, Tiana
April 1993; Memoandum of Undernmding betwen the Bank for Agriculture and
Dvelopment and h Saigs Bank on the transfer of 28 branches and agencies om
de Saving Bank Into te new Agicultural Bank, Tana, May 1993
..1.
*st of outsanding stat etprs las of the Bank for Agrietur and Developme
sof July 31, 1992 (by enrr  and district, by loan maurity); Tha,  January
1993
Pan for  nnial  tg  quo) of the Bank for Ag te and
Devep, including draft Charter and By-laws for the new Agricultui Bank,
prepated by the        t of the bank, Taim, May 6, 1993
-   rLetta by the Bank of Albania to the World Bank, cofiming that the codto  for
Is_ne of a bank licens to the new Agricultural Bank will be fulfilled by July 1993,
Uzon,   ay 10, 1993
-     Opatng Predures of the Revolving Credit Account witiin fte Bank for
Agditre and Deovelpment under the EC-PEARE progam, Trman, December
1992; it of loans finaned under the Revolving Credit Account as of May 14, 1993
lIerim repor on credit poicies, on supervsion, acoouing and  ageme
Inform-i sysems (MIS) submitted to the World Bank by the technica   nce
team suportig the Bank for Agdcute and Development, Twana, Febrny-Apri
1993



-75-
Pae S Of S
-     4oAgement between the Minity of Finance and Economy and the Bank for
Ariult  and Davelopment conceing on-lending of budge resour  to
benelicia   Im t  Inputs under die Crical hmports Poject; T1a, November
11, 1992
&le Farnn
4 Apisystem(Ovrs) Ltd., Albaia: Agricutiur Productio, Repo  submitted to
EC-PHAlE for the prpartion of the Agriculture Sector Adjusment Pamme,
December 99.
Nadond Agency for Restuctuing and Rehabiltaton of State Farms, Mny of
Agriculture and PooJ, Status of Distribution of State Farm Land by District as of
March 26, 1993.
Nlatonal Agency fo Rd ig and Rehabiliion of State Farm, Mnistry of
Agr4dulueu and Food, Credit e tded o Stae Farms by District as of Marh 28,
1993.
Ld bft
Land Markbt Action lan for Albania, prpared by the Land Tenure Center of th
Unirity of W isconsn with tie Land Research nstite  of Albania, 8 March 1993;
Land Registretion Act and Land Regis   Rules and Forms, Seod Dra,
preae by Pro. Singer, conslt to the Land Tenur Center of th Univeiy of
Wiconsin, March 1993
Civil Code of Albnia, Volume I, Books 1-4), Prinary Draf%, prepared by Prf.
Gianniara Ajani, consultant to the Intnational Monetary Fund, June 1992
-     list of the 442 Stat Enterpdses under the Control and Supersion of the Ministry of
Agiclture and Food
Coopers and Lybrad (Paris), Albania: Pdrvatso of the Food Proces   industr,
Report submittd to EC-PHARE for the ppation of the Arcutu  Sector
Ajjusit PrgrammeDecember 1992.
Agrsses (Overseas) Ltd., Abania:A                        Report submitted
to dte BC-PHARE Emegency Aid Prgrmme, February 1993.



Pae 1 of 4
ALBAIA
AGRCMTME SECOR ADJUSIMN CREDIT
D0PENTATION l!PLAN
Apprx. Dates            Activty                          ipeeng Agn
5193        Set up and staff APO                       MOA
5/93        Prepare terms of ref_rene for
TA pmgams                                  APO ant othrs
7193        Send tem  of refence for TA                APO
progamsto W1A/BC for review
9/93        Reruit conutants for TA                    APO
programs
9/93        Prpare and issu firt quaWerly              APO
montorngreport
10/93       Send list of elected conslats              APO
to IDABC for vetg
12/93       Prepare and Issue second quarty            APO
monitoring report
6/93        Start  emet of                             PT
conulant servce for AD
6193        Set up pr        and                       P
dibrsmn arageet
accri  to Opeonal Manual
93-96       P      n  and diursement                   PIU
ativites on-going under te thr e
components of prect
93-94       Staff aining progmm                        FU



PaZ 2 of 4
Food Aid and Prftn
693         Arge auctions and pp    biding             MOT, MOA
procedures for food aid imports
6/93        Ppare aucton procedures for                MOA
agicultural inputs and credit
arrangements wMit BAD for credit
to famer
7/93        Prare terms of reference for                 ov t
Nutridonal Survey and Hosehold
Expenditure Survey; recruit consultants
10/93       Adjust CP  prices                          MOP
10/93 to    Carry out Nutdtional Survey and            Govenment
2/94        Household           Survey:
1194        Adjust CPP pices                           MOP
3/94        Adopt eCommndatins for betre               Govement
targetng to vulnerble groups under
reformed Social Assisanc system
4/94        Adjust CPF prices                          MOP
5/93        Send plan for liquiatio of BAD and         MOP, BOA
legal eslishmt of the Agrbicu
Bank (AB) to IDA for review
6/93        Send d    ea on on licensing of            BOA
new AD and legal opinin to IDA for review
6193        Prepare terms of reerence for              BADIAB
consultat services for AB
7/93        BOA to issue lisem  to AB; sepae          BOA, MOP, AD
acoumts of BAD and AB
7-8t93      Pmalize and sign Subsidiary                MOP, AD
Agreement for bnvement Compont
(condition of disburt)



-79-                                  A
POp3 f4
8/93        Consultants to start work in AB;           AD
Independent Lending Unit to be set up
within AB (condition of disbursement)
8-9/93      Management and consultants to draft        AS, PIU
techical specifications of office
equipment
9193        Begin implementation of rgzon              MOA
program of the Stastcs Department;
recruit and train staff
9193        Set up and staff Price and Market          MOA
Monitoring Unit. Prepare business plan
and work program.
9193        Set up and staff Policy Analysis Unit;     MOA
reCUit short term consultts;
begin taning progam for staff.
by 3/94     Prepare Study for the Reform of            MOA
Agricultural Extension and Support Svices
for Farmers.
by 3/94     Prepare fracwork for negoaons betwoee      MOA
growers and agroindusries and subsectoal
price/trade policy framework
by 3/94     Develop plan for reform of health nspection,   MOA
food quality control, consumer protecton
and environmental standards for food industry.
by 3/94     Prepare Public Investment Program for      MOA
agricultural and food market infrastructure
LiqdaoState Es
5-12/93     Continue program of land distribution      SPA
and sale of assets of state farms
5/93        Submit detailed plan and implementaton     SPA
timetable for liquidation of ste farms,
distribution of user rights to beneficiaries
and sale of assets to IDA.



hICi72                                      -80-
Page 4 of 4
3/94        Complet liquidaton of stae farms,          SFA
distribution of land and sale of asse.
93-94       Manage joint venture ageements             SPA
93-96       Imlment Land Market Action Plan            MOA
94          Adopt LaW on Land Regtion and              MOA and
Civil Code (Volum  I, Book 2)             Jusdce
12/93       Prepare interim leggislation allowing      Government
for leaig  of land on cooperative
and state farm land; submit to IDA for
review; and adopt legsation
6/93        Finaize compoensive saegr fo               Goverment
Satowned Entrpises
7/93        Finalize plan for inter-enteps             MOP, BOA
atrears                                   and bao
7/93        Adopt poicies and prooedures for           Government
privaation of small and medium
nerrie (SIE)
793 to      Cary out prepator work for                 MOA, NAP
3/94        privatization of SMEs in the
3/94        Adopt dmetable for pri on of               MOA, NAP
large sste enises under the MOA
3/94        Puivatize all SMEs in the agdeultural      MOA, NAP
marloeting and procesing sector
9/93        Prepare support program for private SMEs   ESU and pivate sector
in agulual processing and markt



Pape 1 of I
AGRICULTURE SEcrOR ADjuSTMEN CREDIT
SUPRIINPLAN
Estiate Schdul ofIODA Suevismion- Misslon
9410193     Th't Sueriio   ission
(Review SWar-up of policy prograr -'Vlw star-up of TA progams WIth
APO-, review imlmnaInof TA. progrm  for the Agiulual ak rview
sotup of procurement/disbursement arrngmetswith  Vflterf hmalhmmnt
of condhions offor the investment component)
2-3194      Seconad Supervisin PMisson
Review of Tnh,Rdeles Condito
(Review progmam Imlmntto progress and verify fulfilmuent with
conitinsof seond ace eease; review  prourmet" and
statu; review progres with Imlmnaiof TA progamrs; supevis sub-
Mman under investment component)
7-8/94      ¶biard Suprviio Misin
(Reiew prorm Imlmnainprogress review Imlmettinprogress of
TA progrmrs; revLFiew   Aprourmet and dstifsbusee  status sprvs sub-
loaas under investment component)
12194       Fourth Spvionmission
(Review prorm  Fmlmntto  9Mprogress; review imlmn taIo progres of
TA pWrgrms supervis sub-loams under investment copnn;review
proueetand dirbusement staus discuss impact anlssand compledon
report for quick-disursing component)
1995        TWO Sue!so Misin
(Supervise sub-loans under Investment componet)
199         One BankSurisoMsin
(Supervise sub-loans under Invesftment component and discuss premtada of PCI)



-83 -                                           NZ
ALBANA
AGRICULTUR SECIOR ADJUSMENT CEDIT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINMRY OF AGRICULTURE AND FOOD
AND OF TRE AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM OMCE (APO)
'    Z    ! ~    ~       Gaw
D      hectorate fwr i o          or       Dfctort fwr          D mtIt f
Affairs        Produciordcuow                       ~     - 
. .    P_. _    Rzoule    ~~Food _iufy
APO
- .                  .    ..   ..   .
PrWs OordtV nd oA
APO Staffing. Th AMO Directo baa te rak of Vice WMinite ad meports diretly o toe Wmindw. To
MPO. locte in tdo Mmi*ity of Agricultue, opeafte with Albania and ftorg staff hinuding 8 01s AMvlu
and an Aid Coordinatio Advise (bot foreig cunsutunta). Upon apprval of the Minstdw, sdud itim   oeign
advisers finane by danms wil be recmited for diot term or long ftem  =p mban pa of fth APO bta
leoae in tho General Directorate of doe miistry (oosWltate fr laud policy prvtisatio  pricing for
arclueand agroindustry; credit poftc  uSc) Adaditoa staff, Albanian or toreiga, wil be recuit  as and
when needed to acco    mplis specific tUs[
APO FaumcIoum  Th. functons of APO are (1) policy coordination and monitoring of the progrm&s
p erfarmance a nd (2M ordnto of all fbrslpnsasistane prQgmai  While pQject and pvogrm finanle by
donors (IDA, EC-PH E USAD. PAO, WAD and bilae  prgams) we mand by unt opaftig in to
I         of to Minsy, td  APO Dietor wi tbe asistance of it Agxlin ad forig sta _
respomibl for do  cutive supeDrvsin adbcdian of allI or md fo
detai of td APO   wctions moiao widt go Gdea D irecot,   sdt     equiei        mts dosg   te
consutant quirns^uts, rang needs for Alban=a staff, opeating cotsu and equipmwaent nedswe describd in
to knin plax of the A(o.



- 85 - 
ALBANr&
AGRICULTURE SECrOR ADJUSTMT CREDIT
TECINIMCAL ASSISTANCE PROGPtM
AGUCUTUAL PROGRA   OFFICE
Forig Consltats for the APO including:
*     Chief Adviser (EC-PHARE)
*     Aid Corinato Adviser (PAO under lian Trust Fund)
*     Other Consultants (to be determined)
FOOD AiD PROGRAM
*   BSFood Aid Progmm             Resdent Advse (EC-PHARE)
*     Consultant Servic  t st   Food Aid P          pnon, 
needs aLsmem; monly motiring of food aid smens or          an of
ucns; tndering of contractswith private sectr pricing for state
entrises (stage, handig, tranport milling and bag); alocaton of
food aid to poor disticts (EC-PHARE and G-24)
*     Household  enditure Sunrey and Nutritional Assessment of the Popton
(n      nation with IDA Social Safety Net Develpment Proect)
DEVLOPMENT OPAGPCULTRAL MARU7
*     Development of the Pivate Cereals Mafrting Netwok (BC-PRAJE)
*     Distribution of Agricultual Inputs (IDA Critcal Imports Prect, EC-PAE
Programme)
1NS12TONAL SUPPORT FOR TEJ MNIS7RY OF AGRICUTURE
*     AgriAcul     Sistics (USAJD)
*     Monitoring of Prices and Markets (USAID)
*     Policy Analyss (USAID and others)
*     Foestry and Naural Resources (IDA project)
*     Irrigation (IDA project)
*     Study of the Reform of Agricultural Extension and Support Sewrices ¢w
Fames (to be determined)
*     LIVestock Subswctor Review (PAO)
J/    Todaial AsistB PFm        in wpport of tfip   of ft ASicultual A4ustand Propgm
Gom mhb IDA* EC-PUE, USAIIor other biltel or mldtlateal dowoo



A O                                 -86.
Pag 2 of 2
*     Health imensta Reion ons and Slty daContr   donsueo Proo tecti (to be
*     Preparation of Publc Invesment Program for the Developnt of A ltu
and Pood Markltrasuctr (to be determined)
UN  POLICY
*    Prepaaion of Inteim Legiation on Leasn of Lan (IDA)
*    Land Maket Action Plan, including (a) surve* g and nmpimg; (b) set up
land regsty and distict-level land regs  offices; (c) titing; (c) public and
private land manageent (EC-PHARE; USAl; UK Knww Now Fund; IDA)
FRI VA  ATO0NAAD PiVATE SECUOR DEVELOPMEN
*     Policies and Procedures for the P     of Small and Mldum-scde
nterprises (IDA)
*     Support for Pzvaiaton of Sta Enterises unde the Mnisty of
Agitu, including enterpi valuatin (IDA)
*     Support for  Piaton of Stat Entps  unde the Mistry of Trade,
ncudin engterprie vluation (IDA)
-Support to Pivate Sector Enterpies (Busa s Advisy Savices) in
Agriultural. Processing aNd Martetng, inclug   on    fancial
managementand pon of busness plans (EC-PHA1A  USAID)
- Development of Subsectol Price and Trad PoHy Famework, including
comeial negotiations betwees groweRsper and food industdes (to be
deemined)
iNTTUTrIONAL DEVJMOPMENT OF TE AGRICULTURAL BANK
*     Fnancal Mnduding cash                       asset &  iabes
management, financial planing and budget  (IDA)
*     CredIt PoHqy, Procedures and Superision (IDA)
*     Cdit Review, Loan Ca   d Prioning, and Credit Ris
Management (IDA)
*     Saings and Resource Mbition (IDA)
*     Accoundng and Management nfomaio Sysems (IDA)
*     Human Reurces Developmet and Tining (IDA)
*     Eterna Audit of Financial Statements (IDA)
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
*     Rura Povt Alevaion Pgram (IDA, EC-PHEARE, IFAD and ote)
*     Revovig Credit Acu  (BC-PHARL)
*        aOthr Credit Lines



-17 -                                    ANNf.1
Pag 1 of 22
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
APPRASAL OF THE AGRICULTURAL BANK
L Tim FDINc[L SEcTO w   ALAK
A. Ia, La dRegulatoryftemework
1.1 B=&n husaa . Tme emege    of ommerW bakn  Institos, as separe lg
entl  with a cusomer bas   d staff separae fom the Cetal Bank, Is a renot ti
Albania  Baed on Law No. 7491 of Apl 29, 1991 on the   aiConl P, 
Sta Bank of Abania (aer asformed inlo the Bank of Albania (BOA), tho Cald Bank) ws su-
divided into  u bank: th Nationd Bank, the Albai  Commercial Ban, th Saving Bak (SB),
ando Bn for inuAgi re and Deveopmet (BAD). Eah of thes bank was ceatd through
indi   l laws. 7he rsective leg  bass fr BAD s Iaw No. 7520, dated October 16, 1991.
ArtIcb 1 of this law deis BAD as a banking  stiutio  Ardcle 9 peIfie that Is autord
capia of Lek 450 mlio I being hed by th Stat. Practically, th Ministry of Fane and
conoy (O) holds th effe            control over BAD.
1.2   Mm supply offin;anil srile by the formal bankg sector Is severly costined by a
gnad inabli of th stat bank to reod to a growing credit demnd by th pivate sector.
Baker under t  c aly-pbled economy were me bookeepes, trnsfebg budget fds to
state eeprdses. her wre no hard budget constraints and tereor no need to assess borwer'
credit-ortiness and abity ID ra a loan  Now bank face th need for radical cge as ty
convet tem s  hto   den            desomar    olvd In al aspS    of financial
(Le. allocatin of crodk, pricing of loans, risk   , pmotion of saving
mobiliaton, assets and iabile mna     ). Cqu            ere b an urgent need for maiw
staff training and te    assistance   all bans in order to close the gap betwe  the prevus
centaly.controlled bank    system and a system of efficit finacial In      in a free-
entePr-ise reshm 
13   Legal Stas of Bns. On Aprl 28, 1992, Parliament pased te Law for the Bankng
System of Albania' (Law No. 7S60) which defines a two-ter baking system, with th Bank of
Alani being asigned the rol of h Cental Bk sein banks atthe second level. lie law
specifios, Ier a, bank licensing, bank d i      antd ownesip, Operational     n  for
ba    (inci       fee    to prdent   baing regula ), and auditing and rprti
requirement. Article 61 In the fal povis   of this law defines    prvxo laws dt  establshad
*t  Alban Commercial Bank  id th Saing Bak are  spended by the new Banking aw, thus
placig both bab und  die proviins of that law. Following an explicit decsion by Pariment,
BAD is not menond hI Artcle 61, whIch Impe that s resctive legal basis (Law No. 7520)
remains In effc   T merge of th National Bank and the Albania Commercial Bak as of
Jamu   1993 creaed a new National Commerci Ban (NCB) whkh received a license fm the



hp  2 of22
Bsn of Albana and I by defal plaed uxde    Bakn law. Curty, BAD I the ony bak
In county with hts own legal framwwork otsde dhe Banking Law and, threore,. w4ithot suparvsio
by th Bank of Albna
1.4   Intere   as. Minimum        sates fbr dpoit ad lending operatbns of bank ae set
by BOA. Bank ar free to pay hih  dposit rs and crp   rer len              rats, w    BOA
ling the avep iWntrt  ad to 7 percent fr each  slt     M         m  ierest rawes as of
Apr 1993       been In effect since July 1992 and re h     In table 1. In prctce, al baks se
thi hnt     ates at ths mininm  rates sic commerclal bank_ig concep  such as rIk-based
piig of lo are not yet applied In comparison with oanu  nlatio during 199226 perce),
A of hes rates wee dearly negative In  a ems at ther Inoduction hI mid-1 . howev,
at Iflaon  vels prevaiig during he gfist quartor of 1993, coming down from 6.8 percen during
to month of Januay to only 0.8 percent for March 1993 and to a negadve levwl In Aprl 1993, A
deposit and lndig  tes have readied hbW     posive ea Il s. BOA s committed to  su  th
bilmum Interest rates wiU be kept In lin wth Ifla
ITAU1: STaucruRE OP I hu   RATs (M mK  ANJUAL alnS, S   APo            L 1993)
Dasud Deposh       (ImMduuli a Ind Pews) ...   3%
S_iu o Dqou        OadId) ..4 .       . .. .   3%
Iliza. Dup,uIts    Gadividuab) .............
3 mouff    ..........  18%
6 mati......... .  2S%
n2u.            32%
LwUMo RATin 
Up t.Smond. ................  25%
3 to 6 iustn   ..........   .....  32%
6 to 12 moan  .................     .  39%
1 tSwysu   .........      .....    40%
3 to5y... ...  .............  42%
*  ENaywldWiwab    .dpeimbrwiiW   mmnm faM lwrat  3%.
PeAlAy  an adu mount 1 wpa o tvins d o    ha. utmosI d     rats
1S   Ba*(xg Regato   BOA Is cureny In t  proce of ing      elements of banig
regulaion  bad on te provisions of h Aprdl 1992 Banin  Lw. Ihe banig  Pervisio
dq_rn   witbh  BOA was only establshd In AuS  199, sIn  banig regulation was not an
m under te previous ceally-cotold fiacil  sem. In November of 1992, BOA ssued
a AMt rglaory cica seng capial adequa  standards at 8 percent of rik-wvitd asseu in



. 89 -                       ~~~~~ANNEX1
Page 3 of 22
n wfith te Bas  Accord. As of March 1993, baaro also  qred to respect igle and group
borower eposure lmits. For BAD, hes are   at 2 pere   tt   equity for single borrows,
whib ouhttding loans to groups of borrwers may not exaed 50 percen of equity and 10 percent
of tDot oUtsding loans. BOA   curently draftin regulaon addng      classifcand
loa bss provisloning rqirements. These will so be In ne wi inteatonal stanards, call
for provisions of 20, 50 and 100 percent of th  oal outstanding loan amoxt for substandard,
doubtfo  and lost loans, respetvey. Loan classflcaton will be based on the aging of a-rars,
avaable collateral, and th genera flnancil son  of the borowe. Purthr rogulat  currently
being drafted deals wit lmi on open faoig currenc positions and will cadl fbr a lmit of S
peren of equity in the cas of BAD.
1.6   Concerning resee ruire     s for bant deposts, BOA  req      bak hold 10 percent of
deposi in local cuurency and 100 percen of foreig curreny depodts with BOA. With assistae
fom the 1MP, BOA developed a reportng system reqirn  bank to prowvide monthly balanc sheets
and Infrmati  on their open forei  excag position. BOA also expects to rweeve, as of mid,
1993, quarterly information on banks' hnome  oments, on heir compli           wih credit
conce    on limi and on banb' loan portflis sucred In lne with upcoming loan
clasificaton stdards. Howver, banks will n  be able to comply Afl  wh these reportng
requiremet before substatl upgradig of thi accounting and MS systems has occurred.
S. Rural iluaa Serie
1.7   CedDa mand. Following the rapid dolutionof e-c        ves ad th nealy completed
disibion of st  fam lad, dmand for agricultural cret by h new private faming sector 
very strong. Fam s urgnty need access to cedt in order to purcha p   such as ftIlizer,
sees, and pestcdes.        E       th     i stU     demand for agricultual 
equipn, mostly small tooklsa th  as of idivilfarms. BAD branches as rprt
incring demand for nvestme  loans by private anfn' asocatons, most of them with
con*ned areas of about 25 ha to 50 ha whr the use of mo Invesmen b m suchas aors and
trnpoequintis econo          yjustified. With rig demad fbr nps and eupment by tie
farm sectora         support servie such a taWe and tsport enterprises also seek financa
resorcesto be able respond to tee new busie  oppot     .
1.8   Accurate esdmates of toal credt needs, of actual demand for loans, and of the poldon of
fincially viable loan demand are arenty not avaiale, given the underdeveloped status of
infmon tchnolob   and data collion In Aban bans. Prelimtuy surveys conducted among
mangers of all 27 branches of BAD in Mach 1993, hower, reteal t  the bak expect about
Lek 2.5 bilion (US$ 22 miUlon equale) in ncamen  loan demand by the privae farm sector
over a period of 12 moths, not ncudn loan demand by the agroproceng seor, traders and
othr   icultural services. BAD branche also reported tua only about 50 percent of evoad and
approved loa applications durng th first quarter of 993 received fia appv  due to the acute
shortag of funds ma ib to the bhaL
1.9  Abfom    Qid.  Cuntly, baking services In rural  es are provided In part by th
infoma fiaci sector. Taders, frers ad smal                 receiv Credit fromn    tives,
neighbors, and finds, generaly witout Interest chrgs. Ther i al  an Iceasing  well



A NNXU                                       .-90-
Page 4 of 22
organed group of non-lceused fincial intermediaries collecting excess liquidity from individuls
and bndg for short-term credits; ntres rates on these loans, observed in March 1993, reach up
to 1S percent per month (above 400 percen per year).  t is likely that informal financial
intermediation wM contne to play a signficat role In tie near future until the formal banking
sector will have Inreased the efficiency of Its operations and be able to provide services to fth rr
areas of te country.
1.10  Bant Qedt. Due to Its substnoietworkofral agencies and the technial erti in
apprang agicur-relaed projects aong some of its staff, BAD will, after is liquidation and
transformation into the new Agriculural Bank, be the predominant bank to providefinancl service
for agdcultural and other productive rural activities. Although itialy it wil mainly serve as a
window for on-lendig resources provided by inteational donors, the new Agricutural Bank wil
in1creaingly be able to colect rual savins and to trasfer them to ural investors. The efficiency
of the bank's services wl be promoted tirough the gradual tafer of its capital into privae
ownershp, possil on a coopative basis. Th ba's mission will be to serve the finacial needs
of Its rural owM   and customers, based on commrcal principles to assure fmancial sustanailty
ofits operations. Te bank's dientle will comprie medium- and large scae enterprses In variou
sectors of the rural economy, including trade, transport services, large farms and fams'
associatons, agroprocessing entpris, and oher non-agricula   sectors.
1.11 Imentaaonal Donors. An imortant share of agricultural credit Is expected to be made
available by  nnional donors. Under the IDA-finaced Criical Imports Project (CIP), a total
of Lek 1 bilLion (US$ 8.8 miMlon equWalent) in credits is being offered since April 1993 through the
BAD network to famer and traders who purchs imorted agulural input. Agricultural lend
under the Revolvn Credit Account (RCA) of the EC-PHARE program, set up witin BAD, I
xpectedIto equal about CU 3.5 millon (USS 4.3 millon) durng the net ree years. Bilaral
lie of credit for agicu l Imports, chanmled through the National Commercial Bank (NCB) and
financed by the Govenments of Greece and Germany will potentally add fiuther US$ 30 milln
in loam to the agril sector over the coming years, starting In late 1993. Since most of thes
interonal lines of credit Involve short-term financing, it Is esmated that there wili be a
considerable lack of medium- and long-term credit fr invesmnt ptojects in agicWle over the
nem three to five years.
1.12  Vlage  editFwIs. A fruher source of rua credit in Abania are Villge Credit Funds
currently being set up under the IDA-finanod Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project (FY93). By
the end of 1993, a tota of 50 village-based credit committees w  have been eslished, performing
decentrale  loan evaluations, making decisions on credt allocation and loan conditions, and
supevising repaym . A total of US$ 10 million is expected to be on-lent over a period of 4
years. Given their low tanacton and risk costs, Vilage Credi Funds will be able to extend very
small loans to farmers and ote rural entrepren  which woul be largely unaactive customers
for commecially operating bank. Ihe start-up capital of t     fnds will slowly be replaced by
savings deposis from fmers, us creating a system of independent village-based mral fiancial
nsitutons, which could evenally join to form communal and regional banks. It can be envisaged
Ihat, in the medhim and long term, th   regiona banks will merge with the Agricultral Bank to
form a coopertvey-owned and finanay strong bank wih an extensive branch network to serve
the financ  needs of the irua economy.



-91 -                                   &NINA 11
Page 5 of 22
U. Tm BA=rx       AGcuruw AmD DnEELo            T
A. Institiona Analysis
2.1   Rok and Srtev.  Since its emergence from the former State Bank of Albania in 1991,
BAD has largely matained its role as payment mechanism for transferng budget resources to state
enrpises, and for clearg payments between them.  Afker the dismantling of dte former
agriculral cperatives, Govenment stepped in and relieved BAD from LAk 1.95 biion of bad
loans to tee cooperatives as of mid-1992. Since that dme, BAD started to take a more proactive
role in ending to the private agricultura sector and in collectg rual savings deposits. However,
BAD is sfill obliged to conne lending to remaining stae farms, on request ad backed by a
guaae from the Sta Farm Agency within the Ministry of Agricuue and Food (MOA) and wit
resources provided from BOA t grough NCQ. After the distriuton of all state farm land, expected
by mid-1993, this lening will come to an end, and the new Agriculural Bank will focus entirey
on lending to te privat rural sector in Albaia
2.2   Organkdonal Srure. BAD's network as of April1993 includes the ruanahead office,
banches in al 27 ditc  witin the former admistraive struue of the country, and 160 small
agencis which are linked to district branches. Total bank staff lncrased from 320 at end-1991 to
400 as of end-1992. Mmee are currently 23 employees in the Tkana bead office while branches
employ an averae of 10 employees, with up to fthe employees per agency. Head office staff
incblde the CEO and Vice CEO, 6 anaysts in the credit department, 5 employees in th accountng
departent, 8 officers In the area of personnel, training, public relations and adminis , 1 legal
advisor, and 1 driv. Since Febnry 1993, BAD receives urgently needed technassisance from
a tm  of 3 consult, financed uider th Critical Import Project, In the aeas of fnmcial
management, credit opations, and accounting and MIS. Two fuer consulta provide tecil
assistance to BAD for the implemenatin of te credi components under the IDA-fanced CIP and
the EC-PHARE-fiaced RCA (see para 1.11).
2.3   Management and Staff Qualfcatn. As a resut of its isolation during te conunist rule,
Albania acks any western or other banking traditons in the country's fnmcial sector. Unlhk in
most deloping economies, bankers In Albania had practically no exposure to baking practices
developed elsewhere. Ihbis complete lack of knowledge transfer is reonsible for the curr
shortage of qualified staff and mmagement in local barnk. Concerning BAD, here is no doubt tha
its staff Is not smfficitly quaified tso run a commercialy operating bank. Altugh stff at the
branch level appear fairly well experienced with respect to the tenical issues of agriculu
production, thee is little knowledge of appraising projects on financial and commercia grounds.
Staff in the rrana head office also demonstrate a considerable lack of expertie in fte areas of credt
review, fac  management, ad accrual-based accountg. There is clearly a need for wide-
spread, in-depth tranig   of all staff, and for replacing a number of non-performing employees wit
intellectuly  more flexible candidaes. lhe fist taining efforts are currently being u ken by
the team of expatie experts in the areas of credi appraisal and supervision and cost accountig.
Much broader trainng programs wiU rwed to be designed and Implemented urgently.



AnMM 11                                       -92-
Papg 6 of 22
2.4   BAD's preset salay struwr In based on publ sector wages which are too low In order
to ara  quailified young ad dynmdic new utaf. Currenly, enterprises in the private sector ae
offering much higer s es at about 3 to 4 tim  th level of public secwr wages. During fte
cous of s nutoral devlopmet, he bank w  need to develop a different compensation system
that wi provido suffici  hnendves for capabls nw staff to join the ba.
2.5   Leang Qpe       ts. As of end-1992, BAD's credit customer bas  nludes about 36,000
privsa Indivias and enrpres, mng thn some 6 farmer assciations, and about 270 state
entrpris (mosdy stae fam). Mhe number l    accoun  has   eased dramatically since Uid-
1992 whe BAD stared aoendg oas to the privato secor.           loans average Lek 50,000
(US$450 equivalent) for Idividual frmers ad about LAk 1 million (US$9,000 equivalent) for
privat famer associao. Th bank extends short-termand medium-term loans with matrite
of up to tree years Lo    wit longer matri would Involve serious liquidity-related risk given
the term strucure of the bn's liab . BAD In sngy requires the provision of loan collateral
such as buildings, macie  ad equipmn, livestock workn capia, ad perona guns.
Da to the lack of land restrain ad titlng in the country, my fbrm  have no accs to credit
since infotmal mortages on land are rarely accepted. Lo  evaluon and apprsal I performd
based on a detailed Cedit Manu  which has recently be  revised and updated with asistane fm
eptria  epets. Loa  up to Lek 1.0 mIlion ar   proved by BAD managers at the brach level,
with vrt y no loan approval authrity given to idivial agencie. Loans above fde branch
aproval theshold are evuated by a credit co_mite at the bead office, composed of dte CEO,
Vice CEO, and he heads of t  credit and acountig darmentb.
2.6   Accowwsng. BAD's prse accounng system b a naad cash-based systemwhich
wa desiged whea the bank was a depent of the Stat Bank with no independen decision-
maldig reponsibil.    e drmatc  ha          from mereb oper2ang cash windows and being
reponsble f  bookkeeping of hading tson, for which decsions were made elsewhe, to
ma n te full scope of a bankn  opeaton requires the establishent of an accrua-based
accontn and maungemt inforaion system. le new accout  system  mst take ito account
reportig requirments to BOA, sharolders and the general public In order to avoid duplicaing
effnrs in designing and updadng fcial and opeasonal ports.  Wilth fnancal support by EBRD,
consults from Coopers & Lybrnd have recenly  taled he french-based SunAccount general
ledger and reporig system in the head offices of all the state banks. This system is based on
nternIato    Accounting Stand   for Banking  sutin ([AS 24) and wil be cosste  with
rportng requirements by BOA and the IMP. Major dcaenge for an applcation of this system in
BAD are cmrenty linked to staff traning, Impro   t of raw data qualit, data tafer from
branches to the bead office, and hardae installation and m c . With assistance from the
consut    am financed under the Critical Import Project, it Is eected hat the conversion ftom
the present cash-based system to dh new accrual-bsd geneal edger syste  will be Ihplemented
by fte fall of 1993.
2.7   FTnancfMageme  and Pe mnnce Measwem .  Curendy, th responsibilty for
fnnia maeme  within BAD les wth the Vice CEO; he assesses the banks costs of resources
and revenus on ase    out s fcant   tudonal or techncal support through internal
IfoMain wystems. PeFor macea               ad *subsequentormulaon of deposki ad lom
polcies i done based on incomlte and pardy SInaccu   Ibmtion on the ba's tre finscial



Page 7 of 22
positon. Ibis siuaon wlImprov sub anly   er e     ll iMon of the new ac ting
2.8  Irtenw and Extenl Audt. At present th b    has 2 Inrnaled ator. and controb of
the futancial positon of the bank are Inadeut. There Is also no independet Intral review of
whether sff follow th bans credi and other operating procedures. Nether of the tr  public
banks In Abaa have underg    ext   audisb of their financal statm   . A fr  audit on
BAD's loan portfoUo quality and required loa loss provisos  curem ty being udertan by th
team of consulta within h  bank
B. Finacil Ausy
2.9   Data Quali. BAD's cash-based accountn system provdes no acct nfmato on the
bans true financial position nce it does vot account for accrued Income itum. Most imporaly,
the bank's curent practices of providig for potentia loan losses (see para 2.12) resul   inadequae
ptovisions, and th bank would face bmdiate isolvency if it were to prvide sufficiently for bad
loans to state fam  and other st  eneprlses. A more accrte pice of the bank's fincln
gth, aRer cleag the baln  shdeet of unrecoverable loms and pviding prudeny for potentia
losses on reaningr loans, is presentd In th following car. An in-depth assesment of the
fial posiion and Income sitt, ater lquidon of BAD and cre0donof the new AguturA
Bank, wil be undaken by exta auditors based on the bn's 193  *nnIal s         .
2.10  Cis on BOA. As of December 31, 1992, BAD's ta claims on BOA  dnude Lek 45
million of nmm reseres and Lek 980 million of oher claims on BOA (see table 2a).  m lattr
amount stems from the proces of wrii-down lk 1.95 billon of u erale 10a  to former
aiculal cooperatves as of June 30, 1992, which Involved paridal  placement of bad los
trugh clams on BOA, while the remainig pordon was witten downthrough reuction of BAD's
liabiies wih NCB by about Lek 1 billion (see tabb 2b).
2.11  Loars Poifolo. BAD's net loams outst        as of end-1992 equd Lek 3.92 bfflion which
include Lek 3.34 biMon extended to sae  eprs (95 percen of ta to state am), of which
Lek 500 million have been approved sine July 1, 1992. New  ending to ste ent   has slowed
down considerably during dte fir  tee month of 1993 to Lek 25 millon per month (net of
repants), with BAD increasingly reitg pressure to condin  is suppt for sta  enterps.
Loans to stae fars since July 1992, Cin fte garant     the Stat Farm Agency, are endrel
short-term loans which ae used to p  recweent cost of n dd sate fam  such as salades
of remaining workers. Oder los as of December 1992 include Lek26 million to some 60 fmer
associatons, and Lek 621 mIlon to ndidual borrowers, of which Lek 118 million are housing
loans approved ad disrsed In th past by the former State Ban1   About 50 percent of loans to
farmers' assoclations and 61 percent of oans to nvduals are medhmterm loas with  auriies
between one and 1th   yeas. Housg loans hwe mauites betwee 10 and 20 yearn and carry an
extremely low Interest rate of 0.5 percent per year. BAD's ladi  to the priva  frm seor Is
showig very strong growth duing te first quser of 1993.
2.12  Loan Qality and Colletion Peonnac. Beginnig w financial year 1992, BAD has
stared providing for possible losse within is ouutsta    loan as of December 31, 1992 under the



AN        11-94 
Page 8 of 22
assumption  a loans to the Sta  sector made before July 1992 wil be fuly recovered through
Governne  assistance. Thefore, BAD maqagement calculated an los proviss as of end-1992
by taking 100 percent provisions against the amount in arrears on new loans since July 1992, and
by adding a addIonal 2 percent of provisions on he total outstandg balance of loans made after
ta same date. 'The resultlng amount of provisions of Lek 70 million i8 clearly Inadequate to cover
pontia loan losses for loans made between July and December of 1992: all new lon to state
enerpriss (Lek 500 million) and about 20 percent of loans to fmers' assocations and private
hdividuals (total outstanding of Lek 530 million) would reque pecific provisioning. When taking
Ino consideration th bant's complete nxperience with any form of proactive loan supervision ad
the coIlctdon of overdue payments, BAD's collection performance on privae sector lons has bee
acceptable during the first thee mont of 1993: 81 percent of new billings durng that period have
been collected, and another 57 percent of arrears on private sector loan as of end-December 1992
have been received during the first quarter of 1993. It can be expected that these ollecidon ratios
will improve considerably once bank staff are adequately traine   d undstand the nplicatlons of
overdue payme   on the bak's loan classiftcation and on the resuling amount of required loss
provisions.
2.13  FXedAssets. BAD's balac she as of December 31, 1992 shows fixed asset wort Lek
3.3 million, which is clearly below any realisdc market value. A conservative estmation of the real
estat valu fr the 21 brancbes owned by the bank and its 160 agencies results In a market vale
of at kast Lek 50 million, assuming fixed asst values of US$ 20,000 equivalnt per bnch and US$
500 equivalen per agency.
2.14  Deposks. The bank's outsaindig liabilities as of Decembe 31, 1992 include Lek 660
million In deposits, mosty low-yielding demand deposits. Ihis figure Includes Lek 250 millon of
deposis by stat entrpre and by the Stae Farm Agency semming fom sae revenu  of
liquidatin      frm assets. AUl baks in Abania have been remarkably successful In atractng ww
deposits since the ntroducdon of  mn    Interest rats by BOA in mid-1992. Deposit gowth at
BAD has been pardcularly strong since early 1993 with a net increase of about Lek 20 million per
mont  It Is expected th deposits wil grow even faster durng the second quaer of 1993 due to
the shap Increase in real deposits iest rates caused by decreasing rates of tion in the county.
2.15  Borrowing From Baks. BAD's man source of financing are Lek 3.84 billio of loans
received from NCB on order of BOA for on-lending to stae enterprises. The cost of these finds
to BAD was zero during the first ftree month of 1992, inasig to 2.4 percent during the second
quart of 1992, and then raching 25 percent for additional loans eded to BAD between July
and December of 1992. The average cost of fids durig 1992 has been 11.0 percen on all
liabilities. Further loans received from NCB since lanay 1993 are priced at a high rate of 45
percent per annum. BAD) has no access o other sources of borrowing since the uerbank market
Is not yet developed.
2.16  Capktal and Earnlp Performance. According to the law establishing the bank, BAD has
an authorized capital of Lek 450 million owned by the State. As of December 31, 1992, a total of
Lek 340 million had been paid in from the budget, another Lek 95 miDion has been accmulated out
of retained earnings and taes from fiscal year 1991. The bank Is not required to pay general
Income taxes at the rate of 30 percent until it has build up its fll authorized capitaL BAD has also



- 95            -AN=U
Page 9 of 22
accumulated another Lek 1S million in capital reserves. Includig the accounting proftl of Lek 93
millioU for 1992, BAD's total capital as of end-1992 is sow  as lAk 542 mlion  However, if the
bank were to apply the upcoming BOA standards for loan classificadon and loan loss provisioning
as of December 1992, th capital would be wiped out entrely. Therefore, calculatlons me ig
a capital adequacy rato of 12.1 percent are misleading and meanngless (se table 2c). Tbis also Ca
be sid for BAD's 1992 cash-based income stement and th bank's alleged eain  per   ,
suggesting a return on average equity of 14.2 percent and a net profit equal to 1.4 percent of average
assets.
2.17  Ltquldity. The ba's liquldity depends largely on BOA fnds prvied *ugh NCB, with
a crent ceiling of net incremental borrowing by BAD of Lek 200 miLlon per month. These
resources are, however, not limited for on-lending to enterprises in the st  sector. While BAD has
generally used the full amount of this ceiling for loans to stae enterprises duing 1992, some of th
funds borrowed during the first quarter have been chanelted by BAD ito new loans to the private
agicultral sector. A second Imporan source of funds to the bank its stro     growing deoit
base. However, given a loans to deposit ratio of 6:1 as of December 31, 1992, Inadequase liquidit
Is clearly sdll a very serious constaint to BAD's lending ability.
IlL THE NEw AGICuLTVRAL BANK
A. Liquidatiok of BAD)
3.1  In order to create a viable financial intemediarr for the rural sector, BAD needs to be
liquidaed and a new Agriculural Bank be created which will undergo a comprehensive progra of
instituonal developnt Liquidation of BAD will focus on writing-down al unre bl loans
to state enterprises and also all housing loans outstanding as of June 30, 1993. Govermn b
committed ot provide the  qired financial spport. Since i is uncertain whether sufflcieent budget
funds - namely proceeds from lquidatng state firms and from prvatzing public a est  - wM
be made available to BAD by end-June 1993, these bad assets and the o ondig liabilities wih
NCB will be separated from oter assets and limillities and remain in the eistng BAD. BAD's
private sector loans and deposits, capital, and all physical assets will be transfered to tie new
*Agricultural Bank (AB), including some savings deposits In rural brnches of the Savig Bank
which are to be shifted to the emerging  AB.  his creation of two legally Independent bank alws
for a tritory period to resolve the bad debt problem of the BAD in liquidadton while eabling the
new AB to start operaions with a clean balance sheet Once al bad loans In BAD's podolio wMI
have been teplaced with new valuable assets, the latter will immediately be utilized to repay BAD's
debt with NCB, and the former BAD will be liquidated.
3.2   BAD in LIWdaton. The BAD In liquidation will nherit all out        debt of ste
enterprises as of June 30, 1993. It is expected ta total lending to the state sector will icrease to
about Lk 3.5 billion by tha date (see table 2a). In addion, BAD's portfolio wi contaln some lek
110 million of housing loans. BAD's total assets of Lek 3.61 bilrion will be balaced by some Lk
350 miWon In state sector deposis, mostly deposits by the State Farm Agency wihn MOA, and the
balnce of Lek 3.26 billion of liabilities with NCB (see table 2b).



Pap 10 f 22
TAKOAMDTUM _PMM Pk="Mew
rpbIb'
CAM                                          0.0       28.      1.         199            O0         0
Domuib iny                                 0.0       7.       146.4     171.1           0.0     2o0
Com"ahlumds                                040       0.7       11.7      26.            0.        30
DMP       vAnK                               0.0 2Q34          1O         1O54.A         0*0      1t5
Co" sa a m zuu)                            0.0      23         44.9      449            0.0       50u0
Oshu doomi binb                            0.0       0.0      979.5    1009.5           00      1m000
UMQUI A8fEI                                  0.0        00        0.         A0           0.0        00
OWW0 N euwfIS                              0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0
Odor 0 s _                                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.            0.0        0.0
TLOAJS                                    418LS     flW7      392        495           3610       9m0
L     to jI #  CoAapmnS                  19U 19    1951.1       0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0
L'-a  am s ad l8                         l9d.$    28.        33444      3394.3        3508W        0.0
ah-mhm                                138L      275.2    336.       3347.7        3460.0        04
ig3i..adum4 -m u                       472        4.1       48.       44.6          40.0        0.0
IL  _to        Amodd0                                0.0       26.3      56       .     0.0      100.0
Sbo*-%Mbm                               0.0       0.0       13.4      26.1           0.0       70.0
M.*ua  dbv-t1mm                         0.0       0.0      1mg        28.            0.0       30
Lam toludlvual                           293.4      48.       01.1      7103           110.0    1100.
shoa-tm lilQ6                          28        110.      259.7     375.            0.0      840.0
Me4 _d           lo l                  139.5     20A       343.S     2183            0.0      20.0
1mft1_..                                2.1      173       117.9     116.           110.0       0.0
Low llut. Iovsi_M                          0.0        0.0      69.7      0.7            0.0      240.0
QUflT DIYSTNIT                               to         0.0       0.0       0.0            0.0       0.0
IMA==                                         0.0       0.0       33         33            0.0      Su
01    A23                                    21.3      9O        36M0       313            0.0      30.0
s laisaob                                  19.6       0.0      20.        2s            0.0       15.0
O    usum.                                            9.8      15.2      28.5           0.0       15.0
PRN UAYMES AND ACOCD   INX4                   0A        0.0      10.0        0.0           0.0       0.0
TOTAL MIEI                                 4218      was        513.      5 4           3610.0    2320.0



.97-                                        A 
Pap 11 of 22
bumaboulaS                ~~~273.    337.6     414.5     666.1         35.0      700.
ma bdiplabaft  ~0.0                  0.0        0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
S&Vbv dva"                     ka~~0.    0.0       4.0       4.3           060      20.
VAG 4qmb                      ~~~~13     2.3      31.0      44.3           0.0      40.
1S       0*6       7.0       13.7          0.0      20.0
r n I O SAMMAND GOZRUMT3425.             4794.7    3830.     407.1                   W"00  1.
Cubd Book                     ~~~~0.0    0.0      44.9      44.9           0.0       0.0
fatka1 Coaued 3mskop*1 dIltIud         3615.7    4794.7    38354    4026           3260.0     172.
com damuft blob  ~0.0                    0.0      0c0        0.0           0.0       0.0
Ba.rowJas fm ommws                        0.Q       0.0      0.         0.0          0.0       0.0
WAS~. PAYAULU                               4.0       48        5.I       5.2          0.o       s.o
%)TRRBHRUADIRS                             L5.       46.0      W99L                    0.0       30.0
Bmin =%"a                              13.6     46.0      69.9       &I            0.0      30.0
0thsi1kb~~~~~~s              0.0 ~~~0.0          0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0
TOTAL tAIUL3                             396.0    5186.0    4611.8    4814.4         3610.     170.$
CORE CAMIrAL                              250.      519.1     449.4     542.2          0.0      412.
PMd-ia =oAM                             2503      26.4      434.4     434.6          0.0     450.
Avfmha4 uah1                         450.      450.0     430.0     450.           0.0     450.0
LAnW Thupsl OR"                      139.7     117*       25.4      15.4          0.0       0.
Cbzaumwv                               0.0       0.0      13.0      15.0          0.0      142.
Reb4s armhg                              0.0      56.7       0.0      92.6           0.0       0.0
Gte azosfvd                  . 0.0      ~~~~0.0  0.0         0.0           0.0      0L0
SVZDaBMAftTCAIWAL                         43.6       51.5     IM6        19.6          0.0       0.
G.aalpzowlm                              LO.0      0         0.0       0.0           0.0       0.0
Pnt for, you                            43.6      51.5      gm.       19.6           0.0       0.0
TOTAL CAPITAL                             2933      370.1     5621      SM.            00      41.
TOAL LIAMIUUZI  AIND CAPITAL           4260.     5556.     5153.     57.           3610.0     2.
CONTIKRNTULA1MUR13                         0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0           0.000



Page 12 of 22
(uuudSsd mHR md             4s. f.ar pasoi ]lomlo s          _
Q)AS 5; OF AVilAaR AS                                                                                   i
_ S                                        1X~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6%S 
(.) TtIo tagLm%
(4) Neotpft                                                    IA.%
(1I)NNmr4T3U11   MARG(W
(a) !amtme boom* km. am= a S ufavmp uilosin                   10.%
(a) Ntt        a naigsX) mlus b)]                             4.7%
(O EARINO H       iWOWMANMi
(a) NA --agaSalma                                              1.2%
(b) Rex=  m  a.sq&                                           14.2%
(lV NOMINAL GOWWH RA7ES (Des 1992 Dec. 1991)
(a) Net)..                                                   . .%
(b) Tdab                                                     22.%W
(e) Depainb                                                  138.%
(4) Tobcae                                                    34j%
(aff                                                         33S3%a.
(V) RIl" GROW    RATES 0. I9 DeL 1991)
(A) luBaUm( Soft (sman chep iC                                226CII'
o etlama                                                    -71.2%
(c) Totl.                                                    4.4
(d) DepCus
(.) ToblduJ                                                  -43A4%
(VI CAPITAL ADEQUACY
(a) Vdu .tr_-we&n aoIm            L4o             59        4470.2    4637.8                   15.0
(b) Coxe*a pW 1a%of(a)                               0%       1014%     117%                   39.s
(a) Total"VWdsb% of(a)                              7.0%     12.1%      121%                    39il
(d) Addldami  iol      h  to tna  10% fe (b)
a MR. I'd*                                      2IL        -25      -78.4                   -f7.4
(a) AMdnspbd =VW   v        20% fa(.)
a milo LdgL .                                             351.9      364.8                 -302F
LWODMAND0OR0oLIIUmm
;a) Lom   wIesbat   wss% s% wd*lmm                 .9.7%     83.s%      8L6d%                    0.0O
(b) Dketed pui sesames a % ofU       l Utlbie      83%       74A4%      74.9%                   37.6
(a) TOenIN=ltI olcapbF                               14         7          7                       2
(d) Totl lam fIte  deeb                             540%s     57%       561%                     120s



099-                                   ANNM  U
Pag 13 of 22
3.3   Loans to  Rrae Eerprses as Qflune 30.1992. The Council of inist  decided to reliev
BAD and NCB frm all debt by st  entepi   outtandn as of Jum 30, 1992 (Decson No.
1033, dated April 8, 1993). no amount concnng BAD is equal to Lek 2.87 bilon. Ibis  In
fac equal to the aggregate vom  of state sector loans by BAD as of July 31, 1992 o wbich the
bank requted covera  though h budget.  MOP will work out detais wih BOA on the
mehanbm to be used for writ  downthese une    able loa. It s  envged to firs cla nr-
bank debt beween BAD, NCB, SB and BOA. and to b    Govemet bonds coveing h  et lossa
The fom and mehnim  for issu   bonds wM be addressed underth proposed EPSAC (PY 94).
3.4   Looms t SateEntpsesanc Jl 1, 1992. Loansxended to stat eteprws sic ta
date are mainly loas to state frm, made on request of to State Farm Agency. These will be
recovered though proceeds of asseas sales during the process of liqudating state fam. As of
March 31, 1993, BAD had extended a total of Lek 850 million in new shor-term loans to stat
farms. Repayments by th State Fam Agency as of hat sme date equal Lek 500 mi, leaving
a net out ig bal     of Lek 350 million. Based on projections by th Stat Farm Agency, it
is expected that addtona short-tem loans to ema state ams betwee Api ad June of 1993
wil equal about Lek 4millon. Dring these tr  months, epymentf by ta Agency to BAD
could offset most of this additoal lendi. Hower, as a conservative asumpton, is It expected
that the net outading balmce of bans to state entpdses made since July 1, 1992, hding state
farm loans and loam to state-owd  traders and some aarpies, will increase to
about Lek 630 milon by the end of June, 1993. Togethr with state sectr los of Lek 2.87 bil
as of June 30, 1992, these lo  w  be tsfered to the BAD In liquidaon after June 30, 1993.
3.5   HoSsg Loans. Befr th ceation of BAD, toh agultua  deparen wihin te former
Stat B*nk of Albania has ext d log-tm hoing bla  to privat Individuals, which bave bee
transfetred to the loan portfolios of BAD and NCB upon their ceation In 1991. Out
amounts as of December 31, 1992, are Lek 118 mon fo BAD and Ik 55 million for NCB.
Accrdn bt Article 15 of th Privatizatlon Law on Stat-own  Houses (No. 7652, dated December
23, 1992),      wes are    d  fom repag teir doutsaing debt as of June 30, 1991, upto
an amount of Lek 1S,000 per loan which, in the case of BAD, covers fte entr outtnding amount
of housing loans. Goverment Intends to   a telons through proceeds from pdvatzg ste-
owned apartmn   and othder r  estate. In case te repament does not occur by June 30, 1993,
the expct  respecve outstanding debt of Lek 110 million wiU remain in the BAD In liquidadon
In order to be wvered by tie Stat budget
3.6  lZ=er ofDeposisfrm Savkjs BanL  Durig the dissoioan of the va s deparmet
of dte fomer State Bank of Albania, SB has receivd al aviW  desl whie BAD and NCB
nherited the respecdve blo portfoios. This Imbalance between sources and uses of Rinds in Ihe
hree banks can either be corrected through development of an t*bank markt or through a merger
of SB branches with BAD and NCB. Based on th 4e rof a recet study by Prco
Waterhouse, Govermn bnts to preserve the ipence of the three banks ad not to engag
In furter bank mergers. This would enhance competiton In te banking sector and avoid placing
addia olc es on the tee banks durtg the present phase of restucrng in
e financia sector. However, th economic bnefits of consolid  some selected rural branches
of SB wih those-of BAD would be evaluted. BAD management has developed a short-lis of 28
respctive SB branches ad has reached agmement on t  list  d an A iplementatin tmetable, with



ANNex 11                                     .100
Page 14 of 22
SD mangeme. It s epected tat about Lek S0 mllon worth of savins deposits wl be
trared from SB to the new AD, by dte end of 1993.
B. Fn dal Sture sad Perfrmce of the Agricldtural Bank
3.7   OpenBalae Seheet. Ulpon ttcrationonJut 1, 1993,ihenowABbsexpectedtohav
a tol loan portfolio of about Lek 1.2 million, of which Lek 1.1 bilion w1il be las to niidual
famer and a furthe  el 100 millon credt extded to privat farm' asockatios (0e table 2a).
The fgues assume a contined strong demand for credi by the farm  ector trgbho   e first
two quarte  of 1993. Pending compleon of te cur ent reviw of te bans loa porftflo, It Is
esmated that about 20 percent of al loas will r e specific pisio  agait possible losses,
resing in a not ousanding loan balance of about Lek 960 milLio In AB's opeinsg bance sheet.
Other asse  Incude claims on BOA of about Lek 1 biMon, cash holdig, and a revied valu for
the bn's fixed asses of Lek 50 mllion (see par 2.13). AB's ia stock of deposs b expected
to equa about Lek 800 mnlln, up fon a total of Lek 670 mMion in deposit- icdig Lek 310
mion from the prt sector - in fte foroer BAD as of end-Pebuay 1993 (se table 2b).
Assumd deposk grwth s based on the bank's estmate ta between Lek 80 and 120 mIllin  in
aNddin  deposis will be generated per month by the faomer BAD during the seond quwer of
1993, and that up to Lek 100 mMlon of depoits would be trTnsed fom fte Saving Bank by
early July 1993. AB will fithmore Inherit about Lek 870 milion of liabites wh NCB tt
main after e wrimt-down of corespondig stat sector bans of the fornmer BAD. AB is expected
to repay this balance of high-cost liabiles imnediatly by redcing is claims an BOA by an equal
amount
3.8   Asuming ta th authorizd capial base of L    450 mMlion of the fomer BAD would
cose AB's initial capi  endowment, te new bank wil be comfrtably capiaid at a capital
to risk-wgihed assets ratio of abo  40 percent, therefore  ee    a conservatv bendmak rado
of 20 pen (see table 2c). T  ban's loas tD equity ratio is espeted t prove from 7:1 as of
ed-1992 for the former BAD to about 2:1 as of July 1993. The proe on the bank's liquidt
wil be significantly eased through a near balace beeen outsanding boas and deposits.
3.9   Fbianal Projecions.  Projecdons on AB's finani  perfmnce re afcted by an
unusay high degree of uncertainty. Major unknown variabls relate to th  country's fiture
mac        c and m      y station ta wl influene rates of iflation and conequently rea
rates of interest on loans and deposits; tee, i tur, will have an impact on demand for lo    d
avaabilWty of deposits. Net lnterest seads of financial intemdio wl also be detmined, it
alla, by the degre of iterbank competion and each bank as own -nandcapackyto
aact crdworthy customers. Most impormttly, AB's profitabilit wil depend on the baks
ability tD Im e the quality of its loan portfolio, manly through coniued and thorough staff
tg    on proJect apprisal and loan superision technique.       re, AD wl need to
munetake major efforts to keep its admistive costs under ght control and to  mprove the
efficieny of its opeatons while offering atrctve salares to is staff.
3.10  Los and Desks. In view of tee uncertainties, a number of assump.ti  hesn Lz
made to develop facial projections for calendar years 1994 to 1996 for the new bank (sve tabhIs
3a and 3b). Loan demand i expected to remain stron,  and Al's capacity to mobilize financi.d



- 101 -             '                           1A r 1l
Pag 15 of 22
resources would be the  ntning fctor to the bank's growth. With respect to AB's lom
portfolio, the sar of ceit to prae firmers' assocWaons would become more Ipotant over
dme folowing to fornmton of more numers and larger associaons. It i assumed tha total loans
and depost would grow at a aual rues betwee 15 and 20 percent, with iaton rtes set In
accodao   w    macroeconoic targes under th BMP 1992 standby agreemet. This wod Imply
a rtr constat ad cove rvatie ato of loan to deposits of about 1.3 to 1 thoughout the foecast
period. Non-depository sources of finang for the bank would be Iter-bank borwing, expected
to rlse fom Lek 500 mllion hn 993M  tboutM 2 billlonby 1996.
3.11  Rel   e and E     apee. Sln* cmpetive conditions in the finai sector am epected to
emerg only over tme, It Is assumed  at AD would be able t) secure an average iteredition
margin of 7 percent on net outstanding loans during the forecast period. Addidonal fe  Wm
wou!d be gneraed hough the bans on-lending of proceeds under multilatal and biaerai lines
of credk, secuted by Goverment guarats coering cet-relaed risk. TI  arespeie  f
margs undec state-fnaned lines of cdt to AB related to the Crtical -Ipor Project and the
prposed ASAC will be 7 and 5 percent per annum, repecvely. The baks main block of
orgin  expenses woud consist of staff  ies  and benefit which woud i   real term
refetng  a grdually growig staff base and  ceasing real  ensatlon lvels. LoaM  lo
expene would be dth second mojor ctegory of AD's opeating cost It  sumed tht t  amout
of spcific loss pros    required could be reduced gradualy over the years om 20 percet as of
July 1993 to 5 perce by t  of end-1996, reflecting an mproving loaportlo qualt. Actual
wrlteowns of lost asset are expe    to equa 2 percen of net outsanding loans per year durn
te fou-year period.
3.12  FTnal Pesynnance. Under tee assumptions, AB would be In a position to achiev
modet after-  proft stft  In calenda year 1994 (see table 3b). Retn on equiy wwod
fluctt bewee 3 and 8 percent between 1994 and 1996, wit a three-year average of 5.6 percen
Hower, tie ba's proftbty woud be vey senitve to c       s in inerest spreads and the cost
of wrtg  down lost lons: a reduction of the bank's  mediaton margin by one percenta  poit
beween 1994 and 1996, and an increase of actual loan losse by one additona pecentge point of
net loans over Xt period, would each re   In a reduction of avage retur  on equity by abou
1.5 percenUge points. Also, laer un assumed other      e  expenses would redu  AB's
expected eamihgs perrman. Between 1994 and 1995, the bank's tota capital would deca
sUlgtly in rea tm, and capi  adequc based on risk-weighted assets would dop frm a high
level of 35 perent at the end of 1993 to a nevertheless conservative value of 20 prn by the end
of 1996. Ie bank's loa to capital rado w d inrease sightly but remain at a fairly low level of
4:1, providing room for substal expansion in AB's ftue lnding actvides. Witin the set of
the,assumptions laid out above, AB would, therefor, be in a position to remain fnncialy strong
while udetgoing an nldepth Imutional development to strengthen the bank's operational
efficieny.



* 1C2 -
Pag 16 of 22
Zhu"
30          391          Sa           166          996
Doy                                             200          340         4r6           06          t6
Con _d3aak(@                                    50           St           71 a                      W
DUIMPIUWAZ                                         177         23           398          in           725
A'ub Dt(k os Swoo                    1339                                             I            173
0Oh., 40mgb bas1 w                                           217         303          424          S2
Go   AiSMuDr=                                       0            10          20          s3            40
Nut LAIO S                                        go           1731        2579         3689         S032
Losas to Fem     A.usGm^                        100          25D         SOO          850          1446
shod1*0                                     70           175         30           a9S         1012
M.dhaadmlag-buanm                           z10          75          150          255          434
Lais _o ladividuds 
laoublodiahIo)                                              tr          2366         30           3WS
6w.S mIola                                  840         1344        1747         2271         2726
i Wmodb -tm1m                               260         441    619                 66          16
Lw= hSUIpICWMS (4                               240         305          287          299 
AS  T                                        so50         Ss          119          167          217
OTMMIM                                             30           S1           n           too   .  130
TOTALASJ                                    14                                     7     5 s3  a     '740
elLDE                                 8l~~~~~~~ ~ ~~SW  1300   1z19         2912         38t   ,
. D_*p_                              t1~~~~~~~~~70  IIISO      W           Itm          2t29 .
20          SO          12           313          44 
20           SO         100          20           300
TOBAN0                                                         no00         8SO         S360         2040
Cubda"                               0     ~     ~~~~ 0        0            0            0
(MM dlm         WU                               0           so0         8S0         1360         2040
BMU PAYAKE                                          S                        19  1        17           22
o ,A 3[.=S                                 . 30          St           71          100          130
TTrALLAWlhus                                       as5         1860        2823         4289         6009
CORE CAPtrAL                                       612          692         913         1020         1131
pda Clo                                         450          4S0         450          450          450
CqBdzwuvs   ^162                                             242         463          S7           68
.SMUENTARYCAAL                                       0          0            0            0            0
TOrAL CAPITAL                                      612          692         913         1020         1131
TOTAL BL4AUIE  AND CAM'AL                         1447        2552         3736         SW39         7140
CONTV4TUtAU         rIS  (OaTAmdao                 100         l1SO        1100         1000         1000
04611mpuJum                                      so          700         250            0            0
MAC                                               0          10          550       * -500          SO
I   Odut                                            SO          300          400          SOO          SW0.
)Lou m povloaa ar mamd as Mow.: 20% 5aeftoom as f73li J. 15%   afaud-993. 10%  as otand-1994.
7U5%  area&-MS, sd 5% as ofaai-d-0



- 10 .                                         ANM   1I
Pagp 17 of 22
zSm
AOMcU TURALBAN1L UuAc3al Pl*jbSl  (L993-1996)
Mwr urgmR0e  (a                                                      6      1I S    258             362 
E    9A lD I N                                                 3I          Ss           35          35 
S         sALDtM                                               92         2a34         293          38 
0PRMOW          M                                             112          138         254          301 
adlahm       b                                              925          81          i2          t81
Odmadmbidmet_pows                                            4           24           39          54
T l   .qim                                                  83           33          86           66
IoIjmSago 0lmalo...(oat kasmm)                          65          -19          12          -34
Mbial lameS(2% otaatIaea.)                              17           52          74          lO1
PROMMIso Stb LM                                                            ffM TA  09-              86
I OTAU  (08otga_8                                           0          291          12          26
NIZMILD#I                                                   -            67           27          60
(r AS XOFAM=AM=
(a) Re kw"* bow*                                           2.4%        5.7%         6.6%         6.5
ib) Totd nmdbs ammm                                        44%         4.4%         6.%         5.5 ,
(' ) f,pc Bt                                              4.81         2.1S         0.7%         1.1%
(a) Rtumoa&wiag.aimW                                      4.8%         2.1%         0.6%         1.0%
(b) f oaavage.1                                           -us%          US%          8X%        5.6
1 4 OWIW. AMUAL GRVWI AES
(a)  Netloam                                              22.3%        s%          30.1%        26.7%
|f) TotaasIe                                              3U%         46A%         42.1%         5
(a) .qasb                                                 313%        45.4%        4S.8S        3.7
(4) TaI.sta                                                6.5%       31.9%        11.7%        10.9
() Staff                                                    .s         5.0%        10.0X        10.(
IIF)   AL A NUAL  ROW RAL
(a) hAt (of   _JKbdchfupIACl                               105%         26%          26%         18I
(b) N.tlom.                                               18.1%        18s%        133%         15.6
(c) TOW ac_                                               15.6X        16.2%       12.8%        14.0%
(6) DqoaIb                                                 6.6%        15.4%       18.1%       1S.0
) TaI (la                                                45.9%         4.7%       -113%        -60%
(V)CAPITALAD      ACT   u
(a)  ae                                                                2           4194          60
0() Cw.aMa s%(s)                                          34.8%        31.0%       24J%         19.9%
(c)  tacia$    Sot(a)                                    X3.S%        31.0%        24.3%        19.9%
(VI) LWtDQ AJCXIVIT bowa-MO)
(a) TotamlI  tow Gcif                                        3            3           4            4
|   ) TatalaeusI WAl                                       133%        136S         131%        1%
(a) A-AS  1abI Im%Wd*f7% o1u4Ia4laIGIM



ANNEX~~~~~~~~~~~ 1                 104-
hp  18 of 22
C   Lga Eofblmet othe AB
3.13  BanLMicew e. Tenw AD wi rece  aba   ce  ftom BOA and, ter, byoplaced
unde do provsons of the April1992 Banking Law. Creatng a now bank offes a substal legal
advantae sin  no epli  decsio by Parame  wil be required to trminat t  ambiuous lea
status of tde former BAD. Accordn to Atclo 8 of to Banking Law, an applcation for licenig
needs to include the Charter of the new bank  Grntg of a lies Is also condital, Inter alia,
on v       of adequat capit and qualfied bk 
3.14  Bk* Oiarer.  AB's By-Law wl specify the type of bakinS oprtions tt AB wi
eae  In Govem          endorses the banks inten   to conce_trat for lending on the pria
ctow. Government al rognis t h fto nancal sft  ad soundns of the new bank hinges
u    the bans auonomy In day-t-day credit decions If AD judge a prospecdve borower mot
to be crediworthy, and Governmnt nnetless wise credit to be extded to tm  borrow, Xt
bmk could provide credit, but or4y as an agent fo Govenment which wl provide th required
fiacial resources, asume the fuil credit risk, and remburse t  bank for Is
3.15  Cptl  d Bar       nOwup. The bank wll be set up as a jointstock entprise wh all
of Is capial initlly held by te Ste. Accodingly, te bans Board of Supervisors will be
compo   of fepres ives designated by th Ministry of Fammn, which wiA hold  ffectie
ownership of the bank and will ensure strng govee  thouSgh the Board of Supervsor  Mth
d      epd         ves would be  oen baed on        chnl q      catio n th area of
banking and fina, with an emphasis on spcfic expertise of agricultual and other rural fianc
sevices. However, given the objectv of privatizom of the bank, posbly twogh a cooperiv
ownasp structue, ABs charter wil set out that soe members of th Board of Superviw   will
prsn ipdvate sector ntres In agriculte and h rurl economy.
3.16  QuIe ManagemeW.  Mme Banidng Law spulaes tha  t a  two   ividuals, wh
qualifcatin and expeiene re ed for the manement of the bank, be members of the Board of
Directs. BAD's present CEO migh not sads4 these standards in all respct. BAD's cue
Vice CBO, pevily the bank's president, Is knowedeeble about the bas overal operato  and
Indispensable to guae  oord ionwhi the curren organizationa stucture of the ba    Both
magers, however, do n  necealy reprent the  f         i    chan  towards comerial
orienion that e new bank will requi. At least o  addiond new manager, with a strong
bakgound in finance and managm n, i  need to be ppoined by AB's Board of Supevo.
D. Ito       l Devlpment
3.17  After Is ega en t w Agriultral Bank wi need to undego, strtIng inmd-
1993, a prooess of Istitutional development in order to build the bank on the principles of sound,
efficient and compeiive baking. Only If thorough stt l teom ae carred out in a timely
fhin wi  the bank be able to presve ks financial strenth  d to himrove and expd the
services for its agricultural and rura clientele. Mhe baks bhdonal deweopnto  pogram wil
be composed of the following en budg blocks: (D Inroducion of an eiiciJt oamaonal
structue, Including adequat Internal controbl; () srong financial manam  and plnning; (ll



*    -                                  AN10    U
Pag 19 of 22
application of sound credit policies and procedures; (tv) periodic review of loan quality, and
management of aedit risk; (v) acdve mobiliion of savng deposis and ot  resurces; (vi
provision of accurate accounti  data and other key mamenr t informion; (Vi) systmatic
selecdon, traing and promotion of skilled staff; (ii) gradual Introduction of Intenional bankig
actvties; (lx) upgrding od rehabilitadon of offices through new equipment; and (x) enuring
tansparelcy of the bank's operations dtrough periodic exrnal audits by independez internieonal
auditon.
3.18  Organatdonal Strcture. AB wl need to adapt BAD's exit  o      nal struct  in
te Tran head office for effective cnnIcaon, coordiation and control (see ct 1). Ma4or
changes wil involve the separation of ihe credit deatment In  Independent divisions fo, credi
supervIon (dealing with analys  and approval of large loans) and credk review (responsible for
ccking credit uality and classification of loans). A finace department will need to be established
wih divisions for fmicial management (cash management, planning and budgeti, resotuce
mobizadon, and intationd operations), and for accoung & MIS. All other functions will be
ped ito a general        ati  departent with divisional responsbildes for hman resources,
lega affairs, public reltions, and general services. In accordane with the provisions of the April
1992 Banking Law, the bank will have a Board of Supervisors, composed of represntaIves of
ministrie and wih strong repeion of the privaw sector, and an Audik Comme reportng to
the Board of Supervisors. It is of pdmary importance that te bank also establishes a song interal
aud function, Independent of bank management and reporig to the Audit Commite, wbich will
coduct audits of the bans fiancial posion and review wbvhr internal operaing pocedures are
bemng followed by bamk stai  The top nmnagement poision of AD wil be he Cief Execuive
OMier (CEO), asssted by a depu  CEO. Togethr with te three departmental directs, the
exeutve wi foIrm the banc's Board of Direc . There b clea need for a better coordinaon
and c    niaton betwen the bank's branches and the han headquarter which would be the task
Of the Deputy CEO.
3.19  PFlida Managemen.  MIh  bank must whie   fas  and dramaic improvement I It
capabilt tonoior, program and control Is over  financial perm . Basic conep of assets
& liablites   aem ent and liquidity management will need to be intrced to AB's staff, and
bank managemet wil bave to give hiea priority to tning in fti area. t   essent  for AB
to ensure, from the begning of W operatons in July 1993, that a match be established bew   the
projeced cost of is operations Interet, adminitrative and risk cost) and exped intrt and fee
based revues. Major decisions inolving, for example, iterest rate polcies, inroduction of ne
products, large inmens into equipment and real estate, or staff compenion, il need to be
tkn  In view of hir impact on the bank's exqected financial performance. lbe banb's toa  ndg
ce!rng and maximm lo  maurities will have to be defired in accordce with avaiale resources
and plaed operating expens . Under the proposed ASAC, k s envaged to swppot the
deelopment of a fmancial maagement system for AB through long-term  echnical assce (total
of 24 pewon-months).
3.20  O"edk Polides and Procedures.  BAD's curnt Credit Manu    been revised with
assistace from h tam  of conslats finnced under the CIP. Furtemoe, the credit department
Is about to be split into divisions for ed supervision and credit review, and new staff will be hired
shortly. AB's new credit policies and procdures will be ilemented under the guidance of i stff



.DCl11                            -           106-
Page 20 of 22
n the supervislon division.   at divsion wil have two amntons: one. pprais and final approval
of lare loas eeding the approval authority at the branch lel; and two, to cay out lrge-scale
traing programs for credt officers at the branch and agency level on echniques for financa
commercial and tecal apprsal of projec, and on pr           for credi processing and
superviion. he proposed ASAC would provide technical assistance In these two areas (18 perso-
months).
3.21  Cr& Review and Fisk Manageme. It will be of primary importace for the new AB to
ensue a consiteny hig quality of the bank's oan portfolio, and to assess and mit exposre-
related risks. This task will be peomed by the new credit review division, currently being set up
in the former BAD. A Credit Review Manual has been drted for use by the ba's staff. After
inltensve t   , the respnsibilkies of AB's credit review staff will inclide regular audits of all
credits made by the new AB in order to classify loans, to evaluate possibl losses, and to quantify
requied loss provisions. Head office staff will need to.visit all branches and agen.cies within the
bank's network on a regular biss. It ill be ncessary to develop and introduce loan data bases at
the branch level which wilt be updatd periodically based on information provided by agenciea. ThS
wil require training of branch and agency staff, to be carried out by speciaists from the credit
review dhision at the head office. A can be envisaged that, after several yeas, ihe credit review
function will be integated into the bank's irnal audit department Technical assistance would be
provided In the ar  of cdt review under fte proposed ASAC (24 person-months).
3.22  Resource Mobazation. Despite the recent growth In BAD's deposi, the new AB wfll need
to upgrade the physical and insttional capacity for accepting deposits in all of its branches and,
subsequeny, In all local agencies. AB will face strong competition in this area fom the Savigs
Bank, NCB, and other potentially emerging ban, and a market monitoring system will need to be
ntlled and specific maet strategies be elbrted at fte head office levl. This will include
periodic decisions on the acceptable average cost of funds, the creation of attractive saving and other
depositumets for different target grups, and their introduction and promotion on a nation-wide
bads. AB's staff will need to be provided with thorough taining and adequae incentives in order
to engage acdvely in the collection of deposits. An agent-based system could be intoduced to
mobilize savings from private individuals In mral and remote areas. Ihe proposed ASAC would
finance tcbhical assistance in the area of resource mobilizaton (12 person-montbs).
3.23  4ccoPwng and MI. A msor step forward twards accrual-based and automated accotng
will have been achieved by the new AB on3 the current transforion from the cash-based manual
accountg framwork into the SunAccount general ledger and reportig system has been
accomplished (see para 2.6). Staff in AB's accounti  division will need to be tained thoroughly
In the application of this system in order to be able to generate various reports in line with BOA
requemnts. A next and urgent step wil be to Improve raw data quality though subsequent reform
an an  mation of bookkeing frameworks at the branch level, again in conjunction with in-ept
staff traning. Furthermore, reliable data transfer mecanisms will need to be developed and
insaed for transmhsion of accounting data from branches to the head office. In tie medium term.
the general ledger system will need to be linked with various ote data bases in the bank, such as
the loan acuntg and credit risc ma e    framework, in order to provide bank management
withi dmely Information on AB's overall financial position. Technical assice would be nciuded
under the proposed ASAC (18 person-months).



- 107 - 1
Pag 21 of 22
3.24  Hwnw  R ces Dewlopient.  lhe speed of ABs change towards a comm ally
opeatin rural bank tha responds to the needs of s agicultural clientele wi depend on whether
It can oaize, develop and manage is human resources effectdely. Human capial is probably the
most scarce resource for rebuilt  Albaia's eoCnomic and finncial system   AB wil have to
evauate   ystemadcally t skill needs and to detemine wnlch of BAD's current staff would be
expected to ne ce  and  te qualifIcadon reqirements, after respective train. Non-
qua d staff will need to be replaced by new personnel. Polices for personnel evaluation,
promoton and career development wHit have to be developed and introduced. A new compensatn
sysem, based on qualcaton and merk, will have to be d ied in order to provide sufficient
modvaton for quaified staff to join and remain in the bank. "Ie bank's taning acdvies wil
requie coordiaton by the human resources division which will aa. establish close links with the
newly created Bakers' Training Cent at the University of TIaa  The proposed ASAC would
finance technical assistance In the area of human resources development (18 person-months) and
short-tem study trips of AB's staff to bankers' taing instiutions and patner banks abroad.
3.25  Irmernxlnd Bankg.   A new and pontially profitable area of AB's actvit  are
international banking services, such as letters of credit related to foreign trade t ns. These
could provide the bank with feeased income stemming from low-risk tasactons. Within the legal
framework set by BOA, AB wil need to explore current and projected demand for such services,
likely risks, expected returns, required tecncal equipment, and necessary staff taning before
engagn  in any foreIgn bankdng operations. Given the experience of NCB with international
transactions, AB will probably need to first build up sufficient in-house expertise before being in a
posiion to compete with NCB In tIs area. Technical assitae  would be provided under the ASAC
for that purpose (6 person-monhs.
3.26  Ojie  Rdeabitadon.  Most.of BAD's offices require urgent repairs, rehabilition, and
expnsion of space, nclfig the current Tirana head office. Buildings and premises are often in
very poor condition, with neither adequate nor attcive facilities for customers. Office equpment
at the branch and agency evel is mostly obsolete whereas some new equipment has been talled
at the head office, brought in under technical assistance fmanced by the CIP. The bank has recently
purchased 30 vehicles for use by credit officers in all agencies. t could be considered by AB's new
management whether a 'ited number of wmodel' branches should be established to gain valuable
experien  on how to car out office upgrading in a most cost-efficient way, before te ban's other
branches and agecies wld be included in a comprehensive office rehabiliaion program.
Equipmnt for AB finced under the proposed ASAC would include computer hardwae and
softwae for all 27 branches, coication and other office equipment, fniture, and vehicles for
the use of credit review staff in the bank's head office.
3.27  Ertefnal Aud. Start  finanl year 1993, AB's anmnal fncial sttements will undergo
ex al audits by independent international auditors, based on international accounting standards.
Tese aud  will help bank management to Identfy and correct initial defincies in its financial
syse   at an early stage. They would also establish ncesary trust and confidence by depositors
and the geneS   publc Into the bank's operions. The 1993 audit would be financed under the
proposed ASAC.



Agricultural Bank
A o         }|}                           Aulm
I  .      I
of Sup.M.Oforsotw
Credit  Financiol   Aoo@t&nl)nol Iluman
I  CaEO     I
_egioA mnstaIo
I'1             1 E
Crtdi  ll                             Flnanc OMr                                                  Admlavlrlr
. L _ 1~nwo               C     rod 1                                fflan)                              |      Aff$ §  waItiomn  1   r I PI 
Roo r-Rhn-cash                                               ||
Region             Region              Plannin           - Loa"
Region             Regio               Resoure             ml$
3                                              a         ad  ysm.
Region            -R"ion             L bMnL
4                  4                   Operaofl
Region              Region
5                  5



F   FED.   R EDP. 0 F       UGOSLAVIA                 )              216
S E;IA                    To Cetine    tH                                          To P)
AGRICUTURESETO
A DJ USTMENT CRE DIT Ci                                                                                 l
AGC)"RICULTURALLN USECAND
ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES                                                                     F. Y. R.
Wheat and Uvestock (Cole)                                                       OF 
Fl                                                               Ki~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lcevo
. _ y ~Whit and Shoop           pUR0, _  
Moiz. and Sheep                             IRA                            MACEDONIA
Moin forst
ECONOMIC ACIT'VM
Food Processing @   Citrs.
I Wood and rmbeLs                                            n SuTOreet                  T Btola
4}        0 Tobocc           VegUetables       SL3A;SANI   ,                      X     T  3   <1t-
Pohtoes                 \    5PEQIJ,NE            r1                  k 
InJ? )   filLushW             < ,w  P>;_2ps)



FED.  REP  OF  YUGOSLAVIA                                            21
A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~To hSaraj J ( 
DRIATIC
SEA                         Ceneteee
42?
KUKES                 ~~~~~~~~~~~420
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
AGRICULTURAL LAND USE AND                                                                    F. Y. R
ECONOMIC ACTIVIflES
Wheot and Livestock (Cottle)                                                    OF        .
.   -~~Whew and Sheep                      )URREs     3%                               _=
Maze oand S heep                                    )                      MACEDONIA
.   _ Limain Forese %
ECNOMIC ACTWMTh
Food Processing                                                  .
O Wood cindbers  * SugarTBeet                                                             o Bitola
410         Tobacco       *  egtablei                                                                4 -
A.Pofatoes             I-1E       Q'                      -



