Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19351 ALB
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 25240 ALB)
June 8, 1999
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 20, 1999)
Currency Unit            Albanian Lek
I Albanian Lek     -      0.0071 US Dollars
1 US Dollar     =      140.3 Albanian Lek
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE
1993               1994         1995         1996         1997         1998
102.6              94.6         92.7         104.5        149.6        151.2
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APO                  Agricultural Program Office
ASAC                 Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit
DCA                  Development Credit Agreement
EFSAC                Enterprise And Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ESW                  Econornic And Sector Works
EU                   European Union
GDSR                 General Directorate For State Reserves
GOA                  Government Of Albania
ICR                  linplementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Agency
ILU                  Independent Lending Unit
IMF                  International Monetary Fund
MAF                  Ministry Of Agriculture And Food (Albania)
OECF                 Overseas Economic Cooperative Fund of Japan
RCB                  Rural Commercial Bank
TA                   Technical Assistance
USAID                United States Agency For International Development
WTO                  World Trade Organization
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director: Amtraud Hartmann, ECCO2
Sector Director: Kevin Cleaver, ECSSD
Sector Leader: Laura Tuck, ECSSD
Task Tearn Leader: Severin Kodderitzch, ECSSD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 25240 ALB)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................2
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................7
A. Introduction and Project Objectives ..........................................7
B. Achievement of Objectives                           ........................................... 10
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                         .......................................... 13
D. Sustainablity ...........................................                                                  15
E. IDA Performance                           ..                            ......................................... 15
F. Borrower's Performance ........................................... 16
G. Assessment of Outcome ............................................                                         17
H. Future Operations ...........................................                                              18
I. Key Lessons Learned ...........................................                                            19
Part II. Statistical Tables ...........................................                                             21
Table 1: Summary of Assessment ...........................................                                    21
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits ...........................................                           22
Table 3: Project Timetable ...........................................                                        23
Table 4: Credit Disbursements ...........................................                                     23
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation ...........................................  24
Table 6: Studies Included in Project ...........................................                              26
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing ...........................................                               26
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants ........................................... 27
Table 9: Compliance with Operational manual Statements ...................................... 28
Table 10: Bank Resources- Staff Inputs ..............                         ............................. 28
Table I1: Bank Resources- Missions ...........................................                               29
APPENDICES
A. Mission's Aide Memoire .......................................                                             30
B. Map (IBRD 28467R) .......................................                                                  32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 25240 ALB)
PREFACE
1. This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture Sector
Adjustment Credit (ASAC) for the Republic of Albania, for which Credit 25240 was
approved by the Board on June 24,1993, and made effective November 30, 1993.
The credit amount of SDR 14.2 million (about US$19.6 million) supported a hybrid
operation at a total cost of around US$45 million composed of (a) a quick-disbursing
component of US$36.4 million to support implementation of a program of sectoral
reforms (US$11.0 million from IDA, plus co-financing in the amounts of US$20.0
million from Japan and US$5.4 million from the Netherlands); (b) an investment
component providing a line of credit to the Government for on-lending through a new
Rural Commercial Bank (US$5 million); and (c) a technical assistance component
(US$3.6 million from IDA plus parallel funding from co-financiers).
2. The closing date of the credit was December 31, 1998, the original closing date. The
first tranche of US$5.4 million was disbursed in June, 1994, and the second tranche
of US$5.6 million on January 8, 1998 (about 2'/2 years behind schedule), which was
the final disbursement. The amount of US$0.48 million was undisbursed at project
closing and was cancelled.
3. The ICR was commissioned by Mr. Severin Kodderitzsch (agricultural economist,
ECSSD), and was prepared by Mr. Elliott Hurwitz (agricultural policy analyst) and
Ibrahim Hackaj (project officer). The ICR was reviewed by Ms. Arntraud Hartnan,
Country Director, ECCO2, and Laura Tuck, Sector Leader, Agricultural Policy and
Rural Finance (ECSSD). Preparation of the ICR was based on materials in the
project file, including the President's Report, Letter of Sector Policy, supervision and
Back-to-Office reports, and from data collected during the ICR mission on January
10-16, 1999 (in which Messrs. Hurwitz, Hackaj and Kodderitzsch participated). The
draft report was sent to the Borrower and co-financing agencies on April 28, 1999; no
comments have been received.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 25240 ALB)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1. Albania is predominantly agrarian, with about half its GDP and employment
generated in agriculture. The country is mountainous, with only a third of its territory
arable. About two thirds of the population lives in rural areas, with a high density of
population to arable land (4.7 persons per ha). Albania has a very low land/worker
ratio, about 1.5 ha per worker in Albania compared to, e.g., 10.5 in Bulgaria. After
the radical change of regimes in 1991-92, economic conditions worsened, and GDP
declined by 40 percent from 1990 to 1992. Agricultural production collapsed, and
Albania, formerly a food exporter, had to rely on food aid. The fiscal deficit reached
60 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992, with inflation of 10-15 percent per month.
With 1992 GDP per capita of US$250, Albania was the poorest country in Europe.
2. In March, 1992, a reform-minded government was elected. Amid economic and
social disorder, the Government of Albania (GOA) took decisive steps to restore
order and macroeconomic stability. The GOA program, supported by external aid,
included drastic stabilization measures and structural reforms. Sharp expenditure cuts
halved the budget deficit, and subsidies to State-owned Enterprises were drastically
curtailed. Strict monetary targets were adopted, most prices liberalized, the currency
floated, and private transactions legalized.
The Agricultural Sector
3. Prior to identification of the ASAC, Albania had already undertaken substantial
agricultural reforms although many were of an ad hoc nature and not part of a
coherent overall program. A significant share of state-owned agriculture land was
distributed in ownership to individual fanners (although in small parcels), and
external trade and most agriculture product and input prices liberalized. However,
constraints which continued to hamper agricultural growth included: absence of rural
credit; collapse of state-owned marketing and processing enterprises; decrepit
physical infrastructure; and an urgent need to extend and deepen agriculture sector
reforms. In 1992, the GOA began to implement reforms based on the Agricultural
Strategyfor Albania, developed by the Government with IDA and the European
Union (EU) support. This program addressed the above constraints, which were
limiting production and marketed surplus, as well as preventing development of a
market economy in rural areas.
-2-



Project Objectives
4. The objectives of the ASAC were to alleviate the constraints limiting production and,
through technical assistance, bolster the capacity of key institutions including: (a)
strengthen and extend reforms in the agricultural price and incentive framework; (b)
privatize state farms and sell state farm assets; (c) finalize distribution of former state
farm and cooperative land; (d) implement a Land Market Action Plan on tilding, land
registration, and land policy; develop lease market for agricultural land; and facilitate
land consolidation; (e) liquidate the Bank for Agriculture and Development and
transfer assets to create a new, sustainable Rural Commercial Bank to provide rural
credit at market rates; (f) privatize processing and marketing enterprises, and improve
the environment for private business in rural areas.
5. The objectives were appropriate for Albania's circumstances because they addressed
the structural, institutional, and policy constraints that limited production and an
increase in the marketed surplus. The objectives were clear, and developed in a
participatory process with the GOA. They were somewhat unrealistic, however, with
respect to: how long it would take to achieve some reforms (in particular, liberalizing
wheat prices and enterprise privatization); and the extent to which social, cultural and
institutional factors would inhibit the emergence of a functioning land market. ASAC
was prepared in close cooperation with the GOA and IMF in accordance with a
jointly-prepared policy framework. ASAC was complementary to-and designed to
provide a favorable einvironment for-several subsequent IDA investment projects in
the sector. ASAC was implemented through three components at a total cost of
US$45.5 million:
(a) a quick-disbursing component of US$36.4 million (in 2 tranches) to support
an ambitious policy reform program (US$1 Imillion from IDA, plus co-
financing in the amounts of US$20 million from Japan and US$5.4 million
from the Netherlands);
(b) an investment component (US$5 million) providing a line of credit to the
Govemment for on-lending through a new Rural Commercial Bank; and
(c) a technical assistance component (US$3.6 million).
6. The ASAC's most important objectives were the policy goals supported by
component (a), and it was intended that the technical assistance would facilitate
achievement of the policy changes, and also bolster the new credit facility.
7. Achievement of Objectives--Overall achievement of objectives is judged to be
substantial. Substantial progress was achieved in the most important areas supported
by the Credit, including price and trade reform; privatization of state farms aend sales
of assets; distribution of ownership of state and cooperative farm land; and
privatization or liquidation of assets of the vast majority of former state-owned
agribusiness enterprises. In several areas, such as registration of new land ownership,
developing a lease and sales market for agricultural land, and consolidation of land
plots progress was only partial while negligible progress was made in creating a
viable institution to provide credit to farmers and rural entrepreneurs. The track
record for maintaining a sound macro-economic framework during the life of the
-3-



ASAC was mixed, with initial successes followed by setbacks, and subsequent
improvement by end-1998. The technical assistance program was particularly
valuable in supporting the formulation of land policies and the further development of
a land market, as well as in assisting project management during the early years of
implementation.
Implementation Experience and Results
8. Major Factors Affecting the Project-The first tranche of the quick-disbursing
component (IDA US$5.4 million, Japan US$10 million, Netherlands US$5.4 million)
was disbursed in 3 payments in June, 1994. Although it had been expected that the
second tranche would be disbursed about nine months after the first (March, 1995), in
actuality the second tranche consisting of US$16.6 million (IDA US$5.6 million,
Japan 10 million) disbursed in late December 1997 (contribution from Japan) and on
January 8, 1998 (IDA contribution). Due to currency appreciation, the project's total
expenditures amounted to about US$ 45.0 million, or 7.1 percent more than expected
at appraisal.
9. Progress under ASAC, although substantial in most areas, took much longer than
expected. Part of the delay was caused by GOA fiscal backsliding in mid-1996. This
was worsened by the civil unrest following collapse of the pyramid schemes (late
1996-early 1997). A factor delaying liberalization of bread prices (which occurred in
July, 1996) was the large proportion that bread comprised of Albanian household
budgets, and the "special place" that bread occupied in Albanians' minds.' A factor
inhibiting development of a land market was the reluctance of many Albanians to sell
their land-even if it had been possible to obtain clear title. This was due to high
economic insecurity in the country, and the view that "land is always something you
can go back to."
10. Sustainability-Overall sustainability is judged as likely, with all components likely
to be sustained except creation of a new rural credit institution. Sustainability is
likely because: there has been a clear shift in thinking, and most Albanian citizens
and leaders plainly see the benefits of reform; private, individual land ownership has
been very well accepted by the people; the country's strong desire to join the WTO
provides an incentive to avoid backsliding in this area; and current discussions with
IDA on a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit include conditionality which would
continue and extend reform.
11. IDA Performance-Overall IDA performance was satisfacto,y. Objectives were
clear and highly relevant to the circumstances of the Albanian agricultural sector.
They were developed in a highly participative manner, and the sector strategy
suggested by IDA was embraced by the Government. But the objectives were
unrealistic with respect to how long it would take to achieve some reforms. Also,
while most of the project design was sound, the effort to build the rural credit
'Counterbalancing this was the substantial increase in the world market price of wheat in 1996, which
created fiscal strains that made the previous subsidized wheat policy unsustainable.
-4-



component within a state-owned bank was not. The IDA team was regarded by the
borrower as highly competent, with particular note taken of the strong contribution of
the Resident Mission.
12. Two specific actions taken by IDA during implementation merit attention. (1) In
1996, the Association delayed release of the second tranche after a March, 1996,
supervisilon mission identified a growing budgetary deficit which further increased
later in the year. This decision was solidly justified by subsequent macroeconomic
deterioration and collapse of the pyramid schemes. (2) In 1998, IDA (and the IMF)
deflected GOA tendencies toward renewed protectionism and subsidies. The GOA
had developed a draft Green Strategy for the agricultural sector, which reflected an
inclination toward protectionism and subsidies. In seminars and communications the
Association and IMF made clear their concerns, and the GOA took these into
consideration and modified the Green Strategy accordingly.
13. Borrower Performance-Borrower performance was satisfactory. Most reform
goals were met and GOA was cooperative, but in some cases progress was slow.
Macroeconomic performance was adequate. In the case of the Rural Comm,ercial
Bank (RCB), however, GOA moved slowly with respect to privatization and
interfered with RCB personnel decisions and operations.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14. Project Outcome-Outcome is satisfactory. The sector has been fundamentally
transformed; significant policy reforms were achieved in most areas, and it is likely
these reforms will be sustained and extended. Agricultural production and exports
grew substantially, with production up about 40 percent 1992-98, and exports up 52
percent 1993-97. Albanian agricultural output in 1998 was 124 percent of 1989-91-
the highest such ratio of any country in Central or Eastern Europe or the former
Soviet Union over that time period. Activities of institutions which seriousl,Y
impeded reform, such as the General Directorate for State Reserves, were
significantly curtailed.
15. Future Operations-IDA is involved in an ongoing dialogue with the GOA, on
extending and deepening reforms achieved under ASAC. Much of this is in the
context of current investment operations, as well as in discussions of a proposed
Structural Adjustment Credit.
Key Lessons Learned-The following were the key lessons learned:
Adjustment Operations are Most Likely to Succeed Where Key Political
Groups Favor Reform-In Albania-early in the transition-there was a
"meeting of the minds" of the Association and important political groups on how
reform should proceed. Without such consensus, meaningful reform would have
been much more difficult to achieve.
-5-



*  Economic and Sector Work (ESW) is an Important Element in Designing
and Implementing a Sector Adjustment Operation. The up-front analysis
carried out in the framework of the Agriculture Strategy for Albania provided the
conceptual basis both for GOA, IDA as well as for participating donors on which
ASAC was designed. Subsequent sector analysis initiated by IDA towards the end
of the ASAC period (Reforms in Albanian Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in
Transition) helped sustain a sector policy dialogue over an extended period.
*  A Sector Adjustment Operation Can Provide a Favorable Policy
Environment for Parallel Investment Operations-Sector adjustment
operations and investment operations are complementary. The ASAC supported
establishment of a largely distortion-free policy environment within which it was
possible to successfully implement parallel or follow-on investment operations.
Without the policy progress achieved under ASAC, these investment operations
would have been either infeasible or much less successful.
*  A Hybrid Operation Can More Easily Provide Technical Assistance to
Facilitate Policy Reform-In the ASAC, technical assistance was critical (i) for
development of the Land Market Action Plan and preparation of key land tenure
legislation, and (ii) for project implementation (procurement, disbursement,
auditing). This was more easily provided in a hybrid than in a conventional
operation. On the other hand, the complexity of a rural credit operation is best
handled on a stand-alone basis (rather than as part of a hybrid).
I it is Undesirable to Use a State-owned Bank to Provide Rural Credit-ASAC
attempted to provide credit to farmers and rural entrepreneurs by creating a
separate Independent Lending Unit (ILU), utilizing substantial technical
assistance to bolster RCB. However, these efforts were unable to overcome: the
inability of government employees to carry out sound commercial banking
practices; government interference with personnel selection and operations; a lack
of understanding among borrowers of commercial banking practices; and,
reportedly, corruption. The poor performance of the line of credit under the
ASAC is also a reflection of a rudimentary financial sector.
* Establishment of an Agricultural Program Office (APO) Can Increase the
Effectiveness of Development Assistance-Implementation of ASAC was
facilitated by APO-located in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food-which
coordinated, monitored and evaluated all multilateral and bilateral foreign
assistance programs in the sector. APO enhanced effectiveness because staff
could evaluate progress across the sector and identify areas where efforts were
working well, where more emphasis was needed, etc. APO provided a sector-
wide institutional memory, which guided new projects, permitting better focus
and avoiding duplication. APO monitoring and evaluation also increased
accountability. GOA is reportedly considering establishing APO-type offices in
several other sectors.
-6-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 25240 ALB)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Introduction
1. Albania is predominantly agrarian, and the contribution of agriculture and forestry to
GDP was about 35 percent in the 1980s and about 50 percent in 1992, with a
comparable share of labor force involvement. The country is mountainous, with only
a third of the territory arable. About two thirds of the population live in rural areas,
and there is a high density of population to arable land (4.7 persons per ha). Prior to
reforms in the early 1990s, agriculture-indeed all aspects of rural life-were subject
to rigid state control: land was owned by the state or by cooperatives; inputs,
production, and marketing were state-controlled; and prices and subsidies were set by
the state. The result was self-sufficiency at a high cost-unsupportable after the end
of communism.
2. While similar problems faced other transition economies, the transformation in
Albania was very abrupt since no reforms at all-however tentative-had been
implemented prior to the change of regimes. Another special circumstance in
Albania was the very low land/worker ratio, about 1.5 ha per worker in Albania
compared to 10.5 in Bulgaria, for example.
3. Economic conditions worsened dramatically after the radical change of regimes in
1991-92. The end of central planning led to a broad collapse in production, and GDP
declined by 40 percent from 1990 to 1992. With the drastic decline of state
enterprises, the GOA's ability to collect revenue fell precipitously. The fiscal deficit
reached 60 percent of GDP in the first half of 1992, with inflation of 10-15 percent
per month. With a 1992 GDP per capita of US$250, Albania was by far the poorest
country in Europe.
4. The high inflation and collapse of export earnings led to the virtual exhaustion of
foreign exchange reserves. Agricultural production also collapsed, and Albania,
*formerly a net exporter of food, was forced to rely on food aid. The supply of farm
products to Government collection centers fell 60 to 80 percent. The decline in
agricultural production resulted from the dismantling of production cooperatives, the
scarcity of inputs, breakdown of distribution channels, and work stoppages.
-7-



5. In the first democratic elections in March, 1992 the Democratic Party was elected,
which in its early years was strongly committed to economic reform. In April, 1992,
amid economic and social disorder, the Government took decisive steps to restore
public order and macroeconomic stability. The GOA reform program, supported by
extemal aid, included drastic stabilization measures and structural reforms to begin
the transition to a market economy. Sharp expenditure cuts reduced the budget deficit
by half, and subsidies to state enterprises were eliminated. Strict monetary targets
were ado,pted, most prices liberalized, the currency floated, and private transactions
legalized.
The Agricultural Sector
6. Prior to identification of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC), Albania
had already undertaken substantial agricultural reforms-although they were of an ad
hoc, spontaneous, and was not part of a coherent overall program. Poor economic
conditions "pushed" people into agriculture for lack of other opportunities resulting in
much of agriculture being carried out on a subsistence basis. Much of the land of
former agricultural cooperatives and state farms was distributed to individual farmers
(although in very small parcels), most agricultural output prices were liberalized, and
external trade was liberalized. However, several critical factors continued tog hamper
growth of agricultural output: rural credit was severely lacking; marketing and
processing enterprises., still state-owned, were in extreme distress; physical
infrastructure (including irrigation) needed rehabilitation; and a broad range of policy
and institutional reforrms needed to be strengthened and extended.
7. In 1992, the Government approved and began to implement a program of reforms
based on the framework presented in the Agricultural Strategyfor Albania, developed
by the Government in conjunction with IDA and the European Union (EU).2 This
program addressed the severe structural, institutional, and policy constraints that were
limiting production and marketed surplus increases in the new smallholder sector, as
well as preventing development of a market economy in rural areas.
Project Objectives and Evaluation of Objectives
8. The objectives of the ASAC were to alleviate the constraints described in para 6, and
also bolster-through technical assistance--the capacity of key institutions involved
in the agricultural sector. Specific objectives were to:
*  strengthen and extend reforms in the agricultural price and incentive framework
to increase the marketed surplus and ensure that pricing of food aid did not distort
incentives and discourage domestic production and marketing;
*  privatize and sell assets of state farms;
*  finalize the distribution of former state farm and cooperative land;
2IDA played the major role in developing the intellectual framework for the Strategy.
-8-



*  implement a Land Market Action Plan on land titling and registration, and
development of land policy; develop the lease market for agricultural land; and
facilitate land consolidation;
* liquidate the Bank for Agriculture and Development and transfer assets to create a
new, sustainable Rural Commercial Bank to provide rural credit at market rates;
*  privatize processing and marketing enterprises, and improve the environment for
private business in rural areas.
9. These objectives were appropriate for Albania's circumstances because they
addressed the severe structural, institutional, and policy constraints that were limiting
production and an increase in the marketed surplus. The creation of a distortion-free
incentive structure in the price and trade regimes would stimulate productivity
increases and exports.3 And making credit available to farmers and rural
entrepreneurs would alleviate a key constraint to expanding production. At the same
time, completing distribution of state and collective farm land finish this critical
reform, and implementing a Land Market Action Plan would facilitate development
of a lease market for agricultural land and consolidation of small plots-permitting
more efficient operations. Privatizing state farms would put production decisions
squarely into the realm of the private sector. Finally, privatization of agricultural
processing enterprises would, in theory, strengthen these firms and facilitate the
ability of the sector to process and sell marketed surplus production, and capture
greater value added.
10. The objectives were clear, and developed in a participatory process with the GOA4
The objectives were somewhat unrealistic, however, with respect to (1) how long it
would take to achieve some reforms; and (2) the extent to which social and
institutional factors would inhibit emergence of a meaningful land market. (see paras
12 and 21)
11. The ASAC was based on the framework presented in the Agricultural Strategy for
Albania, and was closely coordinated with the policy framework paper prepared by
the government jointly with IDA and the IMF. The project was complementary to-
and designed to provide a favorable environment for-IDA investment projects in the
sector: the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project; Forestry and Natural Resource
Management Projects; the Rural Poverty Alleviation and Rural Development Project;
Agro-processing Development Project; and Enterprise Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit. ASAC was implemented through three components:
* a quick-disbursing component of US$36.4 million (in 2 tranches) to support an
ambitious policy reform program (US$1 lmillion from IDA, plus co-financing in
the amounts of US$20 million from Japan and US$5.4 million from the
Netherlands);
3 "Maintenance of a stable macroeconomic framework.. .as well as a distortion-free incentive structure is
the single key service governments can provide in support of agriculture and rural development.
[This].. .has been empirically documented in many countries." OECD Report on Albanian Agriculture,
October, 1998.
4 IDA played a key role in convincing the GOA that the reforms under discussion were worthwhile.
-9-



* an investment component (US$5 million) providing a line of credit to the
Government for on-lending through a new Rural Commercial Bank; and
* a technical assistance component (US$3.6 million).
12. The ASAC's most important objectives were the policy goals supported by
component (a), and it was intended that the technical assistance would facilitate
achievement of the policy changes, and also bolster the new credit facility.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
13. Overall Judgment-Overall achievement of objectives is judged to be substantial.
As shown in the following sections, substantial progress was achieved in the most
important; areas supported by the Credit, including price and trade reform;
privatization of state farms and sales of assets; distribution of ownership of state and
cooperative farm land; and privatization or liquidation of assets of the vast majority
of former state-owned agribusiness enterprises. In several areas, such as registration
of new land ownership, developing a lease and sales market for agricultural land, and
consolidation of land plots progress was only partial while negligible progress was
made in creating a viable institution to provide credit to farmers and rural
entrepreneurs. The track record for maintaining a sound macro-economic framework
during the life of the ASAC was mixed, with initial successes followed by setbacks,
and subsequent improvement by end-1998. The technical assistance program was
particularly valuable in supporting the formulation of land policies and the firther
development of a land market, as well as in assisting project management during the
early years of implementation.
14. Price and Trade Framework-Excellent progress was made in the area of
liberalizing the price and trade framework with virtually all output and input prices
liberalized prior to the effectiveness of the ASAC. Albania received large quantities
of food assistance in the early years of its transition, and there was a concern that
physical distribution without adequate monetization would create a disincentive to
farm production. While having served its purpose during the early years of the
transition, after 1994, shipments of products other than wheat were insignificant, so
conditionality regarding the sales of physical food-aid deliveries of these became
essentially irrelevant.5 In a major decision in July, 1996, the GOA made prices of
wheat, flour, and bread fully market-determined. The delay in implementing this
latter reform was evidently due to the importance of bread in the budgets of most
Albanian households, and hence the sensitivity to its price.6 Albania also has
maintained relatively open trade regime for agricultural products, with moderate
levels of protection.
The quantity of emergency food aid supplied in the aftermath of the 1997 turmoil was insignificant, so
there was no issue of pricing. Sales of physical food aid deliveries has however become relevant again in
the aftermath of the Kosovo crisis in mid-1999, and current GOA practice is to auction donor supplied
commodities imports at the point of entry into the country.
6 The GOA implemented this reiform during a period of large increase in the world market price of wheat
that occurred at about the same tlime when it's policy of subsidized bread becane fiscally unsustainable.
-10-



15. Distribution of Former State Farm and Cooperative Land-Excellent progress
was made in finalizing the distribution of former state farm and cooperative land, and
privatizing state farms. Albania has made more progress in this area than almost any
other country in ECA. All state farms have been liquidated. Of around 702,000 ha of
agricultural land before redistribution, 80 percent is now privately owned, 17 percent
has been refused by private owners (due to factors such as salinity, remoteness, slope
or poor soil quality), and 3 percent is in non-agricultural use, joint-ventures, etc.
Farm size is small, however-an average of 1.1 ha, which is further subdivided into
4-5 plots (which resulted from an effort to achieve equity in the distribution process).
16. State Farm Asset Divestiture-Excellent progress was also made in selling the
assets of state farms. There are no more state or cooperative farms in operation today,
and all agriculture production now is in the realm of the private sector.
17. Land Market Action Plan-Partial success was achieved in implementing a Land
Market Action Plan, developing a lease market for agricultural land, and
consolidation of land plots. The GOA has adopted legislation permitting the leasing
and sale of land, and has developed, a Land Market Action Plan which has been for
several years and continues to be under implementation.  While leasing of land is
expanding in many areas and some sales have taken place, in general the land market
has so far not developed as quickly as expected. This is because: the formal
registration of land-though rising-has so far been limited (only around 30% of
agriculture land fully titled and registered)8; the ownership of some land is under a
cloud because of potential claims from previous owners; even when ownership is
formally established, many Albanians prefer to hold onto land as a form of "social
security," believing they can always go back to the land if their current economic
activities are unsuccessful. Overall the high institutional demands of managing a
country-wide land registration program (with significant additional assistance from
USAID and EU-Phare to support physical implementation of land surveying and
registration) have been somewhat underestimated. In summary, progress was very
good compared to (1) what could reasonably have been accomplished in this time
period; (2) progress in other transition economies. However, the objectives were too
ambitious for the time period envisaged.
18. Rural Credit-The effort to create a new agricultural bank did not succeed. A new
entity-Rural Commercial Bank (RCB}-was created from the existing Agricultural
Bank, received considerable technical assistance, and an Independent Lending Unit
was created to handle ASAC loans. RCB disbursed about 50 sub-loans totaling
US$5.0 million,9 (see table below) averaging US$100,000 and predominantly funding
agro-processing enterprises in rural areas.'0 However, only about 24 percent of the
funds that were loaned has been repaid. The reasons for this failure include: the
7In this regard, the contribution of the Wisconsin Land Tenure Center (paid for from ASAC technical
assistance funds) to the Land Market Action Plan has been significant.
8 This is partly because registration is a complex and lengthy process.
9 RCB disbursed around US$5.0 miUion in loans under the ASAC and another US$10.0 million through
lines of credit supported by other donors.
'0 Loans supported flour production, breweries, and production of pasta and bread, mills, meat, soft drinks,
coffee and fruit.
-11-



inability of a state-owned bank with a strong public sector legacy-despite substantial
TA-to execute sound commercial banking practices; government interfereicem with
personnel selection and operations; a lack of understanding among borrowers that
their loans would have to be repaid; and, reportedly, corruption." RCB was; merged
with National Commercial Bank in early 1998, and the latter is now in the process of
being privatized with IDA assistance. A significant factor in RCB's poor
performance has been the slow progress made in overall financial sector reform (see
below, para 30).
Table 1-ASAC-Funded Rural Subloans
Sector                Approved loans            Approved loan amounts
Number      % of total      US$ 000        % of total
Agricultural production       3            6              91              1.8
Livestock                     5            10             421             8.4
Fisheries                     1            2              167             3.3
Agro-processing               24           52            2,670           53.0
Forestry/wood processing      7            14             811            16.0
Services                      7            14             599            11.9
Other rural industry          3            6              280             5.6
Total                 =       50          100            5,039           100.0
19. Privatization- Considerable progress was made in privatization of state-owmed
processing and marketing enterprises. All small and medium enterprises were
privatized, and an auction was held in December, 1998, to sell the country's eight
large agricultural processors. However, no bids were offered, and the GOA plans to
divest at least some of these firms by tender or liquidation of assets by the end of
1999. It should be noted that while most of the country's processing and marketing
companies are now private, in general they remain in poor operating conditions, and
lack working capital and marketing and management expertise to make a substantial
contribution to the sector.
20. Macroeconomic Progress-Achievement of project macroeconomic goals was
partial, with initial successes followed by setbacks, and then improvement by end-
1998. From 1990-1992, GDP fell about 40 percent with inflation of 240 percent at the
end of 1992. But from 1993 to 1996, there was substantial recovery, with real GDP
growth of 9 percent per year, 12 and inflation of 6 percent at end-1995. The fiscal
deficit declined from 20.3 percent of GDP in 1992 to 10.4 percent in 1995. In 1996
and 1997, there was backsliding in inflation and the fiscal deficit, but improvement
since late 1997, with a domestically-financed fiscal deficit of 3 percent in the first 8
months of 1998 and an inflation rate of around six percent. The return to a sustainable
'l It was reported that it was routine practice in Albania for a borrower to "kick-back" 10% of the value of a
loan to the loan officer and possibly other bank officials in return for obtaining a loan.
12 It is estimated that 60 percent of the growth came from agriculture, which enjoyed large productivity
increases.
-12-



macro-economic framework during the second half of 1997, based on a program
agreed with the IMF, was crucial for disbursement of the second tranche.
21. Technical Assistance-Significant technical assistance was provided under the
ASAC, as well as parallel technical assistance provided by other agencies. Under
ASAC:
* Considerable support was provided to land policy formulation and further
development of a land market (including development of a Land Market Action
Plan'3); this effort was extremely valuable
* As noted earlier, RCB was provided with substantial TA (56 person-months),
although the effort was ultimately unsuccessful (due in part to the weakness of the
overall Albanian financial sector)
* Implementation support was provided to the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of Finance
* Privatization of agricultural enterprises; an advisor in this area was ultimately not
hired as this activity was carried out under a grant funding by USAID.
22. In parallel with the TA provided under the ASAC, additional TA was provided to:
strengthen the MAF, provide Business Advisory Services for small and medium-sized
agricultural enterprises, and develop environmental legislation for agriculture
(USAID); provide a long-term policy advisor to MAF, develop an Action Program
for Food Inspection, and develop a Public Investrnent Program for agriculture (EU
Phare). Assistance to Reform the Agricultural Extension Program was provided under
a project funded by the Government of the Netherlands.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23. The ASAC was approved by the Board on June 24, 1993, and made effective
November 30, 1993, three months later than anticipated. The credit amount of SDR
14.2 million (about US$19.6 million) supported a hybrid operation at a total cost of
around US$45 million composed of (a) a quick-disbursing component of US$36.4
million to support implementation of a program of sectoral reforms (US$1 1.0 million
from IDA, plus co-financing in the amounts of US$20.0 million from Japan and
US$5.4 million from the Netherlands); (b) an investment component providing a line
of credit to the Government for on-lending through a new Rural Commercial Bank
(US$5 million); and (c) a technical assistance component (US$3.6 million from IDA
plus parallel funding from co-financiers).
24. The closing date of the credit was December 31, 1998, the original closing date. The
first tranche of US$5.4 million was disbursed in June, 1994, and the second tranche
of US$5.6 million on January 8, 1998 (about 2Y years behind schedule), which was
the final disbursement. The amount of US$0.48 million was undisbursed at project
closing and was cancelled.
13 By the Land Tenure Center of the University of Wisconsin.
-13-



25. The credit was closed on December 31, 1998, as foreseen in the Development Credit
Agreement, with SDR 14.2 (US$19.6 million) in IDA funds spent. Co-financing in
support of the policy reform program of approximately US$5.4 million was provided
by the Government of the Netherlands on a grant basis, as well as a credit of about
US$20 million from the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan. Due to
currency appreciation, the project's total foreign exchange expenditures amounted to
about US$ 45.0 million, or 7 percent more than expected at appraisal.
Factors Not Generally Subject to GOA Control
26. Progress under the ASAC, although substantial in many areas, took considerably
longer than initially expected. Part of the reason for the delay was the enormous
disruption caused by the civil unrest that followed the collapse of the pyramid
schemes in late 1996 and early 1997. The country descended into near anarchy and
civil war in the first six months of 1997, with widespread rioting and civil unrest.
While the second tranche conditions were considered substantially met shortly before
the civil crisis of early 1997, the severe macro-economic deterioration prevented
disbursement.
27. A factor that proved stronger than expected in delaying progress on liberalizalion of
bread prices (which occurred in July, 1996) was the importance of bread, and the
large proportion it comprised of Albanian household budgets. Bread, a central part of
the Albanian food basket on which families spend, on average, around 70 percent of
household iincome, occupied a "special place" in Albanians' minds compounded by
decades of policies advocating self-sufficiency and autarky, which made the C?OA
more reluctant to act-prior to 1996-and delayed implementation of the reform.
Counterbalancing this wias the substantial increase in the world market price of wheat
in 1996, which created fiscal strains that made the previous subsidized wheat policy
unsustainable. Former COA officials indicated that the absence of any public
relations efforts early in the reform process on the pending wheat price reforms with
the aim of educating consumers at large, contributed to procrastination on this critical
policy measure.
28. A factor inhibiting the development of a land market was the reluctance of many
Albanians to sell their land-even if it had been possible to obtain a registered title
which in any case could not have happened until mid-1996 and is still an on-going
process. This was due to high economic insecurity in the country with only limited
trust in public protection of private property, and the view that "land is always
something you can go back to." So even individuals who may go to work in another
region, or in the city, may retain their land. This will hinder the consolidation of
farms into larger units.
Factors Generally Subject to GOA Control
29. As noted above, in mid-1996, sharply falling revenues brought the state budget under
intense pressure, threatening macroeconomic stability. The fiscal deficit rose to 11.9
percent of GDP. Inflation also reversed its previous course of improvement and rose
dramatically. The situation was worsened by the mushrooming pyramid schemnes.
-14-



These events helped derail the macroeconomic progress the country had achieved,
and caused to further delay disbursement of the second tranche.
30. To provide context for the failure to create a new agricultural bank (RCB), it should
be noted that the overallfinancial sector was exceedingly weak.14 During the period
of the ASAC the financial sector consisted exclusively of publicly owned banks, the
inter-bank payment system was rudimentary, and collateral and bankruptcy laws were
new (1996) and untested. It was assumed that many of these weaknesses would be
addressed under the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC),
also supported by IDA.
D. SUSTAINABILITY
31. The overall sustainability of the ASAC is judged as likely. It is considered that the
sustainability of the following components is likely: strengthening price and trade
reform; distribution of farm land to private individuals; sale of former state farm
assets; implementation of a Land Market Action Plan and facilitation of land
registration; and privatization of state-owned enterprises. Of course, sustainability is
unlikely for the creation of a new agricultural bank.
32. The reasons that it is believed that the benefits of the project will be sustained are the
following:
* There has been significant development in the thinking of Albanian leaders since
the implementation of reforms. Political figures from different parties can see the
benefits of reform, and its continuation is not a matter of substantial political
debate.
- Reforms-particularly land ownership-have been very well accepted by the
people, who now have no sentiment to go backwards.
* Albania's strong desire to join the World Trade Organization provides an
incentive to keep its trade regime in conformance with the organization's rules.
X Albania is currently discussing a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit with the
Association, which would include conditionality to continue and-extend
agricultural reforms.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
33. Overall, IDA performance was satisfactory. As noted earlier, project objectives were
clear and highly relevant to the circumstances of the Albanian agricultural sector.
They were developed in a highly participative manner, and the sector strategy
suggested by IDA was embraced by the Government as its own policy' framework.
However, the objectives were somewhat unrealistic with respect to how long it would
take to achieve some reforms. Also, while most of the project design was sound, the
effort to build the rural credit component within a state-owned bank was not. That is,
14 See OED Albania Country Assistance Review, 1998
-15-



as noted earlier, the efforts undertaken by IDA could not overcome the inability of
RCB staff to execute sound commercial practices, as well as the borrowers' lack of
experience with commercial banking practices.'s
34. The borrower regarded the IDA team as highly competent, and particular note was
made of the contribution of the Resident Mission.
35. IDA performance in project supervision was satisfactory, with the following twvo
occurrences particularly deserving recognition:
* Delay in Second Tranche Release--An IDA mission visited Tirana in March, 1996,
to review progress toward release of the second tranche. While most conditiorns for
tranche release were considered substantially met, the mission detected the
emergence of budgetary pressures-associated with the non-reform of wheat prices
noted earlier-which intensified later in the year. Consequently, the Association
delayed tranche release, a decision that was well justified by the deterioration in the
macroeconomic situation and the collapse of the pyramid schemes.
*  Dialogue on GOA "Green Strategy"-In 1998, GOA developed a draft of its Green
Strategy for the agricultural sector, which was extensively discussed with the
Association. In various seminars and communications the Association based on on-
going Economic and Sector Works (ESW) 16 and the IMF made clear their concerns
about tendencies in the document toward protectionism and subsidies that would
constitute a step backward in view of potential consequences and distortions. The
GOA took into consideration these objections and modified the positions stated in the
Green Strategy.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36. Borrower performance was satisfactory. As noted there was extensive Bank-GC)A
collaboration in project preparation. For the most part, reform goals were met, and
GOA was cooperative and helpful, and complied with all project requirements. But,
as noted earlier, in some cases progress was slower than expected. Macroeconomic
performance was adequate, with initial successes followed by setbacks, and an
improvement by the time of the ASAC closing. However, in the case of RCB, th1e
GOA moved slowly with respect to privatization, and interfered with RCB personnel
decisions and operations.
15 It is interesting to note that the German agency KfW established in 1996 an entirely new private entity-
FEFAD-to provide enterprise loans. FEFAD only hired employees who had not previously worked in
state-owned financial enterprises, and has had a very satisfactory rate of repayment.
16 Which was eventually published as: Reforms in Albanian Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in Transition
(World Bank Technical Paper 431)
-16-



G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37. Outcome is assessed as satisfactory. There is no question that significant policy
reforms were achieved in many areas, and it is likely that these reforms will be
sustained and extended. The structure of the agricultural sector has changed
fundamentally from what it was at the beginning of the reform process, a change to
which ASAC made a significant contribution. Agricultural production and exports
grew substantially. And it appears that agricultural reforms in Albania have been
deeper, and implemented more quickly, than those in a number of other countries in
the region.
38. Data on the growth of Albanian agricultural production is shown in Tables 2 and 3
below. It should be noted that Albanian agricultural output in 1998 was around 140
percent of that in 1989-91, compared with 100 percent in Yugoslavia and Slovenia
(the next highest in Central/Eastern Europe or the FSU). Albania's is the highest
such ratio of any country in Central or Eastern Europe or the former Soviet Union.
39. Redefining the role of the public sector. Activities of institutions which seriously
impeded reform, such as the General Directorate for State Reserves, were
significantly curtailed. To enhance food security, the GOA had created an agency, the
General Directorate for State Reserves (GDSR), which purchased, stored, and
transported large quantities of grain and other products. While not explicitly cited in
the ASAC, during implementation it became evident that GDSR was the major
instrument of GOA intervention in the grain market, and IDA (and the IMF)
undertook to persuade the GOA to sharply downsize GDSR.17 This effort was largely
successful, and by January, 1999, GDSR had: divested the vast majority of its wheat
and was continuing to shrink its stockpile; cut its staff by over 65%; and leased some
of its facilities to private operators.'8 Further, the GOA formally adopted an
approach-initially proposed by the Association in an June 1998, study-to ensure
food security in remote areas utilizing a cash transfer to residents of those areas rather
than the purchase, shipment, and maintenance of public physical stocks of grain.
40. Enterprise Privatization--Regarding privatization of state-owned agricultural
processing and marketing enterprises, the GOA largely met its goals under the ASAC.
However, after privatization, there was little or no change in enterprise structure or
behavior. Corporate governance-with a large number of shareholders who mainly
reflected a short-term perspective-did not stimulate improvements, and the firms'
weakness continued to be a significant constraint on the performance of the sector.
Privatization is a critical first step, but should be followed by programs and efforts to
revitalize firms by providing access to credit and improving the management and
marketing skills of enterprise management.
41. Output and Exports--Reforms in Albanian agriculture have had a very positive
effect on output, and have also contributed to a substantial shift from wheat
17 In favor of an approach to food security that did not involve the holding of physical reserves.
18The downsizing of GDSR was facilitated by the looting of its stocks during the civil disorders of 1997.
-17-



production to livestock. As shown in Table 2, below, the value of total agricultural
output has grown about 40% from 1992 to 1998, with production of wheat,
vegetables, potatoes up by 17%; fruit up by 46%; and livestock, milk, and eggs up by
68%.
Table 2
Agricultural Production, 1992-98
In Billions of 1994 lek
Category     1992      1993      1994      1995       1996      1997      1!998
Plants       37.8      42.3      41.4      47.0      49.0       42.5      44.2
Tree fruit    4.1      4.7       5.2       6.6       6.5        6.9       6.0
Livestock,    29.7     37.9      45.3      50.6       51.7      44.0      49.8
milk, eggs      __       _        _I_ __                            _   _
Total        71.6      84.9      92.0      104.1     107.2      93.5      100.0
"Plants" includes grains, vegetables, potatoes; 1998 data are preliminary
42. Table 2 below shows that agricultural exports grew 52% from 1993 to 1997, but were
still small in relation to agricultural imports, which more than doubled during the
same period. Still, Albania's agricultural exports in 1997 comprised 2 1 % of the
country's total exports, up slightly from 19% in 1993.
Table 3:
Agriculture Trade (1993-97)
in Current US$ million
1993      1994       1995       1996     1997
Total Exports               122.40     141.40     201.60    210.50    167.00
Total Imports               421.00    548.20      650.00    908.60   685.00
Total (Deficit/Surplus)    -298.60   -406.80    -448.40    -698.10  -518.00
Agriculture Exports          23.30     23.30      28.00      35.70    35.40
Agricultural Imports         80.00     153.70     184.40    318.50    163.70
Agriculture (Deficit/Surplus)    -56.70    -130.40    -156.40    -282.80  -128.30
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
43. IDA is involved in an ongoing dialogue with the GOA on sustaining and extending
the reforms achieved under the ASAC. Much of this dialogue is in the context of
ongoing investmnent operations (see para 1 1). Further, in the context of discussions of
the forthcoming Structural Adjustment Credit, IDA is closely monitoring existing
reforms and the further progress that is expected.
-18-



I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44. Adjustment Operations are Most Likely to Succeed Where Key Political Groups
Favor Reform-In Albania-early in the transition period-there was a "meeting of
the minds" of the Association and important political groups on how reform should
proceed. This positive alignment of the political economy of change-seemingly
obvious-was critical to the success achieved under the ASAC. Without such a
consensus, meaningful reform would be much more difficult, or impossible, to
achieve.
45. Economic and Sector Work (ESW) is an Important Element in Designing and
Implementing a Sector Adjustment Operation. The up-front analysis carried out in
the framework of the Agriculture Strategyfor Albania provided the conceptual basis
both for GOA, IDA as well as for participating donors on which ASAC was designed.
Subsequent sector analysis initiated by IDA towards the end of the ASAC period
(Reforms in Albanian Agriculture - Assessing a Sector in Transition) helped sustain a
sector policy dialogue over an extended period.
46. A Hybrid Operation Can More Easily Provide Technical Assistance to Facilitate
Policy Reform-In the ASAC, technical assistance was critical (i) for development
of the Land Market Action Plan and preparation of key land tenure legislation, and
(ii) for project implementation (procurement, disbursement, auditing). This was more
easily provided in a hybrid than in a conventional operation. On the other hand, the
complexity of a rural credit operation is best handled on a stand-alone basis (rather
than as part of a hybrid).
47. A Sector Adjustment Operation Can Provide a Favorable Policy Environment
for Parallel Investment Operations-Sector adjustment operations and investment
operations are complementary. The ASAC supported the establishment of a largely
distortion-free policy environment within which it was possible to successfully
implement parallel or follow-on investment operations: Irrigation Rehabilitation;
Forestry and Natural Resource Management; Rural Poverty Alleviation and Rural
Development; and Agro-processing Development. Without the policy progress
achieved under the ASAC, these investment operations would have either been
infeasible or much less successful.
48. It Undesirable to Utilize a State-owned Bank to Provide Rural Credit-The
ASAC attempted to provide credit to farmers and rural entrepreneurs by creating a
separate Independent Lending Unit within RCB and utilizing substantial technical
assistance to bolster staff skills within RCB. However, these efforts were unable to
overcome: the inability of government employees to carry out sound commercial
banking practices; government interference with personnel selection and operations; a
lack of understanding among borrowers-who were also inexperienced in
commercial banking practices-that their loans would have to be repaid; and,
reportedly, corruption.
49. Establishment of an Agricultural Program Office (APO) Can Increase the
Effectiveness of Development Assistance-Implementation of ASAC was
-19-



facilitated by APO-located in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food-which
coordinated, monitored and evaluated all foreign assistance programs in the
agricultural sector. The Director of APO held the rank of Deputy Minister of
Agriculture and Food, and the office initially coordinated foreign assistance programs
financed by IDA, EU/PHARE, and USAID. APO subsequently assumed
responsibility for coordination of additional projects: (FAO - four projects;
Netherlands - three projects; Italy - three projects, Germany - three projects; IEAD -
two projects-twenty six projects altogether).
50. APO made a large contribution because its staff could evaluate progress across the
sector and recommend to donors areas where efforts were working well, where more
emphasis was needed, etc. APO also provided a sector-wide institutional memory,
which informed and guided new projects. This permitted donors to better focus their
efforts, and not duplicate what had been achieved by others. APO monitoring and
evaluation also increased accountability. The GOA is reportedly considering
establishing offices based on the APO model in several other sectors.
-20-



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macro policies
Sector Policies             _
Financial objectives                             . . .
Institutional development    _
Physical objectives        ____________
Poverty reduction           _                                                            l
Gender issues                          _                     _
Other social objectives    _
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                     _
Private sector development         /          _
Other (specify)             _     _    _  _=                 __ ___
B. Project sustainability
C. IDA Performance
Idet caon
Preparation                         s
assistance
Appraisal
Supervision    _
D. Borrower performance
Preparation
Implementation 
Covenant 
compliance
Operation        __       __       NA  L
E. Assessment of Outcome
-21-



Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Critical       6.2           Irigation sub-component enabled MOAF   FY93           Closed June 30,
Imports                     to make most urgent pump and canal                     1996
structure repairs, and increase general
operation and maintenance of Water
Enterprises.
Rural Poverty   125          6,000 small sub-loans were disbursed to    FY95       Ongoing
Alleviation and             rural families, with an average of US $ 488
Rural                        per sub-loan and about 380 rural
Development                  infrastructure subprojects were financed in
32 districts.
Rural Roads    34            Development and improvement of rural    FY95          Ongoing
roads
Agro-          7             Entrepreneur support component and credit FY96        Ongoing
processing                  line started at the beginning of 1996.
Development
Irrigation     44            78,000 hectares of irrigation and 93,000    FY95      Ongoing
Rehabilitation               hectares of drainage have been
rehabilitated.
Enterprise and  IS          Support reform in the enterprise and  FY95            Ongoing
Financial                    financial sectors; restructure state-owned
Sector                       banks; support enterprise privatization;
Adjustment                   strengthen enabling environment for
Credit                       private activity.
-22-



Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                       November, 1992          N    em   1
Preparation                          November, 1992         November, 1992-
_ _   ____________ __      February 1993
Appraisal                              March, 1993           September, 1993
Negotiations                            May, 1993              May, 1993
Letter of development policy            May, 1993             May 24, 1993
Board presentation                    June 24, 1993           June 24, 1993
Effectiveness                         August, 1993         November 30, 1993
First tranche release               September 30, 1993     November 30, 1993
Second tranche release                June 30, 1994          January 8, 1998
Project completion (last disbursement)  April 30, 1999       January 8, 1998
Loan closing                        December 31, 1998       December 31, 1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements:
Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(millions of US $ equivalent)
FY1994   FY1995  FY1996   FY1997  FY1998  Total
Planned               18.0      26.0.     42.0                           42.0
Disbursement
Actual                8.2       28.7       29.3      29.6      45.0      4
Disbursement
Actual as % of   | 45.5          110.4    69.8       --        -.         107.
Estimated           lI_                    l
Last disbursement occurred on January 8, 1999
-23-



Table 5.1: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1. Macroeconomic  Satisfactory progress with the implementation   Satisfactory progress with the implementation of
Framework          of the overall medium term reform program    the overall medium term reform program (Policy
(Policy Framework Paper) agreed with the IDA  Framework Paper) agreed with the IDA and IMF
and IMF demonstrated by adherence to the  demonstrated by adherence to the conditions
conditions established under the IMF program   established under the IMF program
2. Price Policy    Cabinet Decision to price donor supplied wheat Price of food aid wheat credited to counterpart
at 16 lek/kg (with corresponding increase in   funds not to decline, in real terms, below 16
the price of donor supplied flour).     Lek/kg or below domestic producer price.
Introduction of auctions and competitive  Price of other food aid commodities credited to
bidding procedures acceptable to IDA for  counterpart funds not to decline, in real terms,
transport, wholesale and distribution of food    below their January 1993 level.
aid.
Agreement with IDA on appropriate margins for
distribution, storage and milling of wheat and for
bread production in state owned enterprises.
3. Rural Finance   Plan for the liquidation of BAD and creation of Adoption and implementation of the first phase
the new AB finalized by Government, BOA  of a comprehensive institutional development
and bank management, under condition    plan for AB, acceptable to IDA.
satisfactory to IDA.
The conditions for issuance of a license by
BOA to the new AB have been fulfilled by
Government ancd Bank management, under
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
4. Farm            A plan and an implementation timetable,  Complete liquidation of all state farms,
Privatization      acceptable to IDA, have been adopted by  distribution of land rights and sale of assets and
Government for the liquidation of all state  settlement of claims.
farms, distribution of lease rights to
beneficiaries, sale of assets and settlement of
all claims
5. Agricultural    Subsidies earmarked in the 1993 budget for    Any subsidies earmarked in the 1994 budget for
Budget             state enterprises under the purview of the  state enterprises under the purview of the
Ministry of Agriculture are being drawn  Ministry of Agriculture must be drawn
exclusively from the over all budget allocation  exclusively from the overall budget allocation
of Lek 4.5 billion budgeted in 1993 for  budgeted in 1994 for restructuring state
restructuring state enterprises.        enterprises.
6. Land Reform                                             Complete liquidation of all state farms,
distribution of land rights and sale of assets and
settlement of claims.
-24-



7. Enterprise                                               'Privatization or liquidation of all small and
privatization                                                medium (less than 50 employees) agricultural
marketing and processing state enterprises and
adoption of a timetable agreed with IDA for the
privatization of liquidation of large state-owned
enterprises.
8. Ministry of    The Agricultural Program Office (policy
Agriculture       monitoring and aid coordination unit for the
reform program in agriculture) is staffed and
operating; and operational procurement
guidelines for the project have been finalized.
Table 5.2: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
(a) Provide credit line to the Goernment for on-   (a) Disbursement of ASAC credit line and recovery rates of loans
lending to rural entrepreneurs through the  to V_ub-borrowers;
newly created Rural Commercial Bank (RCB);
(b) Provide funds for technical assistance to  (b) Implementation of Technical Assistance Program: (i)
support implementation of the program.   privatization of agricultural enterprises; (ii) land policy; (iii)
institutional development of Rural Commercial Bank; and (iv) TA
programs financed by other donors.
-25-



Table 6: Studies Included in Project
.   ,    ''                        St'tu                        a ttdy
Public Investmnent Program for   Completed by APO           Helped define public investment
Agriculture                                                 priorities
Survey On The Results Of Land    Completed by Wisconsin     Assisted in managemeni1 of project
Distribution Program And On      Land Tenure Center         component
Functioning Of Land Market
Assessment Of Status And         Completed by SARA with     Helped in design of procedures
Procedures Of The Privatization Of   support from EU/Phare  utilized in project
Small And Medium Size Agro-
Industries                     _
Analysis Of Grain Marketing, and    Completed by FAO and    Influenced GOA policy on grain
Preparation Of Recommendations    SARA consultants          marketing
For Policy Changes
Structure of AgricultLural Sources of  Completed by IFDC    Analysis of changes in agricultural
Farm Income in Albania after the                            sector and implications for ASAC
Transition                     _
Table 7: Project Cost and Financing
IDA                  0            20.0        20.0                      19.6        19.6
Netherlands          0            2.0         2.0                       5.4         5.4
OECF (Japan)         0            20.0        20.0                     20.0         20.0
Domestic contribution  --         --          ---                       --          --
Total                             42.0        42.0                      45.0        45.0
Note: Increased project expenditures resulted from increased co-financing from
Government of the Netherlands as well as appreciation of SDR and Netherlands Guilder
against US dollar.
-26-



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Covenant Present             Description of covenant                 Status
Section    Type*   Status*                                                   Comments
2.01 (b)     1,2      C    The Borrower to open two special accounts.
3.01(b)    2,3,4      C    The Government is to enter into a Subsidiary
Agreement with the Agricultural Bank (AB)
under the Investment Component of the Credit.
3.02 (b)     5       NC    The Borrower to furnish progress report to IDA.
3.05 (a)   2,3,4      C    The Government is to maintain the Agricultural
Program Office (APO) within MOA
3.05 (b)    2,3,4     C    The Government is to maintain the Independent
Lending Unit (ILU) within the Agricultural Bank
(AB).
3.05 (c)   2,3,4      C    The Government is to cause the PIU in the
Ministry of Finance and Economy to coordinate
procurement and provide related advisory
services.
3.06 (b)     1       NC    The Government is to have its accounts and  Audits are delayed for
and (c)                     records, the special account, and accounts related  all IDA supported
to withdrawals based on statements of     projects. Auditing
expenditures audited report is to be submitted to  arrangements are being
the Bank within six months of the end of the  made for the IDA entire
fiscal year.                              portfolio including this
operation.
Schedule 4    6         C    The maintenance of a macroeconomic
(i)                       framework consistent with Program is a
condition for second tranche release.
Schedule 4    6         C    The maintenance of domestic price of donor-
(ii)                      supplied wheat at or above 16 Lek/kg in real
terms is a condition of second tranche release.
Schedule 4     6        C    The maintenance of donestic price of donor-
(iii)                     supplied food products at or above January 1993
prices in real terms is a condition of second
tranche release.
Schedule 4    6         C    Agreement with IDA on margins for distribution,
(iv)                      storage and milling of wheat and for bread
production in state enterprises is a condition of
second tranche release.
Schedule 4    6         C    Implementation of first phase of institutional
(v)                       development plan for AB is a condition of
second tranche release.
Schedule 4    6         C    Liquidation of all state farms is a condition of
(vi)                      second tranche release.
-27-



Schedule 4      6          C     Enactment of land lease legislation is a condition
(vii)                         of second tranche release.
Schedule 4      7          C     1994 subsidies for state enterprises under MOA
(viii)                        to be drawn exclusively from 1994 overall
budget allocation for restructuring of state
enterprises is a condition of second tranche
release.
Schedule 4      6          C     Privatization of all small and medium
(ix)                          agricultural marketing and processing
enterprises, and adoption of timetable for
privatization of large enterprises in the sector is a
condition for second tranche release.
Schedule 6     3,4,6       C     The Government and AB shall jointly prepare
Section B                        credit guidelines for AB, acceptable to IDA.
Covenant types:                   Present status:
1- Accounts/audits               C = complied with
2- Flow and utilization of funds  CD = complied with after delay
3- Management Aspects            CP = complied with partially
4- Implementation                NC = not complied with
5- Monitoring and report         NA = Not applicable
6- Sectoral Regulatory
7- Sectoral Budgetary
Table 9: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
All relevant OM statements complied with
Table 10: Bank Resources--Staff Inputs
,                                               ,,  .   ..   .. .    ,   .  ... ... .   ...... .. . ................. ........... .. ._ .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  .  .   ...
...    ..  ... .. . . ....
Preparation, appraisal through Board              0               0             55.1         125.3
approval
Supervision/tranche release/completion         68.9            145.4           181.4         293.8
Total                                          68.9            145.4           248.4         419.1
-28-



Table 11: Bank Resources - Missions
Preparation     Nov 1992        1          10         E
Feb 1993       1          3          E
Appraisal          N/A
through Board
approval
Supervision      Sep 1993       1          10         E          Satisfactory        Satisfactory
Feb 1994        2          18         E          Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Apr 1994        2          5        E, AB        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
July 1994       2          6        E, RC        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Sep 1994        3          6          E          Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Mar 1995        2          5       AB, RC        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Aug 1995        2          4          E          Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Sep 1995        2          5         E, I        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory
Jan/Feb         1          5         RC          Satisfactory       Satisfactory
1996
Apr 1996        2          7         E, I        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Sep 1997        2          5         E, I      Unsatisfactory*      Satisfactory
June 1998                  7                   Unsatisfactory*      Satisfactory
Dec 1998        2          4         E,j         Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Jan 1999        3          7         E, I        Satisfactory       Satisfactory
KEY:   EsEconomist                    I=Implentator
AB=Agribusiness Analyst
RC=Rural Credit
*Note: From September, 1996 to August, 1997, Form 590 reflected Implementation
Status as "unsatisfactory"
-29-



Appendix A
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
Implementation Completion Report Mission
Aide Memoire
January 16, 1999
1.  An IDA mission consisting of Severin Kodderitzsch (task manager), Ibrahim
Hackaj (project officer), and Elliott Hurwitz (agricultural policy analyst) visited Albania
from January 11-16 to assist the Government with and gather infornnation for the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(ASAC). The mission wishes to thank the Government of Albania and the staff of the
Resident Mission for their helpful cooperation and warm hospitality. As usual, this Aide
Memoire is subject to confirmation by IDA.
2.  Members of the mission discussed the ASAC with representatives of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Privatization, General Directorate of
State Reserves, Ministry of Statistics, Agency for Handling Credits, the former
Agricultural Project Office, former officials of the Rural Commercial Bank (RCB), other
bilateral donors, and other bilateral organizations lending to the enterprise sector. The
mission also visited a numlber of enterprises, including a sub-borrower under the RCB
Credit Line.
3. The mission discussed with the agencies and individuals noted the three project
components: (i) Policy reform component; (ii) Investment component (Credit Line); and
(iii) Technical assistance component. The discussions included a description of what was
accomplished under ASAC compared with the original scope and objectives; project
sustainability and future operation; adequacy of IDA performance; and key lessons learned
from the project. The IDA team will make detailed judgments regarding these points in the
near future, which will comprise IDA's assessment of ASAC.
4.   The mission also provided additional information to the Government on the
Borrower Contribution to the ICR (which it is understood will be submitted to IDA in the
near future and which will be included, unedited, as an appendix to the ICR). Finally, the
mission explained that IDA will also send its own assessment of the project to the
Government for comment (which comments will also be included as an appendix).
5. It was the mission's preliminary judgment that the ASAC was successful in achieving
most of its objectives (although this success took longer than expected). Generally, the
ASAC was most successful at furthering:
*  Reform of agricultural prices and trade
*  Privatization of state and cooperative farms, liquidation of their assets, and
completion of the distribution of former cooperative and state farm land
* Implementation of a Land Market Action Plan on titling, land registratiorn, and
development of a land policy; facilitation of land consolidation and the lease market
(although achievements in these areas fell short of goals); and
30



Appendix A
* Privatization of state-owned enterprises in the agricultural marketing and
processing sector
6.  The ASAC was unsuccessful at developing a financial institution (Rural
Commercial Bank) which could provide credit to farmers and other rural entrepreneurs.
Detailed judgments on these elements of the project will be presented in the IDA's
evaluation as noted earlier.
7. It was judged that the implementation of the ASAC program significantly contributed
to the transformation of the Albanian agricultural sector from one based on a centrally-
planned model to one based on market principles. However, it was recognized that more
progress needs to be achieved before that goal can be attained:
*  Currently, about 20-25 percent of land ownership has been formally
registered. The Government of Albania needs to extend its Land Action Plan
to assure that remaining private plots are registered, which would stimulate
leasing and sales of land.
*  A mechanism needs to be developed to increase the credit available to farmers
and agricultural businesses (subject to further reform of the financial sector)
*  Agricultural marketing, including infrastructure, requires improvement
*  Access to and utilization of agricultural inputs-seeds, in particular--needs to
be improved
*  Agricultural services, such as veterinary services, agricultural extension
service, and technology generation need to be strengthened.
8.   The mission will elaborate on the above and lessons learned in its report, which
will be submitted to the Government of Albania for comment (see para. 4), in March,
1999.
31



IBRD 28467R
18-30'                    19900O                    1930I                    2000'                     20                        21'00'
N.'. -    {FED.    REP.                                                                                               YUGOSLAVIA
CROATIA I    .                                                                                   (SERBIA / MO NTENEGRO)
A2'30'                 "V42-30'
ALBANIA                                      .                                        u2 ArrEz
A2~00                                                                                                                                                         20
o    SELECTED CITIES                                                                                                  /
*    DISTRICT CENTERS
  NATIONAL CAPITAL                                    L
NATIONAL ROADS
RAIliROADS                                                 1~e).  +                                p,,n
~~-  RIVERS                                         FusleKuse
-  . . DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ELEVATIONS IN METERS:                  ~R                                                                                      ..R
EL   1200  t         t >' >    t 8ULQZE    MACEDONIA
e    200                                      Dure 9                T I kAt@ 4-/.r 
41-00'                                                                                                                                                       41 '00 
-~  Lusbj 
1I  p      -V   AO4    y                                                               KF~.
KiLmop ommits^/>-r*eordt;                                          j       
c,4/~~~~~o ,,s., WoMBooks -l
.odorooo~~.of, I,ooo TIe, 
1 8'30'                   19,00,
/SWETZDEHUNGARY /  <           OVA -                                                                                40oW  X  \  -  *            _        ~RUSSIAN  VIo r
1   A \)    '-  e s  FEDoFREP t_,_         e          LAT'AA  FED.                                         N
,CALITHUANIA  5
BELARUS                     ~\                                        c~
GE    Y    ~~POLAND
?   \CZECH                      UKRIN
-P        -      th A N 1~~~~ UKANE                                  .I                                6K/jRA D
REP.E
* ~A0RjHUNGARY!                        AOD[De40 400
r                        ~~~~~~~~ROWMANIA~0
fTAY                 ULGARIA                                     ~                                                    GREECE
t 9GREECE` , ,  TURKEY
S  _ -  I rFC  <. >0  oz  }9230  <  .    2000  ~)   20n30'                    1,00



