Page  1
April 26, 1994
His Excellency
The Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Re:
Credit No. 2524 ALB
(Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit)
Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement dated July 17, 1993, between the 
International Development Association (the Association) and Albania (the Borrower) for 
the above-referenced Project, to the Loan Agreement dated May 11, 1994, between the 
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan (OECF) and the Government of the Republic of 
Albania for Agriculture Sector Adjustment Program, and to the Agreement on the 
Procedural Arrangement date February 23, 1995, between OECF and the Association for 
co-financing of the said Project (Procedural Arrangement).
Based on the Procedural Arrangement, the Association hereby agrees to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement as follows:
1.
The following new paragraph (C) is added to the Preamble of the Development 
Credit Agreement:
"(C)
by agreement dated May 11, 1994 (the OECF Loan Agreement), the 
Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund, Japan (OECF), has agreed to make a Loan 
(the OECF Loan) to the 
Borrower in an aggregate principal amount of not 
exceeding two billion one hundred sixty-six million Japanese Yen 
(Y2,166,000,000) to assist in financing of the Program and the Project 
on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the OECF Loan Agreement; and"
2.
The following new paragraph (e) is added to Section 4.01 of the Development 
Credit Agreement:
"(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
the OECF Loan ma de to the Borrower for the financing 
of the Program and the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or 
in 
part, pursuant too the terms of the OECF Loan 
Agreement or 
(B)
the OECF Loan shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement."
3.
Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is modified to read as 
follows:
"Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur; and
Page  2
(b)
the events specified in paragraph (e)(i)(B) of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreements shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (e)(ii) of 
that Section."
This amendment shall become effective upon your agreement with the foreoing.  
Please agree and confirm your agreement by signing, dating and returning to us the 
form of confirmation on the enclosed copy of this letter.  A signed duplicate original 
of this letter is enclosed for your records.
Sincerely yours,
International Development Association
By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Director
Central Europe Department
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
ALBANIA
By /s/ Dylber Vrioni
Deputy Prime Minister
Minister of Finance
Date:  May 5, 1995
