Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2524 ALB
Development Grant Agreement
(in Conjunction with the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ACTING AS ADMINISTRATOR ON BEHALF OF THE
MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION
OF THE NETHERLANDS
Dated September 30, 1993
RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 2524 ALB
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 30, 1993, between ALBANIA (the Beneficiary) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association), acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) on behalf of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION OF THE 
NETHERLANDS (the Minister).
WHEREAS (A) Pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement (Agriculture Sector 
Adjustment Credit), dated July 7, 1993, between the Beneficiary and the Association 
(the IDA  Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to extend to the Beneficiary a 
Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million two hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,200,000) to assist in the financing of: (i) 
goods and services required for a project (the Project) as described in Schedule 2 to 
the Development Credit Agreement; and (ii) goods imported during the execution of a 
program (the Program) designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Beneficiary's 
agricultural sector.
WHEREAS (B)
Pursuant to the Arrangement for Administration, dated December 11, 
1986, entered into between the Minister and International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and the Association (the Administration Arrangement), the 
Minister has appointed the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association 
have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by the Minister for the 
financing of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, 
as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the Administration 
Arrangement and has authorized the Association to do all such acts and things as may 
be necessary or appropriate to carry out such administration, including entering into 
this Development Grant Agreement on behalf of the Minister; 
Page  2
WHEREAS (C) The Minister has agreed to make available to the Beneficiary a grant 
(the Grant) to finance the Program on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the International Development Association, dated January 1, 1985, with 
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
(a)
the term "Association", whenever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Association acting as Administrator of the Grant;
(b)
the term "Borrower", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Beneficiary;
(c)
the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Conditions, means the 
Grant;
(d)
the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General Conditions and 
herein, means the separate account opened by the Administrator in its books in the 
name of the Beneficiary pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of the Administration 
Arrangement, to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(e)
the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement except that in Section 6.02 (a), 
the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the IDA Credit Agreement;
(f)
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.06, Sections 
6.02 (except paragraph (a) thereof), 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.05, and the second sentence of 
Section 5.01, are deleted; and
(g)
in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also include the 
International Development Association acting in its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth; and the terms 
"Netherlands Guilders" and "DFL" mean the currency of the Netherlands.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the Beneficiary, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement and subject to the 
receipt of the funds to be made available to the Administrator pursuant to Section 
1.04 of the Administration Arrangement, a grant in the amount of three million eight 
hundred thousand Netherlands Guilders (DFL 3,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of the  Schedule to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the beneficiary and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the Program and to be 
financed out of the Grant.
(b)
Whenever a disbursement from the Credit Account is required to be made in 
a currency other than Netherlands Guilders for the purposes of this Grant Agreement, 
the Administrator shall withdraw from the Credit Account an amount in Netherlands 
Guilders sufficient for the Administrator to purchase the required amount of the 
appropriate currency.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods imported during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the relevant provisions referred to in 
Section 3.03 of the IDA Credit Agreement.
Page  3
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Representatives
Section 3.01. (a) This Agreement shall become effective upon the Effective Date 
of the IDA Credit Agreement, and the Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Beneficiary of such date.
(b)
This Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate 
if the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions for failure to become effective.
Section 3.02. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Beneficiary is 
designated as representative of the Beneficiary for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 3.03. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the IDA Credit 
Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 3.04. Subject to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, this Agreement shall 
continue in effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this 
Agreement have fulfilled their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 4.01. In accordance with Section 5.03 of the Administration Arrangement, 
the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement may be 
transferred to the Minister. The Beneficiary accepts and agrees that, upon notice by 
the Administrator to the Beneficiary to that effect, the Minister shall, ipso facto, 
from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations 
of the Administrator under this Agreement as if the Minister had been an original 
party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality required on the part 
of any party, and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or 
obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ G. Ruli
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
  as Administrator on behalf
  of the MINISTER FOR DEVELOPMENT
  COOPERATION OF THE NETHERLANDS
By /s/ K. Dervis
Page  4
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to the Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in the Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
DFL Equivalent)
to be Financed
Goods imported
   3,800,000
100% of foreign
during the 
expenditures
execution of 
the Program
TOTAL
   3,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Beneficiary for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made and no commitments shall be entered into to pay amounts to the Beneficiary or 
others in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
 prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)
for goods included in the SITC groups or subgroups listed in subparagraph 
4 (a)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit Agreement.
