ocA
CREDIT NUMBER 2524 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                     7', 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2524 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                      7/     , 1993, between
ALBANIA (the Borrower) and INTEP4    ONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated
May 24, 1993, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of
the Borrower's agricultural sector' (hereinafter called the Program),
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program,
and requesting assistance from the Association in the financing of
urgently needed imports and services required during such execution;
(B)   the Borrower, having committed itself to the execution
of the Program and, as part of the Program, having undertaken to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project
and of urgently needed imports required during the execution of the
Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend the Credit to the
Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that
may be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit pursuant to
the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement.";


﻿-2-
(b)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare
and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution of the Program referred to in the Preamble to
the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(c)   the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "MOAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and
Food;
(b)   "MOFE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and
Economy;
(c)   "MOT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Trade;
(d)   "BOA" means Bank of Albania, the central bank of the
Borrower;
(e)   "AB" means the Agricultural Bank of the Borrower, an
entity to be established through a license issued by BOA;
(f)   "NAP" means the National Agency of Privatization of the
Borrower;
(g)   "Agricultural Program Office" means the office within
MOAF, referred to In Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)   "Leks" means the -urrency unit of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made out
of the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit by the Borrower for
an Investment Project (defined hereafter) under terms and conditions
set forth in the Subsidiary Agreement (defined hereafter);
(j)   "Beneficiaries" means the private sector customers of AB
such as farmers, traders or rural entrepreneurs which meet the
eligibility criteria under the Subsidiary Agreement (defined
hereafter) and which proposes to carry out or is carrying out
Investment Projects (defined hereafter);
(k)   "Investment  Project" means   a  specific  investment
project, to be carried out by Beneficiaries within the financing
provided under Part A of the Project through a Sub-loan;
(1)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referreL to
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement between the Borrower and AB;
(m)   "Independent Lending Unit" means the unit within AB to
be established pursuant to paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(n)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classifi-
cation, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations
in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 343 (1986); and
(o)    "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,200,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
'hedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
ksiociation shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost: (i) of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the


﻿-4-
proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) of goods imported during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project and
the Program, open and maintain in dollars two special accounts in a
bank or banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commenc-
ing July 15, 2003 and ending January 15, 2033. Each installment to
and including the installment payable on January 15, 2013 shall be
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consider-
ation by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOAF, MOFE, MOT, BOA, AB and NAP with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
economic practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b) Without any limitation of the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with AB
for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, which shall include,
without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from
time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Prior to each such exchange of views as referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants services required
for the Project and of the goods imported during the execution of
the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Project, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not: (a) assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Agreement, or any provision thereof; and (b) permit AB to
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement, or any
provision thereof.


﻿-7-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain the Agricultural Program Office, to coordinate
and manage the Program and Part B of the Project, with staffing and
functions acceptable to the Association;
(b)   maintain the Independent Lending Unit with staffing and
functions acceptable to the Association; and
(c)   cause the project implementation unit within MOFE to:
(i) coordinate procurement activities for the Program; and (ii)
provide procurement advisory services to MOAF, MOT, NAP and AB for
Part B of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound account-ing practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but i" any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said records and accounts and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expen.diture, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
dance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records and accounts reflecting such expendi-
tures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
ciation has received the audit report for the
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records (con-
tracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives     to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are in-
cluded in the annual audits referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal con-
trols involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AB will be
able to perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.


﻿-9-
(c)   The charter establishing AB shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the operations or financial condition of AB or its
ability to carry out Part A of the Project or to perform any of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of AB or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ART1CLE V
Termination
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Rombit"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB


﻿- 10 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By   §
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, tne allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
For the Project:
(1) Sub-loans under           3,500,000        100%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Goods under                 600,000        100% of foreign
Part B of the                             expenditures,
Project                                   100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3) Consultants'              2,300,000        100%
services
fellowships, and
training under
Part B of the
Project
(4) Unallocated                 300,000


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
For the Program:
(5) Goods imported            7,500,000        100% of foreign
during the     -                          expenditures
execution of
the Program
TOTAL                    14,200,000
2.    Definitions: For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph    1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   expenditures under Part A of the Project unless AB shall
have been duly established under the laws of the Borrower, a legal
opinion of counsel acceptable to the Association confirming such
establishment shall have been provided to the Association and the
Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and
AB on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   expenditures under Part A of the Project unless the
Independent Lending Unit has been established with form and staffing
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 13 -
4.    Withdrawals under the Program: No withdrawals shall be made
and no commitments shall be entered into to pay amounts to the
Borrower or others in respect of expenditures to be financed under
Category (5) of paragraph 1 above:
(a)   for:
(i)   expenditures for goods included in the following
SITC groups or subgroups, or any successor groups
or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC,
as designated by the Association by notice to the
Borrower:
Group           Subgroup       Description of Items
112                --          Alcoholic beverages
121                --          Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                --          Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525                --          Radioactive and
associated materials
667                --          Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked or
worked
718             718.1          Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728             728.43         Tobacco processing machinery
897             897.3          Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals (except
watches and watch cases) and
goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
wares (including set gems)


﻿- 14 -
GroiR           SubgRronR      Description of Items
971                --          Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
(ii)    expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or
for goods or services supplied from the territo-
ry of the Borrower;
(iii)    payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement;
(iv)    expenditures for goods supplied under a contract
which any national or international financing
institution or agency other than the Association
shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
(v)    expenditures for goods intended for a military
or paramilitary purpose or for luxury consump-
tion; and
(b)   after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account under Category (5) of paragraph I
above and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent to SDR 3,750,000 unless the Association shall be
satisfied, after the exchange of views as described in Section 3.02
(a) of this Agreement: (i) with the progress achieved by the
Borrower in the carrying out of the Program including without
limitation the Project; and (ii) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken and are satisfactory to
the Association.
5.    If, after an exchange of views referred to in subparagraph 4
(b) above, the Association is not so satisfied and this situation
shall not be rectified by the Borrower within 90 days after notice
thereof by the Association, then the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel the remaining amount of the Credit allocated to
Category (5) of paragraph 1 above, or any part thereof.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Th- objectives of the Project are: (a) to provide a line of
credit to the Borrower for onlending to farmers, traders and other
rural entrepreneurs through AB; and (b) to strengthen the institu-
tional framework and the project planning capabilities of the
agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Financing for the Agricultural Sector
Provision of financing of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries for
Investment Projects, through AB, under the terms and conditions set
forth in the Subsidiary Agreement.
Part B:     Institutional Development and Technical Assistance
1.    Strengthening the institutional capacity, through provision of
expert assistance, training and equipment, of:
(a)   AB in areas, inter alia: (i) financial management; (ii)
branch management and rehabilitation; (iii) credit policy, proce-
dures and supervision; (iv) credit review, loan classification and
provisioning; (v) accounting; (vi) savings and resource mobiliza-
tion; (vii) human resources development and training; and (viii)
international banking;
(b)   MOAF, MOT and NAP in: (i) preparation for the privatiza-
tion of all enterprises; (ii) support program to privatized small
and medium-scale enterprises in the agricultural sector; (iii)
preparation of business plans for selected enterprises; and (iv)
development of the framework for sub-sectoral price and trade
policies, and commercial negotiations between suppliers and food
industries; and
(c)   Agricultural Program Office in coordination, monitoring
and management of the Program and Part B of the Project.


﻿- 16 -
2.    Provision of expert assistance in:
(a)   preparation of the land lease legislation and a land
policy development program to improve the legal and regulatory
framework regarding private and public land management;
(b)   preparation of a master plan for the reform of agricul-
tural extension system and support services for private farmers;
(c)   development of the legal and regulatory framework for
environmental protection and environmental standards;
(d)   preparation of public investment program for market
infrastructure and other urgent public investments in agriculture
sector; and
(e)   development of an action program for improvements in
food inspection, health regulations and consumer food protection.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works for the Project
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation     to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that,
when contract awarded is delayed beyond the original bid validity
period, the successful bidder's bid price will be increased for each
week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency compo-
nents and the other to the local currency component of the bid
price. Such an increase shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation.
(b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.    Bidders for works included in Part A of the Project shall be
prequalified as provided in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufactures
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Albania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 18 -
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Goods to be financed under the respective Categories (1) and
(2) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement:
1.1   estimated to cost between $30,000 and $150,000 per contract
for Part A and for Part B of the Project, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least three different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptab' to the Association; and
2.    estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of less than
$30,000 for Part A and for Part B of the Project, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract to be awarded in accor-
dance with the provisions of Section I, Part A.1 of this Schedule,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be retained in
accordance with Section 3.06 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfac-
tory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form of
contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank,
the Borrower shall use other standard forms agree with the Associa-
tion.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Associa-
tion review shall not apply to the terms of reference for such
contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single source
selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as reason-
ably determined by the Association and to amendments of contracts
raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿- 20 -
Section III. Procurement of Goods Other Than for the Project,
During the Execution of the Program
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
Guidelines, subject to the following modifications:
(a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a
timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
addition, in at least one of the following forms:
(i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
Development Forum, Business Edition; or
(ii)    an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
technical journal of wide international circula-
tion; or
(iii)    a notice to local representatives of countries
and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
that are potential suppliers of the goods re-
quired."
(b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in international trade and specified in the bidding
documents."
(c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.


﻿- 21 -
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $1,000,000 each may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from at least two different
countries eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.    Goods of a proprietary nature, such as books, technical
journals, training 'aterials, audio-visual materials, computer
software, including annual upgrading and licensing arrangements, may
be purchased from suppliers on the basis of negotiated contracts
pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Subject to the prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids and recommendations for award, a
description of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
Where payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds
of the Special Account, such copies together with the other
informaticn required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
this paragraph shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence required under paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
6.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2, 3
and 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect thereof, such documentation and information as the Associa-
tion may reasonably request to support withdrawal applications in
respect of such contract. Where payments under a contract are to be
made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the documentation
and the information to be furnished to the Association pursuant to
the provisions of this paragraph shall be furnished to the Associa-
tion as part of the evidence required under paragraph 4 of Sched-
ule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
7.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    Continued maintenance of a macroeconomic framework consistent
with the objectives of the Program as determined on the basis of
indicators acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
2.    Continued maintenance of the domestic price of donor-supplied
wheat and flour credited to counterpart funds at or above 16 Leks/kg
and at or above the domestic producer price of said commodities in
real terms.
3.    Continued maintenance of the domestic price of donor-supplied
food products credited to counterpart funds at or above the January
1993 price of said food products in real terms.
4.    Agreement has been reached with the Association on the margins
applicable to distribution, storage and milling of wheat and to
bread production in the state enterprise sector.
5.    Adoption and implementation of the first phase of a comprehen-
sive institutional development plan for AB,, acceptable to the
Association.
6.    Liquidation of all state farms, distribution of their land
rights, sale of their assets and settlement of their claims have
been completed.
7.    Enactment of legislation, with provisions acceptable to the
Association, authorizing leasing and subleasing of agricultural land
and protecting the rights of lessees and sublessees.
8.    Any subsidies earmarked in the Borrower's 1994 budget for
state enterprises under the purview of the MOA have been drawn
exclusively from the overall budget allocation in 1994 for restruc-
turing state enterprises.
9.    Privatization or liquidation of all small and medium (employ-
ing less than 50 workers) agricultural marketing and processing
enterprises and adoption of a privatization timetable, acceptable to
the Association, for large state-owned enterprises in agricultural
marketing and processing.


﻿-24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) in the case of
Special Account Project, Categories (1), (2), and (3) set forth in
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreemen; and
(ii) in the case of Special Account Program, Category (5) of said
table;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of: (i) goods, works and services
required for the Project, to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit; and (ii) goods imported during the execution of the Program,
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account Project; ad      (ii) an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account Program, all pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   On the basis of such request or requests by the
Borrower, for deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
in the appropriate Special Account such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 25
(b)   (i)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
request for replenishment of the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify; and
(ii)   prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request,
the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposit into the appropriate Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Associa-
tion from the Credit Account under the respec-
tive eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to


﻿- 26 -
the Program, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 6
Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Agreement
A.    For the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, the
Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with AB for the
purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project in conformity with
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule.
1.    The aggregate amount to be made available by the Borrower to
the Beneficiaries shall be the equivalent in Leks of the value of
the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods, works and services for the Investment Projects to
be carried out under Sub-loans made by the Borrower through AB and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time
to time to Category (1) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
2.    AB shall pass on to the Borrower amounts of principal on Sub-
loans collected from Beneficiaries. The amount of principal of Sub-
loans payable by AB to the Borrower shall be reduced by the amount
of principal non-collectible on Sub-loans. Sub-loans or portions
thereof shall be considered non-collectible in the occurrence of
arrears on principal or interest dating back more than 12 months
after billing through AB.
3.    AB shall pass on to the Borrower amounts of interest on Sub-
loans collected from Beneficiaries, reduced by a service fee of not
less than 2% points per annum. If Sub-loans or portions thereof are
considered non-collectible, AB shall pass on to the Borrower the
full amount of all interest collected on these Sub-loans without
deduction of the service fee.
4.    The Subsidiary Agreement shall be for a period not exceeding
ten years.
5.    Sub-loans shall be made by the Borrower through AB to
Beneficiaries who each shall have established that: (a) it is
creditworthy, and has a sound financial structure and the organiza-
tion, management, staff and other resources required for the
efficient carrying out of the Investment Project; (b) its projected
cash generation or equity increases shall be sufficient to enable it
to meet the estimated expenditures required for the Investment
Project; and (c) for each Beneficiary other than an individual
entrepreneur, it is in a position to maintain a debt to equity ratio


﻿- 28 -
of not more than 70:30, a debt service coverage ratio of not less
than 1.5:1, and a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of
not less than 1.3:1.
6.    Sub-loans shall be made by the Borrower through AB for
Investment Projects which: (a) are determined to be technically
feasible and financially viable; (b) are designed with appropriate
environmental standards satisfactory to the Association; and (c)
have a financial rate of return in real terms of at least 12
percent.
7.    All Sub-loans shall be reviewed and approved by the Indepen-
dent Lending Unit of AB on behalf of the Borrower.
8.    The Sub-loans shall be repaid to the Borrower over a period of
7 years, inclusive of a grace period of not more than one year.
9.    The principal amount of each Sub-loan shall be limited to an
amount of $150,000 equivalent and the sum of Sub-loans outstanding
at any time to one single Beneficiary shall not exceed $300,000
equivalent.
10.   Each Sub-loan shall be charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at the
rate of interest of AB applicable for investment loans based on AB's
interest rate policies. The rate of interest on Sub-loans shall be
positive in real terms at all times.
11.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower making
the Sub-loan through AB shall obtain, by written contract or other
appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those
of the Association, including the right to:
(a)   require the Beneficiary to carry out the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate technical, economical, financial, environmental and
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources
required for the purpose;
(b) - require that the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, and use such goods exclusively in
the carrying out of the Investment Project;


﻿- 29 -
(c)   require that the pesticides to oa financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit not include those listed in Categories I.a
and Ib in the WHO Recommended Classification of Pesticides;
(d)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods and
the sites, works, plans and construction included in the Investment
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and
documents;
(e)   require that the Beneficiary take out and maintain such
insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practices, including such insurance
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods;
(f)   require each Beneficiary to furnish as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, copies of its financial statements for such year,
of such scope and in such detail as reasonably requested;
(g)   obtain all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administra-
tion, operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to
the benefits to be derived from the Investment Project; and
(h)   suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon failure by such Beneficiary
to perform its obligations under its contract.
B.    For the purpose of its lending involving credit risk to AB, AB
shall, jointly with the Borrower, by December 31, 1993, prepare
credit guidelines acceptable to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


