Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
CR. ISqLl-BbD
Report No. P-3616-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESInENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATJON
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 18.4 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
June 15, 1983
This documet - a restricted distribution and way be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is fixed in relation to a basket of reference
currencies, with the US Dcllar serving as intervention cu-rency.  On
January 11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 24.48 buying and
Tk 24.52 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown below
have been used.
US$1           -        Tk 23.0
Tk 1            -       US$0.0435
Tk 1 million   -        US$43,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACDO                  - Assistant Cane Development Officer
ADP                   - Annual Development Program
BASIP                 - Bangladesh-Australia Sugar Industry Project
BSFIC                 - Bangladesh Sugar and :ood Industries Corporation
CDA                   - Cane Development Assistant
CDO                   - Cane Development Officer
FAO                   - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOB                    - Government of Bangladesh
EFF                   - Extended Financing Facility
ICB                   - Interrationa'L Competitive Bidding
ICDS                  - Intensive Cane Development Scheme
MOF                    - Ministry of Food
MOI                    - Ministry of Industries and Cammerce
MTFPP                 - Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan
RJSM                  - Rajshahi Sugar Xill
RSM                    - Rangpur Sugar Mill
SEYP                  - Second Five Year Plan
SRTI                  - Sugar Research and Training Institute
TCA                   - Tons of Cane per Acre
TCD                    - Tons of Cane per Day
TSM                   - Thakurgaon Sugar Mill
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCLu USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECr
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Beneficiaries:    The Rangpur Sugar Company, the Rajshahi Sugar Company, and
the Thakurgaon Sugar Company, three publicly owned sugar
companies managed by the Bangladesh Sugar and Food
Industrins Corporation (BSFIC).
Amount:           SDR 18.4 million (US$20.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms:  The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) would onlend US$16.3
million of the IDA credit to the three sugar companies,
US$5.3 million at 12% per annum for 20 years including a
five-year grace period to strengthen extension services tc
small farmers and to develop the companies' mill farms, and
US$11.0 million at 14Z per annum for fifteen years
including a five-year grace period for mill rehabilitation.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the sugar
companies. The rpmaining proceeds of the IDA credit,
US$3.7 million, would be transferred as grants to the
Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC)
and the Sugar Research and Tr-aining Institute (SRTI) for
training (US$0.5 million), technical assistance (US$1.0
million) and road improvement (US$2.2 million).
Project           The project would provide an integrated approach to
Description:    increasing cane and sugar production and improving sugar
industry productivity by strengthening extension services
to cane growers, developing mill far-a, improving cane
transport and handling, and rehabilitating three sugar
mills. The project's primary beneficiaries would be the
approximately 50,000 small farmers in the mill zones whcse
average income would improve by more chan 50% as a result
of increased cane production. The project's principal
risk-that sugar production might exceed sugar
consumption-would be minimized by the assurance that
installation of new milling facilities would take place
only after IDA concurrence.
|Tho douœment hasa strkld dinbutin andumy be usedby ipitsentoly in theperformnXeOfl
theafirFidal dut It contentsmay not otuwise be dbclosd withoutWorld Ban authoizatio.



Estimated                                             Local  Foreign  Total
Project Costs:                                      (- USs million-
Extension Services                   1.96    4.18    6.14
Mill Farm Development                0.56    1.61    2.17
Mill Rehabilitation                   1.34    5.93    7.27
Cane Storage and Handling            0.31    1.41    1.72
Road Improvement                      1.87    0.36    2.23
Technical Assistance                 0.21    0.99    1.20
Training                             0.08    0.38    0.46
Base Cost                         6.33   14.86   21.19
Physical Contingencies               0.32    0.69    1.01
Price Contingencies                   1.31    2.14    3.45
Total ProJect Cost                7.96   17.69   25.65
Taxes and Duties                     0.55      -      0.55
Project Cost
Net of Taxes and Duties          7.41   17.69   25.10
Financing Plan:
IDA                                  2.31   17.69   20.00
GOB                                  0.74      -      0.74
Sugar Companies                      3.79      -      3.79
Sonali Bank                          1.12      -      1.12
Total                         7.96   17.69   25.65
Estimated
Disbursements:   (IDA Fiscal Year) FY84  FY85  FY86  Fy87  FY88  FY89
F~~. U-j-j1:iln- =-             )
Annual               1.75  5.75  6.00  3.50  2.00  1.00
Cumulative           1.75  7.50 13.50 17.00 19.00 20.00



-iii-
Economic Rate
of Return:     37%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:        Bangladesh: Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification
Project, Report No. 3843-BD, dated April 20, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECCbMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 18.4 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$20.0 million), on standard IDA terms to help
finance a SuLgar Rehabilitation and Intensification Project.  The Government
of Bangladesh (GOB) would onlend US$16.3 million of the proposed credit to
three sugar companies, US$5.3 million at 12% per annum for 20 years including
a five-year grace period to strengthen extension services to small farmers
and to develop the companies' mill farms, and US$11.0 million at 142 per
annum for 15 years including a five-year grace period for mill rehabilita-
tion. The foreign exchange risk would be borue by the sugar companies. GOB
would transfer US$3.7 million of the proceeds as grants to the Bangladesh
Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC) and the Sugar Research and
Training Institute (SRTI) for training (US$0.5 million), technical assistance
(US$1.0 million) and road improvement (US$2.2 million).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4, 1983)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the struggle
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 1970s. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence levels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Energy Efficiency and Refinery
Project (Report No. P-3529-BD), dated April 21, 1983.



-2-
be scrapped and rep!rced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcore
Program" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgraia sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration
in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policles and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a per'od of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which continued
into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints led tc some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the
development effort.  The management of domestic food Situation, due to poor
crops, has also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at market prices
increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of
agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8
million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 due to
poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in
investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice) due to irtproved
weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor irrigation facilities,
however, is expected to increase value-added in agriculture by 3.4% and
overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicative of major constraints to suszained economic development irh
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight public finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased



-3-
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. In FY81 and FY82, however, Bangladesh was
adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its terms of trade and
(b) a simultaneous stagnation in external aid inflows. A sharp decline in
export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major non-traditional exports
(notably leather aad fish products), combined with a 14% increase in average
import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led
to a 16% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81. While import
prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a fur-
ther 16% due to continued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods,
and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time
external aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined;
aid disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government attempted
to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources by
resorting to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
currency swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IMF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in
July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large
bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down the growth of
imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign
exchange reserves to about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a
significant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total aid
disbursements due to an impr -ved response from donors to Bangladesh's recent
requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government is also drawing
upon assistance from the DiF under a Standby Arrangement in an amount of SDRs
68.4 million covering the period up to August 1983. Rising medium- and
long-term debt service payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to US$155 million
in FY83) will, however, claim part of this increase in external resources;
Bangladesh will be also making net payments of about $100 million on out-
standing short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82.  Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources--were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
generally reduced availability of resources. The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions



-4-
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Developmeat Program (ADP) was cutback by 12Z in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The short-
fall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low goverment procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In order to replenish stocks the Government made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector expendi-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate.  In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22% in relation to
the US dollar. 1/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred on by
sharp increases in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjustments in the
exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81
accelerated and the consmer price index increased by 15% over the 12 month
period ending June 1982.
12.    Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. Projected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
avaiitbilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was limited to
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
14%, onlv slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing
adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments were
made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respec-
tively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Govern-
ment also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of public
sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised
substantially in the case of petroleum produczs (41%), electricity tariffs
(40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures are expected to channel resour-
ces from private consumption to public investment and, together with a cash
surplus on the food account noted earlier, will help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stebility.
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium- and long-term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slow'ly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May
1980, accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction zate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelera !d exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (ITFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient



-6-
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implemenLs and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are new, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-term implementation plan for the population sector.
17.     The third major objective of the SmYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer than five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90Z of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a medium-term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SF.P into an operational implementation program on an annual
basis. The Government has recently revised the draft SFYP, and this revised
Plan inclides some welcome new initiatives, for example increased emphasis on
rural development, energy development and addressing the problem of rural
unemployment. Some of the targets of the revised Plan and especially its
macro-economic framework are, however, still ambitious and will need to be
adjusted; more work and considerable discipline are also needed to identify
core programs and projects and protect them to the extent possible in a
situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and -rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that existing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is nci preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program



-7-
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning. The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced last year, also
provides for a greater role of the private sector in economic development.
Many of the key elements of this policy are already being implemented,
including the divestment of major segments of the jute and tcxtile industries
to the private sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.76 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1983, 66 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,215.70
million; of these, US$867.2 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976,
Bangladesh became a member of the International Finance Corporation (IFC),
and two investments (for a shipbuilding company and an investment promotion
company) have been approved.
21.     The focus of ID, assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as of March 31, 1983, and two fertilizer imports
credits). This is concistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and in the elimination of shortages of generation capacity
and distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to the
utilization of existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing
telecommunications is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of
economic and social activities. Recent IDA lending has also recognized the
increasing importance of the early development of the hydrocarbon sector
aimed at relieving the burden of oil imports on the country's balance of
payments through substitution of domestic natural gas for imported oil, as
well as assisting Bangladesh to realize the foreign exchange potential of its
substantial resources of domestic natural gas.



-8-
22.     Iulustry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
ecor-ny, progravi lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production -,rojects, a jute industry rehabilitation project,
several Development Firance Company and small-scale industry projects, and
two IFC investments.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approvil of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance bota
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
25.     In view of Bargladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - THE !ovRICULTUPAL SECTOR
General
26.     Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for roughly
55% of GDP, about 75% of employment and, directly or indirectly, for more
than 80% of merchandise exports. About 22.5 million acres are under cultiva-
tion at a cropping intensity averaging about 150%. Rice is by far the most
important crop and accounts for nearly 80% of the cultivated area; jute, the
principal export and industrial raw material crop, for 6%, and a variety of
other crops, such as wheat, pulses, oil seeds, sugarcane, tea and vegetables,
for the balance.



-9-
27.     Progress in achieving the goal of foodgrain self-sufficiency,
although behind the Government's target date of FY85, has been reasonable to
date. Reflecting this and the country's chronic adverse balance-of-payments
situation, the Government now wishes to increase the output and productivity
of non-foodgrains, particularly crops with the potential to earn or save
foreign exchange. Major targets are jute, tea, oil seeds, spices, pulses,
sugar, tobacco, and cotton. IDA has for some time provided assistance in the
jute sub-sector, as has the United Kingdom in tea.  These are the most impor-
tant cash crops in Bangladesh and account for 75% of exports. The third most
important cash crop is sugar. The technical base for the development of cane
production is reasonably well advanced, the institutions in the sugar
sub-sector have good absorptive capacity, and there is significant scope for
productivity increases. A study entitled "Shadow Prices, Comparative Advance
and Trade Policy for Bangladesh Industry," carried out in 1980 by the Center
for Asian Development Studies at Boston University, showed that Bangladesh
has a comparative advantage in producing sugar.
The Sugar Sub-sector
28.     Sugarcane is grown throughout Bangladesh but is concentrated in the
western part of the country. Annual acreage varies from 300,000 to 400,000
acres; average yield is about 15 tons of cane per acre (TCA). The cane is
generally grown as a 12-15 month crop in two-year rotation with paddy during
the monsoon, followed by oil seeds, wheat, and vegetables during the dry
months. Ratooning is not generally practiced because of the severity of the
dry season and the incidence of pests and diseases which results in poor
ratoon stands. Virtually all production is rainfed. Sixty percent of the
cane produced in the country is used to produce gur (an unrefined sweetener
with poor keeping quality used mainly in the rural areas), 30Z for sugar, and
the remainder for chewing and seed. Per capita consut.ption of sweeteners in
Bangladesh, 13 lb (4.2 lb sugar and 8.8 lb gur) in 1979/80, is the lowest in
South Asia.
29.     Sugar is produced in the mills of sugar companies owned by the
Government and managed by the Bargladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corpora-
tion(BSFIC). About 40% of the national sugarcane acreage is located within
mill zones whose boundaries are set yearly by the Government and extend to
about 30 miles around each mill. Several companies grow sugarcane on about
9,000 acres of their own mill farms, but these only meet 5% of their cane
requirements. Most of the cane is grown by small farmers (outgrowers), whose
average holding is about one acre. About 50% of the outgrowers are owner
farmers and the rest are either sharecroppers or tenant farmers. The com-
panies are required to purchase all cane offered by outgrowers in the mill
zones. Prior to FY80, production of gur inside the mill zones was prohibited
in order to assure the cane supply to the mills, but the prohibition has now
been lifted and the cane supply has not been affected.



-10-
30.     In 1947 there were five privately-owned white sugar mills in what
was then East Pakistan. Average annual production was 2,500 tons and imports
of sugar were substantial. From 1951 to 1970, ten public-sector mills were
constructed and production varied from a low of around 80,000 tons in 1961 to
a high of slightly more than 100,000 tons in 1970. The sub-sector suffered
seriously during the liberation war and production fell to 20,000 tons-
Since then, the mills have maintained a slow but steady recovery and one
additional mill has been constructed. During the past few years, production
has averaged 140,000 tons annually from 14 operating miljLs (two of the
original five mills have been abandoned) against an estimated average demand
of 170,000 tons. The 30,000 ton gap has been met by imports, which have
accounted for an ave.age annual foreign exchange expenditure of approximately
US$11.7 million. Production varies, however, from year to year due to the
amount of cane supplied to the mills, which depends largely on the weather.
In the 1981/82 season, production reached an unprecedented 19S,000 tons,
primarily as a result of abundant cane supply, due to favorable weather
conditions and high producer prices; this required an extension of the mill-
ing season even though this was undesirable because of the resulting lower
sugar recovery rate and significantly increased costs of production. This
exceptionally high production level is not exDected to continue, and a
demand/supply gap is expected to re-emerge and persist in the absence of a
cane intensification and mill rehabilitation program.  The mills, which have
the capacsty to process an average of 1,500-2,000 tons of cane per day (TCD)
each, operare at about 90% capacity, but at a relatively high cost. The
causes for this situation are complex, but include low cane yields, ineffi-
cient collection, poo; extraction and milling, and a short milling season
(120 days). The proposed project would address these problems.
31.     In June 1982, the Government promulgated a new industrial policy
which allows private investment in sectors previously limited to public
sector investment. There is a "concurrent list" of 13 industries in which
both public and private investment can take place. Key industries on the
list are jute, textile and sugar. Although the Government has denationalized
mills in both the textile and jute industries, it has not yet formulated a
specific disinvestment program for sugar mills, nor has the private sector
expressed interest in investing in large sugar mills, limiting its interest
to date to mini-mills, investment in which has been reserved exclusively for
the private sector.
32.     The Ministry of Industries and Commerce (MOI) has overall respon-
sibility for sugar industry development. It determines producer, consumer,
and cane procurement prices, and, in consultation with the Ministry of Food
(HOF), the annual domestic sugar production targets and the quantity of sugar
imports. Government policy is not to provide subsidies to the domestic sugar
industry. Sugar prices and cane prices to outgrowers are reviewed by BSFIC
and approved by the Government before the milling season in order to ensure
that prices are set at levels adequate to provide - reasonable return to cane
growers and to maintain the financial viability of the sugar companies. This



-11-
policy would be maintained (Section 3.07(c) of the Development Credit Agree-
ment).
33.     Sugar distribution is controlled by the Government.  Seventy percent
of the sugar produced is distributed through the ration mechanism at prices
below the non-ration price but abcve tie mills' cost of production. The
Government, with a .iew to gradually ptiasing out the ration system, would
eliminate by October 1986 any difference between the price of sugar dis-
tributed under the ration system and that for sale to the private sector
(Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement). Through FY80, imports
were permitted on licenses and distribution was handled primarily through the
Government-run ration system. Private sector imports were negligible because
the controlled, non-ration prices were below world prices. Since FY81,
imports have been freely permitted under the wage earners' scheme. 1/ Recent
increases in the controlled price have made importation profitable for the
private sector; liberalization of imports has also helped to ensure that
domestic prices will not be inflated relative to world prices. Although the
exceptionally high production in 1981/82 caused the Government to suspend
imports temporarily, the Government would maintain its liberal imports policy
subject to such duties and taxes as may be necessary to ensure the financial
viability of the sugar mills (Section 3.07(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement).
34.     In addition to managing the sugar companies, BSFIC is responsible
for providing extension services to farmers in the mill zones and for super-
vising the activities of the Sugar Research and Training Institute (SRTI).
SRTI undertakes research in five major disciplines (cane breeding agronomy,
entomology, pathology, physiology, and nutrition) and provides training for
mid-level extension officers. The Bangladesh Australia Sugar Industry
Project (BASIP), financed by the Australian Government, has provided SRTI
with technical assistance and office, laboratory, residential and training
facilities. Since the Australian Government has agreed to extend BASIP until
FY86, the proposed IDA-financed project does not have a provision for
research activities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.    The proposed project was prepared by ESFIC with the assistance of the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and appraised in September 1981. Negotiations
were held 'a Washington from March 10-18, 1983. The Government of Bangladesh
1/ The Wage Earners' Scheme is a scheme managed by the Bangladesh Bank and
the commercial banks whereby foreign exchange earned and remitted by
Bangladeshis overseas is sold at exchange auctions.



-12-
was represented by a delegation led by Mr. Nazem Choudhury. A staff
appraisal report (Report No. 3843-BD, dated April 20, 1983) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. A timetable of key events
relating to the project and special conditions of the credit are listed in
Annex III.
Objective
36.     The proposed project seeks to increase sugar output and mill produc-
tivity by improving both cane yields and processing efficiencies, to raise
the income of rural cane growers, and to achieve foreign exchange s-vings
through import substitution. Sugar production zones around the mills would
be reduced, and farm area released for other crops. Existing facilities
would be used more fully and effectively, hence increasing the return on
existing investment.
Description
37.     Under the project, the Rangpur Sugar Company, the Rajshahi Sugar
Company, and the Thakurgaon Sugar Company, three public sugar companies whose
shares are fully owned by the Govern.ent and uihich are managed by BSFIC,
would be assisted in rehabilitating their mills and increasing their cane
production. Each mill company provides extension service to outgrowers, and
owns the mill, the purchase centers and, in the case of two of the companies,
the mill farm in its respective mill zone. Specific project components
include:
(i) the strengthening of services to outgrowers in the Thakurgaon,
Rangpur, and Rajshahi mill zones;
(ii) the development of the mill farms at Thakurgaon and Rangpur
(there is no mill farm at Rajshahi);
viii) the rehabilitation of the existing Thakurgacn Sugar Mill (TSM),
Rangpur Sugar Mill (RSM), and Rajshahi Sugar Hill (RJSM);
(iv) the improvement of cane procurement, transportation, handling
and storage facilities at each of the three sugar mills;
(v) the improvement of road segments within each of the mill zones;
and
(vi) the provision of technical assistance and training.
38.     Services to Outgrowers.  The mill companies offer integrated exten-
sion, credit, input supply, and cane procurement services to registered small
cane growers in the mill zones through a Government-approved Intensive Cane
Development Scheme (ICDS). Under the ICDS, each mill zone is supervised by



-13-
Cane Development Officers (CDO) and is divided into four or five sub-zones,
each the responsibility of an Assistant Cane Development Officer (ACDO).
Each sub-zone is further divided into 20-25 purchase centers, each of which
services four to five units of 100 acres of cane. A field extension worker,
entitled a Cane Development Assistant (CDA), heads up each unit. Although
staffing for these services is considered adequate, lack of funds and
infrastructure has limited staff effectiveness. By providing equipment,
vehicles, offices, and staff quarters, the project would strengthen the
extension services and enable their coverage to be extended throughout the
entire mill zone. Fifty-six purchase centers comprised of godowns, offices,
and staff quarters would be constructed.  These centers would provide a vital
link in ensuring an orderly and continuous flow of cane to the mills and
would also serve as communication centers for extension and training
activities. The extension services would promote better land preparation,
the use of good quality seed cane, the application of a balanced dose of
fertilizer, early planting, improved cultivation practices, control of pests
and diseases, and the use of credit to finance inputs and the rental of
mechanized land preparation equipment. The extension service would also
promote the growth of cane in consolidated blocks in order to permit mechani-
cal land preparation. In view of the ongoing programs of support to irriga-
tion development in the country, there is no need to provide irrigation
equipment for outgrowers under this project. However, the extension service
would work closely with on-going irrigation programs in the project area to
improve the systems for managing tubewells and command areas and to promote
irrigation within the mill zones.
39.     Mill Farms.  Cane production on the two mill farms at Thakurgaon and
Rangpur would be increased by means of improved husbandry on existing land
(975 acres) and the development of new land (1,090 acres). The project would
provide for irrigation, minor drainage and flood control works, and addi-
tional equipment to carry out the required mechanized agricultural operations
on the expanded cane area. The project would also provide additional equip-
ment for farm workshops, and staff housing and vebicles for key farm
officers. The mill farms would serve as demonstration plots for area out-
growers, and would introduce seed varieties recommended by SRTI and improved
methods for cane husbandry, irrigation, ard drainage. The farms would also
be responsible for the production of foundation seed for the seed cane
program and for the multiplication of newly-released seed varieties. In the
event of short-term interruptions in outgrowers supplies, the farms would
serve as a reserve source of cane to maintain an even flow of supplies to the
mills.
40.    Mill Rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation of each of the three mills
would: (i) sustain the capacity of the Thakurgaon Mill at 1,500 TCD;
(ii) restore the capacity of Rangpur Mill from its current level of 1,300 TCD
to its original level of 1,500 TCD; and (iii) increase the capacity of the
Rajshahi Mill by one-third to 2,000 TCD. Minor modifications and replace-
ments would be made to eliminate bottlenecks in the existing process, improve



-14-
efficiency and performance, and provide control measures for environmental
protection. Engineering consultants funded under IDA's Technical Assistance
Credit (Cr. 1124-BD) are currently engaged in completing detailed engineering
designs and equipment specifications for the project mills. The project
would provide spares for mill equipment during the five-year project
implementation period.
41.     Cane Procurement, Transport, Handling and Storage.  A mechanical cane
unloading and feeding system and storage facilities would be installed at
each of the three mills. The mechanical handling system would improve the
uniformity of cane feed and maintain cane feed rate. The storage facilities
would improve the turnaround time of the transport vehicles and their effec-
tive use. A limited number of replacement transport vehicles for the project
mills would be required. Detailed design and specifications for cane yard
improvement would be prepared by consultants engaged under the fourth Techni-
cal Assistance Credit (Cr. 1124-BD).
42.     Roads. The project would improve key road segments linking the mills
and the purchase centers, about 12 miles in the TSM zone, 8 miles in the RSM
zone and 8 miles in the RJSM zone. At the present time, the purchase centers
can be reached only by unimproved brick-herringbone-surface roads and ox cart
trails. Cane haulage from the purchase centers to the mills is difficult and
costly and excessive delays result in the loss of sucrose content in the
delivered cane. The roads within the mill zones are public properties and
are maintained by the District and Union Councils with funds from cesses on
cane delivered to the mills and sugar produced by BSFIC. BSFIC would ensure
that adequate funds are available for the maintenance of the road segments
improved under the project (Section 3.05 of the Project Agreement).
43.     Technical Assistance.  Consultants would be engaged to provide tech-
nical assistance in: (i) the planning and supervision of the development and
rehabilitation of mill farms; (ii) supervision of the implementation of new
extension techniques in the outgrower areas; (iii) mill rehabilitation;
(iv) staff training; and (v) a sub-sector review of the sugar and gur
industries to review production and consumption, analyze policy and invest-
ment implications, identify development constraints, and develop strategies
and priority programs for both industries. The project would provide about
13 man-years of technical assistance at an average cost of about US$7,900
per man-month to cover the full cost of consultant services including travel
and overhead expenses (about 145 man-months of foreign consultants at an
average cost of about $8,300 and 9 man-months of local consultants at $1,550
per man-month). Envagement of consultants for the mill farm and extension
programs would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 5.01(b) of the
Development Credit Agreement).
44.     Training.  The project would support a program of foreign training
for 15 senior extension officers and field agronomists, six senior mill
personnel, and the SRTI Director and senior scientists. On-the-job training



-15-
would be provided to senior mill personnel by consultants engaged to super-
vise mill rehabilitation. An objective of the training program would be the
development of a small team of highly-qualified engineers who could provide
engineering services for future upgrading and development work in the sugar
industry. The project would provide training centers and mobile training
units to be used in training CDA's. BSFIC would ensure thet sugarcane exten-
sion officers are given long-term training in sugarcane agronomy and exten-
sion (Section 3.06 of the Project Agreement).
Implementation
45.     Mills.  The project would be implemented over a five-year period and
the General Manager of each of the three mill companies would be responsible
for project implementation in his respective zone. Overall administration of
each mill company would be strengthened by a management restructure and the
appointment cf two key personnel--an Agricultural Manager and a Factory
Manager; the appointments would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Sec-
tion 2.01(b)(ii) of the Project Agreement and Section 5.01(d) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). No additional middle management or extension staff
would be required under the proposed reorganization. The resident agricul-
tural consultant at each mill, in addition to being responsible for the
development of the mill farm and the extension of mechanized cultivation to
outgrowers, would serve as an advisor to the Agricultural Manager for the
purpose of coordinating the activities of the various divisions--cane
development (outgrowers), plantation (mill farm), agronomy (field trials,
seed cane production, and inspection) and garages and workshops (mechanized
cultivation and cane transport).
46.     Outgrowers Organizations.  In each mill zone the mill company would
have overall responsibility for the planning and coordination of production.
Outgrowers would be registered with the mill and, in eddition, would be
required to enter into a cane supply contract with the mill if they wished to
receive agricultural services and inputs from the mill under the credit
program. The mills' extension officers would organize an association of
outgrowers at each purchase center to repreeent the members' interests
vis-a-vis those of the mills. Each mill would inform the associations of all
matters pertaining to outgrower cane production and procurement in the zone
and establish a close working relationship with them. The associations would
organize the members to become contract cane growers, facilitate the delivery
of servicos by the mill, and assist the _ntracting parties in meeting their
respective obligations.
47.     Coordination.  BSFIC would, as at present, be responsible for overall
supervision and coordination, and provide common support, including procure-
ment and technical services to the sugar companies. The responsibility for
mill farms, outgrowers, and research would rest with the Director, Cane
Development and Research, and that for Liie mills with the Director, Produc-
tion. To strengthen project coordination, a Project Coordination Unit would



-16-
be established, headed by the BSFIC Director, Planning. The members of the
Unit would be the General Managers of the mills and BSFIC's departmental
managers responsible for project implementation. The establishment of the
Unit would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 2.01(b)(i) of the
Project Agreement and Section 5.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
48.     Costs and Financing.  Total project costs are estimated at US$25.65
million including duties and taxes of US$0.55 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at about US$17.69 million, or 69% of total project
cost. Base cost estimates are expressed in mid-1983 prices. Physical con-
tingencies of 10% on mill equipment, 15% on erection and installation, and 5%
on all other items except agricultural machinery and training are included in
the calculations. Physical contingencies are not included for agricultural
machinery and training because preciie quantity estimates are available. An
aggregate price contingency of 16Z is included, composed of the following
expected price escalations: (i) for foreign costs, 8% for FY84, 7.5% for
FY85, and 6% for FY86 through FY88; (ii) for civil works, 15% for FY84, 13%
for FY85, 12% for FY86 and 11% for FY87 and FY88; and (iii) ot'er local
costs, 12% for FY84, 11% for FY85, 10% for FY86, 9% for FY87 dnd 8% for FY88.
49.     The proposed IDA credit of US$20.00 million equivalent would finance
the full foreign exchange cost and about US$2.31 million of local costs, i.e.
about 80% of total project costs net of duties and taxes. The sugar mills
themselves would finance US$3.79 million of local costs, and GOB would con-
tribute US$0.74 million for road improvements, technical assistance and
training. Sonali Bank would finance US$1.12 million equivalent of incremen-
tal production credit to outgrowers at an annual interest rate of 12% (Sec-
tion 3.04 of the Development Credit Agreement); this is the same rate as that
currently charged by commercial banks for short-term crop loans and credit to
the jute sector and should result in a positive real rate of interest (see
following paragraph).
50.     Lending Arrangements.  GOB would onlend US$5.3 million of the credit
to the three sugar companies for strengthening their extension services to
small farmers and for developing mill farms, at 12% per annum for twenty
years including a five-year grace period. GOB would onlend US$11.0 million
of the credit to the three sugar companies for mill rehabilitation, at 14%
per annum for fifteen years including a five-year grace period. The com-
panies would bear the foreign exchange risk on the funds re-lent by GOB.
These interest rates are in line with those currently charged for agricul-
tural and industrial loans, respectively; based on a projected medium-term
inflation rate averaging about 10% per annum, they would result in a positive
real rate of interest. The remaining proceeds of the IDA credit, US$3.7
million, would be transferred as grants to BSFIC and to SRTI for training
(US$0.5 million) technical assistance, (US$1.0 million) and road improvement
(US$2.2 million).



-17-
Approval of the Project Proforma 1/ and execution of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between COB and TSM, RSH, and RJSN would be conditions of credit
effectiveness (Section 5.01(e) and (a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
51.     Finances of the ftills.  Financial performance has varied among the
three sugar companies. Through FY79, TSH and RSM accumulated losses amount-
ing to Tk 8.2 million and Tk 0.5 million respectively while RJSM, operating
over its ratee capacity, accumulated a profit of Tk 2.4 million. In FY80,
RSM sustained a loss of Tk 3.2 million while the other two companies made
marginal profits, and in FY81 all three recorded substantial profits (Tk 28.1
million at TSM, Tk 31.7 million at RSM, and Tk 40.6 million at RJSMI).
According to the draft accounts, the companies maintained their high profits
in FY82. To ensure that the mills retain internally generated funIs for
future rehabilitation and working capital needs, the companies would
(i) maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less
than 1.25 until FY86 and of net less than 1.5 thereafter; (ii) beginning with
FY85, maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 60:40; and (iii) declare
dividends or make other distribution of its share capital only after the
current and debt/equity ratios have been met (Section 4.03 of the Project
Agreement). By June 30, 1984, the companies would undertake a capital
restructuring satisfactory to IDA which would include converting into equity
all existing loans made by GOB to the companies other than those obtained
from foreign sources (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). These measures would enable the companies to provide fifty percent of
their working capital requirements from their own resources and eliminate
the need for Government to provide funds for capital expenditures through
the ADP.
52.     Procurement.    Procurement on behalf of the mill companies would
be centralized and handled by BSFIC's Marketing Department. Purchase of
similar equipment would be bulked under single contracts whenever possible.
All contracts above US$50,000, except proprietary items and spare parts,
would be let after international competitive bidding (ICB) following IDA
guidelines. Proprietary items and spare parts would be procured through
negotiated contracts or through competitive bidding among licensed suppliers
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. Equipment purchases for
relatively minor items not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent in the aggregate
would be awarded after receiving price quotations from three suppliers.
Vehicles would be procured in accordance with local procedures since orders
would not exceed US$200,000. Civil works would not be suitable for ICB
because they would include relatively small structures at scattered loca-
tions. Civil works for mill rehabilitation would be undertaken on force
account by the mills with the assistance of local subcontractors. All other
1/ Tme Project Proforma is an internal GOB document, the approval of which
is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of staff.



-18-
civil works, including roaas, would be through contracts let under local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA. Documents for all bid-
ding packages estimated to cost over US$100,000 (about 90% of total estimated
contract value) would be subject to prior review by IDA. Consultants,
including expatriate and local experts, would be selected in accordance with
IDA guidelines.
53.     Disbursement.  The proposed credit would be disbursed over a
five-year period and would cover: (i) 100% of the foreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment and materials, 100% of local ex-factory expendi-
tures for locally manufactured equipment and materials, and 70% of expendi-
tures for other equipment and materials procured locally; (ii) 80% of civil
works expenditures; and (iii) 100% of expenditures for consultants, technical
assistance, and training. Full documentation for all expenditures would be
submitted to IDA in support of withdrawal applications, except for force
account where a statement of work performed, certified by the mill manager
and the consultants, would be forwarded to IDA. Documents for force account
expenditures would be retained by the mills for review by  AJA missions.
54.     Accounts and Audit.  The mill companies maintasn separate accounts
geared to producing cost control and management information related to all
of their operations. BSFIC's accounts division, which is responsible for
internal audit, carries out a continuous audit. For the purpose of disburse-
ments against statements of expenditure, BSFIC's and the mill companies'
institutional and staffing capabilities, as well as their procedures for
budgeting, accounting, internal control and auditing, are satisfactory.
Annual accounts of the companies are audited by private auditors. Annual
accounts are current and their audits up-to-date. The audited accounts of
ESFIC and the mill companies, together with the auditor's report, would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each financial year. In
addition, the mill companies would submit to IDA their unaudited accounts
within four months of the close of their fiscal year (Section 4.02 of the
Project Agreement).
Economic Analysis and Justification
55.     In order to present a complete picture of development in the project
area, reference is made in this section not only to the impact of the project
but also the impact of irrigation and the introduction of new cane varieties
on outgrower yields. Since irrigation (except on mill farms) and new cane
varieties are not project investments, benefits from these have not been
included in the economic analysis.
56.     The proposed project represents a comprehensive effort to improve
all aspects of industry performance--small holder and mill farm cane produc-
tion, cane handling and transport, and milling--leading to major gains in
industry productivity. Outgrowers' cane yield without irrigation would
increase from 13-20 to 16-28 TCA. With irrigation and the introduction of



-19-
new cane varieties by SRTI, outgrowers' cane yield would increase further
to 30-32 TCD. The outgrowers' cane area inside the mill zone (presently
47,400 acres) would be reduced by 17% and the acreage released for other
crops; due to the increase in yields, however, the total cane supplied to the
mills would increase from 416,000 tons to 508,000 tons without irrigation.
(With irrigation the total cane supply would further increase to about
550,000 tons.) Cai.e production on the mill farms would increase from 21,300
tons to 34,300 tons due to the increase in yield from 14-15 to 32-35 TCA and
the additional acreage brought under cane cultivation. The total capacity of
the three mills would be increased by 16% to 5,000 TCD. Initially, the
crushing season would be confined to 110 milling days within a 120 day crush-
ing season (the basis for analysis); later the season *nould be lengthened
commensurate with the availability of irrigated cane supplies. Ultimately
the season could extend to at least 150 days, the limit being transport
difficulties during the monsoon. Sugar recovery rate is projected very
conservatively to increase from 7.75Z-8.0% to 8.0%-8.2%. Overall processing
cost would be reduced between 5 and 6Z. The incremental sugar production
from the project mills would be 8,480 tons, an increase of 25X over the
present production of 33,920 tons, resulting in a foreign exchange savings at
full development of about US$5.1 million per year.
57.     With a projected annual growth of 1 1/2% in per capita consumption
after 1981 and a projected population of 108.5 million by 1987, total sugar
consumption, including industrial usage, is expected to reach 224,000 tons
by 1987. The production from projects almost completed and planned would
amount to 186,000 tons, thus creating a domestic deficit of 38,000 tons in
1987. The project would meet part of the deficit (8,500 tons), thus reducing
the domestic deficit to 29,500 tons. Imports would make up the difference
until production could be increased further as a result of irrigation
development now underway. To avoid the possibility of future over-expansion
in new milling capacity, ESFIC would, before undertaking the installation of
any new milling facilities, carry out a feasibility study and ensure that its
recommendations are satisfactory to IDA before acting on them (Section 3.07
of the Project Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
58.     The primary direct benefits of the project would be:  (i) lower sugar
,.oduction unit costs for all mill operations due to yield improvements in
both outgrower and mill farms, mill rehabilitation, a reduction in cane
transport costs, and the supply of fresher cane to the mills because of
smaller zones and faster transport; and (ii) an increase in sugar production
and concommitantly a reduction in sugar imports; (iii) the release of cane
area in the mill zones for alternative use. Primary project beneficiaries
would be about 50,000 outgrowers whose income would improve by 55-60% on
average.



-20-
59.     Allowing for a small reduction in labor requirements because of the
introduction of some mechanization, the project would provide a net increase
of 138,500 days of employment per year, primarily among casual laborers as a
result of the larger cane harvest. In addition, during the project implemen-
tation period, road improvement and other civil works would generate an
estimated 1.25 million days of employment for casual laborers. The estimated
economic rate of return for the project is about 37%, well above the 17%
estimated return on investment in a new mill, due primarily to the better use
of existing investments in the mill and other infrastructure. The economic
rate of return is more sensitive to changes in world sugar prices and cane
yield than to changes in production costs. Even faced with a combination of
adverse circumstances and extreme changes in the variables (e.g. a 65% fall
in the import parity price of sugar), the project maintains an economic rate
of return well above the opportunity cost of capital. The financial rate of
return for each of the three companies is 14% (TSM), 19% (RSM), and 36%
(RJSM); these returns are most sensitive to changes in domestic cane and
sugar prices.
60.     The risk most likely to affect the project is uncertainty concerning
the production and consumption of sugar. With the assurances that the
installation of new milling capacity would require IDA concurrence, this risk
is considered acceptable. Cane supply could be less than expected on account
of problems in mill-outgrower relations and shortfall in yields due to
adverse weather conditions. The strengthening of outgrower organizations
should reduce the risk of conflict between the mills and the outgrowers. The
expected expansion of irrigated cane production would make cane supply less
dependent nn climate. The risk most likely to affect the sugar companies'
financial viability is Government policy on the marketing of sugar. With
the understanding with the Government that ex-factory prices will be set to
ensure the financial viability of the sugar mills, this risk is considered
minimal.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORTIY
61.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the
Association and the Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation and
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
62.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Conditions of credit effectiveness are: (i) that Subsidiary Loan
Agreements have been executed between GOB and TSM, RSM, and RJSM (para 50),
(ii) that necessary consultants have been engaged (para 43); (iii) that the
Project Proforma has been approved (para 50); (iv) that each project mill has
appointed Agricultural and Factory Managers (para 45); and (v) that the
Project Coordination Unit has been established (para 47).



-21-
63.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PAKT VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
June 15, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-22--
Anex I
Tm  3A                                      Page I
5mauBR SoML INDICIUS DATA s
uGLAW                       zUIE  af01  cuKGT  AVHFnS
am            SO,.                                                        -  USoN   ucrr  S
AGU1OJLZU3AL     97.3            1940 lb   1970 /lb t571Kb   ASM * PAAnC                   AA & PACIC
car    CPca    (CSS)               40.0        70.0    130.0             au.&                   890.1
mWJ= cnswlof             CAnPI01.
CKILSGRAM OF COAL EQVALENJ)        -         24.9     39.7             411.7                  701.7
IOIIZLATioU AM VIrAL SrAXISTICS
I0pu1a°IZO. IUD-YEA" (IIUSAmS) 53491.0     8117.0  U513_0                  _
13312 POPUATIO  CPEIn? 00 OAL) 5.l            7_6     11.0              17.3                   32.4
1POU.ATIOI 130JEc?I0E
FOPUATION ZN WA 20O0 (IILIM)                       141.0 _
S     DATIOMn IOPUT.I  (I =LIOS)                   321.3
UAKt STATIWIaI POPULATION IS mULCUS               21.25
IopUATIU mno1y?t
PE  SQ. IN.                   37n.5       473.0    600.7             W58.1                  255.9
In  Q. ml. aGR_CUIX1ZL TAJO   561.9       703.0    889.O             355.9                 :748.0
POPCAWTIO AGE S7KUC=E (Pn="T
0-14 I3S-                      4.3         46.3     42U8              36.8                   39.9
15S4 IS.                        52.5        51.0     54.6              59.7                   56.*
65 TMS. AM A39                   3.2   2_     7       2.6               3.5                    3.3
IOPUL&TlaU GOIl RATE C1ZRIT)
OAL                             1.9         Z.4      2.6               2.0                    2.3
USA"                            3.6         6.3      6.5               3.3                    3.9
cam 3n       R  11 c 3009*2)    53.5         49.2     65.3              29.3                   31.8
CR031     Em FAT  (Ec  TIOSAISU)    28.1     22.7     18.2              11.0                   9.8
mISs 1E130crIOT   RI              3.4        3.4       2.9               2.0                   2.0
FANELY WANCIm
1c9IoNS. AUnX CTUOUSAR0S)        ._       373.0   1607.0
USERS C M   OF HAR1=   3         ..         ..       8.9c             L9.3                   36.3
Lm   or n c
PER C&PT  (t99-71-lO)        104.0       101.0     97.0             10S.i                  115.6
MR LAPrTA SWlLY OF
CAaaUIEs (MUCEU OF
33XD1:S1)                    87.3        84.7       ..              97.3                  106.4
PrOTEINS (GUAM t mL)           43.9        42.7       ..              54.9                  54.4
Or UKc ANIrAL 410 FLS         * 9.1       6.7       ..              20.0                   13.9
Cm= (s 1-4) NU =  Rat    24.8               23.0      20.0              10.9                   6.7
LIFz  zuzAu= AT U2l2 (t. )   37.3            41.6      6.3              57.6                   59.8
IFAt USTALITY Au (PU
700SA*D)                        159.0       150.3    134.1       -      8.1                    63.7
AGSS TO S3n WAMI CIfCWr Of
POPULAITIO)
Tom                              .-        450      53.0/d            32.9                   32. 0
urnW                              ..       13.0     15.0/1            70.7                   51.9
am"                               ..       47.0     ss.o4             22.2                   2O-S
&CCSS TO MRE  DISAL (PUOT
OF IOPULAIION)
TOTAL                            ..         *.0      5.01e            18.1                   37.7
133*5                            ..          ..     40.0o             72.7                   s5.7
UL                                ..         ..       ..               4.7                   24.0
IPOULA?I  MIR 13511                ..      8427.2/f 12491.91c         3297.8                 8540.4
O    T=IIl  InI WRSGll 10          ..    768.3  4069.7/               4929.3                 4829.4
POUATI  In UIOTAL N
TOaL                             ..      7021.g ""99.3/c            1100.4                 1017.5
UUREA'..                                 8as.S7   627.4/             301.3                  651.6
AL                         ..  ..23362.'/c                         U585.7                  2597.6
AM===S 1PE IfrQAL                   ..         ..       ..                ..                   27.0
AUKEACE SIEOuosw
swZvZv. S=  or  nx tm
OAL                              ..         S.9b    5.8
La3                              ..         6.17     6.1
RRAL                             ..         5.97ii   5.8
AWEIGE MM= or 'P3S3   In
MAL                              ..          ..
..N                              ..          ..       .               
ACCfSS TO I1ZMCrrfIT fPLGRT
OPr MISLNCS)
uOM.   ..                                    ..      5.5
mmL                              ..          .. .  . __



-23--
Anrex I
laIwAflS                     UDZt   UUWS CVIICUD A9jA
-~~~~~                  ml >,         U03
ml? Rzc29T       LW  -- CWE                !mm&&  N~
190  lb   1970 b MM=  lb   ABU & PAMTC                    *ASU 8 LPACI*C
MlfCaZ:        UAL               47.0       =2.0      65.0               37.4                    6.2
z                   "6.0        ".0       73.0             101.0                    ".8
Fzm=                26.0        3.0       49.0              17.8                    32.1
SCONAR:   Oa-AL                   8.0       19.0      25.0               53.0                   37.6
s=Z                 L4.O        29.0     38.0               63.8                    414
Uz                   1.0         6.0      L1.0              41.3                    38.1
:G&2DhL DVcL. CZ OF sICOUhI)  L.0              0.8       0.7                1.7                   20.8
IMRY                               ..       45.1      43.8 a7.7                                 33.5
3=CO2harY                          ..       26.4      24.9               20.2                   25.0
AD=  L1=AC1 1A1 (Z         )       21.6       23.0lb   26.0/c              52.1                   73.1
£ASSENGEA CARS ?ZM ?NOUSA30
POPAS                              ..        0.4       0.4                1                      9.8
POPUAS                             ..        6.0       8.2               35.4                  116.5
TV 3IczIvZIs BE z0CS*1
PrUc.a                             ..         ..       0.5                3.2                   37.6
IFUSzuS) CIRCUL&IZ0 11*
MOC POP 0S                           ..         ..       4.7               16.4                   33.7
CZSAN *NUL A.MLI BZ in carI   ..                ..        ..                3.6                    2.6
UMAL     10=  C(DUSADS)   13231.6    23611.0  31477.4
7DI1 Cin1M)                      15.2       L6.6      17.5               29.5                   33.6
;    cPuR )                      87.0       86.0      *4.0               70.0                   32.2
tIMOS:2 CPMU=)                   3.0         3.0      L1.0               15.C                   17.9
MM-*2                              36.0       34.7      35.6              -40.0                   38.5
MN                                 58.7       55.9      56.3               51.8                   50.5
1ML36*                             11.4       11.       12.9               23.8                   26.6
&COECKI DCrZ2EWT RAss                 1     .3  1.4        1.3                1.0                    1.1
NEZCZW. VPLVAUf n[O
3czc81 By
laIES  5 P =  or WSRIOs   13-.3/1             ..      14.6/k
M18? 20 U13?    8or005230166   4-7          "4.I/I   42.21T
LOAM 20 PzNcUo F S0OLD0           6. 97t     6.        6.97E.
LSu   40 4o    T Ow br Sa Omm    .7.7       19.67 18.2 .  .
lOBE! TAMCC? GOMP
ESZAZE  4301  OE?  icing
ULEVL CUSs 118 CaXl1)
035                                                  L3..  ..    139.0/c  133.8                193.7
RURAL                              ..         ..    111.0               111.1                  155.1
ZszriIZ am.arIU DsOWE? DC
U.EL CUSS P.. I..A)
RUAL                               ..          ..       ..                 ..                  1".3
MMAU  DOPUL4IME sRum MM=LC
rOVER?!   aC  IEL  t )UCZR?
n*                                 ..         ..       6.0/c             43.8                   24.4
UL                                 ....               U86.0              51.7                   41.1
not Yalable
smtalp11ab1a.
nsO
,bs 5rou &we=mue for ach lailRter me populaclaomwogtid aritbalc M_. cawto of cmmerlesr
amog ths SIlcataors depend son awsZablllty of date ad la not m1fotr.
re      a.l    o cbgwlam emea. data for 1960 r fr to au  yewr b.tXau 19359 an  1961; for 1970 between 1369
1 171; ao for lOAt Recent tiita. betwen 1373od 1978.
/c  1977; /d 1376; /a 1975; If PAs ad. eot *11 prcincsc  a   teo ceUy; /j 1972; h 1973; IS 194;
~1 19677 1k 19,        -
Dm7 1962



-24-
ofyZSm ONS Or Soacu  Maci3mi
Et  dlta~ ab  data aa da -  (a..         V tal  jWt"d tha mma adbsltmtm. -d talba t  b-14 Al   ha PPcPd ~th  abw ay -t ha lafa-
.aLiPbaly ..W.61a b-t-. at ch. 2aah at aadadIad daftaltla.  Si4 P-pW                       by dttt.aaa  -0"6s  la taUftclaa Lb. data.             data at. 
thaifaa  aa.al a- a. Lb  atda at    -ta.tai..  f .. adt"                     atfa  a.l  aajat difaaa  bat... -                  ta
itataf ta S-W  -   (1) aba a-   -.ay  a-   a  tha -&2fft ta-ta, -a  CZ)    -m"n.  wma, .4th  aPt biabat aaata, Ia      tha  tha  -tay W-
Pt aba fabjaa  -PiT7  (-.Fat tat    blab  1--   011 b,att-ta  &taa  1A.  UKldla I                ~ Xattb SAtt0  -i 14Odda Ifabt- I tb.a   ha..... atataf
iaaaa gs".&-). aa   L. l.a h  .ata     at0 dat  ch. .a.a- a at.         PI paaal. aa1 d Pat1bPa -. fa  -b  adft.t -d                    acly -17 a
jalt .t  b         Laataa    .a gaaa  baa dat  ft- Lb.t  WIdataa.  Sia.- tba --aaaa PC at  Ibb lat   aba  adlttat     dp-Sia -b. a. btlaLtt  ft eat-
.. a-c .l'ata  tf-tt- -~ ha   -&tt.Ad Ia a.lftia    -.s. at -   LIdftPc-  W. a-tha.  1rbb. aaf                  1a.  aty  .a .ta                h.afata   tba S .. 
-   dfatta a tj     em aba   fatty -  tat..-.. wa-..
aJM  (tbaaaad    U-ba)                                                                       ft=palati     ..x-hata  had- ftal  .aba   dnta      aa. aa Mf
V.I- Tatl.....   -W.L.at.  2-.d  a.. a   %.L-d   aat; 1919 data.tbs    i  w    dftalda  by Utaif faptfa                                      bta   a..lhd.
daftalaf 1 -tatasaat  stfalttal-     tad tafatUay -  ,a-..al                      aaailbta Ia Pbhlta ada wlsl  aaa-ta  Si.atai    ba.WpUa  fAd a
tattra..palfa...baffad.lilad  £a-  at a. LS. ffLa.1 1919 data                     babUittatl  tf-     .  in"L.tal . -athtaaa.a.al P -                 tf "fad
by at 2,aaat       phtafrlaa S. tataL1Aaaa-        l PtUL   9.1-1faly O.ta-
qc   PUCay??~. (fy  -lp pat capita  al.t.a  aataaf -I..aa P.&-. .al-                          dial  -s  -t -t Lalaad   ba  hapta                  - h t. tatl.ad  baftab
'alta  by         - at.ta   abad a- Vt1a  B.& aab  ii  (1979-40 batfa); 2160.               ..d Smift.   aata-. Paatl    ."tat" bw a pbyaaIa.L  (bt~ bya
1930. Si  95 I data.                                                                         _S_Itl   aif.aa. alal. at '.2 19t atfatI-a a                        ta
datl.S i pa.ld  * 11d.11    -Wa.a ..dlaal taLIt.ttaa   tat ata I-
-ZZW  CM9flra    P= t~At?  - dal.t a                  ta.-tt.al-" at f (to                    tIdal pafp.atat. -b- U-ltal  I-tlaj  MO.    atLra1Iaaata              t a-laL.
-i 1tw.lt. patfl... --Ita  faa ..d bYdf -. -1-aa  Si dpabafaf  l.2-                         ad  --tl. baalttaL. fa-a  at faa  bapl.tai. ada -4dl-a  aal P-atafaI
1.t.f)f kUatt-  at -a.  aqataLa   pt tcpita; 196,0. 1920. -i 1979                      -fa  a. palL.LaIP  haffiala t. - atL-Id aaly Sidt  -taa.
4-a                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaI1--  -. !=pia  had - Tatat abba at.aaa  a    dlathatta
ft.. bataa.La 4dIadd by ab. .&t at baj..
~at  aaaaata.  ld..aaf(tbaa.dal    dat Jly 1; 116. 1910. -i 1960          ______
dltf t.  dffaf i         .1 .    aaa  syaf .c ta tahlf  .t .a_                             Ai ha .. W.±  .-1a- a9 hata   tlda   pat- tb   aId
ya96alattat Paaattlawo                                                            At- h.at.1 at a.ttpat f ..   fatal.att.S    tt-aaa
Pbaata   .  -aa 20003 - C.aaa  WpapLa".   ajtfaa   baad -  LINbDa   f                                ata.  t.1aha..dttlaaatdtaataa
fata. ppltf  by afa a-a at  -C tbi.a   aal1t, Si tattlly fa.                             aalaa  aaaa1ttlaly.    alift." aala.apa.aafaaatta 
P-italtta  wwta.  fat  attaltay faa.  -aapIaa at LIa.. la..la  .-                         atfapld  pat
.a~ ilUa aap-tt.  a- bitab L-ataala  ally .a.7'. pat~I 1               -alf.           af        ltatf 32atatfaf  It =daalL.ab-ftt   ...S   aa 
fatL. Si fasla lit. aa -taf    .&I12--la  at "l.S 7aa     Th. Pa.-                      Caaalaldaflsaa   lttfla    .Iaa   Wattta-patat
_,_; tat taat         - a. ala. baa. - Ib.-Ia. -a.-tg daf11a ft                           fatal. atba. .d  -awa  d-.llta  aaaatty
rf-lLi,t a-c:"dt   ta 1--  La-a  -A i    f. "1 Sl  PI.-ls P-tta- .
Raa  t.  ar  ft ba a..tgad -   at Lbaaa a..- calata   t f-aalttY 
Sd fattlitty ttaaftPaj_.t  a   Paaa.                                                  ljaaad _.ti.t aaaa
tfalaapy  .aplat..- f a-Calaaaa  WpapaLat   tbhat. ft at -Ch.t  al..               Vaisy atD-l - fatal a..1.S - tta-   - Gfaa  tal1.   1a ad tasla
aba  Irt  fat  Ia.qaa  toabadaab  at".. aad ala. tba aaa atataa-   a Lfl                      atIL   all f:-a aatb  ptl-, 1-   -  paaaaa   t  aPfaa
Slattafaa.  Tia I atbaaadatl  atta  haUYftfa halls a                              ptIfay aabal-f- Pap.fatI-;    .lly lbtioa thUId.. aga  4-1
tb. aalaa       laa  at Ltt -t aapta£al-a "at. A- .chat              fat ls                a- bat djaffad ta  dl.tIfaa  laagba at WaU-f   d-ala; ta-
aattad a t ba baata at aba paaJatad .batataltla  at aba paPalaa1-                         att  a-  roplalaf ba.1- at aa. tb. attkLal atbaI ag.
Ia ft -f  f 200.- Si aba ta,t datl-. at 1afti1t7 tat  a. fapat-                         Satdt  aba     fa.. aaS   t-.-     - Caastd -:  ba.-. a.-ada
~ laa.                                                                                     dtalt aaa.  atIff   oa7ya. at appaaa  pt-s.  laaa-tta;
ja.L    alaaytfltatI  ata  - Th.at                      aaiaayppifa                         Iata   .aal   aaial a.ttaaba  atlata tat-ftlat  fat papU
ala- ail  ha-aab.                                                                          -al1y at 12 a. 17 yaaa  at MP;: .aaapa.ea                  a.        n1y
M!m  -  itd-,.. paPalaalaa  Pa- .af a blIota  (100 batfaa) at                     Vataa.l_ aaall-t (aat-aa  at  --a.dat   - loatafl  tatttlf
ata.l a_ta  1940. 1910 a-a 1919 data                                                    2-a1"  at-bat"a.taal.            - ataba. pa. 1     fb apatf   ada.
fat -.h.  at.laalI     - Capad -. aba. fat MltIttaa     I-                         af   a  -1  hbPat--  at   -4-.aa   ia-ftatlaa.
aay   90   919 Si17   aa                                                         at-aaa   at     tsa    iat aT - 11 .1 ad-Ca aaaalld 
Vaflafad  ~  Sftfata(jattt) - O3idff  10-lb yaata. aatblaa-94  (11-                   PtS-aF -iataaylaa          dialda  by aS.   Et aat.ata I. aba
hayaa.  itt114 tab  aat  -i taat  - Pa-t"atat at addyfaf WPa-                     aat.agaadlagi Ia.!..d
LOGa   O 94. 1920. S4i 19  dat.AaaIlaaytt  (1aaaaa  - Iltatat  ad-I. UPIa -a taad   i ff11 a)
PaPaL_tla  c.aab fa.a C._.....a  0- al-a1 A- a-tb.att               fatal ald        -          apaaaa   ttfl adaf PaPalatlaa  Z9 11   at. a.da..
Jaytaaalf   a  1950-b. Ita-l. Si 17-60.
IfffttCtaaab haa  patat) - t-a  A-1a 1fafb  at   ft  .baa paa-T
Latia.- fa   91- 19 19-60-10. fad 1904.                                                   .         ..Ca. (Ma .%--aaa   aaat    -  aaaaft.aptt-   t
(ba."  DUal . a a(OP- t-aad   - A-   It.. bi-%.a Vat fi-.d at afd..yaa                      fat  atL - laf   aba . abtPa a.-;                             h-ldaahltca   ata   d
VPahlaM.;-  10. Is.. fad1160 daa                                                           tla-       alla
Cbada D-af  Safa (fa  fhaaad  -         1 d.aaba pattfa  da   l.ya                          dfhtlaa(a  fhaa1ad atafa`=a.  -ALt ajy.a at tt.ala    fat fadL
pa.,la-tl.  1940. 1920. -d 1960 da.                                                       htadaaf  fa v---tL pahILt Pat tba.ad at  .papLa Ida; asla.. a
Na..*a.aat Ia.-Sl  - afaal  eatha  at daaehtaa  a            11  baa1. ft                 liSda tatISt  ft ..t-tlaa Si ft Iata  hat talla  at    a
bat afaa  tapadatla. altd 11t -h-'ftaaa  pt-aaat  3ma-apatlf Itfa             a-              1 a attat; dat  a    atyfaS   sa ha caa-tala aa..
11f7 tt, ; aaaU    tai~a.  _..aaaa  adl.ag f 1964. 1910. Si 1960..                       a-tt.a ab4.IIIa " dtf
rtaaly Pinfta ;- bAa_ at[t.  mat    .-haad.1  -   aL ..  at atat                          TV 1-l-aay   (P- t faad pafalata) - TV  -ta-a L.fa btaa&aa  ta
at btah.  ttf1 d.-1ta.  Iaa  aat a  tft aa  tdypi-a  f.f                                   M-at  p19L1. pt tbhaO  Ppalaf Ia; aatataSaaaa  TV t-.L--t
yalaPl.ala  -latata=~  -W-a-ta             a) .-1 Vftaaa aL-It  ttaf   ftl.a    tpaaaa  altai..   tat..                                                 tftf
5 f atctl-aflga.   l-hayaa   b  St b.ttbt.atal  d.lt   :.Uaaa   Laaltla  (_a  fbaad .U..lals   - Sba  Lta aataa  f
aLl aaIfd afa  ta    a  Zaap                                                              afa  f.a   duil  a--,ta  &at-aa  --aPaf--. dafiad -  a  a a.la
porn dPI Utfaflata                                                     ta~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C   ba--I9  itI  ppaaa 1a.a  ta. aa_ a a
lad    ft-diftdf b     Capit  (1949..71a100) -  DWI. af Pa.  twt ff ..-I                      daa  Aafadaa  Pa  Cal a pat Taft - ma.-d            h.ab   -ia  at
ptadfala a  al  t-d   -d-fia.  ft        L_ Baaaatada  -ldd -     w  -ad             tlfalal   slgaaya. - d-Mt   -     icL,,ta  adla      t   ta..a  tf1-
Ia -aaladat  aftb-at..  Ca-ditf t     - a     prl17 t.a. (a...  agt.t                aaSii  fal. aS..
lffada   af 3thl   a._ adaba td = ata-   a.tt.a  (a.-. cafes aW
Ia.at.aatad.l.   aftafafa Ptadaaf  at afb   -tasl  L. baaad -                   Mhf-       z
aaPaa -a.a   --tdaa  p.1ca -tlabfa; 196L-4$. 1920. a.d 1960 daU.               Taa   a.   at   fa.ad)-tfal  ly   1aaar1t.d
pat day.  Atatlfbl.a  -.flaaaapta  "attf ptadtla. tap-tt  I...                             -f ta96.abl; IlbO. 1920 fad 9190 data.
afPatt. fd cbaaaa  L.  -tk.  Vat aaallaa aatlad  ails? fa.  a.                            afafitI taatta) - 7-.-l  lab. fItt a. paf-Ma al           ...Iaa  labat I-ta
:fflfa-a- !ffadp-,aala. ad.-aa  ft dttfbta .4"9,lt                                  Salfttr  t           -t ) - lab- ta-t L-a fat1L. tafatty. h-Itla  -ad
f-ta.  1aafl-td'h by   3 baaad a. tbaallaif.a I. -.t-..  sf-                                tL==ff   atLatap at fataI taPat ta.-; 1960. 1920 -ad 11f Jata.
flay fad baaIlt              -4 =1I   aa,.aaa  Itwtaar-  body aal.abaa._ta                                    - La-a  f- a.a  fait  aat.t.a   .a ttt
aaaadLaftfbtla  at patala-  -. aa   llta .-IM LO ttaf  tt f-ta-tfa  atatfallt7.  -.f  fad aa  -a paa.aa   at-ata  1ab   fa.-w
bafbadfaa; '94.Va45. L120 ..d 1917 data.                                               1940. 1920 ada 1960 dat..
t   91atf.da . at dat.  a.a aappta  by tSAd ft U dtfad-  ab.1.  hat .- faatafytaa                 la . fatd   a.. fata. pa.1a. .   t .aLa lab. faca.p1I-
aGoa..   t4  If-  at W-tl pratat pa- day  4 10 pt-  at aala  ad                    1960. 1910. ..d 1960 da-a   Tba a.- ba.dW -t tLG0a paft1patlattaa
faE faan  at &3.5h 10 at    l.-Ld ba fa-Laf..t   Thaa   -afd-                     -alflagM  0 a         - -ff  lftff   at ba            l-a,tla ndII  flt tta-d. A
atd. at. la-a  iba  tbaaa .f 71 gtaa ft f.Ifa    -t -rt   da 21 af-  at                   tat faiafa  t  F-a  aI.ff.    -aft
fat..  Paffl.  t a. a-tat_ f. th' a.. I   pta1aaad by 710L ft ab  ThUrd                 E.=       Oaaad  Rtaf. - Safta ft Pa.l-f If .dat 15 Si 41 aft faf
'-Ild Fad Sat..;11-. 1970  ". 1977 dat,-                                                      b   aa   af fat..
Lta   aa  aflafdflf- ft a-  pat day, 1961-65. 19M1 ad 1911 data.                   l        hTtU
ChIld(.aa t.'.lDaab" _ata  _1t Ih-.td) - ~A--  daatba fa  tbaaaad ftPtffa.a .at  1t    (bath ft caal -ad kladl - hFalad by tkab-a
aaa w-tO  F4 Ifaf . ft 13.1141- L.a til. aga at-p. tat sa  daalapla. fa.                     paa !ta. flaha   20 P.-t . pafaf  20 patat d pa--a  '0 Pa-aaa
atra. dat. da_fald tf-  It_la _bl,a  1960. 1910 _ad 1960 data.                            atbaabla
mg                                                                         I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PVT  Thaficr Ca=
Wa tafttatt  at SfI   '"afa- aafal.atyaa.1lt af-alg                                 bafalata a-Id b.  aa-Paa  aaty apyIa.-lfa       aa.fa ati    a.y     aaa
at hfab  194. 120 a   19-60 data,                                                    ad   d,aa..APbLd  atfattdfa  ta .ld.baa tf
lata  ultta at Ra. (at taaada)- d.a1daaba a  laatt  Sit  ia.         = Ittad abtla   Ptat.a Lat.. -aal (I   ttt1          a      ta      . fata
pat7 abaad-1    abtha   90 1170  d 196 -          -da. bittayaat 10                                   ata.-  a,.1 I_ that (aa         PI-a ) ha fa   k   -a alfifa
Aaf ka a. .a at. (pfaa  a!C alpla Ma)-      Ma     . atfa d    f&t.7 -1.                oa.talia.lt  xdqaada   laa.alaIaata   aata    dl
bat at pafyft (fatal. athaa. ad fatal) flab taaaa.abla atLa.. a. aat.-ft.ateaW-a
ctf.l.tf at at-dp.tla-d -Ca -a  ta b 2 00  -.a   fa-a. a haa -F ..y ha-".  bth -dJ)at-  tI- blbs taaa at ItI'ftaft  ta -ba.- a
-aIad-ta  -  bft,0 a1tab.  -fa-bl=  s   at that ba...  ft t-ta  at-                        aasfad PaaaltlffllfSfa.Pat,  aa   aa   ata   taba.
tasalal  at-t   -Id laply abt aba b-1fatt   tla.   atW~      aba  -- ~                      iftaL  F- y at ad aaaalt ahaa.   aa)  h   t  aal
da ase baa  -. asd a dl.a,a,alia   pat at ab  day  1a  atablag aba
abaaalaaiaa   i  iapaal 1603 at lla   a -a-   ai.d   f-ta.."
Si-atafata  by .afa.b-t  aya-P at aba f-at t pa.1.. ad daft
c2dmq-g5XI.9zrPP - Papal. -laL dc.da  byrafdty I.1  ..ia.      . abyal-                                               Sa      17a f a   -alf "bCaPta Olalal
alf-q~1f1dafWa SiA4 atbal at Statalt  Ia...                                          Iaaait ?alala adPaajaalf- Dafatf-



-25-
Anex 1
Page 4
BANGADES
ECONOMIC IYDICATORS
Populacion:      91.5 million (January 1982)
GCP Per Capita:  USSIZO (FYel)
A*ount            Average Annual Increase (C)        Sare at fCUP at narket Prices (C)
(million USS           (in constant FY75 prices)               (in current prices)
La current prices)
Indlcator                                    FY81              FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-81        FY60      FY70       FY75     FY81
SATIONAL ACCOUNhS
Gross domestic product /a                      11.989               4.0      -0.6        6.0        100.0      100.0     100.0    100.0
Agriculture la                               6,423                3.1      -1.3       4.3          59.9       56.9      62.5     53.6
Industry /a                                   1.680              7.9       -3.2       6.0           7.7        9.6      11.3    1.0
Services 7a                                   3.887              4.9        3.3       8.8          30.1       30.0      26.2     32.4
Consumption                                    11.701               4.4      -0.7        5.7         92.4       92.8      99.1     97.6
Gross domestic investment                       2.064              10.9     -10.9      20.2           6.9       1.13       8.1      17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                            859               0.8     -11.7        %.-         10.0        8.3       3.2       7.2
Imports of goods £ nfs                          2.63'              8.8      -12.0        3.6          9.3       12.5      10.4     22.0
Gross national savings                            639              26.5     -17.7      -8.4           0.9        6.1       1.0       5.3
Amount                                               Composition of Mer_handIse Trade ()
(million USS                                                     (In current prices)
In current prices)
FY81                                                FY73     FY75      FY80     FY81
MERCHANDISE TRADE
-  ern-andise exports                             710.8                                             100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Primary /b                                      165.2                                              48.4      29.6     24.3     Z3.2
Manufactures                                    545.6                                              59.6      70.4     75.7     76.8
Merchandise Lmport-                             2.524.0                                             100-0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Food                                            342.4                                              4L.1     41.5      29.1     13.6
Petroleum                                       490.1                                               3.2     11.1      15.7      19.4
Machinery 6 equipment                           580.0                                              13.8      9.6      20.0     23.0
Other                                         1.111.5                                              38.9      37.8     35.1     44.0
FY74      FY75       FY76      FY77       FY78      FY79      FY5O       FY81
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
GDP Deflator                                              140.6       240.5     183.1      177.2     203.6       16.8     249.2      264.0
Exchange rate (Tk/USS)                                    7.9661      8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                        103.7       123.5     107.1      111.8     127.7      167.5     200.9      178.6
Import price Index                                        152.8       194.8     186.2      183.1     179.4      218.0     250,3      283.9
Teres of trade index                                       67.9        63.4      57.5       61.1      71.2       76.8      80.3       62.9
As 2 of COP
(at current prices)
FY73     FY75     FY77    FY8O      FY81
PUILIC FINANCE
Current revende                                                        5.0      5.4      9.5     10.6      12.0
Current expenditure                                                    6.5      4.5      7.8      7.8       7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                    -1.5     .0.9    +1.7    + 2.8       4.4
'apital expenditure                                                    8.8      3.1      9.5     13.5      12.1
Foreign financing                                                      7.1      2.4      6.0      8.3       7.7
FY60-70    FY7O-75    FY75-80    FY80-81
OTFEP INDICATORS
GNP grovth rate (2)                                                       4.2       -0.7        5.8        7.9
CNP per capita growth rate (I)                                            1.5       -3.3        3.0         5.2
Energy consumption growth rate t )
- not available
.   not applicable
/a At market prices.
7l Raw jute. tea and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15. 1982



-26-
Annex I
Page 5
MAIIM OF FAMETS. XTRAL CAPITAL AND DEST
(sdllion 0SS. tn curre prices)
ALAICE OF PAUCTS
Acntual1ct
F74      FTY75     FY76      FY77      FY78     FY79      FSO    FnaI          ns2      t3
Net exports of goods                          -551    -1.050      -485       454     -459      -946   -1.645   -1,813        -1.780    -L.938
Exports of goods                             374       352       381       411      490       610       727       711         640       732
[sports of goods                            -25      1.402   -1.266        865   -1.349    -1.556   -2.372   -2.524       -2.420    -Z.670
Net exports of services                        -21        12       -24       -29      -32       -27         3        11         -70     -120
Workers- remittances                             19       34        62        el       113      143       210       377         400      450
Current scounu balance                        -553   -1.004       -647     -402      -778      -830   -1.432   -1425        -1.450    -1.608
Direct privste Invuem                           .         .         ..        ..       ..        ..        .         .
ILT ounne (net)                                276       498       498       238      398       420       581       481         501
Grants & grent-like flow                        174      382       245       265       391      553       591       616         650   -1.608
Other eapital flows (net)                       45       275        52       -20      -38       -19       t41       304         199
Change in reserves  I-- ncrease)                58      -151        53       -81       25      -124       119        24         100      -
International reserves (nd of period)          115       266       213       294      269       393       274       250        150       150
Reserves as months of iSports of ne  yer      0.98      2.52      Z.95      2.62      2.07     1.99      1.30      1.24        0.67     0.63
FY74      rs75       FY76       FY77       FY78      "Y79      rFY8        FILl
CROSS DISUURSfEITS
Official gratn                                173.8     382.3      244.7      264.8     392.6      553.2      590.8      616.4
Cross disbursemnts of MLT loase               297.4     516.9      563.5      268.3     435.3      476.8      631.4      531.0
Concessional                                201.6     458.4      533.0      244.1      400.8     456.4      601.6      509.6
Rul-tersi                                 150.4     342.8      389.9      14-.0      261.9     212.6      272.7      255.2
IDA                                        51.0     112.5      127.8       86.1       88.2     152.5      152.1      170.9
Other multileceral                         -          3.1       15.3       14.1       50.7      91.3      176.9       83.4
Non-conesionl                               86.0       60.4       30.4       24.1       34.5      20.4       29.8       21.4
OffIcial export Creats                     0.6      45.2       16.5        5.6        1.7       3.3       16.8        2.0
IBID
Other maltilatersl                          5.4       0.3        1.1        0.5        0.5       0.1        0.3        0.8
Prieats                                    60.0      14.9       12.8       18.0       32.3      17.0       12.7       18.6
EXTEL DEBT
Deb      d ouc s and dibuersed (end of period) 492.8   1,352.6   1.795.9   2.051.5   2,569.2   2.949.2    3.215.6   3.584.8
Official                                    383.3   1.232.8   1.689.0   1.939.8   2.435.6   2.808.3   3.068.B    3.462.1
IBRD                                       -         54.9       54.9       54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9       54.9
iDA                                       105.6     255-3      379.8      465.9     554.2      706.7      858.8   1.028.5
Otber                                     222.8     922.6   1.254.3   1.619.0   1.826.5   2.046.7   2.155.1    2.378.7
Private                                     109.5     119.8      106.9      111.6      133.6     140.9      146.8      122.7
Ulndlebursed Debt                             580.8   L.019.4      947.5   1.015.8    1,335.4   1.659.1   1.716.7   2.068.4
DEBT SERVICE
Intol debt ervce paJats                        18.0 -    31.3       87.4       58.5      69.2       95.1       93.7       92.0
Interest                                     7.3       10.1       21.9       28.4      32.1       38.1       43.3       42.0
Paymens a I of export esruings                 4.8        8.9       22.9       14.2      14.1       15.6       12.9       12.9
Payments as Z of GCP                           0.2        0.2        1.2        0.9       0.8        1.0        0.8        0.7
Average interst rte -n ne loa   ()              3.2       2.0        1.7        1.6        1.5       1.4        1.4        1.6
Official                                      2.9       2.0        1.6        1.5        1.3       1.4        1.2        1.5
Privat                                       5.1        2.3        7.8        6.4        6.2       6.1        6.9        7.2
Average maturity of :e loans (year.)           26.1      35.5       41.6       40.1       37.7      35.9       33.6       35.9
Officia                                      28.3      35.8       42.2       40.8       38.6      36.3       34.2       36.2
Printe                                       13.3      15.3       11.3       11.0        9.5      14.8       19.3       18.5
A  CRWP EXPOSRE (S)
LDi von/total Don                              -          4.0        3.0        2.6       2.1        1.8        1.7        1.5
131 disbursements/total gross disburseumts    -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
IDRD debt service/total debt serve             -          -          1.8        5.6        4.8       4.1        3.7        4.0
IDA DOn/total DOD                             21.4       18.8       21.1       22.7      21.6       24.0       26.7       28.6
IDA dies-rsomants/total gross disbursements    17.7      21.7      Z2.7        32.1      20.3       32.0       24.0       32.1
IDA debt servie /total debt service             1.3       3.1        2.5        5.3        5.4       4.6        6.0        7.3
A  I of Debt Outstandng
at End of MI81
TM  STtCIDIIE
Naturity structure of debt outstanding (2)
Maturities due within 5 years                                 13.5
Heturities due within 10 years                                36.8
Interest structure of debt outstanding (C)
ltnet due within first year                                   1.6
n o' t available.
ASADD
April L5. 1982



-27-                       ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1983)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                     USS Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower               Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 25 credits fully disbursed                  54.90   823.70       -
341     1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)          -      14.00      0.55
408     1973  Bangladesh Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)           -      25.00      0.91
487     1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II            -      20.00      3.11
527     1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer              -      62.00      1.85
533     1975  Bangladesh  Population                       -       15.00     2.23
542     1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation               -      27.00    10.88
605     1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation             -      22.00      6.80
621     1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -        12.00      2.76
631     1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                -      16.00 -  5.91
632     1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shipla Bank           -      25.00      3.54
724     1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells                -       16.00     1.92
725     1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                -      21.00    11.43
729     1977  Bangladesh  Extension and Research           -      10.00      1.39
735     1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II        -        5.00     1.82
765     1978  Bangladesh  Jute                             -      21.00    13.12
787     1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II             -      25.00    15.37
825     1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II          -       7.00      3.09
828     1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research            -        6.00     1.27
864     1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control         -       19.00    12.52
872     1978  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance III         -       10.00     2.85
890     1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries            -        6.00     4.54
912     1979  Bangladesh Vocational Training               -      25.00    19.34
921     1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -        32.00    28.63
934     1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -      28.00    27.30
941     1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                   -      22.00      8.81
955     1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                 -      25.00    21.30
964     1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                      -       10.00     8.55
990     1980  Bangladesh Low-Lift Pumps                    -      37.00    20.85
1001    1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II       -      20.00    18.70
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
-28-                       Page  2
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                    US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower              Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1023    1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
-     Rehabilitation                -      29.00    26.09
1032    1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation               -       20.00    14.91
1042    1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation          -      11.00      7.-85
1054    1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                   -       40.00    35.06
1065/c  1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III        -      35.00    33.26
1091/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development       -      85.00    38.34
1096/c  1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport Project  -        25.00    18.52
1117/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II       -      50.00    36.49
1124/c  1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV         -      16.00    15.87
1140/c  1981  Bangladesh Hand Tubewells                   -      18.00    15.64
1147/c  1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit             -      40.00    39.68
11847w  1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -       27.00    26.00
1194/c  1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X               -     100.00    32.92
1204/c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer      -      15.00 -  15.00
1205/c  1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation               -       30.00    30.00
1215/c  1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II         -      27.00    27.00
1247/c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                 -      60.00    60.00
12541c  1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power          -      92.00    92.00
1262/c  1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification           -      40.00    40.00
1287/c  1982  Bangladesh  Second Deep Tubewells           -      68.00    68.00
1300/c  1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI              -     110.00   110.00
1301/c  1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
(Supplemental)               -        6.00     6.00
1318/c  1983  Bangladesh  Business Management Education
& Training                   -        7.80 -  7.80
1321/c  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III          -      35.00    35.00
Total                                               54.90 2,393.50 1,092.77
of which has been repaid                            -       0.40     -
Total now outstanding                               54.90 2,393.10 1,092.77
Amount sold                                0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      54.90 2,393.10
Total undisbursed                                     -   1092Z. 17 1092.77
/a  Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs. Amounts of principal
are calculated at the rate of exchange at time of negotiations; amounts
undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange on March 31, 1983,
and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed IDA 6th credits is calculated
at the rate of exchange on the date of disbursements.



-29-                      ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                     Amount in USS Million
Year           Obligor              Type of Business      Loan   Equity   Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co. Ltd.    Shipbuilding         1.20    0.36    1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and       Development
Development Company of         Finance
Bangladesh Ltd.                Company              -      1.05    1.05
.~~~~~-                    ===    ==
Total gross commitments                                    1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -         -       -
Total now held by IFC                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                          0.65     -       0.65
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341     Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982 and necessary steps are being
taken to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27.0 Million Credit of
April 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Barisal Irrigation Project I (BIP) was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation due to socio-economic and agro-climatic conditions in the area
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 4
and probably also due to deficiencies in the agricultural support services.
These factors are currently under study. However, there has been some increase
over previous years cultivation. Good progress is maintained on civil works
construction in the extension area. Procurement preliminaries for the primary
pumps, gates and low lift pumps have been completed and deliveries have started.
Agricultural demonstration farms are in operation in the extension area. Due to
insufficient Annual Development Program (ADP) funding completion of the project
will be delayed until the end of 1984.
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown good progress in the last two years and except for flood embankments the
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) proposes to delete the embankments for technical and social
reasons which IDA is currently examining. The trend on agricultural development
is encouraging and expected benefits would probably be attained.
The fisheries component is completed.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Extended credit closing date is June 30, 1983. Project as envisaged
is virtually complete, except for the provision of 250 Deep Tubewells (DTWs).
Due to GOB s new standardization requirements, the procurement will not be
completed by credit closing, which is likely to result in about US$3 million
of the credit remaining unutilized at that time.
Cr. No. 724     Shallow Tubewells Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Only payment for commit-
ments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 725     Muhuri Irrigation Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation has been further delayed because of delays in
finalizing the design and tender documents for the closure dam work. Other
consultants have been recruited .o assist Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) with the design and construction of the dam. Construction of the Feni
Regulator is nearing completion.  Agricultural and Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) activities are commencing in 1982/83. Farmer-s response for
adoption of improved agricultural practice and group formation is expected to be
good. A cost overrun is expected due to a likely increase in the cost of the
closure works. A supplementary credit is being considered.



-31-                       ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 729     Extension and Research Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date:  January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
The credit was closed on June 30, 1982. Necessary steps are being taken
to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 765     Jute Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Jute intensification program has suffered as a result of the recent
consolidation of extension services, whereby Jute Extension Officers will be
shifted from one location to another and trained for other crops. Credit sanc-
tioned from Sonali Bank has been only 25% of the requirement and this has
affected crop production. The Government has initiated an evaluation of its
jute intensification program.
Cr. No. 787     Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage construction program has gained momentum and is now satisfac-
tory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced from 25,000 M4T to
10,000 MT as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation
have been awarded for 7,750 MT. Quality control equipment has been procured,
but considerable additional efforts are required in the area of grain quality
control and inspection. The project is now anticipated to be completed by
June 30, 1983. The Government has decided to eliminate the project-s paddy
drying component.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Research Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Almost
all esearch station buildings are now complete and only farm development
remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research programs
on research stations and those supported by the research grant scheme are being
vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now operating well and a
monitoring and evaluation cell, established at Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the
project to all grant-supported research. The major constraint to project
implementation is the lack of operating funds.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$19.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date:  October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
Of the three subprojects financed under the project construction work
in Chenchuri Beel (CCB) and Kolabashukhali (KBK) will be completed by June 30,
1983. Implementation of Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) is progressing



ANNEX II
-32-                        Page  6
satisfactorily and will be completed before the closing date in June 1984.
Procurement of vehicles and construction of civil works for the agricultural
extension services has been delayed due to procedural problems, however, the
matter has now been resolved and completion is anticipared by June 1983.
Project management during the operation of the completed subprojects requires
now tne attention of the Government.
Cr. No. 890     Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effe tive Date:  February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The basic concept is to intensify carp production in a cluster of six
oxbow lakes, currently underexploited, by the introduction of new composite fish
culture techniques and improved lake management technology. Construction of a
central hatchery started in January 1982, some 12 months behind schedule. The
delay was caused primarily by managerial and administrative weaknesses but also
by shortage of counterpart funds. Work at central hatchery complex is now in
full progress and hatchery is expected to become partly operational in first
part of 1983. Land acquisition procedures are proving difficult and are holding
back censtruction at satellite lakes. Despite delays and problems in project
implementation, the objectives of the project are expected to be fulfilled.
This will, however, require intensive supervision by IDA headquarter's staff.
Cr. No. 955     Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
At the end of the second year of implementation, out of a total of 40
subprojects under construction, 15 have been completed, 4 substantially com-
pleted and the progress on the remaining 21 has been retaraed due to late
commencement, lack of cement and inadequacy of funds in the revolving fund.
Forty-one new subprojects have been approved for 1982/83 for which adequate
provision has been made in the ADP. Fifteen completed subprojects have been
taken over on operation and maintenance.
Cr. No. 990     Low Lift Pump Project; US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the Phase I
sales program under public aegis have been procured. While all one-cusec units
have been sold, two-cusec pump demand continues slow. Orders have been placed
for the remaining 4,000 Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) to be sold by private dealers,
with investment credit provided to purchasers by the Bangladesh Bank. A
mechanics' training program continues well. Compliance with Credit covenants is
satisfactory and Credit disbursements, on schedule.
Cr. No. 1042    Mangrove Afforestation Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Overall project performance is good. The establishment of plantations
was carried out according to SAR targets. The current progress indicated that



ANNEX II
-33.                       Page  7
the 1982/83 target will also be achieved. The procurement of essential equip-
ment and materials has been completed. Staffing remains behind the SAR target.
The implementation of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No
activity on the Public Relations Component has been started. Disbursement is
behind the SAR targets; however, it will improve when the documefnts for launches
and boats imported are received.
Cr. No. 1140    Hand Tubewells Project; US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
The initial financial and administrative problems regarding procurement
are now over. The project is now building momentum. Raw material for 90 000
Hand Tubewells (HTWs) has been procured.  Work order for first lot of 31,S0O
HTWGs has been placed with 14 foundries. Incremental staff has been appointed
and HTW selling price tentatively announced to farmers. Major problem is
shortage of ADP allocation and the Goverrnment is looking into the matter.
Cr. No. 1147    Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of June 9,
1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers for
investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and to
private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization of
shallow tubewells is proceeding satisfactorily. Import licenses had been issued
to authorized private dealers and letters of credit have been opened. Shallow
Tubewell (STW) prices between private and public sectors are now comparable.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency,
is now in process.
Cr. No. 11B4    Second Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1987
Initial progress on construction work is slower than expected due to
reductions in the 1982/83 ADP budget.
Cr. No. 1215    Second Extension and Research Project; US$27.0 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This credit became effective in October 1982 and progress on project
implementation has so far been slow.
Cr. No. 1287    Second Deep Tubewells Project; US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



_34-                       ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 527      Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of
June 18, 1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19,
1975; Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, Federal
Republic of Germany, (KfW), EEC, IFAD, the OPLC Special Fund, and the Govern-
ments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, for a total of about US$190 million
equivalent, in addition to the IDA credit.  Because of the additional site
works, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was neces-
sary and has been obtained. The project has now been mechanically completed.
Even though production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months
later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, the project
continues to face operating problems. Further assistance by donors is required
to enable the plant to achieve production stability and also to provide staff
training and expatriate technical assistance to help in operating the plant.
Total foreign exchange cost of the Fertilizer Plant is likely to be about US$15
million higher than that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Institutional upgrading programs instituted under the credit are still
under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB-s loan accounting and
staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB-s financial posi-
tion has weakened significantly. This area of operational weakness is receiving
close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating closely with ADB and KfW to
implement an action program to restore BSB-s financial viability.
Cr. No. 825      Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing
Date: March 30, 1984
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementating
banks developed rapidly, with significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks. Staff of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) completed a number of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion, and some improvement in BSCIC's promotion and
extension services were achieved. The project was fully committed by the comr
mercial banks in July 1980; due to some cancellations, the closing date for the
project was extended.
Cr. No. 1023    Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$29.0 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate fer-
tilizer manufacturing companies have been acccmplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily though with some delay.



ANNEX II
35-                       Page  9
Cr. No. 1032    Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been mixed. After some Initial delay,
procurement of rehabilitation and preventive maintenance spares is proceeding
well. The establishment of the Jute Strategy Cell and work related to policy
and strategy formulation is delayed. Thirty-three of 66 mills which are
beneficiaries of the project are in the process of denationalization. Arrange-
ments for rechanneling US$3.55 million to these (now private) mills are under-
way. One consultancy assignment (production incentive) is now complete, while
the other two (accounting/financial, organization) are being reformulated to
reflect changed circumstances.
Cr. No. 1065    Small Scale Industry III Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The US$30 million credit component is moving somewhat behind schedule,
with US$12.5 million committed in 317 subprojects, as of December 31, 1982;
major product groups have been food processing, engineering, textiles, ice
plants for the fishing sector and transport. Project eligibility has been
expanded slightly and promotional services by Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and coordination with the banks are being
improved. Technical service components -- for handicraft exports, rural
enterprises, and selected organized SSI subsectors were slow in initiation, but
are now proceeding.
Cr. No. 1117    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Dat.: August 12, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
As of December 31, 1982, BSB was facing considerable financial difficul-
ties due to the deterioration in its portfolio. This deterioration resulted
from devaluation of the Taka in the late 1970--early 1980s, low collection
levels and the impact of the world recession on BaLagladesh industry. GOB, with
assistance from ADB and IDA, has initiated a program of financial restructuring
of BSB and arrears recovery. The initial re- -ructuring has been completed and
BSB's liquidity/financial position has been improved. The final stages of the
arrears recovery program have been implementr4 and a short list of consultants
has been prepared for a UNDP funded institutional review and portfolio audit,
which is expected to be completed in June 1984. IDA is coordinating closely
with KfW and ADB. The latter is the executing agency for the action program.



ANNEX II
-36-                     Page  10
Cr. No. 1194    Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1982; Effective D&te: February 22, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit became effective on February 22, 1982. As of March 31, 1983
US$67.08 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1204    Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982;lEffective Date: January 19, 1983
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit became effective on January 19, 1983. The bids for the
general contracting services are expected to be received by March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1205    Textile Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$30.0 Million
Credit of February 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 27,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Arter initial delay, the credit became effective on October 27, 1982.
The first set of tender documents related to six mills have been prepared and
approved by IDA. However, nine of the original list of 15 mills are being
denationalized. Balancing, Modernization and Replacement (BMR) plans for 17
substitute mills are at an advanced state of preparation with IDA review planned
for April 1983. The terms of reference for the Industriai Economist have been
prepared and reviewed by IDA. Fielding of consultants is expected by July 1983.
Cr. No. 1300    Eleventh Imports Program; US$110.0 Million Credit of
December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 4, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 4, 1983.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621     Aricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construction
of two new Thana Training Units (702 complete) which has been slow to complete
due to lack of Taka funds. IDA has asked GOB in December 1982 to provide the
needed funds. The latest estimate (December 1982) for completion of all wcrks
is June 1983. Staffing is adequate and all Agriculture Training Institute (ATI)
instructors have received in-service training under the project. The course to
train project managers and those civil servants directly concerned with
implementation of IDA financed agricultural projects has been successful and an
extension of the course to June 1983 has been recently approved by IDA. At the
request of GOB, extension of the closing date from June 30, 1982 to June 30,
1983 has been granted by IDA to allow eno:tgh time to complete all remaining
civil works and project activities.



ANNEX II
-37-                        Page  11
Cr. No. 912     Vocational Training Project; US$25.0 Nillion Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closiug Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress continues to be evident in several are.i of project activity.
Contracts have been awarded for the five new TTCs and the National Council for
Skill Development and Training (NCSDT) building. Equipment procured by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) has arrived in Bangladesh and is being
installed in existing workshops. Instructor and in-plant training programs are
operational. Most of the technical assistance team (ILO) with the exception of
the evaluation expert are in post. Trade standards and tests in several areas
have been completed and await formal NCSDT approval. Quarterly Progress Reports
are being submitted on time, and the rate of disbursements has improved conr
siderably. The continued failure of GOB to replenish the Revolving Fund has
slowed some project components, however, IDA is now considering advance payments
into the Fund to make it operational. Finally, the second-shift programs have
been sporadic and not well organized. The Government will shortly decide on an
incentive package for instructors which can overcome the major problem with this
program.
Cr. No. 1054    Fourth Education (Primary) Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
With the appointment of a new Project Director in June 1983, project
management has shown considerable improvement. The majority of staff for the
11U and Regional Project Units Regional Project Units (RPUs) have been
appointed. Civil works is also showing improvement. Contracts for the con-
struction of additional classrooms at 178 schools, 594 latrines, 286 tubewells,
hostel extentions to 6 Primary (Teacher) Training Institut -s (PTIs) and improve-
ments to 648 schools have been awarded. Learning kits have been distributed to
200 schools. Textbooks already have been distributed to over 443,000 Class I
and Class II students, and requisitions have been finalized for 1983 distribu-
tion to Class I, II, and III. No uniforms were distributed in 1982 in line with
new Government policy, however, two sets will be distributed to all students
(not only girls) in Class II in 1983 and then Class II and Class IV each year
thereafter under the new policy. The Recurrent Teacher Training Program started
in mid-December, slightly behind schedule. The Training of Education
administrators started in June 1982. The Project IMPACT experiment is on
schedule, the opening of a demonstration school and final testing of training
modules. All UNESCO experts are in post, and the four Education Studies under-
taken by British Council consultants have been completed.
Cr. No. 1318    Business Management Education and Training Project; US$7.8
Million Credit of March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page  12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533     Population Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments
in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921     Second Population and Family Health Project; US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center-s component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEN) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily, the
civil works' components of the service delivery and training parts of the
project are significantly delayed. Their completion within the original four
year implementation period (July 1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing
not only to the initial implementation but also to weak implementation capacity
of responsible iLgencies. The impact of budget cuts and the Government-s de
facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal will result in significant
savings. An extension of the project implementation period is currently being
discussed with the Government.
Trausport Projects
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
4       Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Final disbursement of
US$1.7 million has been made and steps are being taken to cancel the undisbursed
balance remaining under this credit.
Cr. No. 735     Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978; Closing
Date: August 15, 1983
Spare parts for Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and cargo handling have been ordered.
Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIWTA service vessels have been
delivered and are on order. Also, orders have been placed for telecommunication
equipment. Consultants appointed to carry out studies on Inland Water Transport
(IWT) sector, fleet scheduling of Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC) and accounting systems for BIWTA and BIWTC have submitted their reports.
Implementation of the recommendations of the accounting studies has been sub-
stantially completed. At the request of the borrower the closing date has been
extended to August 15, 1983.



-39-                       ANNEX II
Page 13
Cr. No. 964      Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the borrower-s
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost dv*- to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of Roads and Highways Department (RHD),
e.g., the inability of the "Procurement Committee- to take timely decisions and
standard Government procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement prin-
ciples. However, the earthworks contracts now appear to be progressing well,
although the two bridge and culvert contracts are moving more slowing due to the
financial difficulties and illness of the contractor.
Cr. No. 1096    Fertilizer Transport Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and the results of
the survey are encouraging in that less lighterage is taking place resulting in
lower transport costs. Also dredging work at the inland river port of Baghabari
has been completed and pontoons are in place. Contracts for procurement of
railway material have been issued. Progress on other project components has
been slow, but regular supervision missions are providing assistance to speed up
implementation. Disbursement of funds, consequently are lagging behind.
Cr. No. 1247    Chittagong Port Project; US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for the civil works contract for multipurpose berths have been
issued to prequalified bidders and are due March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1301    First Highway Project (Supplemental); US$6.0 Million Credit-
of December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 17, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 17, 1983. However, the contract
for repair work is expected to be signed shortly, as is the contract with Valen-
tine, Laurie and Davies to supervise the repair work. The contract with the
local consultant is still pending.
Cr. No. 487      Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous delays
in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone cables
and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced in com-
pleting the local construction and installation of the systems. Telegraph &
Telephone Board (TTB), a Government board since April 1979, is making sig-
nificant progress in organizing Its finances and accounts, and in managing its
operations and development. TTB funds had until recently all been deposited



-40-                      ANNEX II
Page 14
in an overall Government account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting func-
tions have been transferred from Controller-s Auditor General to TTB. The
overhaul of accounting functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well.
Recruitment of staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and
trained cadre of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be prepared from
FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good.
Thus, TTB is gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit
it to adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since May
1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project. Works related to last procurement, including national trunk and
international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by June 19.3.
Actions as required to further improve TTB-s management, operations and develop-
ment capability, were considered and have been included in the third telecom-
munications project.
Cr. No. 1321    Third Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
March 28, 1983; Closing Date:  June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Thirty-nine subprojects, totalling about US$12.6 million have been
approved. The credit is about half disbursed. Twenty subprojects have been
completed. The remaining subprojects are proceeding smoothly. In several
instances, however, consultant contracts have not been finalized.
Cr. No. 1124    Fourth Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1985
Eleven subprojects, amounting to 91% of Credit have been committed. A
number of proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934     Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project; US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been appointed
as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about one year
behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps for the
project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Development Board)
to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To improve the
situation, local consultants have beeppointed in September 1981 and conditions
have been created to recuperate part of the delay.



43>                        ANNEX II
Page 15
Cr. No. 1091    Bakhrabad Gas Development Project; US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The well drilling program has been successfully completed with all five
wells testing as excellent producers. Work on the pipeline project was started
in mid-October when the right-of-way became accessible after the monsoon. After
a slow start, good progress is now being made by the pipelaying contractor.
Chances appear good that the pipeline can be completed before the monsoon rains,
assuming a normal monsoon. The main distribution ring is scheduled for comple-
tion by December 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1254    Ashuganj Thermal Power Project; US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262    Rural Electrification Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit became effective in November 1982.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941      Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA's consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical works are
expected to be completed by December 1983, about a year behind schedule. Early
delays resulted from slow startup and sluggish procurement but are currently due
to land acquisition problems, which have recently been mostly overcome, and
shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001    Second Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$20.0 Million
Credit of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm is in
place and design is now almost complete. Selection of a second consultant for a
sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial adviser has
proved effective. Procurement is now progressing well but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not sufficient
and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has been improve-
ment in the collection of arrears from Government departments, further improve-
ment is still necessary.



ANNEX III
-42-                                 Page 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR RERABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project:
Twenty-two months.
(b) Agency preparing the proiect:
Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date of first mission to
consider the project:
1977;   April 15, 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
September 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 1983.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
October 1983.
Section II:    Special IDA Implemantation Action
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreements between GOB and
TSM, RSII, and RJSM (para 50);



ANNEX III
Page 2
-43-
(b) Engagement of project consultants (para 43);
(c) Approval of Project Proforma (para 50);
(d) Appointment of mill Agricultural and Factory Managers
(para 45); and
(e) Establishment of Project Coordination Unit (para 47).
Other Conditions
(a) GOB to: (i) keep projected production and consumption
levels under continuous review; (ii) permit imports
of sugar subject to duties and taxes necessary to
ensure the financial viability of the sugar mills; and
(iii) ensure that the ex-factory price of sugar
provides a reasonable return to cane growers and main-
tains the financial viability of the sugar mills (para
32);
Cb) BSFIC to ensure adequate funds for road maintenance
Cpara 42);
Cc) Mills to: (i) maintain a current financial ratio of
not less than 1.25 until FY86 and not less than 1.5
thereafter; beginning with FY85 maintain a debt/equity
ratio not greater than 60:40; and (iii) undertake by
June 1984 a capital restructuring satisfactory to IDA
Cpara 51); and
Cd) BSFIC would before installing any new milling
facilities would carry out a feasibility study and
ensure that the recommendations are satisfactory to IDA
before acting on them Cpara 57).



