Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9020
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1399-BD)
SEPTEMBER 24, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
ument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
icial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(May 1990)
Bangladesh Taka 1 = US$0.029
US$1    = Tk 35
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
M  =  million
km  =  kilometers
m  =  meter
rft  =  running foot
TCD  =  tons of cane per day
TCA  =  tons of cane per acre
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BMR       Balancing Modernization & Rehabilitation
BSFIC     Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DTW       Deep Tubewell
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FRR       Financial Rate of Return
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
IDA       International Development Association
MOi       Ministry of Industry
PCR       Project Completion Report
PP        Project Proforma
RJSM      Rajshahi Sugar Mill
RSM       Rangpur Sugar Mill
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SDR       Special Drawing Rights
SLA       Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMS       Subject Matter Specialist
SRTI      Sugar Research and Training Institute
TSM       Thakurgaon Sugar Mill
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



vo  ofcULu usn ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. DL 20433
USA
Olhce ni DOtrctrw-G.ral
0pamw Evaitmm
September 24, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification Project
(Credit 1399-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Bangladesh - Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification
Project (Credit 1399-BD), prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit
of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at
this time.
Attachment
This document has a retricted dtitribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorztion.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1399-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE. . . . . .£.......  ..  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...                       . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART I   PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Background .1......                              .   .       ..  ...       . .
Project Objectives and Description .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Design and Organization. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Results. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Bank Performance . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Borrower Performance ..................... . 10
Consulting Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
PART II    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Main Findings and Lessons Learned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Hill Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .11
Lessons Learned. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
PART III   STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Project Timetable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Credit Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Costs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Project Financing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Studies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Status of Covenants. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Missions Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex  1  Key Indicctors of TSM ................ . 22
Annex  2  Key Indicators of RSM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Annex  3  Key Indicators of RJSM .....  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 24
Annex  4  Key Indicators of TSM, RSH & RJSM together . . . . . . 25
Annex  5  Development of Cane Crushes for Gur Making . . . . . . 26
Annex  6  Key Date of Factory Performance. . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Annex  7  Import Parity Prices of Sugar. . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
MAP:     IBRD 16137R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1399-BD)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) evaluates the Sugar
Rehabilitation and Intensification Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit
1399-BD in the amount of SDR 18.4 M was approved on July 5, 1983. SDR 7.51
M was cancelled in December 1987. The credit was closed on June 30, 1989,
six months behind schedule. The unspent balance of SDR 4.43 M was
cancelled by IDA and the last disbursement was on January 11, 1990.
The PCR has been jointly prepared by the Resident Mission in
Bangladesh (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III)1 , and the
Borrower (Part II). It is based on the President's Report, Staff Appraisal
Report, Credit and Project Agreements, supervision reports, project files
and a financial and economic reassessment report of an IDA mission.
1  Apart from minor corrections by ASlAG, it remains as submitted.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1399-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives & Scope
1.        The objective of the project was to assist the Borrower in
increasing sugarcane and sugar prrduction through improved extension,
sugarcane collection and milling. The main project components were:
(a) strengthening of services to outgrowers; (b) improvement of cane
handling at each of three sugar mills; (c) improvement of road segments
within each of the mill zones; (d) development of mill farms including
irrigation for about 2,000 acres; (e) rehabilitatlon of the Thakurgaon Sugar
Hill (TSM), Rangpur Sugar Mill (RSM), and Raishahi Sugar Mill (RJSM); and (f)
provision of technical assistance and training.
Implementation Experience
2.        Eighteen months transpired between appraisal and negotiations
because of difficul'ties involving the appointment of consultants, which was a
condition for negotiations. The credit effectiveness was delayed by eight
months resulting in overall delay in the implementation of the project.
Start-up activities were however satisfactory which made it possible to
recruit the consultants and incremental staff on time.
3.        At the end of the second project year in 1985, IDA expressed concern
regarding decline in cane supply to the project mills and the falling world
market sugar price which made the economic viability of the project uncertain.
A special IDA project review in February 1986 concluded that competition from
gur (unrefined cottage industry sweetener) makers for the supply of cane, and
diversion of cane land to other crops were the main reasons for inadequate
supply of cane to the mills.  The review mission recommended to defer
investments in increased mill capacity till FY88 and meanwhile to monitor the
situation to facilitate decision on the rationale of continuing such
investments in the future. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB), however,
insisted in continuing with the investments as originally planned.
Consequently IDA completed in April 1987 a full reassessment of the project,
whica confirmed the 1986 findings and, based on its recommendations, IDA
management proposed that GOB use project funds only to keep the mills running
at their existing capacities, and to utilize the balance of the funds for
rehabilitating other mills which were not covered under the project. This
was, however, to be conditional upon GOB meeting certain conditions for
improving the sector in general. GOB did not accept these conditions and
requested IDA to cancel the SDR 7.51 million of unutilized funds from the mill
component of the credit. Limited investments required to keep the mills
running at their existing capacities continued under the credit and were
completed within the project period.



iv
4.        Implementation of the agricultural component is virtually completed.
A new extension system was introduced under the guidance of project
consultants and most of the physical targets were achieved. However, mill
farm development was not completed because the pipes and fittings for the
irrigation equipment could not be procured due to failure of the supplier to
deliver them by the credit closing date. Other components of the project,
such as construction of roads, buildings, purchasing centers etc., were
completed. The credit closing date was extended by six months, to June 30,
1989, and another six months grace period was allowed for facilitating
submission of disbursement claims. Of the total credit amount of SDR 18.4
million only SDR 6.46 million was disbursed.
Results
5.        The project was, to a large extent unsuccessful.  The large drop in
world sugar prices made investments in extending Bangladesh's sugar production
uneconomic and caused IDA to withdraw support for the bulk of the mill
component. There was also significantly lower commitment than had been
anticipated, in GOB and the Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
(BSFIC), to pursuing economic efficiency, as manifested in failure to comply
with agreements on imports, pricing and milling capacity. The project appears
to have made a positive impact on the agricultural side through increased cane
yields. However, overall cane production did not increase due to diversion of
cane land to other crops, and supply to mills was further affected by
unexpectedly sharp competition from the gur industry. Calculations made at
PCR preparation indicate a negative Economic Rate of Return (ERR).
Sustainability
6.        Project sustainability considerations are interlinked with those of
the subsector as a whole. Given present and projected world sugar prices,
Bangladesh has no comparative advantage in white sugar production. Under
these circumstances minimizing losses by pursuing economic efficiency and
making the best use of the sunk investment costs would be the best policy.
Unfortunately GOB followed policies of restricting gur production and
increasing investments in the mills, which are unsustainable. The only caveat
is the possible positive and sustainable impact of the outgrowers program.
Lessons Learnt
7.        The following lessons were learnt from this project:
a. Price projections and the analysis of comparative advantage from
production of a project's main output should be made with
particular caution in years of abnormal price movements;
b. The policy and managerial environment of state-owned production
and industrial facilities warrant particular scrutiny; and
c. Projects that support a single crop for a single user in an
environment of competition for scarce land and water resources
as well as from alternative users (gur industry) should
prominently cover the comparative profitability of alternative
resource and output uses.



,ANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1399-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Project Name  : Sugar Rehabilitation anu Intensification
Credit No.    : 1399-BD
RVP Unit       : ASIVP
Country        : Bangladesh
Sector         : Agriculture
Sub-sector    : Sugar
B. Background
1.        Sugarcane is grown throughout Bangladesh but is concentrated in the
western part of the country. The cane is generally grown as a 12-15 month
crop in two year rotation with Aus paddy during the monsoon, followed by oil
seeds, wheat, and vegetables during the dry months. Sixty percent of the cane
produced in the country is used to produce gur (an unrefined sweetener), 30Z
for sugar, and the remainder for chewing and seed.
2.        Sugar is produced in mills owned by the Government of Bangladesh
(GOB) and managed by the Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
(BSFIC). About 402 of the national sugarcane acreage is located within mill
zones and only 5Z is grown by the mills on their own farms. Prior to the
project, sugar production averaged 140,000 tons annually from 14 operating
mills against an estimated average demand of 170,000 tons.  The 30,000 tons
gap was met by imports. This demand/supply gap was expected to persist in the
absence of a cane intensification and mill rehabilitation program.
3.        The Government's Second Five Year Plan included the following
development strategies for the sugar industry:
(a)  a program for intensive cultivation of sugarcane;
(b)  Leplacement of worn-out mills to maintain output level and
protect cane grower's interests;
(c)  expansion of production capacity of existing sugar mills to
make them economically viable;
(d)  improvement in infrastructure, such as roads and strengthening
the Sugar Research and Training Institute (SRTI); and
(e)  increasing management efficiency through training.



2
4.        The Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification Project was to assist
the above development strategies by intensifying small holder cane
production through improved extension and seed supplies and by developing mill
farms with irrigation and other improvements; and by improving and extending
three existing mills. This develcoment was justified on import substitution
grounds and by substantial sunk costs in existing mills. It was also
e3visaged, during project preparation, that without additional investments in
the sugar industry, Bangladesh would continue to have a domestic shortage of
sugar, while at the same time a significant p3rtiou of its sugar factory
capacity would remain unused.
C. Project Objectives and Description
5.        The project sought to increase sugar output and mill productivity by
improving both cane yields and processing efficiencies, to raise the income of
rural cane growers, and to achieve foreign exchange savings through import
substitution. Sugar production zones around the mills were to shrink, with
cane land released for other crops. Specific project components were:
(a) strengthening of services to outgrowers;
(b) improvement of cane procurement, transportation, handling and
storage facilities at each of three sugar mills;
(c) improvement of road segments within each of the mill zones;
(d) development of the mill farms at Thakurgaon and Rangpur (there
is no mill farm at Rajshahi) including irrigation for about
2,000 acres;
(e) rehabilitation of the Thakurgaon Sugar Mill (TSM), Rangpur
Sugar Mill (RSM), and Rajshahi Sugar Mill (RJSM); and
(f) provision of technical assistance and training.
6.        The total costs of the project were estimated at US $25.65 million
equivalent, of which IDA credit was to cover about 80Z or US $20 million and
the remaining US $5.65 million by the mills ($3.79 million), GOB ($1.12
million) and a commercial bank ($0.74 million).
D. Project Design and Organization
7.        The project, IDA's first operation in the sugar subsector, was
identified by IDA and prepared by BSFIC with the assistance of the FAO/IDA
Cooperative Program. It was appraised in September 1981 and approved by the
Board on July 5, 1983. The project intended to rehabilitate and develop, over
a period of five years, three out of sixteen sugar mill companies of BSFIC.
8.        The agricultural component of the project, which accounted for about
35Z of the project costs, aimed at increasing the productivity of cane



3
primarily among outgrowers (562 of the component costs) and in the mill owned
plantations (27Z of the component costs), called mill farms, of RSM and TSM.
The outgrowers were to provide the total requirement of cane supply to RJSM
and the bulk of the supply to the two other mills. The project was to
strengthen the extension services o. the mills by financing consultants to
improve organization, wessage formulation ani training. Vehicles were
provided to improve extension staff mobility. Promotion of irrigated cane
production was to be an important focus for the extension service though
irrigation itcilities were to be made available through other projects. On
mill farms, irrigation was to be provided, mainly through installation of deep
tubewell (DTW) based sprinkler systems. Additional equipment for mechanized
agricultural operations and upgrading of workshops, and vehicles and housing
were also provided.
9.        The mill component accounted for about 54? of the project costs and
concentrated on the rehabilitation of important parts of the three mills. It
included sustaining the capacity of TSM at 1,500 tons of cane per day (TCD),
rec 'ring RSM capacity froiu 1,300 TCD to its original level of 1,500 TCD and
inLreasing the capac_.ty of RJSM by 33? to 2,000 TCD. Rehabilitation was to
follow a program elaborated for each mill tnd supervised by consultants who
were financed out of project funds. The component also included the
installation of mechanical cane handling and cane storage facilities at each
mill.
10.       Other features of the project were improving 28 miles of roads
within the mill zones tc establish better links between the mills and
sugarcane purchasing centers, construction of purchasing centers, small
godowns, office buildings and housing units, and some overseas training for
mill, BSFIC and Sugar Research and Training Institute (SRTI) staff.
11.        The project management was, according to the SAR, to be in the
hands of the managers of the mill companies with BSFIC responsible for overall
supervision, coordination and providing such common support as procurement and
technical services. In practice, however, decisions of substance were all
made at BSFIC Headquarters, the Ministry of Industry (MOI) and other
Government levels. MOI has overall responsibility for sugar industry
development, and BSFIC acts as the managing agent for the sugar mill
companies. The Government is the sole owner of the shares of the companies.
This absence of mill company level autonomy had important negative
implications for the project particularly since company level cane price
setting was viewed as the best defence against gur makers.
12.       The financial rates of return (FRR) of the project were estimated at
14? for TSM, 19Z for RSM and 362 for RJSM. The financial benefits were
assumed to accrue from increases in crushing capacity and capacity
utilization, lower conversion costs and higher sugar recovery. The economic
rate of return (ERR) of the project as a whole was estimated at 37?, while the
rates of the individual mills were 18? for TSM, 36Z for RSM and 58? for RJSM.
Benefits entering the calculations were incremental cane, sugar, bagasse and
molasses production, savings in transport costs, smaller mill zones and the
net value of food crops and sugarcane on the lands released from the mill
zones.



4
13.       Given that, at the time of preparation and appraisal, BSFIC was a
well run company, and given the level of world sugar prices forecast, the
rationale for, and desigp of this import substitution project were generally
appropriate. The sugar price collapse could not have been foreseen. However,
with more experience since, of public sector operations in Bangladesh and
elsewhere, it can be seer. that too much faith was placed in BSFIC'a and
Governments willingness and/or ability to pursue economic efficiency.
E. Project Implementation
14.       The credit was declared effective in April 1984, eight months after
the signing. This was mainly due to delays in approving the Project Proforma
(PP) and signing of Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLA) between GOB and Sugar
Companies. These delays in turn delayed implementation of the project,
particalarly procurement of equipment for agricultural and mill rehabilitation
programs. In general, however, start-up activities were satisfactory. The
consultants for the agricultural and mill rehabilitation programs were
recruited on time, and initiatives were taken to implement the buildings and
roads components of the project. Staff recruitment was also accomplished on
schedule.
15.       The project went relatively smocthly until late 1985, when an IDA
supervision mission expressed concern about a continuing decline in cane
supply to project mills, and the falling world market price for sugar, which
appeared to endanger the financial and economic viability of the project.
Because of this concern a special IDA project review was undertaken in
February 1986. The review mission concluded that competition from gur makers
for cane, and for scarce land from other crops, were the main reasons for the
decline in cane supply to the mills; the adequacy of the cane price, as an
incentive to produce, was not being adequately addressed.
16.       The mission recommendeI that mill rehabilitation be limited to the
minimum equipment essential to keep the mills in operation, and to defer
investments for increased mill efficiency and capacity, in order not to
aggravate the already depressed financial position of the mills. It suggested
monitoring cane supply to project mills for the FY87 and FY88 crushing
seasons, and to decide on the advisability of additional investment by
February 1988, at the end of FY88 crushing season.
17.       BSFIC, however, reacted negatively to the mission's recommendations,
stating that no basic changes had occurred since appraisal and therefore there
was no need to revise the project, and that delays in mill equipment
procurement would only raise the cost of future rehabilitation. At the
mission's wrap-up meeting, IDA proposed that GOB would form a local expert
committee to examine the cane supply and world market price issues and
formulate its opinion by the end of March 1986. IDA was to send as quickly as
possible a sugar industry expert to define what a minimum investment in the
project sugar mills would comprise.
18.       The IDA sugar industry expert presented his findings in April 1986,
proposing a total investment of US$ 1.5 M for the three mills. The GOB expert



5
committee reported in June 1986. It confirmed the analysis conc2rning the
cane supply problems made by the February 1986 review mission btut came up with
different recommendations for action.  It suggested to ban the operation of
engine powered cane crushers for gur making and the trading of gur in the mill
zones and to introduce cane buying on the basis of cane quality. It further
recommended to go ahead wit}. the full mill rehabilitation program, but to drop
capacity expansion. As to world market prices of sugar, it stated that in
FY81, Bangladesh's sugar production costs were at par with the world market,
that current world market prices were distorted, and that the long term price
forecast made by the World Bank during appraisal should be used in assessing
the economic viability. As a follow up, BSFIC presented, in September 1986, a
calculation of the economic and financial viability of full modernizat!on and
rehabilitation of the project mills. This was, however, unacceptable to IDA
as the assumptions on cane supply and benefits were viewed as overly
optimistic.
19.       A ban on power crushers for gur makers in all mill zones was
introduced in November 1986 without consulting IDA and disregarding earlier
IDA opposition to such a move. This ban is still continuing while incentive
cane pricing, with or without a cane quality element, was never pursued.
20.       In the face of GOB's insistence on continuing investment for mill
rehabilitation, IDA decided to carry out a full reassessment of the financial
and economic viability of the project. This was completed in April 1987. The
study concluded that the major SAR assumptions concerning cane production from
out-growers and mill farms, and supply to mills, and world market prices, are
unlikely to materia.ize, hence the project as planned would not be
economically viable. The financial returns to mill rehabilitation, were also
found too low. Based on these findings, IDA management proposed to GOB, in
September 1987, a "minimum Investment package" -- as already proposed for the
three project mills -- in which the remaining SDR 7.51 million (balance under
category 1 at that time) of the sugar mill component would be applied to 13
sugar mills originally not covered by the project. The investment was,
however, made contingent upon the following conditions:
(a)   non-expansion of sugar mill capacity;
(b)   fulfillment of DCA covenants;
(c)   lifting of the ban on the engine-powered cane crushers used in
gur production;
(d)   transfer of all sugarcane extension to the Ministry of
Agriculture;
(e)   experimentation with flexible, mill level, cane pricing; and
(f)   announcement of the cane price well in advance of the planting
season.
Investments in agricultural, roads, consultant services and training
components were allowed to continue as planned.



6
21.        GOB, however, did not accept these conditions, especially (a) and
(c) above, since its announced policy was to increase domestic capacity and
reduce dependence on impo,.ted sugaz; it had already invested its own
resources to increase the capacity of a non project mill, and was planning to
set up a new mill. Consequently GOB requested IDA to cancel the balance
amount of the mill rehabilitation component. In December 1987 IDA cancelled
US$ 9.2 million from the unutilized balance in the mill rehabilitation
component of the project. However, the minimum investment for the mills, as
recommended by the sugar industry expert (para 17) continued and was completed
successfully.
22.       The agricultural component of the project was implemented more or
less as planned. The consultants were recruited on time and largely completed
their assignment.  The cultivation equipment was procured and has been uspd
satisfactorily. Steps were taken to improve and strengthen the extension
service to outgrowers. These included separating the input supply and cane
procurement services at field level from the extension service, etstablishing a
trai:i ng and visit system, installing adaptive trials and demonstration plots,
making extension staff more mobile and providing office and housing
infrastructure. Some impact of the improved extension service is apparent as
yield of sugarcane appears to have increased over the pre-project period, and
as compared to the non-project areas, though the period observed has been too
short to separate these impacts from those of weather induced yield variations
from year to year (Annex 4). The procurement of pipes and fittings for the
irrigation equipment for the TSM and RSM mill farms, though initiated in time,
could not be completed by the closing date. The delay was mainly the fault of
the supplier, who repeatedly failed to supply the goods in spite of numerous
extensions of delivery dates by BSFIC. After the closing of IDA disbursement,
in December 1989, BSFC refused to pay from its own resources for the delivery
of the balance items (part of the contract was delivered) and subsequently
retained the performance guarantee deposit of the supplier. The supplier is
currently trying, through arbitration, to convince BSFIC to take delivery of
the remaining items. Yield levels and financial performance of the TSM and
RSM mill farms remained depressed throughout the project implementation
period.
23.      The other features of the project -- construction of roads,
purchasing centers, small go-downs, office buildings and housing units -- were
completed as planned.
24.       The credit closing date was extended, by six months, to June 30,
1989, to allow completion of: (1) procurement of mill equipment;
(ii) procurement of pipes and fittings and installation of irrigation
equipment; and (iii) overseas training. A further disbursement grace period
of six rmonths was allowed to facilitate submission of reimbursement claims.
25.        The estimated cost of the project at appraisal was US$ 25.65
million. The final cost was about US$ 9.9 million as shown in Table 5. The
decrease in cost, as discussed in Section E, was mainly due to cu'tting
investment in mill rehabilitation (US$ 9.2 million), depreciation of the Taka
value against the Dollar (about US$ 2 million) and under-utilization of funds
for the training and mill rehabilitation consultants.



7
26.       The total disbursement made under the credit was USS 7.4 million.
The unspent balance of US$ 5.9 million was cancelled by IDA effective
January 11, 1990.
27.      Concerning covenants, while many were met, some important ones were
not fulfilled. These were: (i) financial restructuring of the sugar companies;
(ii) maintaining acceptable financial ratios; (iii) eliminating subsidies on
sugar within the ration system; (iv) regular reporting to IDA on development
of sugar consumption arnd production; (v) carrying out of a feasibility study
prior to installation of new milling capacity, and ensuring that the study
recommendations were satisfactory to IDA; (vi) providing incentive prices to
the sugarcane outgrowers; (vii) setting ex-factory prices of sugar using an
appropriate cost of importing sugar as a benchmark; and (viii) allowing free
import of sugar.
F. Project Results
28.     The primary direct benefits of the project were expected to be:
(a) the rel3ase of about 17Z of the 47,400 acres of cane area in the mill
zones for alternative use; (b) increased sugar production -- about 8,500 tons
or an increase of 25Z; and (c) a lower unit cost of production of sugar. The
main expected project beneficiaries were to be about 50,000 outgrowers whose
income was expected to improve by about 57Z. The economic analysis was
carried out for the project as a whole and for the individual mill zones.
29.       Though the cane area in the three zones did decline this was not, as
expected, due to improved productivity. Rather it was the result of a drift
away from cane growing due to its reduced profitability compared to other
crops. As a result and because of the competition from gur, the mills
suffered cane shortages. The mill zones were kept at their original sizes
thus cane production is now less concentrated than pre-project.
30.        Sugar production has fluctuated significantly during the project
period, mainly due to weather induced cane supply fluctuations. During low
supply years, the gur makers competed more effectively for the limited cane
supply. In aggregate, sugar production during the project implementation
period was lower than in the years immediately precediu.g it and there is no
indication of any trend toward significant improvement.
31.       With the reduction in the scope of the mill rehabilitation
component, mill capacity was expected to be maintained at pre-project levels.
However, cane supply was not even Fufficient for that level of output. Hence
the expected reduction in cost of production was not realized.
32.     Notwithstanding the possible impact on cane yields, the decline in
cane acreage and the increased proportion of cane taken by gur makers suggest
that the project has had little or no positive impact on aggregate growers
incomes (these were not monitored under the project therefore no hard data are
available). The financial position of the sugar companies, hence GOB, has
deteriorated during the project as a result of poor capacity utilization.



8
33.      Overall the project was unsuccessful.  This was due primarily to the
large drop in both world sugar prices and long-term price projections which
made Bangladesh sugar production unviable and caused IDA to withdraw its
support for the bulk of the mill component. There was also significantly less
commitment than had been anticipated, in GOB and BSFIC, to pursuing economic
efficiency, as manifested in failure to comply with agreements on imports,
pricing and milling capacity.
34.      ERR.  Since there was no increase in sugar production, nor any
project induced release of land from cane to other uses, the ERR for the
project as a whole and for each zone is negative. This was confirmed by
preliminary calculations at PCR. There are some indications (which require
further verifications) that the outgrowers program may have had a positive
impact on cane yields.
G. Project Sustainability
35.       The sustainability issue is linked to the sustainability of sugar
production in Bangladesh. At present and projected world sugar prices, the
country has no comparative advantage in white sugar production as sugar can be
imported at a considerably lower cost to the economy. However, GOB appears
politically committed to continued production especially due to the large
number of workers employed in the mills. Such considerations cannot sustain
sugar production in the long-run, as the economy as a whole and consumers will
benefit from gradual phasing out of sugar production. In the short-run GOB
could pursue economic efficiency by making the best use of the sunk
investments.
H. Bank Performance
36.      The project's economic analysis was based inter alia on the Bank's
long-term sugar price projection w'nich turned out to be significantly over
optimistic. This was the most significant factor affecting the project and
led to IDA's decision to withdraw support from the bulk of the mill
rehabilitation component (40Z of the project cost). However, while there is
no reason to believe that the sharp price decline could have been foreseen,
the sharp changes in long-term forecasts raise serious questions about the
validity of the Bank's long term price projections as the basis for long-term
investment decisions. The over optimism of the price projection was
compounded by what appears to have been a significant overestimation of
refining and bagging costs apparently due to (Annex 7) an error of judgement
by the appraisal mission.
37.     The problems of inadequate cane supply and the implications of the
decline in sugar prices it the world market, were identified by the Bank
supervision mission in November 1985 and, based on a reassessment, the major
investment for the mill rehabilit&tion was stopped. While this was an
unpopular decision and drew strong protests from BSFIC, it prevented the mills
from making further unviable investments.



9
During six years implementation of the project, the Bank carried out
i full supervisions, one special review and one financial and economic
;essment of the project. In general, the Bank's supervision effort was
sate, the missions fielded were technically strong and there was staff
Lnuity between missions. During the project's last years, the task
;ement for its supervision was with the Bank's Dhaka Office (RMB), which
Led a continuous dialogue with the Borrower.
The following lessons were learnt from this project:
(a) Price projections and the analysis of comparative advantages
from production of a project's main output should be made with
particular caution in years of abnormal price movements. The
appraisal was made during a time of an all time high for
international sugar prices and the Bank's price projections
were overly optimistic. This was compounded by inflated
projections of the refining and bagging margins. A careful
analysis of Bangladesh's comparative advantage in producing
sugar would have shown, even at the time of appraisal, that
Bangladesh's production costs were far in excess of those in
other sugar producing countries. This could have triggered
more caution in the judging of policy and management issues.
(b) The policy and managerial environment of state-owned production
and industrial facilities warrant particular scrutiny. In the
environment of high international sugar prices, key policies
affecting the sugar industry such as import tariffs and
licensing and management, which translated into high production
costs, were not treated with sufficient vigor. When world
market prices fell, these policies were used to protect the
inefficient sugar industry, passing the bill to the Bangladeshi
consumer. State-owned industries, especially in a monopoly
position, tend to receive much higher protection than private
industry, permitting continuation of their inefficient
operation.
(c) Projects that support a single crop for a single user in an
environment of competition for scarce land and water resources
as well as from alternative users (gur industry) should
prominently cover the comparative profitability of alternative
resource and output uses. Instead of being used to grow a crop
of 14 months sugar cane, land under irrigation went to short
cycle crops such as paddy and vegetables. This was a rational
behavior of farmers faced with high interest rates and a high
premium on early maturing crops. Similarly, the gur makers
were capable to compete flexibly for cane with the cumbersome
administration of the sugaz industry. This element was
underestimated.



10
I. Borrower Performance
40.       Except for delays in meeting the conditions of credit negotiations
and effectiveness, the Borrower performed well in starting up the physical
activities of the project. However, during implementation the Borrower
consistently failed to announce the price of sugarcane on time, and also did
not provide a sufficient price incentive to the outgrowers to ensure adequate
supply of cane to the mills which were facing competition from gur makers.
Banning gur making in the mill zones in order to increase the supply of sugar
cane to the mills was unjustified, as it suppressed a well functioning private
sector activity which benefited consumers and cane producers in favor of a
problem ridden state owned industry. The Borrower failed to recognize that
the change in the hforld sugar market eliminated the comparative advantage of
domestic production, and continued to increase capacity through investments
which were economically unviable. Finally, the BorrcAer did not comply with
several important covenants especially pricing and financial ones (para 27).
J. Consulting Services
41.      The performance of the agricultural consultants was satisfactory.
They completed their assignment, except for about two man-months of services
for installation of irrigation equipment, and produced Inception, Interim and
Final Reports. As the major investment for mill rehabilitation was cancelled,
the consultant's services for mill rehabilitation were only used for preparing
the specifications and tender documents. The second phase of the contract,
for supervision of procurement and installation of mill equipment, was
cancelled.



11
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Main FindinRs and Lessons LearnedY/
42.       The project was intended to increase sugar industry productivity in
three sugar mills namely, Thakurgaon (TSM), Rajshahi (RJSM) and Rangpur (RSM)
Sugar Mills by strengthening services to outgrowers, developing mill farms,
improving cane handling facilities and transportation, and rehabilitation of
these three mills. The project components are as below:
(a)  Strengthening services to outgrowers.
(b)  Improvement of cane procurement, transportation, handling and
storage of cane.
(c)  Road Development.
(d)  Development of mill farms.
(e)  To maintain the production capacity of TSM at 1500 TCD, to
restore the production capacity of RSM from 1300 TCD to 1500
TCD and expansion of production capacity of RJSH from 1500 to
2000 TCD.
(f)  Technical assistance and training also included in the project
to help smooth implementation of the project and also to build
up skilled hand for future need to sugar industry.
43.       The World Bank withdrew major investment from mill rehabilitation
worth SDR 7.51 million at the penultimate time after questioning the
desirability of making appreciable investment on mill machinery without
ensuring steady supply of cane for milling setting aside the residual amount
for procuring urgently needed equipment and spares in order to keep the
project mills barely running.
44.       As such, the present report covers completion performance only in
respect of strengthening services to outgrowers, road development, development
of mill farms. The review is based on the Inception Report, Interim Report,
Sugar and Gur Sector Report, Terminal Socio-Economic Survey Report and Final
Report submitted by the consultants (M/S. ABA International Inc.) in August
1989 to the SSFIC.
Mills Performance
45.       The basic extension technique adopted in the 3 project mills
included a systematic programme of training the Extension Inspectors and Cane
Development Assistants combined with their fortnightly visits to farmers
groups and fields. The system was organized to impart intensive training to
1/   Parts I and III have been submitted to Government for comments.



12
the Extension Inspectors in those specific agricultural practices and to make
recommendations which directly related to farm operations during a given
fortnight. This enables the EIs to concentrate on a few impact points
(extension messages) at a time and spread them to group farmers during his
village visits. Thus, an efficient, integrated and reorganized extension
system with clear demarcation of functions and definite areas of
responsibility without leading to duplication and diffusion of efforts at
different levels was set into operation to achieve the desired goals and
objectives. Result demonstration and observation trials under controlled
conditions has established y;eld potentiality even as high as 50 TCA and 36
TCA under large block farming, with an average expectation of 25 TCA is a
definitive indication under outgrowers' rainfed conditions with a good
extension and support services management. The results of parameters used to
measure the progress in the attainment of project goals have indeed shown the
way to high trend of production per acre from the benchmark year. Total cane
acreage has also varied over the life of the project and was negatively
influenced for two consecutive years by flood and cane marketing problems as
cane areas were diverted to short duration crops. Cane deliveries had
apprehensively exceeded to project estimates of SAR jeopardizing the sugar
production targets. Though TCA yield could not reach the projected levels
they are very close to the set targets. The large-scale adoption of
production technologies and the participation of the growers is a success and
bodes well for the future. In fine, on the extension side, if not wholly or
in full measure, a substantive measure of success has been attained.
46.       The key to high production in commercial farms lies essentially in
an efficient irrigation and drainage system side by side with the adoption of
available technologies. While the implementation of the drainage programme
has been a resounding success with consequential reduction in waterlogged
area, the implementation of the most modern irrigation system. for the first
time in Bangladesh under water balance method, has been constrained by
inordinate delay in the procurement of pipes. Limited irrigation employing
the old conveyance pipes produced high yields. If the new irrigation system
could be installed on time, achievement of a modest 31 TCA level could have
neutralized an accumulated revenue loss of past 3 years to the tune of Tk.1.98
crore equivalent to $6,189,260 as indicated in page 20 of the Final Report ir
the commercial farms of two project mills. The gravity of the situation is so
serious that installation works brooks no more delay and should be expedited
at posthaste speed. The drip irrigation system for 1 acre introduced at NRS
for the first time in Bangladesh on an experimental scale should help the
scientists to study the crop response from this new concept and explore its
feasibility in other areas subject to local restraints.
47.       Grave concern has been expressed in different quarters for failure
to obtain adequate cane supplies for reaching the sugar production targets
despite production in fields and often the new extension system has been
accused for its failure to motivate the growers to deliver cane to the
factory. Lest the role of extension should be misunderstood an explanation of
the role of extension services is warranted. An efficient extension is after
all one link in the chain of services which have to be made available to
outgrowers for increasing production. Others include research, inputs,
credit, tenure improvement provision of necessary price assurance and adequate



13
marketing facilities. These services largely depend upon effective
functioning of forces external to 'extension". Successful extension work,
therefore, depends upon a number of factors which need to be taken into
account in finding its effectiveness. The problem of inequities
(unremunerative) cane price offered by the mills heavily weighed on the
outgrowers and the producer invariably decided in favor of gur makers under
the inexorable laws of common sense economics. It is, however, heartening to
note that the recent cane pricing policy adopted by the Government has brought
about a resurgence and continuation of this policy augurs well for the future
of the industry.
48.       The infrastructural facilities, such as, development of roads and
construction of residential and functional buildings, are definitely
supportive of extension and cane procurement activities.
Lessons Learned
(a) the Inception Report should have been prepared well ahead of
the launching of the project.
(b) Before any project is launched it should be adequately
established through consensus by the key officers from
corporate to mills level so as to extend full support for
successful implementation. Differences of opinion prevailed on
the introduction of new extension system, the wisdom of its
bifurcation into extension and support services, misgivings
about the group participation of outgrowers, essentiality of
subject matter specialists, heavy overheads on account of
recruitment of additional staff, creation of road communication
and building facilities with credit money vitiated the progress
of smooth implementation. The end result was the wavering
commitment observed at some levels during the entire project
mills.
sc) All staff recruitment, posting and training should have been
completed before launching of the project.
(d) A good expatriate training specialist with background of
monitoring and evaluation of agricultural projects should have
been hired.
(e) Frequent transfers of key personnel dislocated the progress of
the project and often resulted in the lack of commitment among
newly posted officials.
(f) All logistic supports like development or road, civil
constructions, procurement of vehicles, motorcycles,
audiovisual equipment should have been arranged before
launching of the project.



14
(g) The posting of experienced and suitably qualified SMS selected
from among available personnel would have served the cause of
the projects better.
(h) The group system in its present form has not been found
adequately functional and participation has been low. Instead
of all farmer approach the conventional model farmer approach
should have been adopted.
(i) The reorganization of the procurement department in the new
set-up has resulted in high overheads and supervisory cost with
no tangible improvement in cane procurement system. The
parallel position of DCCDO (CPSS) and ACDO (CPSS) should be
abolished and integration of extension and procurement
reintroduced from DCCDO (Extension) to ACDO (Extension) at
sub-zone level but the bifurcation should be maintained at the
base level of Extension Inspectors and CDAs in equal status.
(j)  The overseas training programme as envisaged in the Inception
Report was changed several times and inclusion of farmers in
the training programme has not been fruitful. Abandonment of
overseas training of the extension personnel has been a source
of disappointment.
(k) The exception that the project will serve as a training ground
for developing a cadre of professionally competent eztension
officers has not been adequately fulfilled.
(1) A mill outside the 3 project mills should have been included
in the socio-economic benchmark survey programme before the
start of the project so as to compare the relative efficiency
of the new extension system and explore its future possibility
of introducing in other mills.



15
PART III * STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Proiect Timetable
Date               Date             Date
Item                    Planned             Revised           Actual
- Identification                  -                  -            July 1979
(Executive Project
Summary)
- Preparation                     -                  -            May 1981
- Appraisal Mission               -                  -            September 1981
- Credit Negotiations             -                  -            March 10-18, 1983
- Board Approval                  -                  -            July 5. 1983
- Credit Signature                -                  -            August 31, 1983
- Credit Effectiveness       November 30, 1983       -            April 30, 1984
- Credit Closing             December 31, 1988   June 30, 1989   June 30, 1989 1
- Credit Completion          June 30, 1988           -            December 31, 1989
2. Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US $ M)
FY83184 FY84185 FY85186 FY86187 FY87/88 FY88189 FY89190
Appraisal Estimate 2          1.75     7.50    13.50    17.00    19.00   20.00
Actual                        0.13     0.82      4.19     6.32     7.01    7.05      7.3
Actual as 2 of Estimate        72      112       312     372      37%      352      372
Date of Final Disbursement      January 11, 1990
1      Six months disbursement grace period was allowed.
2      SDR 7.51 million, or about $9.2 million was cancelled
from the credit during December 1987.



16
3. Project Implementation
Appraisal       Actual (or PCR
Indicators             Unit              Estimate            Estimate)
A.  Civil Works             No                  -                  217
B. Roads                   Mlil                 28                  23
C. Equipmnt for
Mill Farm             US I U               2.44                1.S2
D.  Equipmnt for
Mill Rehab.           US I U              13.89                2.16
E.  Technical Assistance:
(a) Agriculture         mm                  75                 s9
(b) Mill Rohab.         mm                  69                 NA
F.  Training (Overseoa):
(a) Cane Dovelopmnt
Officer             No                  15                  9
(b) SRTI Scientist      No                  12                  7
(c) Mill Staff          No                   6                  -
4. ProJect Costs
pr insal Estimst  (US S M)                      ctual (U a
Local        Foreign                       Loca           For ign
Item                       Cost      Exchange Costs        Total      Cost      Exchanse Costs       Total
Strengthening Extension
Service to Outgrowers         1.97         4.18             6.16        A.40          1.04             1.44
ann Storage A Handling        0.80         1.41             1.71         -             -                -
ods                          1.87         0.86             2.28        1.69           -               1.69
arm Development               0.6S         1.61             2.17        0.90          0.62             1.52
I2I Rehabilitation           1.85          6.93            7.29         1.84         0.81              2.16
iechnical Assistance          0.21          0.99             1.20        0.66         0.27              0.93
Training                       0.08         0.87             0.46        0.05          0.04             0.09
Duty, taxes, QSL and
Other Coats                      -           -                -         1.66           -               1.55
Physical Contingencies         0.32         0.69             1.01         -             --
Price ContingenciT-            1.80         2.15             8.45         -             -                -
Total Costs                    7.96        17.69            25.66        7.09          2.28             9.37
1        This cost is included within each item of the SAR cost.



17
5. Protect Financing
Planned
Source            (Credit Agreement)              Final
(US $ M)                  (US $ M)
IDA-1399-BD                   20.0 1                    7.38
GOB                      1.12                      .30
Mill                     3.79                     1.69
Total                    24.91                     9.37
6. Studies
Purpose as Defined
Studies                    at Appraisal             Status      Impact of Study
1. Subsector            (i) Review the current      Completed    The study was
review of the       and projected                              completed in 1985. It
sugar and gur       production and                            had no impact in terms
industrics.         consumption of sugar                       of formulating and
and gur; (ii) analyze                     adopting policy
policy and investment                     recommendations.
implications; (iii)
identify development
constraints; and (iv)
develop strategies and
priority programs for
sugar and gur.
2. Socio-Economic       To assess the impact of    Completed
Benchmark Study.    the project.
1 Of which US $ 9.19 M was cancelled.



18
7. Status of Covenants
Section/Covenant            Subiect                                   Status
3.01.             BSFIC and the sugar companies provide        Complied
funds, promptly as needed, facilities,
services and other resources required.
3.03.             Borrower shall make available to BSFIC       Complied
as grants t;he proceeds of parts of the
credit.
3.04.             Ensure that incremental credit for           Credit has not been a
sugarcane, in an aggregate principal         major bottleneck.
amount equivalent to dollars 1,120,000,
be provided by SB to sugarcane growers
in the project mill zones.
3.05.(a)         Undertake capital restructuring of each    Not complied
sugar company (including the conversion
into equity of all outstanding loans,
including arrears of interest).
3.05.(b)          Take measures required to enable sugar       Not complied
companies to meet the financial
requirements specified under section
4.03 of P.A.
3.06.            Abolish the difference between                Not complied
ex-factory price of sugar for
distribution under the rationing system
and sugar for sale to the private
sector.
3.07.(a)         Keep projected production and                 Not complied
consumption of sugar in the Borrower's
territory under continuous review and
furnish to the association by Oct. 1 of
each year a report on the results of
such review.
3.07.(b)          Borrower shall permit imports of sugar       Partly complied
subject to such duties and taxes as
necessary to ensure the viability of
BSFIC's sugar mills taken as a group.



19
Section/Covenant            Subiect                                   otatus
3.07.(c)          Set ex-factory price of sugar from its       Not complied
mills to ensure a reasonable return to
outgrowers and financial viability of
BSFIC sugar mills taken as a group. When
setting such ex-factory price the
average cost of sugar imported over the
preceding four-year period, excluding
any tariffs or other duties imposed by
the Borrower, shall be used as a
comparator.
2.01.(b)(i)       BSFIC shall establish and maintain           Complied
project coordination unit.
2.01.(b)(ii)      BSFIC shall employ/maintain agr. manager   Complied
& factory manager in each project mill.
2.05.(b)(iii)    BSFIC to furnish IDA quarterly progress    Complied
reports.
2.05.(d)         Not later than 6 months after closing         Complied
date or agreed date BSFIC to furnish
report on execution/initial operation of
project, cost/benefits, performance of
BSFIC/IDA & accomplishment of purposes
of project.
3.05.             BSFIC shall cause roads to be included       Complied
in the project to be maintained in
accordance with sound engineering
practices and make available funds and
facilities for the purpose.
3.06.             BSFIC shall ensure that sugarcane            Long term training was
extension officers will be given             abandoned. As an
long-term training in sugarcane agronomy   alternative, BSFIC had
and extension.                               arranged a short-term
course of about six
weeks which was
satisfactory.
3.07.(i)          Before undertaking installation of new       Not complied
sugar milling facilities, BSFIC shall
carry out feasibility study to ascertain
econ/tech. viability of such incremental
milling facilities and need for it in
public sector.
3.07.(ii)         Before acting on recommendations of any    Not complied
such study, ensure the recommendations
are satisfactory to Borrower and IDA.



20
Section/Covenant            Subiect                                 Status
4.01.(a)         BSFIC to maintain separate accounts          complied
reflecting all expenditures.
4.01.(b)         BSFIC shall retain until one year after    Complied
closing date all records evidencing
expenditures.
4.02.(a)         BSFIC to maintain accounts and records       Complied
audited for each FY.
4.02.(b)         BSFIC to furnish not later than 4 months   Complied
after end of each FY draft unaudited and
not later than 6 months audited accounts
and financial statements.
4.03.(a)(i)      BSFIC shall cause each of sugar              Not complied
companies to achieve and maintain a
ratio of current assets to current
liabilities of at least 1.25 till June
30, 1985 and at least 1.50 thereafter.
4.u3.(a)(ii)     BSFIC to achieve by June 30, 1984 and        Not complied
maintain thereafter a debt/equity ratio
not greater than 60:40.



21
8. Missions Data
Number of   Specl1ization   Performance         Types of
Supervision   Honth/Year      Persons    Represented 1    Rating Status 2   Problems 3
I       October 1983        2       FA, AIP                  1              -
II       March 1984          1       AIP                      1               C
III       October 1984        1       AIP                      2          D, A, R, I
IV       May 1985            3       AG, PE, E                2          D,A,M,E,R
V       November 1985       2       AG, PO                   3          F,M,E
V;       March 1986          2       AG, AE                   4           F,M,E
VII       March 1987 4        1       AE                       4           F,M,E
VIII       October 1988        1       AE                       2          M,E
IX       April 1989          1       AE                       2          M,E
AG = Agriculturist;  AIP = Agri. Industries Specialist;
E = Economist; FA - Financial Analyst;
PO = Project Officer; PE = Procurement Engineer;
AE = Agricultural Economist
2   1 = Problem free or Minor Problems;
2 = Moderate Problems; 3 = Major Problems;
4 = Major Problems not being Addressed Adequately.
3  A - Anticipated Completion; C = Compliance with Loan Conditions;
D - Disbursements; E = Expected Benefit; F   Funds;
I = Institution Building; M = Management; R = Rate of Return.
4  Between the formal supervisions VI and VII there was a very active period
of contact between the Bank and GOB about the project's future:  The
Bank's sugar industry expert reported in April 1986; the special GOB
committee in June 1986, followed by the Bank's full reassessment effort
which served as a basis for the March 1987 supervision.



DANGLADESH
SIGAR REHA3LIuTATnoN AND INENSIFICAnON PROJECT. CREDIT (1399-8OB
PROJECT COWLETION REPORT
K   Indicators of Thakurnaon Sugar Ml I TsM)
Unit      80/81     81/82     82/83     83/84     84/85     85/86     86/87     87/88     88/89     89/90
Cone area Planted   000        16.30     18.00     17.00     16.10      9.30      9.60     10.20     13.80     11.90      9.20
In mill zone       acre
Cane yi-ld In      T/acre      11.00     12.00     12.30     10.60      9.40     11.60     15.78     16.42     14.03     14.81
mill zone
Cane production    OOOT       168.10    203.80    221.40    178.60    141.90    107.90    160.40    213.10    187.70    143.00
in mill zone
Cane crushod in    OOOT       138.60    194.10    133.40    116.20    64.00      66.40     93.70    124.40     71.60     79.42
mill zone
Mill zone cane      X          18.00      6.00     40.00     36.00    56.00    48.00       42.00     42.00     57.00    41.72
lost to gur making
and others
Recovery            X           8.30      8.30      8.40      8.00      7.30      7.44      8.02      7.82      7.65      8.24
Sugar Production    OOOT       11.10     16.70     10.30      8.80      6.00      4.20      7.50      9.70      5.50      6.55
Capacity utill-     X          76.00    107.00     74.00    64.00      36.00     31.00     49.00     64.00     36.00     43.70
sation of mill
Profit (Loss)       iTk        26.10     33.60    29.60      13.80    (21.40)     0.00    (45.60)   (26.00)   (45.60)        -
Cost of Sugar       Tk/kg      11.10     10.20     11.70     13.80     19.10     24.50     19.37     17.54         -         _
Production
----------------------------------------------------------------__---
Current mill capacity is 180,000 T/crne crushed (1600 TCD, 120 grinding days) estimate.
SOUJRCE : Thakurgron Sugar Mill and BSFIC.



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHIABIUTATION A IND ENSIFICATION PROJECT, CREDIT (1399-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Indicators of Rangpur Sugar Mill (RSM)
Unit      80/81     81/82     82/83     83/84     84/85     85/8B     88/87     87/88     88/89     89/90
Cane area Planted  000         18.80     14.30     13.50     11.30      8.00     10.70     11.40     12.90     12.40     11.90
in mill zone       acre
Cane yield in       T/acre     19.10     16.60     16.70     14.10     12.20     18.00     23.70     18.54     19.40     23.42
in mill zone
Cane production    OOOT       316.30    274.50    224.60    158.40    137.60    144.00    269.70    239.20    241.30    278.85
in mill zone
Cane crushed in    OOOT       142.90    172.40    123.20     92.27     51.80     50.00    138.30    101.90     67.00    127.53
mill zone
Mill zone cane      X          65.00     37.00     45.00     42.00     62.00     65.00     49.00     57.00     72.00     54.26
lost to gur making                                                                                                                    N2
and others
Recovery                        7.80      8.00      8.10      7.40      6.70      7.60      7.43      7.70      7.60      8.53
Sugar Production    OOOT       10.90     13.30      9.00      6.77      3.40      3.80     10.10      7.90      5.10     11.33
Capacity utili-     X          92.00    110.00     79.00     59.00     33.00     32.00     76.00     60.00     39.00     81.70
satlon of mill
Profit (Loss)       MTk        32.20     28.10     18.50      7.70    (21.60)   (33.60)   (32.00)   (32.30)   (34.20)        -
Cost of Sugar       Tk/kg       8.90      8.90     10.10     12.50     21.00     23.10     18.58     20.20         -         -
Production
----------------------------------------------------------------__-----------__------------------
Current mill capacity is 180,000 T/cane crushed (1300 TCD, 120 grinding days) estimate.
Source : Rangpur Sugar Mill and dSFIC.



8ANGLADESH
SUCAR REHABILITATION AN) INTENSIFICATION PROJECT. CREDIT (1399-8D)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Indicators of Rajshahi Sugar Mill (RJSM)
Unit      80/81      81/82      82/83      83/84      84/86     86/88      86/87      87/88      88/89      89/90
Cane area Planted   000          31.20      33.60      30.00     29.50      21.10      24.90      25.10      25.60      20.60     22.11
in mill zone         acre
Cane yield in        T/acre      15.00      13.30      12.20      12.60     13.20      18.80      20.87      20.28      16.84      19.20
in mill zone
Cane production      OOOT       328.80    413.40    410.10    376.30    388.70    396.60    624.20    616.80    322.70    424.51
in mill zone
Cane crushed in      OOOT       197.30    268.00    238.80    190.70    116.90         78.90    243.60    161.70        63.30    171.71
mill zone
Mill zone cane       X           48.00      36.00      42.00     49.00      70.00      80.00      64.00      69.00      80.00      59.55
lost to gur making
and others
Recovery             %            8.20       8.40       8.60       8.20      7.80       8.20       8.62       8.06       7.83       9.11
Sugar Production    OOOT         16.20      22.20      20.00      15.70      9.10       6.o0      20.80      13.00       5.00      15.64
Capacity utili-      X          109.00    147.00    131.00    108.00        65.00      43.00    136.00       85.00      33.00    108.84
sation of mill
Profit (Loss)        MTk         39.90      41.70      67.00      88.10      3.60           -      2.40    (21.10)   (60.50)           -
Cost of Sugar        Tk/kg        9.10       8.80       8.40      10.10     13.70          -      13.88      18.77          -          -
Production
Current mill capacity is 156,000 T/cane crushed (1300 TCD, 120 grinding days) estimate.                                                        X
Sourc : Rajshahi Sugar Mill and BSFIC.



8ANGLADESH
SUGAR REIABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT. CREDIT (1399-S)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Indicators of the three Project MIlls (RJSM. RSM and TSM)
Unit      80/81     81/82     82/83    83/84     84/85     85/88     86/87     87/88-    88/89      89/90
Cane area Planted  000        84.10     85.90     60.50     55.90     38.40     45.20     48.70     52.20     44.90     43.21
in mill zone       acre
Cane yield in      T/acre    14.90       14.70     13.20    12.30     12.00     18.90     20.43     18.57     18.30     19.14
In mill zone
Cane production    OOOT      885.20    891.70    858.10    712.20    668.10   847.50    996.30   900.10    731.70    846.38
In mill zone
Cane crushed in    OOOT      476.70    832.50    493.40    398.10    232.70    185.80    473.60    388.00    201.80    378.88
mill zone
Mill zone cane     X          45.00     29.00     42.00     44.00    85.00      71.00     50.00     80.00      72.00    51.83        0
lost to gur making
and others
Recovery                       8.10       8.20      8.30      7.90     7.30      7.81      8.11      7.89       7.73      8.82
Sugar Production    OOOT      38.20     52.20     39.30     31.20     17.60     14.50     38.40     30.60      15.60     33.62
Capacity utili-     t         95.00    128600     98.00     79.00     47.00     37.00     88.00     70.00      38.00     77.34
sation of mill
Profit (Loss)       MTk       98.20    193.20    115.00    109.60    (39.40)         -    95.20    (78.40)  (130.20)         -
Cost of Sugar       Tk/kg      9.80       9.30      9.70     11.70    16.70        >20    15.27      18.84         -         -
Production



BANCLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT, CREDIT (1399-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Development of Cane Crushers for Curmaking in Project Mill Zones
Unit       80/81     81/82      82/83     83/84      84/85     86/86     86/87      87/88     88/89     89/90
R J S M
Country Crushers    No.          1080      1084       1181      1673      1834       2200      2238      2540       3004      2472
Power Crushers      No.             -         -         33        48        71        132         -         73         -         -
Daily Crushing      TCD           766       867       1080      1499      1986       2222      2238      3124       3004      2472
Capacity 1/
RS M
Country Crushers    No.           990       847       317        734       973        898       713       914       1257       307
Power Crushers      No.             -         -          -         -         -         32         -         88        69        56
Daily Crushing      TCD           792       778        254       587       778        830       713      1618       1809       755 64
Capacity 1/
TS U
Country Crushers    No.           209        92        110       128       185         22       130       143        588        80
Power Crushers      No.             -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -         -
Daily Crushing      TCD           146        64         77        90       148        180       130        143       558        80
Capacity 1/
T O T A L
Country Crushers    No.          2279      2023      1608       2534      3329       2957      3081      3597       4819      2859
Power Crushers      No.             -         -         33        46        71        164         -        161        69        56
Daily Crushing      TCD          1595      1416       1241      1395      2579       2644      3081      4885       5371      3367
Capacity 1/
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
1/ Daily crushing capacity (Tons of cane per day) is about 0.7 TCD for bullock driven country crushers and about
3.5 TCD for electro or diesel engine driven power crushers.
Source : Sugar Mills and BSFIC.



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT. CREDIT (1399-8D)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Data of Factory Performance
81/82   82/83   83/84   84/85   8S/88   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90
Sugar Content X Cane
RJSM                        11       11       11      10       11      11       12      10       12
RSM                         11       11       10       9       10      10       10      10       11
TSM                         11       10      11       11       10      11       11      10       11
Loss of Sugar X Cane
RJSII            ~           2        3        3       3        3       2        2       3        2
RSM                          3        3       3        3        3       3        2       2        3
TSM                          3        3        3       3        3       a        3       3        2
Sugar Recovery X
RJSM                          8       9        8       8        8       9        8       8        9
RSM                          8        8        7       7        8       7        8       8        9
TSM                          8        8        8       8        7       8        8       8        8
Stoppgse Tota I
RJSM;  Hours               476      476     405      614      783     589      628    1089      483
RSM     a                  404      411     435      331     691      577      532    1254      380
TSM     w                  N.A      728     390      583     379      198      381     380      161
Stopprg   Reasons:
(i) Mechanical Probles
RJSM   Hours           8        8      13        8       1       SO      21        5      11
RSM     '              7       12       9        8       S       8S      44       18      69
TSM     '             13       12       1        8      12       28      20       19
(ti) Shortage of Cane
RJSM   Hours          19       17      25       56      90      261     321      939     322
RSM     '       6      35       28      34       36      84      145    1084       59
TSM             a 8    27       29      49       70      70      102     118       64
(7ii) Cl-anng
RJSU   Hours         43      46       32       15       8      228     184       94     148
RSM                  43      31       23       17       8      236     138       80     171                                           X
TSU     '            63      48       32        9      20       91     131       48      71
(iv) Other
RJSM   Hours         23      28       26       18       1       49      20       47       6
RSM     "            34      20       26      39       31      171     201       89      73
TSM     '            23       2       28      39        2       28     119      192       8



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT. CREDIT (1399-80)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Economic Iport Parity Price of Plantation White Sugar 1/
(Constant FY87 US !/MT)
SAR
SA   s and   - ^--- --- Actual  4/             --------- -     -Projected -----
Currency  FY84    Onwards    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    1995    2000
Carribean Raw
Sugar (FOB)             US 1       211        419    211       176     124      140     170      225     290      323     263
Refining and            US S       222        222      80       66      e6       65      65       65      65       85     e8
Bagging (FOB/UK)
Quality                 US I         -           -     10       10      10       10      10       10      10       10      10
Adjustment 2/
Ocean Freight           US S        36          as     46       46      45       45      45       45      45       45      45
(UK-Bangladesh)
Sub-Total               US S       468        678    348       296     244      260     290      345     410      443     383
Tk 3/   14414      20821   10667    9086    7615    8008    8932   10626   12628   13844   11798
Insurance, Transit      Tk        1288      1288    1033 5/ 1033    1033    1033    1033    1033    1033    1033    1033
Domestic Transport
Import Parity Price    Tk        15702     22109   11890   10119    8648    9041    9965   11659  13661    14677   12829
(IPP)                 US S      510        718      380     329      278     294      324     379    444       477      417
Actual IPP as % of SAR IPP           0         0       74X      46%     39%      41%     45%      53X    62%       86%     58%
1/   Plantation white sugar is u,on-refined white sugar as produced by BSFIC.
2/   Quality adjustment is to account for lower quality of plantation white sugar compared to refined sugar.
3/   1 Us S = 30.8 Taka.
4/   Raw sugar prices are based on latest available figures of EPD (JAN 1990).  The refining and
bagging margin is estimated based on EPD information.  Projections in current prices (Jan. 1990, WB
Interrational Economics Report).
6/   Assumed to be identical to SAR, but an SCF of 0.8 is applied.                                                                          x



IBRD 16137
P                89                           90°                  BANGLADESH                            92
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Panchagarh\                                     Location of Sugar Mills and Growing Area
.J. di.   \i   nSUGAR  MILLS
Thokurgw   tDomor  x_   8   9                         G     Project
26-*    g5;  S    \Nilphori                                                   0     Existing                                          26-
0                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 Under Construction
_ .4    Concentrotion of Sugar Growing Area
®     Sugar Research Institute
Setobgojop      Roads
Setabganj  mat                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways
Rivers
Airports
District Boundaries
International Boundaries
r~~XQ! \; ge~wangan'-  .,                             *     ...
. J s sxp^} / ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Chhatak 2
rs  /    Mohirnga I                       Netrokona                            et
<    >       ~~~Sonth                                M,ymen                         
\  <  .                \        Z       AMod~~~~~~~~~~~hupur   \                                  t   ,j
Madhupur        <      s\21)Kishorego Hnbgan
._ ._ /r (,To~~~~~ngail 1S./s
GoEldpur 9                 \         >                /          \             idi      . t
Ishurci~  tg io   aM                                           ~dhabp~u
24-   h}    tL                                                         oydebpur                                                       24
-24'                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rohmanbar ia          2
Meherpure->~)
<  vMob/oroXonl~ ~ F  ' 3 Foipur D             tg                                          v
Darsan                                                                  Oma          0S.nwir                         'f
23-                                                                                           n                                      9f >  23
<    V   >   ~~~~~~~ Bons9  @                         nS~~~~~~~takundo8
i                                                     +   )      yJ° Ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ngomoh
iMongla                                     H
/Patuakhol                             Chittagong      Ptiyo
22-                         (72 2
SANGLADESH005                                                                                    Cox's Bozar         r t '    tIj
INDIA                                            0          25 s0                   75 M,I. s
0         4°          80          120 K,omete,s
.21P rh         l  .P -o-           e        S                                                       21
F.-- o oa 'o"  Ii  d - '- r    I 3  0 I'm to..das b-   a' !p - ea- do ((0t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,p cnie ° a' I, fle I.vs P Dxan,/ rC r$ k'le,'J, atYa ir0( (CDClU, a" ,,S
.CiSRI LANKA                              0, 0, era' S(ais oler '"' - a', c- a.''.. I'axe 0 s.,ch tense'
90-                          91-                          92'
SEPTEMBER 19



