Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3843-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROY.-
April 20, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
General Agriculture
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatior..



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  =     Tk 23.0
Tk 1                  =     US$0.0435
Tk 1 million          a     US$43,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)           =     0.405 hectares (ha)
1 bigha               =     0.33 ac
1 mile (mi)           =     1.609 kilometers (km)
1 square mile
(sq mi)           -      640 ac (259 ha)
1 foot (ft)           =     30.5 centimeters (cm)
1 inch (in)           =     2.5 centimeters (cm)
1 maund (md)          =     82.3 lbs (37.3 kg)
I metric ton (ton)          26.8 md
1 cubic foot per
seconcl (cusec)    =     D.0283 cu meters per second
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ACDO      Assistant Cane Development Officer
ADP       Annual Development Plan
ATI       Agricultural Training Institute
BADC      Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BASIP     Bangladesh Australian Sugar Industries Project
BFAIC     Bangladesh Food and Allied Industries Corporation
BKB       Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BSFIC     Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
BSMC      Bangladesh Sugar Mills Corporation
CDA       Cane Development Assistant
CDO       Cane Development Officer
GOB       Government of Bangladesh
ICDS      Intensive Cane I)evelopment Scheme
IMP       Irrigation Management Program (of IRDP)
IRDP      Integrated Rural Development Program
MF        Ministry of Food
MLGRD&C   Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives
MOA       Ministry of Agri-culture
MOC       Ministry of Commierce
MOI       Ministry of Industries
MTFPP     Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
PP        Project Proforma
RJSM      Rajshahi Sugar Mill
RSM       Rangpur Sugar Mill
SB        Sonali Bank
SFYP      Second Five Year Plan
SRTI      Sugar Research and Training Institute
TCA       Ton Cane per Acre
TCD       Ton Cane per Day
TSM       Thakurgaon Sugar Mill
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION ...............1................. v ........          I
II. BACKGROUND...                                                       2
A. General.                                                        2
B. The Agricultural Sector.                                        2
C. The Sugar Subsector.                                            3
D.  IDA Support and Strategy for the Agricultural Sector           8
III. THE PROJECT AREA.                                                   8
A. Physical Features.                                              8
B.  Outgrowers  .........................................    11
C. The Sugar Companies .13
IV. THE PROJECT .20
A. Objectives .20
B. General Description .20
C. Detailed Features .21
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING    ..29
A. Cost Estimate .29
B. Financing .. .30
C.  Procurement   .......................................    31
D. Disbursement  ...............  32
E. Budgeting, Accounts and Audit           . . .33
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION    ..33
A.  Project Management .............................    33
B. Outgrowers Organization .34
C. Implementation .35
D.  Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting .36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VII.  PRODUCTION MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  ....     .........   36
A. Production and Yields .36
B.  Consumption Markets and Prices .37
C. Financial Results .39
VIII.  ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION       .      .43
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS    ..47
ANNEXES
I. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
A. Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants'
Services for Agricultural Program .49
B.  Draft Terms of RefErence for Consultaats'
Services for Supervision of Mill Rehabilitation            52
C. Draft Terms of Review for Consultants"
Services for a Subsector Review of the
Sugar and Gur Industries .59
II.  COST ESTIMATES
Table 1 -  Summary of Project Cost    .......................  61
Table 2  - Detailed Cost Table - RJSM  ..................   62
Table 3  -  Detailed Cost Table - RSM .-        ................  63
Table 4  -  Detailed Cost Table - TSM  .....     ..............  64
Table 5  -  Cane Storage and Handling  .....     ..............  65
Table 6  -  Technical Assistance ........................  66
Table 7  -  Training - Mills  ........     ....................  67
Table 8  -  Training - SRTI .............................  68
III. DISBURSEMENT
A.  Detailed Disbursement Schedule  ......     ................  69
B.  Semi-Annual Disbursement Schedule  .....     ..............  70
IV.  PROPOSALS FOR REORGANIZATION OF THE CANE DEVELOPMENT
AND RESEARCH DIRECTORATE ................................  71
V.  IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ................................73
VI.  PRODUCTION AND YIELD
Table 1 - RJSM ......................... 74
Table 2 - RSM  ........................   75
Table 3 - TSM ......... ..................................  76



-iii-
Page No.
VII.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Table I - Project Zones Farm Budgets  ....    ................  77
Table 2 - Project Mills Balance Sheets  ....    ..............  80
Table 3 - Project Mills Income Statement  ....   ............  83
Table 4 - Project Mills Projected Income Statement    ......  86
Table 5 - Project Mills Cash Flow Statement  ....  .........  89
Table 6 - Project Mills Projected Balance Sheet .........  92
Table 7 - Government Cash Flow  ..........................  95
Table 8 - Foreign Exchange Inflow and Outflow  .... .......  96
VIII.  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Table  1 - Financial and Economic Price Assumptions   .....  97
Table  2 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Cane TSM Zone  ....    ...............  98
Table  3 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Cane RSM Zone  ....    ...............  99
Table  4 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Cane RJSM Zone  ....    .............. 100
Table  5 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Cane TSM Mill Farm .............. 101
Table  6 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Cane RSM Mill Farm  ....   .......... 101
Table  7 - Financial and Economic Variable Costs of
Processing Cane per ton - TSM Mill  .... ....... 102
Table  8 - Financial and Economic Variable Costs of
Processing Cane per ton - RSM Mill  .... ....... 103
Table  9 - Financial and Economic Variable Costs of
Processing Cane per ton - RJSM Mill  .... ...... 104
Table 10 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Aus (paddy) - TSM  ....   ........... 105
Table 11 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Aus (paddy) - RSM ............... 106
Table 12 - Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre for Aus (paddy) - RJSM  .............. 107
Table 13 - Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - TSM   108
Table 14 - Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - RSM   109
Table 15 - Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - RJSM  110
Table 16 - Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits  ....... 111
Table 17 - Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - TSM    112
Table 18 - Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - RSM    113
Table 19 - Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - RJSM   114



-iv-
Page No.
IX.  SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE  ... 115
CHARTS
Chart No. 23530 - BSFIC Organization  ........................... 116
Chart No. 23531 - Existing Mi:Ll Organization   .   .............. 117
Chart No. 23529 - Proposed Mi:Ll Organization, Agriculture
Department  ...................................    118
Chart No. 23528 - Proposed Mi:Ll Organization, Factory  .... ...... 119
MAPS
Map No. 16137 - Location of Sugar Mills and Growing Areas
Map No. 16138 - Project Area



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) requested IDA financing to
assist the development of the country-s sugar industry through: inten-
sifying cane production in smallholder and mill farms through improved
extension and seed supplies; and improvements and expansion of existing
plants. This development is justified on import substitution grounds and
substantial sunk costs in existing plants. Without additional investments
in the sugar industry, Bangladesh would continue to have domestic shortage
of sugar, while at the same time a significant portion of its sugar fac-
tory capacity would remain unused.
1.02      The Governnment-s Second Five Year Plan (SFYP) includes the
following development strategies for the sugar industry:
(i) a program for intensive cultivation of sugarcane;
(ii) replacement of worn-out mills to maintain output level and
protect cane growers' interest;
(iii) rationalization of crushing season to improve sugar recovery
percentage and quality;
(iv) expansion of production capacity of existing sugar mills to make
them economically viable;
(v)  establishment of new sugar mills in promising sugarcane areas;
(vi) industrial utilization of by-products;
(vii) improvement in infrastructure, such as roads and strengthening
the Sugar Research and Training Institute (SRTI); and
(viii) increasing management efficiency through training.
1.03      The proposed project identified by IDA was prepared by the
Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC) 1/ with the
assistance of FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. This report is based on the
findings of an IDA mission which visited Bangladesh in September 1981
consisting of K. Loganathan, E. Chobanian and G. Mukami (IDA), and H.
Idehara and T. Sierevogel (Consultants).
1/ BSFIC Preparation Report - Rainfed Sugar Rehabilitation and Inten-
sification Project - May 1981.



-2-
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Bangladesh, with a population of about 92.9 M and a total land
area of only 35 M ac, of which one fifth is flooded annually, presents a
critical and complex development problem. The population is poor (per
capita income about $90), overcrowded (1,600 per sq mi) and growing (2.7%
per year), short lived (life expectancy at birth is well under 50 years),
often unemployed (25-30%), and largely illiterate (about 75%).
2.02      Government has given priority to agricultural and rural develop-
ment as the means to benefit the largest number of people. The major
objective is to attain self-sufficiency in foodgrain production in the
shortest possible time. These objectives are strongly endorsed by IDA.
It is also the objective of t:he Government to encourage balanced economic
growth by promoting the development of other sectors, particularly the
industrial sector and non-foodgrain agricultural crops. The proposed
project in the agro-industrial sector would be consistent with GOB's
objectives, particularly through the freeing of cane land for food produc-
tion, the saving of foreign exchange from reduced sugar imports and
providing employment in the rural areas.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Bangladesh-s economy continues to be predominantly agricultural.
Agriculture accounts for 57% of GDP, 75% of all direct or indirect employ-
ment and over 80% of the couritry's exports. Out of the total land area of
35 M ac, about 22.5 M ac are under cultivation at a cropping intensity
averaging about 147%. Rice is by far the most important crop and accounts
for over 80% of the cultivated area; jute, the principal export and
industrial raw material crop, for 6%; and for tlhe balance a variety of
other crops, such as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, and vegetables.
Although the standard of cultivation of Bangladesh farmers is high,
agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world,
the average paddy yield being about 0.5 ton per ac, because of a number of
natural constraints.
2.04      Agricultural development in Bangladesh is constrained by the
following causes: (a) erratic monsoon weather conditions; (b) a long dry
season and lack of irrigation facilities--only :3.6 M ac are irrigated
during the November-March dry season; (c) severe floods caused by exces-
sive rains and overflowing rivers--over 2.5 M az are flooded up to 15 ft
annually and cultivation cannot begin until aftesr the flooding subsides in
November. On 5.5 M ac, annually flooded from 3 to 15 ft, only one crop
per year of low-yielding long stalked or floating rice is possible; (d)
small and fragmented farms (average 2 ac in 6 parcels).  The farmer has
considerable risk aversion and very limited investment resources, yet



-3-
institutional credit is still but poorly developed; (e) tenure arrange-
ments: 30% of land is sharecropped and the typical rental arrangement is
for the tenant to provide all inputs and to take only half the output;
this clearly reduces the incentive to increase productivity; and (f)
transportation for moving farm inputs and produce is inadequate and expen-
sive.
2.05      There is ample scope for growth in agricultural production
through resolution of many of the above constraints. The Government,
concentrating on foodgrain production, has developed a Medium Term
Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP). This places major emphasis on the
rapid expansion of irrigation and drainage and flood control backed by
rapid increases and improvements in the supply of key inputs. The aim is
foodgrain self-sufficiency by 1985 and progress to date is reasonable.
Reflecting this, and the country's chronic balance of payments problem,
increasing attention is now directed at developing non-foodgrain com-
modities with potential to earn or save foreign exchange. Sugar has
considerable such potential.
C. The Sugar Subsector
Production
2.06      Sugarcane is grown throughout Bangladesh but concentrated in
the west of the country. Annual acreage varies from 300,000 to 400,000
ac, average yield is about 15 tons of cane per acre (TCA). Virtually all
production is rainfed. About two-thirds of the cane goes to making
"gur'--an unrefined rural sweetener--and the remaining to producing plan-
tation white sugar by fourteen large mills owned by the Government and
managed by BSFIC. About 40% of the national sugarcane acreage is located
within the mill zones of irregular shape and these extend up to 30 mi
around the mills. The mills are required to purchase all cane offered by
the outgrowers in the mill zones. Five mills themselves grow sugarcane on
about 9,000 ac, but can only meet 5% of their cane requirement.
2.07      In 1947 there were five privately owned white sugar mills in
Bangladesh. Average annual production during that period was 2,500 tons
and imports of sugar were substantial. From 1951 to 1970, due to direct
Government investment through the Industrial Development Corporation, an
additional 10 public sector mills were constructed. During that period
production varied from a low point of around 80,000 tons in 1961 to a high
of slightly more than 100,000 tons before liberation (1970).
2.08      The sub-sector suffered seriously with respect to plant and
management during the liberation war and production fell to 20,000 tons.
Since then, the mills under the management of BSFIC have maintained a
steady, but slow recovery. Current production from 14 operating mills,
with a total capacity of 16,200 tons of cane per day (TCD), averages



-4-
140,000 tons. Production however varies from year to year due to cane
supplies, which depend largely on the weather. The milling season is
normally 120 days, short by world standards. However, in years of abun-
dant cane supply it is prolonged, undesirably in terms of sugar recovery,
to utilize cane supplies--production in 1981/82 reached 199,000 tons over
a milling season of 150 days. Each mill has a vacuum sulfitation plant
with capacity ranging from 1,000-2,000 TCD. The mills operate at about
90% capacity, but at relatively high cost. The causes for this situation
are complex but include, low cane yields, inefficient collection, poor
extraction and milling, and t:he short milling season.
Consumption
2.09      In Bangladesh consumption of sweeteners is in three forms:
chewing cane, gur and sugar. Sixty percent of the cane produced in the
country goes to making gur, 30% for sugar and the remaining for chewing
and seed. Per capita consumption of sweeteners in Bangladesh, 13 lb (4.2
lb sugar and 8.8 lb gur) in 1.979/80, is the lowest in South Asia. Con-
sumption in other countries ranges from 28 lb (26 lb sugar and 2 lb gur)
in Sri Lanka to 50 lb (20 lb sugar and 30 lb gur) in Pakistan. Per capita
consumption of sugar at 4.8 lb in 1978/79 was at its peak. The decrease
in 1979/80 was due to price increases (para 2.12). However due to the
increase in population the total sugar consumed stood unchanged at about
170,000 tons.
Imports
2.10      The country-s sugar requirement is on:Ly met partly by the BSFIC
mills. Deficits are met from imports which averaged 30,000 tons in
1979/80 and 1980/81. There were no imports in 1.978/79. Through 1979/80
imports were permitted on licenses, but these were mainly taken up by
BSFIC for distribution through the ration system; private sector imports
were negligible because the controlled non-ration prices were below world
prices. Since 1980/81 imports have been freely permitted, but under the
wage earners scheme. 1/ Recent increases in the controlled price have made
importation profitable for the private sector; liberalization of imports
has also helped to ensure that domestic prices will not be inflated rela-
tive to world prices. With the exceptionally high production in 1981/82,
the Government has recently suspended imports.
1/ A scheme managed by the Bangladesh Bank and the commercial banks,
where foreign exchange earned and remitted by Bangladeshis overseas is
sold at exchange auctions.



-5-
Markets
2.11      Gur is essentially used in local dishes and has preference in
the rural areas. Due to dietary patterns and lack of keeping quality of
gur (due to high molasses content), domestic demand for sugar is strong in
the urban market. Unlike sugar, there is no government control over
production and distribution of gur. Prior to 1979/80, production of gur
inside the mill zones was prohibited in order to assure the cane supply to
the mills. This prohibition has now been lifted and has not affected the
cane supply to the mills. Seventy percent of the sugar produced is dis-
tributed through the ration mechanism. The physical distribution of sugar
through the ration system and to the armed services, hospitals and railway
employees is the responsibility of MF. BSFIC is responsible for sales to
the industrial users, i.e., biscuit factories, bakeries and pharmaceutical
plants and to the public through "fair price shops."
Prices
2.12      Cane prices are not related to quality, but are set at a flat
rate per maund of cane supplied. The price of sugarcane delivered to the
mills was increased from Tk 10/md in 1978/79 to Tk 12.50/md in 1979/80,
and Tk 15/md in 1980/81. These price increases were necessary to
encourage outgrowers to provide cane to the mill, to use modern production
inputs and to adopt better cultivation practices. The current cane price
is high compared to other cane producing countries, but appropriate for
conditions in Bangladesh, provided it is maintained in real terms. The
ex-mill price of sugar for sales other than through MF increased from
Tk 360/md in 1978/79 to Tk 512/md in 1979/80 and Tk 560/md in 1980/81.
Recently, with the exceptionally high production in 1981/82, the Govern-
ment has reduced the ex-mill price to Tk 520/md. During this period,
ex-mill price for sugar supplies to MF also increased from Tk 249 in
1978/79 to Tk 320/md in 1979/80 and Tk 465/md in 1980/81. At the time of
appraisal (September 1981) Bangladesh sugar prices were in line with world
prices (para 7.06).
Institutions Servicing the Sugar Subsector
2.13      The Ministry of Industries (MOI) has overall responsibility for
sugar industry development; it formulates and implements national policies
and programs. Its major instrument to carry out this mandate is the BSFIC
which acts, inter alia, as the managing agent for the sugar mill com-
panies. The Government, as the sole owner of the shares in these com-
panies, exercises management control and direction through its agent,
BSFIC. MOI also determines, in consultation with the Ministry of Commerce
and the Ministry of Food, the annual domestic production targets and the
quantity of sugar to be imported. MOI is also responsible for determining
producer and consumer prices and cane procurement price. The latter is
determined in relation to the Government procurement price for rice.



-6-
2.14      The Ministry of Food (MF) purchases sugar from BSFIC for dis-
tribution through the ration mechanism and to the armed services, hospi-
tals and railway employees. The Ministry of Local Government Rural
Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C) is the agency that runs local
governments.  The Deputy Commissioner is in charge of appointing
wholesalers and retailers in each district and monitoring their pricing of
sugar to consumers. The Ministry of Commerce (K1OC) monitors the local
supply and demand situation alnd, along with MOI, determines retail prices
and the amount of sugar to be! imported. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
originally initiated the sugarcane research and extension program.
Research is now the responsibility of SRTI which comes under the direct
supervision of BSFIC. In the mill zones, extension to farmers is the
responsibility of BSFIC through the mills. MOA, however, retains the
responsibility for extension to farmers outside the mill zone.
2.15      Commercial banks play a significant role in Bangladesh's sugar
industry development, as they provide funds for the mill companies' work-
ing capital and for the short-term production loan requirements of out-
growers. In the project area, Sonali Bank (SB) is the primary commercial
banking institution.
2.16      Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC).
Bangladesh Sugar Mills Corporation (BSMC) and Bangladesh Food and Allied
Industries Corporation (BFAIC) were established in 1972 under a Presiden-
tial Order. BSMC was entrusted with the management of the 10 mills from
the public sector and the 5 from the private sector, which were national-
ized soon after liberation. Similarly BFAIC took over the management of
nationalized food manufacturing and processing industries. These two
corporations were merged in 1976 and operate und.er the name BSFIC.  The
establishment and development of new industrial units in the food and
sugar sectors, as well as management and expansion of existing ones, are
the key responsibilities of BSFIC. In 1977, BSE'IC commissioned a new mill
and increased the number of mills under its management to 16. Of these,
only 14 are operating at present. The Government has recently decided to
disinvest some of the industries in the food sector. As there is no
evidence at the present time of private sector interest in financing large
sugar mills the Government is inclined to retain, the sugar sector
industries, particularly the large mills, in thE! public sector.
2.17      A Board of Directors appointed by GOB manages BSFIC.  The Chair-
man of the Board is the chief executive. The other Board members are five
operational directors. Chart No. 23530 shows the present organizational
structure which has 5 departments at headquarters with 550 support staff
that provide the central administration to the nills. BSFIC is a non
profit making organization. 'Its operating costs are recovered from



-7-
enterprises under its management. Overall operation of the sugar comr
panies under BSFIC management is financially profitable. The sugar comn-
panies contribution to the national exchequer was Tk 90 M by way of
dividends in 1980/81; excise duty payments totalled Tk 170 M and income
tax payments Tk 150 M. No funds were however retained for working capital
and reserves.
2.18      Sugar Research and Training Institute (SRTI).  Sugarcane
research in Bangladesh started in 1951 with the establishment of the
Sugarcane Research Station at Ishurdi by the Government of the then East
Pakistan. During the period from 1951 to 1972, the sugarcane research was
mainly concentrated on the breeding of new varieties. The station suf-
fered severely from financial constraints even before the liberation war
in 1971, which caused all activities to stop.
2.19      In 1973, BSFIC took control over the Research Station and
upgraded it to the present Research and Training Institute. The Institute
under the direction of BSFIC carries out work in five major disciplines:
cane breeding, agronomy, physiology and nutrition, entomology and pathol-
ogy, and provides training for mid-level extension officers of the mills.
SRTI has adaptive trial plots in all operational mill zones and proposes
setting up two regional research stations. Under the Bangladesh Australia
Sugar Industry Project (BASIP), financed by Australian Government, SRTI
has been fully equipped with office, laboratory, residential buildings,
and training facilities.
2.20      BASIP has been operational since 1979 and provides assistance to
SRTI in the fields of: agronomy, crop protection, and agricultural
engineering; laboratory equipment and instrument maintenance; housing,
workshop and research farm improvement; and expert services. Four resi-
dent experts, plus visits by other specialists, are provided under this
project. Considerable progress has been made, especially in achieving a
concentration of effort on practical problems. However, much still
remains to be done, and BASIP which was due to terminate in December 1982
has been extended through June 1986.
2.21      In the past the most critical deficiency in the research effort
has been varietal development. The present varieties in use are poor.
They have low yield potential, poor sugar content, are disease suscep-
tible, and most flower prolifically. These varieties are degenerate due
to their long usage, and yields are low and declining. The current recom-
mended cane varieties resulting from SRTI's efforts to select new lines
from basic stocks are Co 1158, Co 975, Isd 1/3 and Isd 2/54. Newer
varieties are in the pipeline, Latari-Jaba-C, Bo 70 and 1 112/67. SRTI
reports that these new varieties have, with irrigation, yielded over 40
TCA. These varieties are expected to be available for commercial cultiva-
tion during the next two to three years following completion of the
variety trials in the different agro-ecological zones. To strengthen the



-8-
variety development effort under BASIP, SRTI is directing its attention to
a Variety Assessment Program. This program consists of the selection of
high yielding varieties suitable for local conditions from imported com-
mercial and near commercial varieties.
D. IDA Support and Strategy for the Agricultural Sector
2.22      The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been agricul-
ture, particularly foodgrain production. In addition to assisting in
preparation of the MTFPP, IDA is involved in a major program of financing
agricultural and rural development with emphasis on irrigation, drainage
and flood control, improved seeds, extension and credit, storage
facilities, and fertilizer production and trans]nort.  With the input-based
production strategy for foodgrains now bearing fruit, the Government is
concerned that some effort must now be directed to increasing productivity
of non-foodgrains, particularly crops with potential to earn or save
foreign exchange. Targets are oil seeds, pulses, tea, sugar, jute and
cotton. However, the technical base for the development of these crops,
except jute, tea and sugar, is not well developed, and increased research
is the first need which IDA could support. Meanwhile, the proposed
project, IDA's first operation in the sugar subSector, where the technical
base is reasonably developed, would comprise a comprehensive effort to
improve performance of most aspects of the induistry--smallholder and mill
farm cane production, cane handling and transport, and milling--research
would be the exception which is well supported '3y Australiarl assistance.
Such a comprehensive approach, though essential to optimize benefits,
would be unique; prior efforts have focussed excessively on mill improve-
ment. The proposed project, in a country which is a continuing net
importer of sugar, would be consistent with the Bank Group's criteria for
financing sugar projects. 1/ Of the two major agricultural commodities
exported by the country, jute has been the beneficiary of two IDA financed
projects--jute cultivation and mill rehabilitation. Development of the
tea industry is being supported by the United Kiingdom.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Features
3.01      The principal sugarcane growing areas are concentrated in the
west of the country (Map No. 16137). About 52% of the total cane area is
in the Rajshahi Division, another 25% is in the northern districts of
Khulna Division. The project area (Map No. 16138) would cover three
1/ The World Sugar Economy: Review and Outlook for Bank Group Lending
- February 1978.



-9-
distinct locations in the Rajshahi Division, the mill zones of the Thakur-
gaon (TSM), Rangpur (RSM), and Rajshahi sugar mills (RJSM) in the dis-
tricts of Dinajpur (TSM), Rangpur (RSM), and Rajshahi (RJSM). Sugar
production in all areas is organized around mill zones; each zone comprise
the outgrower farms, mill farm (except in RJSM), and a sugar mill.
Climate
3.02      The climate in the sugarcane belt is monsoonal.  In the Rajshahi
Division, rainfall varies from 55 to 105 in, averaging 71 in at RSM and
105 in at TSM. While the average rainfall at RJSM is 50 in, it varies
widely within the mill zone. The rainfall along the Ganges river, the
area where most of the cane is grown, is over 65 in. Almost 90% of the
rainfall occurs between May and October, however occasional showers occur
in March and April. Temperature in all zones remains below 80 degrees F
during the months of December to first half of March, the rest of the
year, including the growing season, is usually above 80 degrees F, which
is considered optimum for growth of sugarcane. Mean relative humidity is
high throughout the year, ranging from about 60% in April to 90% during
the rainy season. Flooding is not a major problem in the three zones,
although some areas can be under water for up to three weeks. The depth
of the water table varies at TSM from 13 to 30 ft, RSM from 10 to 70 ft,
and RJSM from 15 to 47 ft.
Water Resources
3.03      The scope of surface water irrigation is limited; perennial
rivers, streams, and ponds irrigate only 2% of the cultivated area. Scope
for groundwater irrigation is promising, but only 4%-5% of the cultivated
area is irrigated by shallow and deep tubewells. Conservative estimates
are that 50% of the area can be irrigated by groundwater. Moreover, under
the current programs by Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
(BADC), Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) and Bangladesh Krishi
Bank (BKB) considerable development of groundwater is envisaged in the
near future (para 4.08).
Topography, Soil and Land Types
3.04      Topography in the sugar belt is characterized by a very gentle
slope to the southeast, with elevation up to 300 ft in the northwest and
down to 25 ft above mean sea level in the southeast. The land gradient is
an average 2 ft per mile. In the middle of the northwest region there is
a prominent table known as the Barind Tract where the topography is flat
to gentle undulations. The Teesta River flows through the northeast
corner of the region and the Ganges River crosses the centre of the cane
belt. A number of small rivers cut across the entire cane belt.



-10-
3.05      TSM is located on the Old Himalayan PLedmont Plain with soils
that are acidic, sandy and sandy-loam, and have low nutrient content.
Because of the soils' generally low water retaining capacities, cultiva-
tion of traditional irrigated paddy is often costly. RSM is located on
the Teesta Flood Plains and the Barind Tract soLls which are sandy-loam or
clay-loam of good water holding capacity. These soils are neutral and the
Barind Tract is mostly a rice growing region. RJSM is located on the
Ganges Flood Plain where soils are predominently clay, calcareous dark
grey and rich in potassium and calcium, and are good for sugarcane produc-
tion.
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.06      The population of Rajshahi Division, which has a total area of
about 13,000 sq mi, is about 23 M. Although rice is the dominant crop,
about 3% of the cultivable land is under cane. The numbers of farmers in
the mill zones are 21,000 in TSM, 31,000 in RSM, and 35,500 in RJSM. The
average farm size in the project area is about 3 ac with a third under
cane annually. This 1 ac is, however, fragmented into five to eight
plots.   The areas suitable for cane cultivation covered by each of these
mill zones are: TSM 37,000 ac; RSM 34,000 ac; and RJSM 64,000 ac. Areas
under commercial cane are only TSM 15,000 ac, RSM 12,000 ac, and RJSM
25,000 ac. About 50% of the outgrowers are owner farmers while the rest
are either sharecroppers or tenant farmers.
Communications
3.07      The mills are served by poorly surfaced roads and the Bangladesh
Railways. Within the mill zones the purchase centres and farming areas
can only be reached by unimproved brick-herringbone-surface roads and ox
cart trails which largely become unusable during the monsoon. The roads
within the mill zones are public properties, which should be maintained
by the District and Union Councils. However, due to inadequate resources
with these Councils, GOB requires the mills to recover from sugar cane
growers a cess of Tk 0.12 per md of cane supplied to the mills.  These
funds, which are administered by a committee headed by the Deputy Commis-
sioner of the district, are used for maintenance of selected roads under
the supervision of the mills' Civil Engineers. BSFIC also recovers, as
contribution to a road development fund, Tk 10 per md from the proceeds of
sale of sugar by the mills. These funds, admini'stered by a separate
committee headed by the District Commissioner, are utilized for
rehabilitation and upgrading of roads under the supervision of the mills'
Civil Engineers. Monies available in these funcls are inadequate to meet
the mills' requirements to rehabilitate the roads.



-11-
B. Outgrowers
3.08      The mills, except RJSM, obtain about 90% of their cane require-
ment from outgrowers in the mill zone; RJSM obtains all its cane from
outgrowers since it has no mill farm. Mill zone boundaries are declared
annually by the Government, they range up to 30 mi from the mill. The
mills provide an integrated extension, supervised credit, and input supply
service to the outgrowers, including facilities for mechanized land
preparation on a rental basis, and procure the cane offered (para 3.17).
The mills enter into a cane supply contract only with those who adopt the
agricultural services and inputs package, these are known as supervised
growers. At present only about one half of outgrowers in the project area
are supervised growers. Details of outgrowers during the 1980/81 planting
season are in the following table.
Table 3.1: OUTGROWER HOLDINGS IN PROJECT AREA
Mill   Total No. of        Average Area              Total Area
Zone    Outgrowers    Under Commercial Cane   Under Commercial Cane
Acres
TSM       16,444                0.90                   14,800
RSM       15,187               0.80                    12,150
RJSM      20,500                1.00                   20,500
Sugarcane in the Farming System
3.09      Sugarcane is generally grown as a 12-15 month crop on the higher
lands in two year rotation with Aus paddy during the monsoon followed by
oil seeds, wheat and vegetables during the dry months, grown on residual
moisture. However, when the price relation between cane and rice cultiva-
tion is in favor of cane cultivation the farmer will plant cane even in
the low lands; these low lands are subject to long periods of water log-
ging, resulting in poor cane stands and a high incidence of diseases.
Drainage in the low lands is almost impossible. Generally ratooning is
not practiced (except in RJSM where less than 5% of the outgrowers ratoon)
because of the severity of the dry season and the incidence of pests and
diseases which result in poor ratoon stands. Traditionally, cane is
planted after the harvest of the winter crops, i.e., February-March. The
mills are, however, encouraging outgrowers to plant in October-December.
The month of October, with temperatures of 80 degrees F and soils which
have residual moisture is the most favorable planting period.



-12-
3.10      Yields of the outgrowers in the three zones are low, due to soil
conditions, poor cane varieties, low and diseased plant populations, and
inadequate weed control. The cane quality is eqlually poor with low pol
(sucrose) and high fiber content.  Details are in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2:  OUTGROWER AVERAGE CANE YIELDS
Mill    Cane Yield    Pol %    Fibre %
Zone    (ton/acre)    Cane        Cane
TSM       12.C          10.04      L5.82
RSM       16.6          10.19      15.78
RJSM      15.3         10.08       L7.00
3.11    The agricultural practices followed by the outgrower are:  land
preparation, which consists of 5-10 passes with a bullock drawn country
plough to a depth of 4-6 in, followed by raking/harrowing with a bullock
drawn ladder harrow. Planting furrows when used are opened by hand and
are shallow; extension workers recommend deep plowing and furrows 10-14 in
deep, which is only possible with mechanized cultivation. Deep plowing
and deep furrows are recommended: (i) to break the hard pan resulting
from paddy cultivation to allow cane roots to penetrate and seek deep
moisture during the dry season; and (ii) to minimize waterlogging of the
cane roots during the rainy season. Mechanized land preparation
facilities are provided by the mill's extension services (para 3.17).
3.12      Until recently outgrowers obtained seedcane from their own
farms. This was normally ove!r-mature cane, infested with diseases and
with borers. Some 65% of the supervised outgroiwers have now accepted
certified seedcane, not yet from heat treated stock, supplied under the
mills credit scheme. The certified cane is the first step in a program
developed by SRTI for the prc,duction of heat treated clean seed.
Generally the outgrower will apply some filter press mud (a waste product
of the sugar mill), cow manure, household ashes and water hyacinth compost
to his fields.  In addition, supervised outgrowers can obtain fertilizer
under the mills  credit scheme.  The fertilizer application rates are
recommended by the mills, but some outgrowers divert part of the fer-
tilizer to their other crops. The outgrower carries out 2-4 hand weedings
to keep the interrows clean, but these weedings are often inadequate in
number and quality of work. One or two physical pest control operations
are carried out: hand collecting of adult insects and egg masses and
removing damaged plants. Cane stools are often tied together to avoid
lodging of the cane.
3.13      Outgrower Cane Harvesting Practices.  Cane is generally cut
green, hand-loaded on bullock carts and transported to purchase centres



-13-
where it is weighed and offloaded. Cane is delivered to these purchase
centres on a "purjee" (permit) system. Under this system an outgrower,
who has on average one acre of land under cane and about 15 tons of cane
to supply, is issued permits to deliver one cartload (1 ton) of cane every
four to seven days. To avoid the hiring of additional cane cutters, the
outgrower cuts this 1 ton using family labor over a period of two to three
days. Loading and transport to the purchase centre absorbs an extra day.
Because of the flat rate per ton of sugarcane delivered to the mills (para
2.20), and the purjee system which works on the basis of giving equal
opportunity to all outgrowers to deliver their cane, there is no
encouragement to the farmer to deliver high quality fresh cane. Harvest-
ing of an outgrower's field is staggered over the crushing season and
results in delivery of cane of varying maturity.
Outgrower Organization
3.14      At present a loosely arranged outgrower organization is in
existence at each mill zone. These organizations have no executive or
representative power.  Before the start of the harvest a general meeting
is called by the mill management in which the farmer representatives of
each purchase centre are informed of the cane purchase program.
C. The Sugar Companies
3.15      The three companies, TSM, RSM and RJSM, are public companies
registered under the Companies Act, whose shares are fully owned by the
Government, and which are managed by BSFIC. Each mill company provides an
integrated extension, input supply and cane procurement service to the
outgrowers and owns the the mill farm (except RJSM), the purchasing
centres, and the mill in the respective mill zone.
Management
3.16      Each mill has a board of directors, appointed by GOB; one of
them is a BSFIC director. The mill boards meet once a year to consider
the annual accounts. The full responsibility for supervision of the mills
is with BSFIC. The mill's General Manager, appointed by BSFIC, is the
chief executive of the mill. Chart No. 23531 shows the present
administration which has 10 departments, each headed by a Deputy Chief. A
major weakness of the existing organizational structure is the large
number of department heads who report to the General Manager, diffusing
responsibility and control.
Services to Outgrowers
3.17      The integrated extension, input supply and cane procurement
services were introduced by BSFIC in the mill zones through a Government



-14-
approved scheme--Intensive Cane Development Scheme (ICDS). Initial capi-
tal cost and incremental staff salaries for the first three to five years
were fully financed by grants from the Government. The operating cost is
now met by the mills. ICDS consists of the following major components:
(a) development of a cane extension service under each mill manage-
ment supported by advisory staff from BSFIC head office;
(b) distribution of all production inputE on credit to cane growers;
(c) production and distribution of clean seed;
(d) administration of a supervised credit program;
(e) extension of mechanized cultivation facilities; and
(f)  procurement of cane.
3.18      Under ICDS a mill zone is divided into four to five subzones
which are further divided inlto 20-25 purchase centres.  Each purchase
centre, manned by a Centre-in-Charge (CIC), services 4-5 units of 100
acres cane each. Each unit is in charge of a Cane Development Assistant
(CDA), who is the field extension worker. Subzones are supervised by
Assistant Cane Development Oifficers (ACDO), who are trained at the SRTI
and also have responsibility for training of CDAs. The entire mill zone
is administered by a Deputy Chief Cane Development Officer (DCDO),
assisted by two or more Cane Development Officers (CDO). Supporting
professional staff for field trials, credit operation and crop protection
are also provided.
3.19      Recruitment of staff to man ICDS has been completed, but due to
inadequate fund allocation and attempts to spread the funds to all the
mills, BSFIC has not been able to complete most of the infrastruc-
ture--purchase centres, input: godowns and staff quarters--required.
Within the mill zones accommodation for rent is scarce. As a result most
extension officers either accept accommodation from a local landlord or
live outside the mill zone. This has resulted in insufficient contact
with the outgrowers. BSFIC has also not been able to provide sufficient
transport for the extension officers. This has greatly reduced their
efficiency. Thus, though ICDS is adequately staffed, at present it only
reaches 50% of outgrowers (para 3.08).
3.20       Production Credit under ICDS is provided in the iform of inputs
including seed cane (para 3.30) and mechanized land preparation
facilities, the annual intere!st rate is 12%. Repayments are deducted when
cane payment is made. The credit program is fully financed by SB and no
service charges are levied by the mills. Due to difficulties in dis-
tributing the inputs, and insufficient contact between the extension staff



-15-
and the outgrowers, only about 50% of the outgrowers are effectively
covered by the production credit program. Since 1979/80 the mills have
also introduced a crop purchase-advance scheme against standing crop for
outgrowers with less than 1.66 ac of cane. Details of outgrowers who
received production credit and advances in 1980/81 planting season are in
Table 3.3.
Table 3.3: OUTGROWERS PRODUCTION CREDIT
Area Under
Total Area   Supervised  Mechanized   Production   Crop
under Cane   Outgrowers  Cultivation    Credit    Advance
Mill                 Acres                           Tk Million
TSM       14,800      12,000        2,600          13.3       0.75
RSM       12,150       9,250        2,000           8.4       0.50
RJSM      20,500      10,100        4,000           9.4       1.00
3.21      Purchase Centres and Cane Transportation.  The mill companies
operate cane purchasing centres and are responsible for transporting cane
from them to the mill. The centres, which are semi-permanent structures,
consist of an office, and, in a few locations, rented input godowns and
staff quarters. They are located generally at roadheads and rail centres,
with the exception of one at the mill gate. Transport of cane from the
centres to the mill is divided between the mill-owned tractor - trailers
(85%) and rail (15%). Transport by rail takes as many as four to five
days due to priority for passenger and foodgrain transport. The railroads
are owned and operated by the Government.
3.22      An equally difficult and costly problem is haulage by trac-
tor-trailer from the purchasing centres. This takes as many as 7 to 8
hours. In general, vital link roads are narrow and badly maintained. In
wet conditions roads cannot be used. In dry conditions, giant pot holes
cause excessive delays in moving cane, resulting in loss of sucrose con-
tent in the cane delivered to the mill.
3.23      Another costly problem is cane off-loading.  Cane delivered by
trucks, trailers, railwagons and bullock carts is weighed upon entering
the millyard and stored on the transport units until it is manually
unloaded onto the cane carrier. Cane storage at the mills is
non-existent. Turnaround time for the transport vehicles is often six to
seven hours.



-16-
Mill Farms
3.24      Two of the mills--l'SM and RSM--produce sugarcane from their own
farms. Cane produced on a major part of the farms (the commercial farms)
goes to the mills for processing. Multiplication of promising new
varieties and foundation seed cane production are carried out on a smaller
section called the research and seed multiplication farms. These are also
used as demonstration plots for outgrowers.
3.25      TSM has three adjacent blocks totalling 2,500 ac.  The soils in
two of these blocks (Mohan and Jamalpur) are sandy to sandy loam, low in
organic matter and of low fertility. The third block (Salander) is more
fertile with clay to clay loam soil. In 80/81 the mill farm produced
12,700 tons, 9% of TSM's intake. Details of acreage and yields are in the
following table.
Table 3.4: TSM -- MILL FARM
Total   Area Suitable    Area          Yield
Area      for Cane      under Cane  Per Acre
Acres                     (Ton/Acre)
Salander       806       625             280         18.4
Mohan        1,100        811            360         15.0
Jamalpur       603        453            200         12.7
3.26      The mill farm in RSM is in one block  of 1,690 ac.  Of this
1,350 ac are suitable for cane cultivation. About 600 acres are annually
under cane. The soil is red laterite and lacks nutrients. The average
yield is about 14 TCA. In 80/81 the mill farm produced 8,500 tons, 6%
of RSM intake. RJSM has no mill farm, but a small research farm of 100
acres.
3.27      Although the soil and climatic conditions in part explain the
low cane yields in TSM and RSM, major constraints to improved output have
been poor farm management and poor farm development. Area under cane is
less than 50% of the area sui:table due to inadequate fund allocation for
farm development. The farms are managed by resident managers who are
recently qualified agricultural graduates with no practical experience or
training. At each farm, the managers are assisted by three plantation
officers, four overseers, and about 20 permanent workers. Casual labor is
hired during the planting ancl harvesting seasons. Each farm also has a
farm machinery section headed by an agricultural engineer, supported by a
foreman, mechanics, and traclor drivers. The farms have adequate equip-
ment to handle the area now under cane, but maintenance is poor. The



-17-
research farms are under the supervision of an agronomist, supported by
about three field staff.
3.28    On the commercial farms, sugarcane is grown as a rainfed plant
crop only, in rotation with a green manure; there is no irrigation. Cane
is generally planted on the higher land; even these areas are subject to
occasional flooding during the monsoon season, as no drainage or flood
protection has been installed. The lower areas of the farms are used for
food crops. Land preparation for the sugarcane crop is during the months
of September-October, extending as necessary into November. Land prepara-
tion consists of: one or two passes with a 65 hp tractor and a
three-bodied disc plough to a depth of 8-10 in; two passes with a disc
harrow; and furrowing with a two-bodied furrower. Before planting BHC or
Aldrin are applied (4 lb/ac) against soil insects. Applications at this
relatively high rate may have some toxic effect and SRTI is testing other
chemicals. Planting is targeted for completion during October, but often
carried over to December. Seed cane is obtained from certified seed
plots; this cane is screened for varietal purity and cleanliness (diseases
and pests) but heat treatment is not practiced. Cane is cut in three to
five eye setts and planted as double setts. In general about 65 md (2.5
tons) of seed are used per ac. Fertilizer nutrients are applied at the
SRTI recommended rates of 110 lbs N: 110 lbs P: 110 lbs K in the form of
urea, triple super phosphate and potassium chloride. The basal dressing
at planting consists of all the phosphate and 50% of the nitrogen and
potash, the balance is applied in May. These fertilizer rates appear high
relative to present low yields, however new recommendations must await
further research by SRTI. The crop maintenance consists of three to five
hand weedings and one or two manual hilling up operations. Additionally,
there are one or two pest control operations.
3.29      The cane is cut green, hand-loaded and transported by trac-
tor-trailer to the factory within two to three hours of harvesting. After
the harvest the fields are completely cleared of the cane debris (old
roots and trash which are taken by villagers for fuel) and prepared for
growing a green manure crop of legumes with the first rains in May. The
green manure is ploughed in with the land preparation for cane cultiva-
tion.
Seed Cane
3.30      BASIP has recently started a heat treated clean seed program.  A
three stage scheme (foundation, registered and certified seed) for the
outgrowers and a two stage scheme (foundation and certified seed) for the
mill farms are now in operation. All foundation seed and certified seed
for the mill farms are raised by the mill farms, the registered and cer-
tified seed for the outgrowers is produced by contract outgrowers. High
quality commercial seed cane would be available for the 1982/83 planting
season. A previous scheme provided inspected and certified, but not hot



-18-
water treated, seed cane; about 65% of supervised outgrowers took this
seed cane annually on credit from the mills. Wit:h the demonstrated higher
yields, it is anticipated that the outgrowers will respond well to the new
source of heat treated clean seed.
Project Factories
3.31      The mills of TSM and RSM are about 24 years old and RJSM is
relatively new, having been commissioned in 1965166.  Expansion programs
were carried out in 1966/67 to increase the capacity of TSM and RJSM to
1,500 TCD. RSM was installed wvith a rated capacity of 1,500 TCD, but the
capacity was downgraded to 1,3030 TCD in 1980/81, due to bottlenecks in the
manufacturing process. Major items of equipment at each mill require
replacement. In addition cane yard facilities are needed at each mill to
improve mill performance and transport turnaround time.  At present there
is no cane storage system. When supplies are heavy vehicles are kept
waiting, often for many hours, leading to significant inefficiency in the
transport system (para 3.35). When supplies are inadequate there are no
reserve stocks to fall back on and production ceases temporarily. Cane is
unloaded and transferred direct:ly to the cane carrier manually. This is a
low cost system but it has two disadvantages: firstly the output of the
labor is uneven, commonly towards the end of a shift, particularly the
night shift, the rate of feed declines; secondly the loading of the cane
carrier is uneven, leading to tailling inefficiency. A well developed cane
yard with storage and mechanical unloading and feeding systems would
overcome these problems.
3.32      Factory Organization.  Chart No. 23531 shows the existing fac-
tory organization. The factory is organized into (a) Engineering Depart-
ment; (b) Production Department; and (c) Laboratory, each headed by a
Department Head reporting to the General Manager. The Department Heads
are supported by 2-3 assistant engineers/chemists with a basic degree .
There are also about 200 perman,ent and about 300 *seasonal workers manning
each factory. Cane unloading atnd sugar bagging and handling is by con-
tract labor. About 40 to 50 men per shift are usad for cane handling and
25 to 30 men for sugar handling.
3.33      Factory Performance.  Sugar production at the project mills
varies substantially from year to year depending on cane supplies, which
are erratic (para 2.08).  The milling season required to handle the cane
produced in 1980/81 ranged from, a period of 98 days at TSM, 124 days at
RSM to 131 days at RJSM. Capacity utilization was 93% for TSM, 100% for
RJSM and 88% for RSM. Recovery expressed in terms of sugar manufactured
percent cane ranges from 7.8% to 8.2%, substantiaLly below standards
achievable in the industry. This is a reflection not only of the poor
quality of cane milled, but also of poor operational standards and limited



-19-
maintenance. Optimizing factory sugar recovery requires continuous atten-
tion to the details of processing and careful organization and coordina-
tion of cane deliveries.
3.34      Sugar Manufacturing Process.  The double sulfitation process is
used to manufacture plantation white sugar. The mills are equipped with
conventional sugar machinery and equipment which are typical of labor
intensive industries. Only one grade of sugar is produced. There are no
sugar quality standards in the country. However BSFIC quality targets of
99.5% pol and 0,05% moisture are met by the project mills.
3.35      By-Products.  The by-products of the mills are molasses,
bagasse, filter cake and boiler ash. Molasses production ranges from 3.5%
to 4% of cane supplies depending on the quality of cane.  About 50% of the
current production is consumed locally for the production of ethanol and
for the preparation of tamak, a local tobacco, and for cattle feed; the
balance is exported at unrewarding prices. The problems in exporting
molasses are (a) transportation from the mills to port and (b) storage
facilities at the port. The North Bengal Paper Mill provides a market for
surplus bagasse generated at the mills. Filter cake is used as soil
conditioner on the mill farm and smallholder farms. Boiler ash has no
economic value. It is used around the mills as land fill material.
3.36      The main characteristics of each of the three companies are
summarized below for the financial year 1980/81:
TSM        RSM       RJSM
Area Under Commercial Cane
Mill farm (ac)                   840         600        -
Outgrowers (ac)               14,800     12,150      20,500
Yields
Mill farm (TCA)               15.0        14.8          -
Outgrowers (TCA)              12.0       16.6        15.3
Cane Procured
From mill farm (tons)          12,717       8,480       -
From outgrowers (tons)        123,749    133,304   197,378
Total (tons)                  136,466    141,784   197,289
Mill Rated Capacity (TCD)       1,500       1,300       1,500
Total Milling Season (days)   98            124         131
Recovery Rate (%)               8.14        7.8        8.2
Sugar Production (tons)         11,112      11,077      16,185



-20-
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The project would increase sugar indusl:ry productivity and
increase cane and sugar production by: strengthening services to cane
outgrowers; developing mill farms; improving cane handling facilities; and
rehabilitating three mills.  This broad approach would differ from other
sugar improvement programs that are limited basically to the improvement
of mill facilities, or to research on cane growinig, and do not incorporate
the package of measures needed to improve small 'armer sugar cane hus-
bandry productivity that are essential if Bangladlesh is to develop a
modern, efficient industry. Sugar production zones around the mills would
be reduced and farm area released for other crops; and to feed new mills.
Existing facilities would be used more fully and effectively, hence return
on existing investment increased.
B. General Description
4.02      The Project would, over five years, rehabilitate and develop the
sugar companies at Thakurgaon, Rajshahi and Rangpur, including outgrower
cane areas, housing and transportation infrastructure, the mill farms and
the mills. Components would be:
(i) strengthening servic,es to outgrowers;
(ii)  improvement of cane procurement, transportation, handling and
storage of cane;
(iii)  road improvement;
(iv)  development of mill farms at TSM and RSM including irrigation
for about 2,000 acres;
(v) rehabilitation of three mills; and
(vi)  technical assistance and training.
4.03      No investment (excepit for study visits by SRTI scientists) would
be made through the project for cane research as this is being supported
under the Australian aid program (para 2.15). The project would be
executed by BSFIC, the managing agents of the sugar companies.



-21-
C. Detailed Features
Strengthening Services to Outgrowers
4.04      The key to the establishment of an efficient and profitable
sugar industry in Bangladesh is to substantially improve the productivity
of cane outgrowers. This will require widespread adoption of improved
technology, technology very different from today-s norm. A particular
need is adoption of irrigated cane production. In addition to improving
yields this will have two other key benefits, first it will permit the
introduction of ratooning, which will enable a significant saving in
production costs; secondly it will enable the crushing season to be
lengthened, thus reducing processing costs. To help outgrowers make these
technology changes and productivity gains the project would strengthen the
mill extension services and extend the coverage to the entire mill zone.
The extension services under the project would promote better land
preparation--including mechanization for outgrowers with one or more acres
or groups of outgrowers who have consolidated their lands, use of good
quality seed cane, application of a balanced dose of fertilizer, early
planting and control of pests and diseases. They would also promote and
guide the development of irrigated cane production (para 4.07 et seq).
4.05      Present staffing is adequate, but facilities are inadequate to
allow staff to be fully effective (para 3.19). To improve facilities the
project would provide additional machinery for mechanized cultivation and
equipment to upgrade workshops (US$775,000); vehicles (four wheel drives
for DCDO, motorcycles for CDO and ACDO, and bicycles for CDA) for field
officers (US$113,000); and 56 purchasing centres comprising offices,
godowns, and staff quarters (US$1.7 M) (para 4.10).
4.06      The operation of the mill supervised credit program is satisfac-
tory. However, the program at present only reaches 50% of outgrowers
because of the limitations discussed above.  With facilities improved
under the project, ICDS services would be made available to all growers.
It is anticipated that 90% of growers would then take advantage of produc-
tion credit, thus ensuring adequate input supply. The project would
provide the incremental production credit requirement (US$1 M).
4.07      Virtually all cane production at prestent is rain fed.  Yields
are low and, even with improved husbandry, the potential is low because of
the protracted dry season. Irrigation is the key to significantly
increasing yields, and farm budget analysis indicates that irrigated cane
production would be profitable.
4.08      Development of minor irrigation, particularly through the
installation of tubewells, is a key element of GOB's MTFPP, and is already
taking place on a significant and growing scale, particularly in the
northwest. Aid donors are providing large scale assistance to this



-22-
effort. IDA has the ongoing Northwest Region Tubewells (Cr. 341-BD),
Shallow Tubewells (Cr. 724-BD), and Agricultura:L Credit Project (Cr.
1147-BD); the Deep Tubewell (II) Project (Cr. 1287-BD); and further Rural
Development, Agricultural Credit and Deep Tubewell projects in the lending
program. The ADB is financing STW under its agricultural credit projects,
has recently approved a project to rehabilitate and expand its DTW project
at Thakurgaon in the northwest, and has a project similar to IDA's DTW II
under preparation, also for the northwest. Other donors, including IFAD
and the Kuwait Fund, are also financing irrigation on a lesser scale.
4.09      Given this level of support to irrigat:ion development it would
be neither necessary nor appropriate for this project to finance irriga-
tion equipment. However, the extension service would work to encourage
irrigation development within the mill zones. Initial efforts would be
directed at existing irrigation groups to develop management systems for
the tubewells and command areas which would: include cane in the cropping
system; grow cane in consolidated blocks to permit mechanical land
preparation; and generally improve the irrigation groups management.
Advantage would be taken of experience gained under IRDP's Irrigation
Management Program (IMP) which has clearly demonstrated the feasibility of
improving irrigation group management leading to significant increases in
command areas once a proven system had been developed. In developing the
management systems the extension service would collaborate closely with,
and be assisted by, IRDP and BADC personnel. Staff would be trained
(jointly with BADC and IRDP staff) under an ongoing program for irrigation
management training, which is assisted by UNDP/FAO, at the Bogra Rural
Development Academy. Once systems had hben developed and tested, the
service would promote the adoption of irrigatiorn among cane growers urging
them to acquire tubewells under GOB's various programs. Based on
experience with IMP, targets for irrigation devElopment over the project
period have been established as follows:



-23-
Mill Zone   Year 1 /a   2 /b         3         4        5
New Acres Under Irrigation /c
TSM              -          600   1,150    2,650    6,150
RSM              -          600   1,150      2,650     4,150
RJSM             -          600   1,500    3,500       7,100
Total                     1,800   3,800    8,800   17,400
/a  Staff would be trained and systems would be developed.
/b  Systems would be tested on a pilot basis involving
about 10 DTW or equivalent per zone.  There would be
modest expansion with system refinement in Year 3
and full scale expansion from Year 4.
/c About 33% of the irrigated area would be in cane.
4.10       Sugarcane Purchasing Centres are a vital link to providing an
orderly and continuous flow of cane to the mills. The project would
develop 56 centres which would also be used as communication and control
centres for extension, seed distribution, procurement and to provide
training facilities (both for growers and CDA) in the mill zone. Addi-
tional buildings and housing would be required at the mill zones to:
accommodate the extension staff; provide godowns for inputs; and provide
dual purpose offices-cum-training facilities for outgrowers and field
staff. A design model for a purchasing centre and its associated build-
ings has been agreed with BSFIC staff. All purchasing centre locations
have been identified based on high potential cane production areas. The
project would provide a total of 62 small godowns at subzones, and pur-
chasing centres, 16 offices-cum-training facilities at subzones, and small
offices at 56 purchasing centres. In addition, about 310 housing units of
three different standards are proposed for the project; these follow the
Planning Commission's recently issued specifications. The estimated cost
of civil works is US$1.7 M.
4.11       The development program for the outgrowers is summarized below:



-24-
Area in Cane (Acres) l/       TSM       RSM       RJSM
Non-supervised                   2,300     -         2,000
Supervised without
mechanized cultivation        5,900    6,400       7,000
Supervised with          1/
mechanized cultivation         4,600    3,300      5,400
Ratoon (Supervised)                -        -        2,500
12,800    9,700    16,900
1/ These figures reflect the rainfed situation on which
project benefits are based. The target for irrigation
development would be:
TSM     RSM      RJSM
Irrigated cane area (acs)  3,500   2,900   4,200
Ratooning resulting from
irrigation (acs) 2/       1,200   1,000   1,400
2/  Outgrowers normally grow paddy after a sugarcane plant
crop. The introduction of irrigation would enable
ratooning to be practiced and this would be attractive
because of the savings in planting costs.
Cane Procurement, Transport, Handling and Storage
4.12      The project would finance the installation at the three mills of
mechanical cane unloading and feeding systems ard storage facilities.
These would include two bridge cranes, mounted cn a common gantry, to
unload cane from transport units either to storage facilities or a feeder
table. The mechanical handling system would improve the uniformity of
cane feed and maintain cane feed rate. The storage facility would improve
the turnaround time of the transport vehicles and their effective use.
The estimated cost of these investments is US$570,000 per mill.
4.13      Detailed design and specifications for the cane yard improve-
ments would be prepared by consultants engaged under IDA Technical Assis-
tance Credit (Cr. 1124-BD). These consultants would also carry out a
study of the millyard handling and storage procErdures. Based on the study
the consultants would be required to confirm the benefits of the proposed
mechanical handling system and the storage facility, as against the
present manual system.



-25-
4.14      The consultants engaged to carry out a subsector review of the
sugar and gur industries (para 4.25) would examine all aspects of the
purchasing operation from the allocation of "purjees" to the weighing and
discharge of the cane at the purchase centres and the receipt of payment
by the growers. It would pay special attention to factors which allow the
delivery of stale, dirty or otherwise unsatisfactory cane, and would
consider systems whereby the delivery of cane of improved quality would be
encouraged through bonus payments. It would investigate the possibility
of sampling the bulked deliveries from purchasing centres with a view to
paying bonuses.
4.15      Transport vehicles at the project mills are more than adequate.
No investments other than replacements would be required. Many of the
existing trailers are equipped with hydraulic cylinders for side dumping
but they have never been used. Under the project, trials would be con-
ducted to evaluate trailer modifications which may be necessary to utilize
the dumping feature.
Roads
4.16      Sections of the road network within the mill zones would be
improved. This would include about 12 mi in TSM, 8 mi in RSM and 8 mi in
RJSM; all selected roads would be important links between the mills and
purchase centres. The construction would be of standard design, consist-
ing of 12 ft pavement on a 22 to 30 ft earthen embankment. Typically the
pavement would consist of 3 in brick soling, followed by a 5 in layer of
consolidated brick or stone chips covered by 1 1/2 to 2 in bituminous
carpeting. Road works would cost about US$80,000 per mile. Rehabilita-
tion under the project would cover only the most important links, about
a third of the requirements within the mill zones; two other projects
proposed for financing by IDA--Secondary Feeder Roads Project and Rural
Roads and Marketing Project--would meet a part of the balance require-
ments.
Development of Mill Farms
4.17      The mill farms at TSM and RSM would take the lead in introducing
improved cane husbandry, irrigation and drainage, and commercial extension
of varieties recommended by SRTI, and would serve as demonstrations to
outgrowers. The farms would be responsible for the production of heat
treated foundation seed for the cane seed program and would also have the
capacity to rapidly multiply seed of newly released varieties. The farms
would also comprise a reserve of cane to maintain supplies to the mills
if, for any reason, there were short term interruptions in outgrower
supplies.
4.18      Cane production on the mills  farms would be increased through
improved husbandry on existing lands and development of new lands.



-26-
Irrigation would be provided on 1,215 ac in TSM and 850 ac in RSM from 2
cusec deep tubewells, 15 al: TSM and 13 at RSM. Because of the porous
soils and uneven topography the project was prepared on the basis of
sprinkler irrigation. Given the high capital and operating costs of
sprinkler irrigation, and the heavier management burden which it imposes
relative to surface irrigal:ion which is virtually all that is used in
Bangladesh, a detailed cost/benefit comparison should have been made
between sprinkler and surface systems. This was not done and could not be
done at appraisal for want of data, in particular topographic maps. Since
development using the sprinkler system gives satisfactory returns (para
8.03), this was taken as the basis for appraisal. However, the consult-
ants to be hired under the project (para 4.23) would compare alternative
irrigation systems and implementation would be based on the most advan-
tageous.  To strengthen the clean seed program at RJSM, irrigation from a
single deep tubewell would be installed at tha 100 ac research farm.
Though cane on the mill farms is planted on the higher areas to avoid
flooding and waterlogging problems, minor drainage and flood control works
would be constructed for further protection.
4.19      The mill farms would be provided wi:h additional equipment to
carry out the required mechanized agriculturaL operations on the expanded
cane area and to transport their own cane to 1:he mills. The farm
workshops would be upgraded through provision of additional equipment.
Key farm officers would be provided with vehicles--l four-wheel drive
vehicle for each farm, 1 minibus, 4 motorcycles and 37 bicycles. In
addition housing would be provided for key staff.
4.20      The development program for the mil:L farms is summarized below:
TSM     RSM
Acres
Improved husbandry              375     600
Development of new land         840      250
Total                         1,215     850
Mill Rehabilitation
4.21      The project would undertake major rehabilitation works.  In TSM
the continuous sulfitation unit, A/B batch centrifugal station, and con-
tinuous centrifugal station, would be replaced. In RSM the boiler and
evaporator units would be replaced. In RJSM the boiler, injection water
pump, continuous sulfitation unit evaporator, vacuum pan, and crystal-
lizer, would be replaced. In all mills condensate storage tanks would be
purchased. Minor modifications and replacements would also be carried out
to eliminate bottlenecks in the existing process, improve efficiency and



-27-
performance and provide control measures for environmental protection.
The estimated cost of equipment for rehabilitation including the cost of
spares required over the project period is US$9.8 M. The operational
reliability of the mills would be maintained by continuing the existing
program of routine maintenance and replacement.
4.22      Engineering consultants funded under IDA's Technical Assistance
Credit (Cr. 1124-BD) would complete detailed engineering designs and
equipment specifications for the project mill items begun at project
preparation. The consultants have been engaged and the engineering work
is sufficiently advanced to allow tendering to begin soon after Board
approval. The project would also provide consultants to supervise the
rehabilitation works (para 4.24).
Technical Assistance
4.23      Consultants would be engaged to supervise the agricultural
outgrowers and mill farms program. This would require about 75 manmonths
costing US$837,000 at an average man-month cost, including salary, social
costs, fees, international travel, and subsistence of about US$11,100.
They would have three main functions:
(a) the supervision of the development and rehabilitation of mill
farms, the supervision of the implementation of the new techni-
ques in the outgrower areas;
(b) the preparation of detailed mill farm development plans based on
cost/benefit comparison of alternative irrigation systems,
followed by the preparation of specifications for the agricul-
tural machinery and irrigation equipment and works and assisting
in the evaluation of tenders; and subsequently,
(c) staff training to ensure that the new techniques become estab-
lished operating routine.
The draft TOR for the consultants (Annex I) has been agreed at nego-
tiations. Engagement of the consultants would be a condition of effec-
tiveness.
4.24      Mill rehabilitation would be supervised by consultants engaged
under the project. This would require about 69 manmonths of consultants-
services and have an estimated cost of US$300,000, at an average manmonth
cost of US$4,500. The consultants engaged for the preliminary design work
have been selected to undertake the supervision.
4.25      Subsector Review  The project would provide 10 manmonths of
consultants to carry out a subsector review of the sugar and gur



-28-
industries. Average manmonth cost would be US$7,800. The primary objec-
tives of this review would be to: (i) review the current and projected
production and consumption of sugar and gur; (ii) analyze policy and
investment implications; (iii) identify development constraints; and (iv)
develop strategies and priority programs for sugar and gur. The review,
-which would include, inter alia, such issues as cane yields, mechaniza-
tion, pricing policies for cane and sugar, extension and research, roles
of the public and private sector, would form t:he basis for future donor
assisted programs. The review would also examine all aspects of the cane
purchasing operation (para 4.14). The draft terms of reference, which would
be agreed during the first year of the project, are in Annex 1.
Training
4.26      Agricultural Staff.  The project would strengthen the training
of CDA by SRTI trained ACDO by providing three mobile training units to
SRTI, and overhead projectors to CDA training centres which would be
constructed under the project (para 4.10). BSFIC had proposed the estab-
lishment of a training institute to meet the :Long term training needs of
CDA who are college graduates with no formal training in agriculture.
Government has however decided that the national Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATI) should cater to these needs. Assurance has been obtained
that the long term training needs of CDA would be met by training courses
in sugarcane agronomy and extension, leading 1:O a diploma, at ATI. BSFIC
will require training for about 150 CDA each year until 1985 and there-
after 180 CDA until 1990.
4.27      Included in the project are three months overseas study courses
in sugarcane agronomy for 15 CDO and Field Agronomists at reputed sugar-
cane training institutes.
4.28      SRTI scientists, although qualified, are inexperienced.  Study
visits to research institutes overseas are essential to learn of research
developments in other countries. The project would provide 4 study visits
for the SRTI Director and 11 for the senior staff.
4.29      Mill Staff.  Six senior mill personnel--two mechanical
engineers, one electrical engineer and one chemist--would be assigned full
time as counterpart staff to the consultants engaged to prepare designs
and specifications and later to the project (riill rehabilitation) supervi-
sion consultants. The consultants would provi'de intensive on-the-job
training throughout the various stages of the project. The training
program would include six study visits overseas of 1-1/2 months duration
each to other sugar industries (Annex I-A).
4.30      The objective of the training program would be to develop a
small team of highly qualified engineers, who would be organized, after
the project, into a small unit at BSFIC to provide centralized engineering



-29-
services to carry out future upgrading and development work for the sugar
industry. The counterpart chemist on completion of the rehabilitation
program would be reassigned to the staff of SRTI to set up a nucleus sugar
technology unit. He would organize a training program for engineers and
chemists in the industry and advise and assist the sugar mills in produc-
tion matters and problems. The project would also provide, for three
electrical engineers, a total of nine manmonths of overseas training in
instrumentation.
V. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
5.01      Total costs are estimated at US$25.65 M equivalent of which
US$17.69 M or 69% would be foreign exchange cost and US$0.55 M would be
duties and taxes. Cost estimates are detailed in Tables 1 to 8 of Annex
II and summarized below:
Table 5.1  SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Local    Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign   Total  Foreign
----- (Tk Thousand) -----    ---- (US$ Thousand) ---  Exchange
Strengthening Extension
Services to Outgrowers    45255.0   96104.2  141359.2  1967.6   4178.4   6146.0   67.9
Cane Storage and Handling    7045.8   32343.2   39389.0   306.3   1406.2   1712.5   82.1
Roads                        43010.3    8173.0   51183.3  1870.0    355.3   2225.3   15.9
Farm Development             12829.4   37047.0   49876.4   557.8   1610.7   2168.5   74.2
Mill Rehabilitation          30945.7  136407.8  167353.5  1345.5   5930.8   7276.3   81.5
Technical Assistance          4747.2   22810.6   27557.8   206.4    991.8   1198.2   82.7
Training                       1853.4    8653.5   10506.9    80.6    376.3    456.9   82.3
Base Cost                   145686.8  341539.3  487226.1  6334.2  14849.5  21183.7   70.0
Physical Contingencies         7286.7   15947.9   23234.6   316.8    693.4   1010.2   68.6
Price Contingencies          30120.3   49438.2   79558.5  1309.6   2149.5   3459.1   62.1
Total Cost                  183093.8  406925.4  590019.2  7960.6  17692.4  25653.0   68.9
5.02      Base cost estimates are expressed in mid-1983 prices.  Physical
contingencies of 10% on mill equipment, 15% on erection and installation
and 5% on all other items except agricultural machinery and training are
provided. A total price contingency of 16% is included, based on the
following expected price escalation.



-30-
1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88
Foreign Cost                   8%         7.5%        6%        6%        6%
Civil Construction Costs    1'5%          13%       12%        11%       11%
Local Cost                    12%         11%       10%         9%        8%
5.03      The major element in project costs are equipment and vehicles
for agricultural development (US$3.3 M) and mill rehabilitation including
spares (US$14.1 M); civil works--roads (US$2.8 M) and other infrastructure
(US$2.3 M); and technical assistance and overseas training (US$2.0 M); and
incremental production credit (US$1.1 M)
B. Financing Arrangement
5.04      The proposed credit would amount to US$20 M, or 80% of total
project cost excluding duties and taxes; i.e. all of the foreign cost and
about 31% of local cost exclucing duties and taxes. IDA would make the
proposed credit to GOB. For strengthening services to outgrowers (except
credit) and mill farm development GOB would onlend IDA funds, totalling
US$5.3 M, to the sugar companies at 12% per annum for 20 years including a
five year grace period; the balance cost totalling US$1.08 M would be
financed by the sugar companies from cash which the companies are expected
to generate as the result of the proposed capital restructuring and
dividend policies (para 7.18). For mill rehabilitation, GOB would make
loans to individual sugar companies totalling US$11.0 M at 14.0% interest
per annum for 15 years including a five year graze period. Individual
mills would finance the other US$2.7 M of their project cost including
duties and taxes from their own resources. For 3SFIC (for roads
US$2.23 M, technical assistance! for strengthening services to outgrowers
and mill farm development US$1.02 M, and training US$0.4 M), and SRTI (for
training US$0.05 M) GOB would transfer IDA's contributions of US$3.7 M as
a grant, the balance cost of these components amounting to US$0.74 M would
also be met by GOB as a grant. Incremental production credit (US$1.12 M)
would be financed by SB with a. 12% interest rate as at present. The
proposed onlending rates would be in line with interests presently charged
by commercial banks in other sectors and 2% to 4% above the projected
inflation rate of 10%. The financing plan is sunmarized in Table 5.2.



-31-
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
IDA       Mills        SB         GOB      Total
Outgrowers and Mill Farms
Mill Farm Development          1.94        0.50          -          -       2.44
Strengthening Services to    3.36          0.58        1.12        -        5.06
Outgrowers
Technical Assistance           1.02          -           -       0.12       1.14
Training                       0.31          -           -       0.05       0.36
6.63       1.08        1.12       0.17       9.00
Mill
Rehabilitation                 9.22        2.31          -          -      11.53
Cane Storage and Hlandling    1.47         0.39         -          -        1.86
Technical Assistance           0.31        0.01          -         -        0.32
Training                       0.09          -           -       0.01       0.10
11.09       2.71          -        0.01      13.81
Roads Improvement              2.23          -           -       0.55       2.78
SRTI - Training                0.05          -          -        0.01       0.06
20.00        3.79       1.12       0.74      25.65
Financing of Maintenance
5.05      The project would provide for the spares for mills maintenance
(US$2.6 M) to be imported over a five year period. Road maintenance would
be done by the district and union councils, using the road maintenance and
development funds administered by the Deputy Commissioner of the district
(para 3.07). The levy on the incremental cane and sugar production under
this project would be adequate to meet the maintenance costs of the roads.
Assurance has been obtained that adequate funds would be allocated for the
maintenance of roads constructed under the project.
C. Procurement
5.06      Procurement on behalf of the mill companies would be centralized
and handled by BSFIC's Marketing Department. Purchase of similar equip-
ment for agriculture (US$3 M including contingencies) and mill rehabilita-
tion (US$14 M including contingencies) would be bulked under single con-
tracts whenever possible. All contracts above US$50,000, except
proprietary items, would be by international competitive bidding (ICB)
following IDA guidelines. For proprietary items, contracts would be
allotted after negotiations or competitive bidding among licensed manufac-
turers. Other equipment purchases for relatively minor items would be in



-32-
accordance with BSFIC's procurement procedures, which are satisfactory
to IDA and only after quotations are received from three suppliers,
provided that such contracts would not exceed, in the aggregate, the
equivalent of US$500,000. Procurement for vehicles would be in accordance
with local procedures as orders would not: exceed US$200,000.
5.07      Civil works would not be suitable for ICB because they would
include relatively small simple structures. Civil works for mills
rehabilitation would be done on force account by the mills, with assis-
tance of subcontractors. All other civil works, including roads, would be
through contracts let under local competitive bidding procedures satisfac-
tory to IDA. Documents for all bidding packages estimated to cost over
US$100,000 would be subject to IDA's prior review, resulting in a coverage
of 90% of the total estimated value of contracts. The balance of con-
tracts would be subject to random ex-post review by IDA after contract
award.
5.08      Consulting services, including expatriate and local experts,
would be selected in accordance with IDA guidelines.
D. Disbursement
5.09      Funds from the proposed credit would be disbursed over a period
of five years as follows:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment
and materials, 100% of local ex-factory expenditures for locally
manufactured equipment and materials, and 70% of expenditures
for other equipment and materials procured locally (US$12.5 M);
(b) 80% of civil works e!xpenditures (US$4.0 M)
(c)  100% of expenditures for consulting services, technical assis-
tance and training (US$1.5 M);
(d) unallocated (US$2.0 M).
Full documentation for all expenditures would be submitted to IDA in
support of withdrawal applications, except for force account where a
statement of work performed, certified by the miLl manager and the con-
sultants, would be forwarded to IDA. Documents for force account expendi-
ture would be retained by the mills for review by IDA missions. All
documents would have been checked and certified by BSFIC. Annex III
presents a detailed disbursement schedule and an estimated semi-annual
disbursement schedule. Since mill rehabilitation, the major project
investment, would be completed by the milling season of the third year,
about 70% of the disbursements under the credit would be made by year 3
of the project. Prompt starting of project implementation would be



-33-
ensured by the appointment of agricultural consultants before credit
effectiveness (para 4.22). Consultants now engaged in preparing the mill
rehabilitation program would also be responsible for supervision during
implementation. The projected rate of disbursement is therefore faster
than the historic pattern reflected in the agriculture disbursement
profile for Bangladesh.
E. Budgeting, Accounts and Audit
5.10      Following government requirements for formal project approval,
BSFIC would prepare the Project Proforma (PP). Approval by GOB of the
PP, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness. Separate
accounts geared to producing cost control and management information
related to all of their operations are kept by the mill companies.
BSFIC's accounts division, which is responsible for internal audit, car-
ries out a continuous audit. For the purpose of disbursements against
statements of expenditure, BSFIC's and the mill companies institutional
and staffing capabilities, as well as budgeting, accounting, internal
control and auditing are adequate and satisfactory. Annual accounts of
the Companies are audited by private auditors. Annual accounts are cur-
rent and their audits are up-to-date.
5.11      Assurance has been obtained that all agencies participating in
the project would maintain adequate records to identify physical and
financial progress of the project. Overall project accounts would be
consolidated annually by BSFIC from project accounts prepared by the
participating agencies. Assurance has been obtained that the private
auditors to BSFIC would audit these accounts and that the audited accounts
together with the auditor's report would be submitted to IDA within six
months of the close of each financial year. In addition the mill com-
panies' unaudited accounts within four months and audited accounts within
six months of the close of their fiscal year would be submitted to IDA.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
6.01      The General Mlanagers of the mill companies would be responsible
for project implementation in their respective zones. Each mill company's
general management and administration would be strengthened by restructur-
ing the management at the mill zone and by the appointment of two key
managers--Agricultural and Factory Managers. The appointment of these
Managers would be a condition of effectiveness. No additional middle
management and extension staff would be required under the proposed reor-
ganization (Charts No. 23528 and 23529). The resident agricultural con-
sultant at each mill, in addition to being responsible for development of
the mill farm, and extension of mechanized cultivation to outgrowers,



-34-
would act in an advisory capacity to the Agricultural Manager in coor-
dinating the activities of the various divisions--cane development (out-
growers), plantation (mill farm), agronomy (field trials, seed cane
production and inspection) and garages and workshops (mechanized cultiva-
tion and cane transport).
6.02      BSFIC would, as at present, be responsible for overall supervi-
sion and coordination and provide common support, including procurement
and technical services. The responsibility for mill farms, outgrowers,
and research would be with the Director, Cane Development arid Research and
that for the mills with the Director, Production. To strengthen project
coordination, a Project Coordination Unit would be established, headed by
the BSFIC Director, Planning.  The establishmen: of the Unit would be a
condition of effectiveness. The members of the Unit would be the General
Managers of the mills and BSFIC-s departmental managers responsible for
project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit would report
directly to the Chairman, BSFIC.
6.03      At appraisal it was found that the scope of duties of the
various agricultural departments (SRTI, Subject Matter Specialists, Cane
Development Department, Agronomy Department, and Seed Inspection Depart-
ment) under the Director Cane Development and Research required clarifica-
tion and reform. In particular duplication of effort by the SRTI and the
Agronomy Department needed to be eliminated. Subsequently the changes
were made; key features are that SRTI would be fully responsible for field
evaluation of its experiment station results, including field variety
trials in as many zones as possible, and that the Agronomy Department
would ensure that the research findings, which had been validated at the
field level, would be included in the cane development program. Details
are in Annex IV.
B. Outgrowers Organization
6.04      In each mill zone the mill company would have overall respon-
sibility for planning and coordination of production. Outgrowers would be
registered with the mill and, in addition, would be required to enter into
a cane supply contract, if the outgrower receives agricultural services
and inputs from the mill under the credit program.  BSFIC has proposals
for the development of cane growers associations at the purchase centre,
with representatives from each assocation on a central coordinating com-
mittee, chaired by the mill's manager, at the mill level. CDA would
organize the formation of associations of outgrcwers around each purchase
centre. The associations would represent members interest vis-a-vis the
mills. Each mill would inform the associations through the repre-
sentatives on the central committee, of all matters pertaining to out-
grower cane production and procurement in the zone and establish a close
working relationship with them. The associations would organize the



-35-
members to become contract cane growers, facilitate the delivery of serv-
ices by the mill and assist the contracting parties in meeting their
respective obligations.
6.05      It is Government policy to promote irrigation development mainly
through the sale of pumping equipment to TCCA/KSS 1/ cooperatives.
Irrigation development under the project would therefore focus on
TCCA/KSS. So too would the promotion of mechanised land preparation since
this, like irrigation, needs to be organised on a group basis. Close
coordination would be maintained between mill staff, cane growers associa-
tions, and TCCA/KSS and IRDP staff within the mill zones.
C. Implementation
6.06      The project would be implemented over a five year period; a
detailed implementation schedule is at Annex V. The agricultural program,
which would be initiated the first year, would continue over the entire
five year period; procurement of irrigation equipment and vehicles would
be initiated during the second half of the first year and installation of
irrigation facilities would be completed during the third year of the
project. Other agricultural equipment for land preparation would be
procured during the fourth and fifth year of the project, as the present
equipment would be adequate during the early years of the project. CDA
training in irrigation management procedures would begin in the first year
of the project, then, in the first two years of the project there would be
an investigative phase to develop systems for cane production under
irrigation. From year 3 extension staff would strongly promote irrigation
development by which time higher yielding varieties are expected to be
released (para 2.17). Construction of roads and other infrastructure
would be spread over the first three years of the project. The mill and
cane handling and storage equipment would be procured during the first
year of the project and would be installed and commissioned by the begin-
ning of the milling season of the third year. The proposed subsector
study would be completed during year 2 of the project.
6.07      Specifications and tenders for the mill rehabilitation are being
prepared by consultants engaged under IDA's technical assistance opera-
tions; engineering work is sufficiently advanced to allow tendering to
begin soon after Board presentation. Implementation of the agricultural
and mill rehabilitation components would be supervised by consultants
appointed by BSFIC. The mill companies would be responsible within their
respective zones for all agricultural development, all civil works, mill
rehabilitation, and training. The civil works division of the mills would
1/ Two tier cooperative system--the Thana Central Cooperative Association
(TCCA)/Krishi Samabaya Samity (KSS)--promoted by IRDP.



-36-
be responsible for road construction under the supervision of mill zone
development committees headed by the District Commissioner of the dis-
trict. BSFIC would be the executing agency for the required studies and
for staff overseas training.
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
6.08      Based on reports from the mills, SRTI and the District Roads
Maintenance and Development Committees, BSFIC would prepare quarterly
reports, both physical and financial, covering all aspects of the project.
The present reporting system iin BSFIC's various agencies are adequate.
The quarterly reports which would be on a format mutually acceptable to
BSFIC and IDA would be submitted within two months after the end of each
reporting quarter. Particular emphasis would be given to assessing the
impact of the project on the outgrowers. Socio-economic data from the
preparation report, updated by BSFIC, would be the benchmark. Evaluation
would be conducted twice by BSFIC--at the midpoint and at the end of
project implementation. BSFIC would also be responsible for preparing,
not later than six months after the closing of the project, a project
completion report.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production and Yields
7.01      In this section, in order to present a complete picture of
developments in the project area, in addition to discussing project
impact, reference is made to the impact of irrigation development and to
new cane varieties.  The latter would result from non-project investments
and benefits from them have not been included in financial and economic
analyses.
7.02      Outgrowers  cane yield without irrigation would increase from
13-20 to 16-28 TCA. With irrigation and the introduction of new cane
varieties by SRTI the outgrower cane yield would increase further to 30-32
TCA.  The projected yields are about 60% of the yields achievzed under
controlled conditions in the SRTI farms. The outgrower's cane area inside
the mill zones would be reduced by 17% of the present 47,400 ac, but, due
to the increase in yields, total cane supplied to the mills would increase
from 416,000 tons to 508,000 tons without irrigation. With irrigation the
total cane supply would further increase to about 550,000 tonIs.  In the
mill farms, cane production would increase from 21,300 tons to 54,300 tons
or from 8% to 17% of the millsE total cane requirement due to increase in
yields from 14-15 to 32-35 TCA and the additional 625 ac brotught under
cane cultivation.
7.03      The project would sustain the capacity of TSM at 1,500 TCD and
restore RSM capacity from 1,300 TCD to its originial level of 1,500 TCD.



-37-
In RJSM, the capacity would be increased by 33% to 2,000 TCD. Initially
the crushing season would be confined to 110 milling days within a 120 day
crushing season (the basis for analysis); later the season would be
lengthened commensurate with irrigated cane supplies. Ultimately the
season could extend to at least 150 days, the limit being transport dif-
ficulties during the monsoon. Sugar recovery rate would increase from
7.75%-8.0% to 8.0%-8.2%, representing a gain of 2.5%-3.1%. Overall
processing cost would be reduced by 5% to 6% and the incremental sugar
production from the project would be 8,480 tons, an increase of 25% over
the present production of 33,920 tons. Details of project impact are at
Annex VI.
B. Consumption, Markets and Prices
7.04      With an annual growth of 1-1/2% in per capita consumption after
1981 and a projected population of 108.5 M in 1987, total sugar consump-
tion including industrial usage would reach 224,000 tons by 1987. The
production of established mills, without the proposed project but includ-
ing production from projects almost completed 1/ and planned 2/
would amount to 186,000 tons, thus creating a domestic deficit of 38,000
tons in 1987. The project would meet part of the deficit (8,500 tons),
thus reducing the domestic deficit to 29,500 tons. Free imports under
the wage earners scheme would make up the difference until production
could be increased further, as a result of irrigation development and
possibly from the proposed mini mills. To assure that project viability
would not be jeopardized by future developments assurance has been
obtained that (a) the projected production and consumption of sugar would
be kept under continuous review and that IDA would be furnished annually
with the results of the review and (b) installation of new milling
capacity would be based on recommendations, satisfactory to IDA, of a
feasibility study to ascertain the technical and economic viability of
such incremental milling facilities.
7.05      Sugar distribution is controlled by the Government (para 2.19).
Seventy percent of the sugar produced is distributed through the ration
mechanism at prices below the non-ration price. The Government has begun
phasing out the rationing and intends to remove it fully by the end of the
SFYP period. Assurance has been obtained that the rationing system would
be phased out by October 1, 1986. Additional sugar released for
non-ration sales would be sold through BSFIC's outlets and wholesalers
and retailers appointed by MLGRD&C (Para 2.10). The international price
1/ Rehabilitation of two mills under Australian Aid and the construction
of a 1,500 TCD mill in Serabanj under Indian Aid.
2/ A 1,500 TCD mill in Natore under Pakistan Aid.



-38-
of refined sugar, expressed in January 1982 constant dollars, is projected
at US$0.18/lb for 1983 and US$0.25/lb for 1985, refined U.K. or Amsterdam
ports, compared to US$0.24/lb for 1981 and US$0.28/lb for late 1980. The
average import price of refined sugar in the first eight months in 1981
was US$0.33/lb transported to Dacca. There were no imports in 1982. The
projected price for 1983 and 1984 is US$0.20/lb and thereafter US$0.28/lb
expressed in 1982 constant dollar. The evaluation of the project is based
on these import substitution prices.
7.06      The Government is responsible for setting producer and consumer
prices (para 2.20). The present price levels, excise duty and taxes are
adequate so that producers supply enough cane tco ensure adequate capacity
utilization; the mills can make reasonable profits after tax assuming
efficient operation; and prices are in line with projected world prices
after 1984 indicating a reasonable level of industry efficiency. At the
present cane price of Tk 15/md, the mills' cost of production of sugar,
including depreciation and overhead expenditure was Tk 343.12/md
(US$0.23/lb) for the 1980/81 milling season. After adding excise duty at
Tk 51.43 /md, road development cess at Tk 10/md, the total cost to the
mill was Tk 414.85/md (US$0.28/lb). As against this the ex-mill price is
Tk 464.75/md (US$0.31/lb) for ration and Tk 560/md (US$0.37/lb) for
non-ration sales. The cost to the importer, who is required to sell the
imported sugar at the non-ration price is Tk 461/md (US$0.31/lb) at the
October 1981 spot prices calculated at the wage earners scheme exchange
rate of Tk 21 to a dollar and after adding import duty of Tk 29.85/md.
The free imports allowed under the wage earners scheme ensure that domes-
tic prices will not be inflated relative to world prices. Assurance has
been obtained that the free imports which were suspended in 1981/82 would
be restored.
7.07      The Government policy is not to provice subsidies to the domes-
tic sugar industry. Cane prices to outgrowers and sugar prices are
usually reviewed by BSFIC and approved by the Government before the mill-
ing season to maintain them at adequate levels to provide incentives to
cane growers and to maintain the financial viability of the sugar mills.
Assurance has been obtained that this policy would be maintained.  It was
also agreed that in setting sugar prices (i) the financial viability of
BSFIC's sugar mills would be considered as a grc,up, assuming efficient
operation and a normal milling season of 120 days and (ii) an appropriate
cost of importing sugar would be used as a benchmark.



-39-
C. Financial Results
Farmer Benefits
7.08    The project is based on a gradual increase in cane productivity
on the mill farms and at outgrowers farms in close proximity to the mills,
and a corresponding decrease in outgrower production area in the outskirts
of the present mill zones. The rationale is to lower the cost of cane and
to ensure the supply of fresh cane to the mills by reducing the distance
cane is hauled; and to release cane area mainly for foodgrain production.
7.09      Under the project yield increases on outgrower farms would
result from improved land preparation, including mechanization, use of
quality seed cane, and improved cane husbandry promoted by the mill's
extension staff. Outgrowers would also be assured of input supply,
including seed cane and mechanized land preparation services, under the
mills credit program strengthened under the project. Purchase centres
with input godowns would greatly facilitate the distribution of inputs and
serve as a vital meeting place for the farmers and the outgrowers. With
improved facilities provided in the form of housing, vehicles and teaching
equipment the extension workers would be more productive and efficient.
7.10      To assess the impact of the improved extension services on the
outgrowers, farm budgets under rainfed condition have been prepared (Annex
VII) corresponding to the expected cropping pattern for the three mill
zones. The budgets show that farmers income would increase by
Tk 1,171/ac or 69% in TSM, Tk 1,039/ac or 49% in RJSM and Tk 1140/ac or
55% in RSM. Outgrowers- income risk would be minimal by not requiring any
cash contributions from them, and rescheduling of repayment of credit in
the event of crop failures. With the introduction of irrigation, farmers
would be protected from crop failures due to drought. Calculations also
indicate that the farmers- incomes would substantially increase and sugar-
cane cultivation, with existing varieties, would be competitive with
foodgrain production under irrigation.
7.11      Due to the increase in cane productivity about 8,000 ac, cover-
ing about 10,000 outgrowers, would be released from the mill zones. Of
these about 40% of the outgrowers would continue to produce cane and sell
it to alternative cane markets--gur manufacturers, mini mills and adjoin-
ing BSFIC mills. The remainder would take up food production, and they
too would benefit from the irrigation development expected to occur over
the next several years (para 4.08).
BSFIC's Finances
7.12      BSFIC and the sugar mills are separate financial entities.  GOB
owns all the share capital of the sugar mills and of BSFIC. As the super-
visory and coordinating agency of the Government, BSFIC charges its



-40-
administrative expenses to the! mills to recover its operating costs. The
share that each mill has to pay depends on its total sales and its capital
expenditure. In FY80 BSFIC's operating costs amounted to TK 14.5 M and
the cost to each mill was 1% cof its capital expenditure plus 1.6% of its
sales. BSFIC-s operating costs, which include expenditures of head-
quarters, have been reasonable and no increase in expenditure is
anticipated due to the project.
7.13      BSFIC had, in view of the mills  financial losses, provided
working capital to the mills from subsidies and loans obtained from the
Government. With the proposecl capital restructuring (para 7.16) and
anticipated profits, the need for subsidies would be eliminated, and
BSFIC's role in allocating Government funds would become redundant.
Consolidated Mill Finances
7.14      Through FY79, the sugar mills  accumulated losses were
Tk 119.0 M. Sales prices fully covered raw material and conversion cost,
but depreciation, administrative expenses, and interest charges were only
partially recovered. With the increase in sale prices in FY80 and FY81,
the sugar mills recorded profits, a low Tk 174.0 M in the first year due
to the decline in production as the result of poor cane crops and a record
Tk 335 M in the second year when production reached 142,000 tons against
93,000 tons in FY80. A total Tk 91.0 M was paid to the national exchequer
as dividends from the sugar companies for the FY81. (Present Government
policy is to transfer all surpluses to the national exchequer and then
allocate funds for capital expenditure through the Government Annual
Development Plan (ADP)).
Project Mills Finances
7.15      Financial performance varied among the 14 operating mills,
including the three project miLlls, under BSFIC's management.  Through
FY79, TSM and RSM accumulated losses, which amounted to Tk 8.2 M and 0.50
M respectively. Despite low sugar prices RJSM, with its adequate cane
supply from the outgrowers, made profits as the mill operated at levels
over its rated capacity. Accumulated profit through FY79 was Tk 2.4 M.
In FY80, despite increases in sugar prices RSM suffered the most due to
crop failure. RSM-s capacity utilization was only 38% and incurred a loss
of Tk 3.2 M, while the other two mills made marginal profits: RJSM
Tk 5.3 M and TSM Tk 9.7 M. In common with the other mills, the three
project mills recorded substantial profits in FY81: RJSM Tk 40.6 M, RSM
Tk 31.7 M and TSM Tk 28.1 M. (TSM due to its poor soil conditions was
slow in recovering from the previous year's drought.) Comparative income
statements for FY80 and FY81 are in Annex VII. According to the draft
accounts the project mills have maintained their high profits in FY82.



-41-
Capital Restructuring of Sugar Mills
7.16      BSFIC's sugar mills  total assets in FY80 were Tk 1,574 M, while
long term debt and current liabilities accounted for Tk 1,360 M (86% of
the total assets, implying a debt equity ratio of 86:14 caused by the
losses prior to FY80. Financial assistance by GOB and bank borrowing
have kept the mills liquid during the past years; 46% of the total debit
was to GOB, while borrowings from the banks amounted to 30%. BSFIC is now
proposing to establish for each mill a debt equity ratio of 60:40 by
conversion of GOB loans into equity. Assurance has been obtained that this
would be completed for the project mills by FY84.
7.17    The balance sheets of the project sugar mills are in Annex VII
and their financial position is summarized below:
Table 7.1: SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(TK Million)
RJSM                     RSM                      TSM
FY79   FY80   FY81    FY79   FY80   FY80    FY79    FY80   FY81
Current Assets       68.2   88.7   112.2   44.0   50.0  102.80   57.60   83.4   134.5
Fixed Assets         33.0   34.7    33.7   12.0   12.7   13.50   20.30   20.9    20.3
Debt                 42.8   45.6    58.2    2.1   13.5   12.20   11.30   24.7    23.0
Current Liability   42.3   59.6    61.5   27.8   25.3   68.60   59.30   64.3   111.8
Equity               16.1   18.2    26.2   27.0   23.9   35.50    7.30   15.3    20.0
Current Ratio        1.61   1.94    1.82   1.58   1.98    1.49    0.97   1.29           1.2
Debt/Equity Ratio  73:27  71:29   69:31   7:93  36:64   26:74   61:39  62:38   53.67
Projected Financial Performance of the Project Mills
7.18    The financial projections for the mills are in Annex VII. The
projections assume FY82 as the base year, and are based on draft accounts
and allow for the proposed progressive increase in ration prices to full
market level by FY87. In general, the projected income statements show a
distinct trend of profitability from FY86 onwards, after an initial
decline through FY85, during which period the major rehabilitation work
would be undertaken. Cash flows show similar trends and would permit
distribution to the Government of from 50% to 100% of the profits, after
providing for income tax at 50%, project investment, and debt servicing.
To ensure that the mills retain internally generated funds for future
rehabilitation (para 4.25) and working capital needs, assurances have been
obtained that (i) a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not
less than 1.25 would be maintained until FY85 and not less than 1.5 at all
times thereafter; (ii) a debt equity ratio of 60:40 would be achieved
by June 30, 1984 and maintained thereafter; and (iii) dividends would be
declared only after the current and debt equity ratios have been met.



-42-
These measures would enable the mills to provide 50% of their working
capital requirements from their own resources anad eliminate the need for
the Government allocating funds through its ADP for capital expenditure.
Financial Rate of Return
7.19      Financial benefits from the proposed project accrLe from (i)
profits on additional production due to the increase in the mills' crush-
ing capacity and capacity utilization, and (ii) lowering of conversion
cost due to the rehabilitation. The financial rates of return in constant
1982 Taka are estimated at 14% for TSM; 19% for RSM and 36% for RJSM.
Sensitivity analysis summarized in Table 7.2 indicates that the returns
are most sensitive to changes in domestic sugar prices. The risk most
likely to affect the mills' financial viability is the Government's policy
on the marketing of sugar. With a satisfactory understanding with the
Government that the ration scheme would be phased out and that the cane
and sugar prices would be reviewed annually, this risk is considered
acceptable. With the proposed phasing out of the ration, distribution
through BSFIC's outlets and retailers appointed by MLGRD&C would increase.
Thereafter, non-ration prices are, however, likely to fall to compensate
for the additional quantity available for sale. With the total removal of
the ration in FY87, it is expected that the non-ration price would fall by
5% of the 1980/81 price, but would be 7% over the 1980/81 average of
non-ration and ration prices.
Table 7.2:   SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SWITCHING VALUE
(at 12% Discount Rate)
TSM       RSM        RJSM
Total Benefits - Sugar Production or Prices          -13       -23         -31
Strengthening of Extension Services Cost              74       230         962
Mill Farm Development Cost                             38      264          -
Mill Rehabilitation Cost                              28        94         260
Total Operating Cost (including cost of cane)         53        79          61
Government Budget and Foreign Exchange
7.20    The Government  would receive Tk 474 M (US$20 M) from project
related revenues and Tk 459 M (US$19 M) in debt service payments from the
companies.  The total cash inflow, including disbursements under the
proposed credit, would be US$59 M. Total cash outflow would amount to
Tk 510 M (US$22 M), producing a net surplus for the Government budget of
Tk 851 M (US$37 M), over a 10 year project life. A detailed cash flow is
in Annex VII. The inflow of foreign exchange as external credit is
estimated at US$20 M; molasses export over the five year development



-43-
period would yield another US$1 M. The foreign exchange content of
project investments and operations would be US$14 M. However, the value
of foreign exchange savings through import substitution of sugar produced
under the project would be US$14 M, resulting in a positive effect on the
country's foreign exchange balance of US$3 M for the five year development
period. Thereafter, annual foreign exchange savings, including debt
service payments, would be about US$8 M commencing year 6, expressed in
1987/88 constant prices.
VIII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      It is increasingly recognised--most recently in the economic
report 1/ now under preparation--that, with foodgrain production programs
well underway, a start must be made on a more diversified program to
improve agriculture sector performance. This project in the sugar subsec-
tor would be a first step. A study 2/ conducted by the Boston University
indicates that Bangladesh has a comparative advantage in producing sugar.
Unlike ongoing sugar industry programs, which have a narrow focus, the
project would comprise a comprehensive effort to improve performance of
all aspects of the industry--small holder and mill farm cane production,
cane handling and transport, and milling--leading to major gains in
industry productivity. The primary direct benefits of the project would
be: (a) the release of about 17% of the present 47,400 ac cane area in
the mill zones for alternative use, (b) increased sugar production--about
8,500 tons or an increase of 25% over present production and a reduction
in sugar imports, (c) a lower unit cost of production of sugar in general
for all mill operations from Tk 339/md in 1980-81 to Tk 294/md in 1988-89
due to the yield improvements in the outgrower farms and mill farms, the
mill rehabilitation, the reduction in cane transport costs, and the supply
of fresher cane to the mills through faster transport and the smaller
zones. The project beneficiaries would be primarily about 50,000 out-
growers whose income would improve by about 57%, the mill companies, and
the existing mill company personnel, whose employment and living condi-
tions would be improved.
Economic Analysis
8.02    The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole and for the individual mill zones. The project economic rate of
1/ Bank draft report on Bangladesh Recent Economic Developments and
Selected Development Issues.
2/ Shadow Price, Comparative Advantage and Trade Policy for Bangladesh
Industry - Center for Asian Development Studies, Boston University,
August 1980.



-44-
return is estimated to be 37% over a 20 year period, including a five year
implementation period. This is, as can be expected from a rehabilitation
project, well above the 17% estimated return from investment in a new
replacement mill. The rates of return for the individual mill zones are
18% for TSM, 25% for RSM and 58% for RJSM. The relatively high rates of
return for RSM and RJSM are due to increases in milling capacities which
can be achieved at low cost.
8.03      Rates of return for individual projecl; components have also been
worked out; they range between 13% and 102% and are satisfactory (Table
8.1). Because of the high capital and operating costs of sprinkler
irrigation (para 4.18), the returns for mill farm development, although
adequate, are lower than for the outgrower components. However, the
development of the mill farms is justified for the reasons outlined at
paragraph 4.17. Furthermore, it is expected that when detailed farm
planning is completed by consultants (para 4.18) the rate of return from
mill farms would be well above present projected levels.
Table 8.1: ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
(percent)
Components                      ERR         Investment Cost
TSM
Outgrowers                    31                 5.5
Mill Farm                     13                10.3
Mill Rehabilitation           16                14.5
Total Zone                    18                30.3
RSM
Outgrowers                    48                 8.6
Mill Farm                     21                 6.3
Mill Rehabilitation           21                21.0
Total Zone                    25                35.9
RJSM
Outgrowers                   102                 7.6
Mill Rehabilitation           37                26.2
Total Zone                    58                33.8
Total Project                   37               100.0
The following main assumptions were made in the analysis:
(a) Benefits. Only direct benefits from the project have been
included. These benefits include incremental cane from the mill farms



-45-
under irrigation and outgrower fields under rainfed conditions, sugar,
molasses, and bagasse production; savings in transport costs due to road
rehabilitation and the reduction of mill zones; and the net value of food
crops and sugar cane, under rainfed conditions, on the lands released from
the mill zones. No increase in yield and sucrose content of cane due to
improved varieties have been assumed or credited to the project, as these
benefits would be as a direct result of the BASIP program. Without
project yield projections assume growth in yields under rainfed condition
and improved management on the mill farms and under the clean seed program
on the outgrower fields.
(b)  Costs.   All project costs have been included.  Of the road
costs 70% have been assumed to benefit economic sectors other than the
sugar sector. All hired labor for factory operations has been fully
costed at the market wage rates adjusted by the standard conversion factor
(SCF) 0.83. In addition to the SCF the financial cost of farm labor,
Tk 15 per man-day, has been adjusted by a factor of 0.68 to reflect the
prevailing degrees of un- and under-employment. The foreign cost has been
converted at the official exchange rate of Tk 23.0 to US$1. Duties and
taxes were removed from the project costs and local costs have been
adjusted by the SCF. Price contingencies were removed to bring values
to 1982 constant prices.
(c) Prices. The value of the project's incremental sugar output
is based on import parity prices as it would primarily substitute for
sugar imports. The import parity price is consistent with the Bank's
commodity price forecast, adjusted for ocean freight, port handling char-
ges, and quality difference.   Molasses has been valued on the basis of
export parity. Excess bagasse has been valued at the local market price
adjusted by the SCF. For component rate of return calculations, incremen-
tal cane production has been valued, as a non traded commodity, at the
local economic cane price. Financial and economic price assumptions, and
costs of production and processing of sugar and foodgrains are summarized
in Annex VIII.
Sensitivity Analysis
8.04    Sensitivity analyses, summarized in Table 8.2, indicate no high
sensitivity to changes in most values. Returns are more sensitive to
changes in world sugar prices and cane yield, than to changes in cost.
However, to reduce the net present value of the project to zero at 12%
opportunity cost of capital (switching value), the import parity price of
sugar would have to decline to US$0.09 per lb, which is highly unlikely to
happen. A substantial reduction in cane production is also unlikely as
the record crop failure in recent years was a 30% shortfall on the
estimates for 1979-80 due to the adverse weather conditions. Even faced
with a combination of adverse circumstances, and for all expected extreme



-46-
changes in the variables, the project maintains an economic rate of return
well above the opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
Table 8.2: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS SWITCHING VALUE
(at 12% Discount Rate)
Total benefits - Sugar Production or Prices            -67
Strengthening of extension services cost            1,803
Mill farm development cost                          1,757
Mill rehabilitation cost                              384
Total investment and operating cost                    203
Employment Impact
8.05      The impact of the project on wage earners would be as follows:
Outgrower einployment opportunities would increase by
106,000 mandays for casual labor. The main increa,se
would result from the bigger cane harvest. The intro-
duction of some mechanized cultivations is not
expected to significantly reduce labor requirements.
Mill farm jobs would increase by 45,000 mandays.
Cane yard jobs would decrease by 12,500 mandays.
The overall impact would be a net increase of 1318,500 mandays.  In addi-
tion other employment opportunities--a total of about 1.25 M mandays for
casual labor--would result from road improvement: and other civil works,
and the overall employment picture in the sugar mills for labor and
salaried staff would be maintained.
Environmental Aspects
8.06      Sugar factories generate solid, liquict and gaseous waste
products. Hazardous or toxic products are not found in waste products
from sugar manufacturing. Air and water borne pollutants require control
measures and management. Fly ash from the boilers and effluents from the
factory are potential pollutants. However fly ash is not a problem in the
three mills. Problems have appeared with effluents at RSM and RJSM.
Adequate control measures, including the following, would be introduced to
limit factory effluent:



-47-
(a)  install a storage pond for the spent caustic solution and dis-
charge by diluting with clean spray pond overflows;
(b)  consolidate waste water ditches and spray pond overflow so that
only one ditch emerges from the factory to carry effluents;
(c)  install screens and oil traps in waste water ditches;
(d)  prevent leakages of process and other materials; and
(e)  install a program for cleaning the mill by sweeping and scraping
instead of using only the present practice of washing materials
into waste water ditches.
Project Risk
8.07      The risk most likely to affect the project's economic rate of
return is uncertainty concerning the production and consumption of sugar,
hence the assurance at para 7.04. With such an assurance this risk is
considered acceptable. Cane supply could be less than expected on account
of problems in mill-outgrower relations and shortfalls in yields due to
adverse weather conditions. The strengthening of outgrower organizations
is proposed to reduce the risk of conflicts arising between the mills and
the outgrowers. Cane yields have been estimated conservatively and, under
BASIP, research activities are being strengthened to improve the technical
package of inputs, husbandry, and cane varieties available to outgrowers.
To ensure continuing research development GOB has obtained extension of
BASIP beyond December 1982 (para 2.20). Furthermore, with the expected
expansion of irrigated cane production (para 4.09), cane supply would be
less dependent on climate. Another source of risk could be the lack of a
continuing mill maintenance and rehabilitation program. Unless the mills
undertake such a program, a serious deterioration of equipment would again
become a major problem, causing high unit costs and breakdowns of critical
mill equipment. It is expected that the increasing volume of mills
earnings in future years will enable them to undertake such a program
(para 7.18). Given the project's design, the assurances to be sought, and
the complementary programs underway which will ensure the development of
irrigated cane production, the project would not face any unacceptable
risk.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES
9.01      The following assurances were obtained:
(a)  Long-term training needs of sugarcane extension officers would
be met.



-48-
(b)  Adequate funds would be provided for the maintenance of the
roads constructed under the project (para 5.05).
(c) All project agencies would maintain adequate records to identify
physical and financial progress of the project (para 5.11).
(d) P-roject accounts, together with the mill companies annual
accounts, audited by private auditors would be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each fiscal year. In addi-
tion, the mill companies' annual draft accounts would be sub-
mitted within four maonths of the close of their fiscal year
(para 5.11).
(e)  (i) The projected production and consumption of sugar would be
kept under continuous review and IDA would be furnished annually
with the results of the review and (ii) installation of new
milling capacity would be based on recommendations, satisfactory
to IDA, of a feasibility study to ascertain the technical and
economic viability of such incremental milling facilities (para
7.04).
(f)  Sugar rationing system would be phased out by October 1, 1986
(para 7.04).
(g)  Free sugar imports policy would be retained (para 7.06).
(h)  Cane and sugar prices would be maintained at adequate levels
to provide incentives to cane growers and to maintain the finan-
cial viability of BSFIC's sugar mills, and in setting sugar
prices an approprialte cost of importing sugar would be used as a
benchmark.
(i) The proposed capita:l restructuring would be completed by FY84
(para 7.16).
(j) The mills would (i) maintain a ratio cf current assets to
liabilities of not 'Less than 1.25 until FY85 and not less than
1.5 at all times thereafter, (ii) achieve a debt equity ratio of
60:40 by June 38, 1984 and maintain thereafter, and (iii)
declare dividends only after the current and debt equity ratios
have been met (para 7.18).
9.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) Consultants for agr.iculture had been appointed (para 4.22);
(b) PP satisfactory to IDA had been approved (para 5.10);
(c) Agricultural and factory managers had been appointed (para
6.01); and
(d)  Project Coordination Unit had been established (para 6.02).



-49-
ANNEX I-A
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Agricultural Program
Background and Project Objectives
1.        The Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC) is
undertaking a project to intensify cane production in three mills and
smallholder farms, financed by the International Development Association
(IDA).
2.        The three mill zones selected for development are in the follow-
ing table:
Mill    Smallholder
Mill Zone             Farm        Farm
Acres
Thakurgaon (TSM)        1,215       12,800
Rangpur (RSM)             850        9,700
Rajshahi (RJSM)             -       16,900
3.        The objectives of the project are to develop, including provi-
sion of sprinkler irrigation, the mill farms and to strengthen extension
services, including mechanized land preparation facilities and credit to
smallholders.
4.        The consulting firm selected will be responsible for:
(a)  The preparation of detailed mill farm development plans based on
cost/benefit comparison of alternative irrigation systems fol-
lowed by the preparation of specifications for the agricultural
machinery and irrigation equipment and works, and assisting in
the evaluation of tenders;
(b)  The supervision of the development and rehabilitation of mill
farms, and the supervision of the implementation of the new
techniques in the outgrower areas; and
(c)  Staff training to ensure that the new techniques become estab-
lished operating routines.



-50-
ANNEX I-A,
Page 2
Scope of the Work
5.         The general scope of work shall inclade the following for each
mill zone:
(a)  The preparation of outline designs and specifications in suffi-
cient detail to invite tenders for the design and supply of
overhead irrigation equipment (at TSM and RSM mill farms);
(b) The preparation of specifications for agricultural machinery in
sufficient detail to invite tenders Eor the supp:Ly of this
machinery;
(c) Assist in selecting a short list of suppliers who would be
invited to tender and, finally, assist in the evaluation of the
tenders;
(d)  The supervision of the installation and operation of irrigation
equipment (at TSM and RSM mill farms');
(e)  The supervision of the installation and operation of drainage
works (at TSM and RSM, mill farms);
(f)  The supervision of the selection of those outgrowers' farms
which will receive assistance with mechanical land preparation;
(g) The introduction and supervision of iimproved cultural and other
agricultural techniques;
(h) The introduction and supervision of any improved harvesting and
transport practices that may be ident:ified, (separate consult-
ants would be retained for this purpose) as well as the supervi-
sion of routine harvesting and transport operations;
(i)  The training of senior supervisors who will take over the super-
vision of all oper.ations;
(j)  The preparation of detailed operations manuals and recording
systems applying to each group of activities, and the training
of senior supervisors in their use; and
(k)  Giving assistance  to the senior agricultural staff in the
preparation of budgets, and in operating budgetary control
techniques.



-51-
ANNEX I-A
Page 3
Time Schedule for the Project
6.        The project will be implemented over a five year period and the
consultants' services would be required over a four year period from July
1983. It is estimated that approximately 75 manmonths of consultant
services will be required to carry out the project implementation work,
including preparation of specifications and tender documents for agricul-
tural equipment.



-52-
ANNEX I-B
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILII'ATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Project Implementation - Mill Rehabilitation
Background and Project Objectives
1.      The Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC) is
undertaking a project to rehabilitate three sugar mills, financed by the
International Development Association (IDA). ]3SFIC desires to retain a
consulting firm for project implementation.
2.      The three factories selected for rehab:ilitation are listed in the
following table. Existing factory equipment are shown in Attachment 1.
PROJECT FACTORIES AND RELATED CAPACITIES
(Tons Cane/Day)
Factory              Present      Proposed
Capacity    Capacity
Thakurgaon (TSM)      1,500         1,500
Rangpur (RSM)         1,300         1,500
Rajshahi (RJSM)       1,500         2,000
2.      The scope of the proposed rehabilitation work has been defined by
consultants retained for detailed engineering and preparation of tender
documents.
3.      The objectives of the project are the f'ollowing:
(a) Maintain the production capacity and operational reliability
of TSM at 1,500 TCD;
(b)  Restore the pro,duction capacity and operational reliability of
RSM at 1,500 TCD;
(c) Expand the capacity of RJSM from 1,500 TCD to 2,000 TCD;
(d)  Improve sugar recovery and mill performance;
(e) Efficiently and economically utilize bagasse to make available
surplus bagasse for paper manufacture; and



-53-
ANNEX I-B
Page 2
(f) training to upgrade counterpart staff.
4.      The consulting firm selected for implementation will be responsible for
procurement, constructing, and commissioning of the project work. The project
work is outlined in Attachment 2 and has been defined by consultants retained
for detailed engineering.
Scope of Work
5.      The general scope of work for project implementation shall include
the following for each factory:
(a) Review project preparation work;
(b) Issue tender documents for procurement in accordance with IDA
guidelines;
(c)  Clarify any questions from tenders;
(d) Evaluate tenders and prepare detailed reports of bid com-
parisons with recommendations for awards;
(e) Advise and assist BSFIC in contract negotiations;
(f) Coordinate and expedite equipment manufacture and delivery;
(g) Review suppliers' approval drawings;
(h) Design engineering and preparation of construction drawings
for all project work;
(i) Assess the requirements of each project work item to evaluate
the construction effort necessary for erection and installa-
tion;
(j) Plan and schedule the project work for each factory;
(k) Confirm with each factory manager, construction work which
will be accomplished by factory personnel and the work to be
contracted;
(1) Prepare specifications and tender documents for work to be
contracted to local contractors;
(m) Supervise and coordinate all project work;
(n) Inspect construction to plans and specifications;



-54-
ANNEX I-B
Page 3
(o)  Supervise no-load tests and comm,issioning of equipment;
(p)  Prepare and implement training programs for new equipment for
factory staff and operating personnel;
(q)  Assess all factory operations and assist factory staff in
implementing improvements to increase sugar recovery and
improve factor,y performance;
(r) Certify payments for suppliers and contractors; and
(s) Train counterp,art staff.
Training
6.      Training of counterpart staff is one cf the objectives of the
technical assistance to be provided by the consultants. Six senior per-
sonnel from BSFIC, consisting of four mechanical engineers, one electrical
engineer, and one sugar technologist will be assigned to work with the
consultant-s project team. The experience of sugar industry personnel has
been limited mainly to the operation and maintenance of existing sugar
factories. The objective oi the training program is to train local staff
in detailed engineering and project management work to carry out future
mill rehabilitation and sugar industry development projects.
7.      Study visits by the counterpart staff to other sugar industries
are included in the training program. It is envisioned that the proposed
visits would be scheduled in August/September 1982 during the tendering
period for major equipment. A time period of 1.5 months for 6 persons has
been allocated for the study visits. The consaltant shall recommend an
itinerary, make all arrangements for the study visits, and provide an
experienced engineer to lead the group.
8.      Training in instrumentation and control systems for the electrical
engineers at the project factories is included in the training program.
Three months of overseas training are allocated for three engineers. The
consultant shall recommend appropriate training courses and make all
arrangements for attendance.
9.      A proposed training program for counterpart staff will be included
in the consultant's proposal.



-55-
ANNEX I-B
Page 4
Time Schedule for Project
10.     The project will be implemented over a 2-1/2 year period from July
1, 1983 through December 1985. The consultant's team must be available to
start the field work in July 1983. Procurement and engineering design
work for construction will be undertaken during the first year.
11.     The milling season generally extends over a four month period from
mid-November through mid-March. It is envisioned that initial construc-
tion work at the factories would start in March 1984 immediately after the
1983-84 milling season. The smaller work items would be completed by
November 1984 for commissioning during the 1984-85 milling season. The
large work items would be completed by November 1985 for commissioning
during the 1985/86 milling season.
12.     Major construction work such as boilers will be carried out by
local contractors. Small work items would be handled by the factory
workforce. The consultant will supervise and coordinate all work.
13.     It is estimated that approximately 69 manmonths of consultant
services will be required to carry out the project implementation work
including training of counterpart personnel.
Attachment



-56-
ANNEX I-B
Page 5
ATTACHEPNT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT PROPOSED
FOR REHABILITATION OF TSM
1. Cane Preparation and MiLling Station
(a) Modify existing knife set to reverse knifing;
(b) Minor modifications to handle prepared cane from reverse knifiLng;
(c) Imbibition water flow meter; and
(d) Repair mill turbine governor.
2. Juice Treatment and Evaporation
(a) Mixed juice flow control;
(b) Continuous sulfitation unit;
(c) PRV station for process steam and vapor;
(d) Replace evaporal:or tubes; and
(e) Replace drum of rotary vacuum filter.
3. Centrifugal Station
(a) New "A" Station;
(b) New "B" Station; and
(c) New "C" Station.
4. Laboratory
(a) Replace and upgrade selected equipment.
5. Steam and Power Generation
(a) Condensate storage tank;
(b) Boiler instruments;
(c) Deaerator;
(d) Bagasse system modification; and
(e) Replace selected. switchgear.
6. Ancillary Work
(a) Effluent control; and
(b) Miscellaneous pumps.
7. Millyard
(a) Mechanical cane handling system subject to further studies.



-57-
ANNEX I-B
Page 6
ATTACHMENT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT PROPOSED
FOR REHABILITATION OF RSM
1. Cane Preparation and Milling Station
(a) Modify existing second knife set to reverse knifing;
(b) Minor modifications to handle prepared cane from reverse knifing;
(c) Imbibition water flow meter; and
(d) Replace mill pinions; and
(e) Replace mill headstocks.
2. Juice Treatment and Evaporation
(a) Mixed juice flow control;
(b) Repair existing mixed juice scale;
(c) New Evaporator; and
(d) PRV Station for process steam and vapor.
3. Centrifugal Station
(a) Replace electric motors of "A" centrifugals; and
(b) Replace electric motors of "C" centrifugals;
4. Laboratory
(a) Replace and upgrade selected equipment.
5. Steam and Power Generation
(a) Confirm new boiler;
(b) Condensate storage tank;
(c) Boiler instruments;
(d) Deaerator;
(e) Bagasse system modification;
(f) Replace boiler tubes; and
(e) Replace exciter of turbogenerator.
6. Ancillary Work
(a) Deep tubewell;
(b) Effluent control; and
(c) Miscellaneous pumps.
7. Millyard
(a) Mechanical cane handling system subject to further studies.



-58-
ANNEX I-B
Page 7
ATTACHMENT
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT PROPOSED
FOR REHABILITATION OF RJSM
1. Cane Preparation and Milling Station
(a) Modify existing second knife set to reverse knifing;
(b) Minor modifications to handle prepared cane from reverse knifing;
(c) Imbibition water flow meter;
(d) Replace mill turbine rotor assembly;
(e) Replace mill pinions;
2. Juice Treatment and Evaporation
(a) Mixed juice flow control;
(b) PRV station for process steam and vapor;
(c) New Evaporator;
(d) Replace evaporator tubes; and
(e) Replace drum of rotary vacuum filter.
3. Centrifugal Station
(a) Replace electric motors of "C" centrifugals;
4. Laboratory
(a) Replace and upgrade selected equipment.
5. Steam and Power Generation
(a) New boiler;
(b) Condensate storage tank;
(c) Boiler instruments;
(d) Deaerator;
(e) Bagasse system modifications;
(f) Replace exciter of turbogenerator;
(g) Replace selected switchgear; and
(h) Replace boiler tubes.
6. Ancillary Work
(a) Effluent control; and
(b) Injector water pump.
7. Millyard
(a) Mechanical cane handling system subject to further studies.



-59-
ANNEX I-C
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for a Subsector Study of the Sugar and Gur Industry
Project Background
Gur and sugar are the basic sweeteners for the Bangladeshi
consumer. The Government of Bangladesh (GOB) is contemplating additional
investments for sugar cane processing. However development priorities and
strategies for sugar and gur have not been adequately identified. The
purpose of the proposed study is to identify such priorities and develop-
ment programs.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the proposed subsector study would be to:
(i)  review the current cane, gur and sugar production situation;
(ii) assess longer-term supply and demand of gur and sugar;
(iii) analyze policy and investment implications of production of cane
in relation to foodgrains; and the implications of investments
in gur and sugar for the country;
(iv) identify development constraints; and
(v)  develop strategies and priority programs in the gur and sugar
industry.
Implications
It is anticipated that the resulting review would form the basis
upon which GOB would establish future policies within which financial
donors would assist the Government of Bangladesh.
A number of important topics would be covered by the review,
including:
(a) Government organization for gur and sugar development;
(b) Extension, particularly assistance for small farmers outside the
mill zones;



-60-
ANNEX I-C
Page 2
(c) Role of agricultural. credit;
(d) Sugarcane research;
(e) Training requirements;
(f) Gur and sugar technology and appropriate size of mills;
(g) Rainfed and irrigation practices for cane;
(h) Impact of mechanizaton of farm operations; impact of consolidat-
ing land for mechanization;
(i)  Role of cane growers associations and possible amalgamation with
TCCA/KSS;
(j)  GOB-s policies on sugar and cane pricing, subsidies, taxes and
cesses;
(k) Role of the public and private sector in the gur and sugar
industry;
(1) Magnitude of external assistance;
(m)  Identification of preinvestment and feasibility studies
required.
Requirement for the Review
Three international consultants would be needed: an,
agri-business economist; a cane agriculturalist; and a sugar mill tech-
nologist. The team would also include a rural sociologist from a univer-
sity in Bangladesh, familiar with local conditions. The team. would use
existing data, inter alia, from the Bangladesh Australian Sugar Industries
Project, the Dutch gur study, source materials from the Sugar Research and
Training Institute, and the Ba:ngladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corpora-
tion.
About 10 manmonths would be required for the review: the
sociologist (3 months); the agri-business economist (3 months); the cane
agriculturalist (2 months); and the sugar mill technologist (3 months).
The review would beg:in in October 1984 and finish in January 1985.



-61-
ANNEX II
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Comeponent bs Time
(TK '000)
Base Costs                              Total
83/84      84/85       85/86     86/87    87/88         TK     (US$ '000)
A. THAKURGAON SUGAR MILL
STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICE         8S205.1   16,244+8    6,222.6  4,833.1  4,123.5   39,629.2    1,723.0
ROADS                                   4,387,3   B8774.6    4,387.3            -        -   176549.3       763*0
MILL FARM DEV.                           8s051.4   13Q236.1    9,171.1        9.2        -   30,467.8    1r324.7
MILL REHAB.                             10,539.6   18,234.8   10,491.8          -        -   39,266.2    1,707.2
Sub-Total THAKURGAON SUGAR MILL            31,183.4   56,490.4   30,272.8  4,842.3  4,123.5  126,912.5    5,517.9
B. RANGFUR SUGAR MILL
STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICE          ?9412.1   17,863.9    6,768.9  8,404.9  6,371.0   48,820+8    2,122.6
ROUIADS                                  3,911.4    7,822.8    3,911.4          -        -   15,645.6       680.2
MILL FARM DEV.                          9,614.3    9,736.4         48.7       9.2        -   19,408.6       843.9
MILL REHAB.                             15,907.1   25,069.7   16,054.2          -        -   57,031.1    2,479.6
Sub-Total RANGPUR SUGAR MILL               38v844.9   60,492,8   26,783.2  8,414,1  6,371,0  140,906.1    6,126.4
C. RAJSHAHI SUGAR MILL
STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICE         10,825.9   18,649.8    8,665.7  9,645.5  5,122.3   52,909.1    2,300,4
ROADS                                   5,014.4    7,959.8    5,014.4           -        -   17,988.5       782.1
MILL REHAB,                             19t406,1   32,243.4   19,406.7          -        -   71Y056.2    3,089.4
Sub-Total RAJSHAHI SUGAR MILL              35,246.4   58S853,0   33,086.7  ?Y645.5  5,122,3  141,953,9    6,171.9
D. TECH. ASSIST.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                  3,213.8    1,884.1    1,397+3           -        -    6,495.3       282.4
INDIVIDUAL MILLS                        2r316.3    5,646.0    5,646.0  5,646.0           -   19?254.1       837.1
SUBSECTOR STUDY                          1,808.3          --                             -    1,808.3        78.6
Sub-Total TECH. ASSIST.                     71338.5    7,530.1    7,043.3  5,646.0          -   27,557.8   ll?892
E. TRAINING - MILLS                         3,303.4    4,030.6    2,026.8          -        -    9,360.8       407.0
F. TRAINING - SRTI                            144.8      470.5       530.8         -        -    1,146.1        49.8
G. CANE STORAGE AND HANDLING                      -   39,389.1           -         -        -   39,389.1    1,712*6
Total BASELINE COSTS                        116,061.3  227,256,6   99,743.6 28,547.9 15,616,7  487,226.1   21,183.7
Phs;sical Continger,cies                   6,360.5   10Y515.7    6,076.1    282.3          -   23t234.6    1,010.2
Price Contingericies                       6,078.0   340758.9   25S163.7  8,105.5  5,452.4   79t558.5    3,459.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                         128,499.8  272,531.1  130,983.4 361935.7 21,069.1  590.019.2   25,653.0
Ta,es                                      3,461.9    4,936.1    2,339.6  1,246.6    660.4   12,644.6         549,8
Forei4n Ex;hanse                          81827.5  183.112.3   89,930.1 32,276.2 19,779.3  406f925,4   17,692.4



-62-
ANNEX  II
Table 2
BANSLBDESH
SUGAR REHABtLITATION MD INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
RAJSHAHI SUGAR MILL
Detailed Cost Table
Base Costs                                     Totals Ircl,dins Cont.rUeoc,es
83/14    84/81    81/S6     86/87   8/388    Total       83/84    84/85    81/86    eb/E-    87/a8      Total
1. lNVESTSENT COSTS
A. STRENSTHENING EXTENSION SEREICE
0. E3LIP9ENI Ahe 9A60INER6
TRACTORS                                          -         -        - 3,467.8        -    3,467.8         -         -        -444.                   4,484.0
P11WS                                             -    IS4.9    601.1   554.          -    1,340,9          -    209.2    729.2    227.4         -    1,65.6
HARRONS                                                               -    46,2       -        46.2                  -                9- s.8    -        s9.B
RI0ER'S                                           -         -     46.2    46.2        -        ?2.                         56.1      59.8       -       115.9
SUBSDISERS                                     92.5      61.6     7.1    77.0        -         08.2   96.5      89,7     S3.-      ss.6       -       359.3
LANI PLANE                                     10.9      21,1     10.9    38.2         -      165.6     53.1      28.8     61.6      99.3        -       91.2
KNAPSACK SPRAYER8                              91.7      91.7        -        -       -       183.4     95.7    183.6         -         -       -       i99.3
DEEP TUBENELL AND SPRINKLERS                1,310.7         -        -        -       -    1,310.7  1,307.2          -                  -       -    1,367.2
TOOL SETS                                      46.4      46.4     23.2        -       -       125.9     48.4      52.4    28            -       -       128.9
WELDINO SETS                                   50.9         -        -        -       -        Q119     53.1              -             -       -        53.1
BLACKSNITh SOILS                              286.6                                           286.6    299.0
6o-Tstola 530UIFENT  RND  AtHINERS            1,929,7    410.0    798.5 4,200.3         -    7,368.7  2,01.G    460.15    96S.7  5,470,1          -    8,915.3
- VEHICLES
4-UHEEL DRIVE                                 491,3         -        -        -       -       491.8    52i.1                  -         -       -       Sil.5
3. BUIL,CiNGS SUBZCNE
CDh, 0UT6RCHER BILDING.                       292.5    292.5         -        -       -      184,9    328.4    371.0          -         -       -       b99.4
hCDO, 2`C, CDh OFFICE1                        32.       2.0          -        -       -       649.9    364.9    812.2         -         -       -       777.i
INPUT  OD0N                                 341.    341.3         -        -       -       82.6    383.2    4132,9                  -               816.2
ACDD QUARTERS                                 288.4         -        -        -       -       288.7    324.3         -             -            -       324.7
FURNISHING AND EOUIPENT1                       20.1      2.1                      -            48.1     20.8      22.7        -         -       -        43.6
SO-Tot2l BIULIINGS SUBZONE                     1,287.o    978,8         -        -       -    2,246.4  1,4221.8  l,38.8          -         -       -    2,660.6
4. PURCHASE CENTER
CGA,CIC OFFICES                               346.7    693.5    046.7         -       -    1,386.9    389.3   il79.7    490.9           -       -    1,760.0
INPUT 3ODOWN                                  346.7    693.5    346.7         -       -    1,386.3    389.3   i179.7    490.9           -       -    ,760.1
CDI QUARTERS                                  433.3    B66.6    433.3         -       -      ,733.1    486.1  i,29'.2    613.5          -       -    2,199.2
CDA GUARTERS                                1,083.2  3,249.6    574.9         -       -    5,307.6  1,216.3  4,122.1  1,380.3           -       -    6,-18.7
FURNISHING AND EDUIPNENT                       22.3      44.6     22.3                -        892      23.3      10.4     27.0         -i0o.
Sub-Total PURCHASE CENTER                      2,232.2  1,547.6  2,123.9         -        -    9,903.8  2,504.7  7,G31.1  3,002.7          -        *12,538.
s. PRODUCTION CREDOIT                          4,346.3  4,346.3         -        -       -    8,692.5  4,547.6  4,553.8           -        -             9,501.4
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING EXTENSION SERVICE        10.267.7 11,282.8  2,922.4 4,230.3              28,703.2 10,998.6 13,687.2  3,970.4  5,470.1              34,127.3
B. R0AD8
HKRIAN-KATAKSH                       -           217.8    653.4    217.8         -       -    1,088.9    244.5    828.8    308.4           -        -    1,381.7
SARDh CENTER - MAIN C3P                          223.1    446.3    223.1         -       -       892.5   210.5    566.1    315.9           -       -    1,132.5
HA818N HATGODAGNI1                             4,573.1  6,860.2  4,573.5                      16,007.1  5,13515  8,702.2  6,475 5                       20,313.2
Sub-Total R0ADS                                   5,014.4  7,959.8  5,014.4         -       -   17,98B.5  5,6301 18,097.2  7,099.8            -       -   22,827.4
C. HILL REHA8IBIlATION
.E0UIPHENT ARD MACHINERY
BDILER                                      9,904.6 17,828.51 11,8115.3       -       -   39,618.4 11,365.2 22,163.6 15,86D.0           -       -   49,388.9
CONDENSATE sTORA0 E TANK                      470.0    470.0          -       -       -       940.0   5139.3    534.3         -         -       -    1,123.6
INJECTION WATER P3UHP                         928.6    928.6         -        -       -    1,857.1  1,065.5  1,154.3          -         -       -    2,219.8
CONTI9UDUS SULFITATION UNIT                   568.4    373.2         -        -       -       933.7    643.1    464.0          -        -       -    1,107.0
E9APCRATCR                                  1,196.0  3.989.  2,S03.4         -       -    7,97B,   1,831.4  4,939.4  1,193.8           -       -    9,9e4.s
VACUUM PAN                                  1,618.9  4,046.7  2,427.7         -       -    8,093.3  1,857.7  51,00.6  3,239.7           -       -   10,128.0
CRYSTALLIZER                                  298.1    741       4415.8       - -          1,489,0    342.0    926.3    594.9           -       -    1,863.2
B01LER INs8RTUKENTS                         0,019.0    608,8          -               -    1,627    1,169.0    716.9           -        -       -    1,926.2
LABORATORY EOUIPMENT                           66.2      66.2        -                        132.5     76.0      82.3                 -                158.3
EFFLUENT CONTROL                              179.6    179.6         -                        359.2    206.1   2!3.3         -         -       -       429.4
REHA81LITATE ESTEDN EQUIPMENT               2,255.8  3,007.3  2.254.5         -       -    7,517.6  2,588.5  3.70.58S  3,008.5          -       -    9,335.5
Sob-Total E'UIPHENT AND HACH1NERY             18,897.2 32,243.4 19,406.7         -       -   70,547.3 21,684.0 40,3E3.6 25,896.8           -        -   87,664.4
2. BUILDING8
U3GRA8IN  GUEST 3UARTERS                     508.9         -        -        -               508.9    571.5         -         -        -        -      571.5
Sub-Totl MILL REA9BILITATION                    19,406.1 32,243.4 19,406.7         -        -   71,056.2 22,255.5 40,0E3.6 25,896.8          -        -   88,235.9
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              34,688.1 511,486.0 27,343.5 4,230.3         -  117,748.0 38,884.6 63,837.9 36,968.0  5,470.1          -  145,190.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. NELL SPARES                                     558,2  7,3630.  5,74.3 4.   415,5.0  1122. 3   241205.9    588.6  8,254.7  6,868.0  6,864.1 6.8825   29,449.9
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                  551.2  7,367.0  5,743.3 5,415.1 5,122.3   24,205.9    580.6  3,214.7  6,868.0  6,864.1 6.882.5   29,449.9
Total BASELINE C3STS                                 351246.4 58,853.0 33, ft5,7 9,645.5 5,122.3  141,953.9 39,465.2 72,122.6 43,836.0 12,334.2 6,BM2.5  174,640.4



-603-
ANNEX 75
tablo 3
_320U7R  SUGAR 9/ILL
eta,ied Cost ToteR
ITK '3351
8As  Costs                                     Totals ttuOno      -t-t..:o
t3184    04/85    85/Ec    00/87   02208    Total        33/94    04/85    OTt       /02067    tI//U>
I. 2VESTONET COSTS
A, 3TRE2TK6NING EXTENIONISER30VICE
TRAC/ITORS-                                                            3.85331 2,331.0    0,130.0           ---0,0                 2,3.j       ,o     to.
L                                         II,:,,~~~~~~~- b.  90.C   373:,9   18.7  BoO -E            210.2    232. A  480,9   252.0    1,30t.z
RI000                                             -      0R. 4        -    0.         -        9.              - 253           -     50,8 
338152:3RS                                     432      002       35.0    002      3.         720       0         2.3     474       5.        .A        Oo /
P88LANES                                     3.       302          -    255         -        030      90,       0           -      3.
.30/ACK S9R0IER0                              91.?         -     0.7                         1  83.8   957          -    :1.s                          / 
7/E/77 0i ET0.09                                          00       32                         25.9      409        24 0-
.7032163003            559            - - - -             5      3       7      0      1      3.~---  ----   -----   -----   ----- ---
0607xS42T0    '3C3                   0    ---- -- -- --- -    -- --- -- -- -0--- -                  ------
i.,-Total 786338807 AND MA001NE83                292.o    303.2    230.7 4,702.0 2.528.6    7,705,0    375.2    415.3    200.3  3,021I.  2.40,
4-00DRIVE23                                   903,7          ----                03.                  212'`_-
0371/70013                          7002~--- - -  -- - --    -- - --   - - --    - - --    --- - .7-  -- - --   -- -   -  - - - - - -- - ---  - -- -
3. 0:201206 Su8Z3oE
CD35.13339ROWER33U01803                       202.5    292.5             5--400                   9    3/0,4    223-           -         
ACE32,27  020 OFFICES                         3225,0   325.,1        -                        lt.?    304.0    022
sF67 373300/                   143.3  ~~~~~30.        --- 0203                       7.2         03SI
00100/36                                       2,3 033              4-        -       -54O.o            E,.S    1
FUR3330  08H 5 AND 219060E                     22.0       0.1      7.9        -                33.      90.2
b/-TOOL   63.2283  0/0334          2,028. ------4----,          ---I     ----.-----2. .      7,-02 -3---.        -------------1--
220  122l BUFIDNS                              033OE  ,471.22.    033.0       -             24,70t/   ,200                  l
248:7c 6230043                                423.4   ,3,        42.4                       ,0.        0.    ,34         00.3.
237U 3606W380                                411,0  I211o.5    1300.o                    -  .50074   038.3l  l"1.0    0    002:,11
230 3/007660    ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ,1382270.            50.-5990.8'.2                       0.       .8
00043600460                      27.9     73~~~~~~~.1127,0                     133.7      293       0 '1.   /3 0
5. 3032623374206337    1,221.0  3.725,0          -       -               ---2412    ---2,  ---     ------0,   ---..--- 4-----
P. 03033
M 4003, A31-OT7E6 I3A09KA30037                 3.011.407.822,9  3.011,4                   115,64561,0 0.100  0,921.3  2,3.ST.                -1 , 5 ,
7.n. EQUIMEN ANDo000H94ER
In0010                                        3303-                                           0.3      32.2                                               2
30AND 0*                                       25.1                                                Is2-l6
FERTILIZER APPLICATORS7.-3                                                                             223           -                                   3.
NA C00  S39A8ERS                               2404.12.
AIR1493ER3                                  o,`33,    0.33        . - -2            2206.1   6.306,6  0.89-,                                         13,2640
2. 0E007.06~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..
8-*.ISEOC  ERIO038                                          -                                  0.      531.5                                            5325
4243-826                              -    0~~~~~~43.1   -       -        -       471          -    5                                      502.
MOTORCYCLES                                            -   -       9305           -            39.5         -                             47.24.
EiCY7LES                                                 1630,     I"2      02        -        35.0         -     393      13 4       23 3.
S-ot.<sl VEHICLES6                               401.0    063.7       01.7     9.2        -      01.335    513.5    5210      5 886    12.3              3,12.3'
1. 301IL0I403
8783 03ARTE83                                 S31o,     358.3                                 4    74,9    355.5    286.8     -         -               5563.3
058 0OU6TERS                                  052.5    071.0         -                       ,534,17230,3  3.112.0             -                       ,450.1
Sto-Ttota  83IL11,303                            974,2  1,C334.0         -       -        -    2.009.0  1,093.0  1,312.8                   -        -    3,430.6
Sot-Totl1 4IL, FoOlo 80600384047                  9.010,1  9,73o.4       08.7     3.72           19,400.6 32. 365.3 21,242.7     58.0      12.1            213,3130.0
3. M3LL 0E3A0ILIT0733N
3. E03104647 ARE3481030083
CINDER007083080E 7ANK                         030.0    323.31                --               940.0    730.8    32.II                           -     1.32,
BOILR                                       9,904.3 317,828.5 10.885,3        -            39,o1E.4 11.365,2 22130 156 81                       -     9 40,88
E300808T18                                  1,273I,2  3.1084.313,914.8                      6  8372,5  3,463,.0  3,950. 62554,37                       .92,4,9
SEE0 730EW60L                                 3913    308.9                                   352.0    110.2I07,4              -                        4  26.7
3068O    888IL7E930                                     30.R INST-    1,234.3 32:',                   ,823,31    033.31                               1    ,430.0
3043007307080130608                00~.;1700 --                              -        -     7.3    22.3                                    42- -  58.3
06363085 CDNRTO                               379.      07.86                 -               354.2    200.      223.          -                 -      424
60HA83033070 EX3372NG E331I90E4T            2,254.5  3,0084.  2,234.5                       7  ,517,o  2,537.2  3,743.1  3,0    tB. --9.             3S.-
Sob-Itota  63U194803 AND 8,A103NE8Y           15,393.2 25,3060,2 1,05.342        -            56.522.1 32,884.3 31,185.0 23,423.32                      73,257.0
2. BUILD3NGS
3388803461IE8T8G8R00076So 509                               -        --   -                   338.9    571.5         -         --       -               573,5
Sos-Total 430L 860001637083                      05,937.3 23,20.7 10,050.12         -        -   57,033.3 38,240.5 33,165.0 230423.2          -        -   '0,829.3
Totl.  I04S00ENT t0S3S                              38,0451.7 04,910.9 122.475,4 4,352.2 2.320,0  122.720,8 42.408,0 67.263.o 36,444.4  38628.2 3,483./  049,283.4
33. 901U807N3 130T3
A. M3LL SPAR80                                     392.3  ,5255.9  4.307,8 4,062,3 3,842.0  130,180.3        072.4  8,247.8  5.158,4  5,108.9 5,162,7   21,300.2
Ttotl RECURRENT 73330                                   392.2  5,525.9  4.307,2 4,062.0 3,842.4   38,380.3    037,9  n,247,8  5,251.0  5,148.9 5,002,2   27. 338,2
Iosa3 800003NE 77130                                  38,844.4 600.0418 28,783.1 8,434.3  o,371.0  340,908.0 42,872.0 73,535.4 35,598.2 33,778.0 8,682.7  171.404,3



-64-                                                                                   ANA9.X  II
Table 4
8ANINADE8H
R"  EMI848LIT4TI85 AN8 I4T8460FI04TION PR04CT
10682RG6AON SUGAR KILL0
Dt.il.5 Cost 78b0.
Sa    t. Cots(talA  0nIw.1Or  Co.Sinnoi,
81/84    84/80    85/86    86/97   87ING   Total        83/94    84/85    80/86    86/87   57/E8    Total
I. 0K6E'T4(9T CUATS
A, AT8E85T8E41148 EXTESUION SERICE
1.8E0U84ENT MD0 8AD408ERY
FLOS                                          670,1    739.8         -       -       -       417.0    707.4   8SU,           -                     1.543,5
WARNS4                                            -     92.5                                  92.05        -    104.5                                 1    04,5
RIOEREA                                        10.4     61.6         -       -       -        77.1     106.0     69.7        -                       58.7
8608801.58                                    138.7    10.9                                  2    40.4    144,7    121.9     -        -       -       266.4
LIWLFLES                                       92.5     77,0         -                       169.5     96,5      87. I                                182.4
98499,4K 098YERS                              107.0    10T.0                                 214.0    111.6    120,9         -        -       -      232.5
7TOM  SETS                                    139.1    1370    610.9         -       -       394,1    140,1    157 2    148.6         -       -       442,9
8EL0814  SET8                                 001,6        -         -       -                01.6    106.0         -        -        --              106.0
S.o-ToASl E00IP548 AND 850418R4                1.272.0  1,024.9    105.9        -        -    2,710.3  11,127.4  1,497,4    140.6        -   -        2.965,4
2. VEHICLES
4 *NSEL 0426                                      -        -             490.8       -       490.8 6                             621.4        -      623.4
857049R.Y8- ES                                                           236.9   206.9       470.8        -                        00.0   316.3      610.4
BICYCLES                                                   -        -     40.4    44.2        36.6         5-54            4,       .49 619          l.0
888-7otal VEHICLES0                                                     - 770.1   281.1    1.052.2           -                        80".1080.,2   1,060,0
2. 001108483 008008
00M/8UT1DARS BUILD2NG                         195.2    9195.1        -3-999.2213,4                          2471             -        -       -      466.0
8801, 000, C14 OFFICES                        216.6    210, -6                               403.3    240.3    274 A         -                       516.1
0IN8UT00884                                  227.1   .22'.          -        -5              405.1    251.0    288.          -       -        -      544.1
A009.0G85ER8                                  208.9    2831.9        -       -       -       577.7    024.0    000 4         -                        90.8
F794054046                                        -     2 .         7     - - -               26.7        -      3182        -                         0.7
SoS-Total OUOLDIOS SO 0808E                     926.2    906.7          -       -       -     1,662.7  1,142.01,0207 4                                2,249.4
054. 200 OFFICES                             144.7   677,0    346.7          -       -     1,086.9    189.0    079 7    490.9         -       -    176.
24987 Gomm4                                  346.7    697,5    046.7         -       -     1004.7    169.0    079 7    490.9         -        -    1,760.1
C1C 068TE0S                                  910.0    86.1.6    431,.-3                    1,700.1    486.5  1,099 02    611.15                    2,199.2
000 QARTERS                                1,080.2  3,247.6    649.9         -       -     4,982.7  1,206.1  4,122 1     9423.2       -            6- 62268
F104NI40HI8                                   22.1      44,6     22.1                         S  9.2   21.1      so 4A    27,0        -       -      00.7
38Total 9080468E 004709                       2,212.0  5,54',,  1,793.9         -       -     9,576.8  2,504.7  7,0310,1  2,592.6        -       - 12,076,9
0. 99R06(724 240007                            0,725,4  1,77.4         -       -       -     7,450.7  3.897,9  4,046.0         -        -             ,144,0
18b-Total S74E46'408148 007048104 SERVIC0         S,156.0 10.0557.  1,914,9   771.1I  280.1   22.677.6  8,772.1 11.482 1  2,643.2   '8001   3160.    24,796.5
6. RD850
900.0018   B 740.48                            3,129.7I.,227.0  31,22.7         -             2,518.7  0,514.3  7,9141.   4,411.3        -       -   15,885.5
885640E0 -8EY57                                1,257.6  2,511.1  1,207.6                      5 - 0010.6  1,412.2  3,910 7  0,780.7      -       -    6,183.3
886-0ota0 80000                                   4.3B7,1  8,77.7.6  4,37A7.       -             7,549.1  4,924.4 11,0130,7  6,202.0        -       - 22,269.1
C. MI,lL FARM 0E0ELOP8ENT
1. 800098E41 440 460072NE6
9s880m 8146.2                                                                -                4.2      48..2        -                         -       48.2'
LMDPLAINES                                    38.2 -          --                        -     8.2      19.9        -                          -       1.
FERTILIZER A99L0CAT04S                       610.8                                           6110.6    627.0        -                         -      637.0
06N8PS0009863868                               45.9                          -       -        40.9     47.          -        -                        47.6
0409 TToI4LLS                                     -30,421i.0  2,282.0                      5 ,703.1       -30,860.3  2,766.4         -        -    6,616.4
A98085L09                                  5,046.0  9,1541.4  8,103.2        -            20,144.1  5,105.5 01,346 3  7401.9         -        - 23,055.0
TO4L SES                                       ?                      69.5                         2.5                                           7
19000858080                                   081.1                                          1    8.3  19.                                        1.
08085001E                                   152.5         -         -       -       -       125      109.0                  -                        59.2
S888-Total 0410I4647 AND 85014R8               8,067.2 12,571.9  8,38530        -       -   27,000.5  6,309.2 14,214.8 1002.                          0,716.3
2. oROICLES
4       DRIVE06                              491.8         -        -                -       490.0    01.1.5                                         51.
MD7040Y7E0                                        -        -      18.4       -                18.4                       1  41.6      -       -      14.
B1070LES                                       14.7                9 .2    9.2       -        30.2     10.4               1 1.4    12.32              09.1
SLb6-T9tIl VEHICLES                              506.6        -     127.7     9.2               6 40.5    527.20            151.5    12.3               692.3
3. 88IL0IN6S
058D 8608                                     241.7             -        -2-         -        43.7    271.6                                          2
000 MAT008                                    16.2    658.2    858.2         -       -     1495       7.0       6.4       0.9         -       -    2,300.
864888 / 808080                 579.6  ~~~~~---- ----- ---- ---- -- 75.6--    648.4--  ----- ----- ---- ---- -- 46.4-
8o4-Totl BU8101NGS                             0.477,5    658.2    608.2        -       -     2.793.6  1.659.0   619.8    931.9          -       -    3,425.3
88- Total HILL F889 0440109484                    8,010.4 03,016.1  4,071.0      9.0            08,467.6  8,015.2 15,049.7 10,257.7    02,0             3 4,814.4
0. FILL REHABILITATION
1. E061IP(8T 868 MAC40NE4Y
CD87TI600  80 T178808  UN07                   108.4    45.4II        -       --              789.3    065.4    06.                                    20.7
4/8 84904 CENTRIFUGAL 6788104              2,719.4   .79;1. 4,378..5                         II-11,54.    0.20I,5 845,9  5,14425-    700.
021188526010k  7185                        206.W,100142.                              -   00,430.   2.822.0  7,10,6   .7, B- 1.0.
88000  048 T0AT4T                  1,00.01:    609.0        -        -  1,          624.1 4,1    1,06.3    792.1     --      7    92        .
LAS 0E6098(41                                  66.9  62              -                       112.0     76,      02.3         -                        581
09910E47 CONTROL                              179.6    1796                                  3    59.2    206.0    220.3     -                -      42.
0850640S1  01OR4GE TAW                        470.0    471.          -       -       -        40.0    519.0    504.0                ~1 - 1 02          .o
R8EIAOLITATE EXISTING 03809468              2,471.6  1, 94. 62,084.4         -        -    9, 984.6  0,409.9  4,408,7  3,962.4                     I  2,501.1)
886-1T8,100619847T A58 MACHINERY              10,030.7018.234.8 10.491.8                     3B 1,797.3 11,509.9 22,688.8 04,000.05                  40,079.2
2. BU0181853
798540E0G0E7T185709                          588.9 ?                         -               5086.9    571.5        -                 -       -      571.7
886-Totl MILL REHABILITATION                     10,524.8 186234.810,491.8         -        - 34,266.2 12,081.4 22,6688.8 84,000.5 B                     48,750.7
Tota1 1444ST466T COSTS                              00,038.4 51,798.2 22,960.1   780.3   221.1  109,961.0 34,290.1 62,831.1 34,152.4   992.3   381.2  112,602.'
II. 40E1680T7COSTS
A. K011 SPARES                                      47,0I4,892.1  4.307,8 4,162.8 0,842.4  '16.921,3         4a.9  5,227.8  0,050.4 5,148.9 5.062,7  23.769,1i
ToA.1 RECURREN7 00078                                   47.0  4.655,1  4,3057.8 4,002.8 3,042.4   06.951,1       48.9  5,287.3  5,151.4 5,148.9 5.162.7   20,769.1,
Total BASELINE 00T18                                 11085.9 56,491.4 30,272.8 4,840.1 4,122.0  026,902.5 14,344.0 68,588.7 39,304.0 6,141.0 5,544.0  153,420,1!



-65-
ANNEX II
Table 5
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
CANE STORAGE AN]D HANDLING
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Base Costs                         Totals Includins Contingencies
83/84  84/85   85/86 86/87 87/88  Total   83/84  84/85   85/86 86/87 87/88  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
MECHANICAL HANDLING EQUIPMENT            - 39,389.1       -     -      - 39,389.1      - 446515.3       -     -      - 44,515.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         39,389.1      -     -      - 39?389.1       - 446515.3      -      -     - 44,515.3
Total BASELiNE COSTS                          - 39,389.1      -      -     - 39.389.1       - 446515.3      -      -     - 44,515.3



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
DIetailed Cost Tahble
.Th 'Or.i
Base Costs                              Totals Includmqn. Cor;tinter;cies
83/84   84/85   85/86   86187  87/88  Total    .3/84   84/85   S5!8u   B6/87  87/88  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
PRfl QErT IiiP LE'eIT&TTMIT7 TrA-     286.7 -,507.0 il24i.1            -      -  C5!4+u  y I  q 1!708A4 1Y581'-                   -  6L470M
11   AM  Jl"~.flmiluI1ILMiFI        G!~O.I~V,                                   J,u       ~     i,u.
SOIL ENGINEER                            64.6    64.6         -        -     -      29.2    70.8    76.7          -   -           -    147.4
SUPFPORT SERVICE                        312.5   312.5   156.3          -      _    78i.3   342.3   370,9   199.1           -      -    912.2
SCub-Total PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION        37213.8 18.84.1 1,397.3                 -  6-495.3 3r520.2 22235.9 1,750.0           -      -  7,536.
B. INDIVIDUAL MILLS
A'GRICULTURE MANAGEMENT TSM             760.0 27026,8 2,026.8 2026.8          -  67840.3   832.8 2t407.5 2,585.9 2.758.1          -  8,584.3
AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT RSM              760.0 2,026.8 2,026.8 2,026.8         -  6,840.3   B32.8 20407.5 2,585.9 2i758.1          -  E,584,3
AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT RJSM             794b2 15992t4 1i 592. l:;A 2I         -  55573A6 7-A 1,   .6 21Qi.i.8 .iu7                - L  A
Sub-Total INDIVIDUAL MILLS               2,316.3 5y646.0 5y646.0 5,646.0         - 19i254.1 2,538.0 67706.5 7s203.7 7,683.4          - 24,131.6
C. SUBSECTOR STUDY
LOCAL                                   190.5        -        -        -      -    190Q5    0-8.7        -                 -      -    208.7
FOREIGN                               1,617,8        -        -        -      -  li7 .8 1:772.7          -        --               -  l772.7
Sub-Total SUBSECTOR STUDY                1,808.3         -        -       -      -  1r808.3 1981.4          -       -        -      -  1r981,4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                       7,338.5 7,530.1 7,O43.3 5646b0        - 2755 7.8 8,039.6 80942.4 87983,8 7,683.4          - 33r649."
Total BASELINE COSTS                          7,338.5 7t530.1 7Y043.3 5,646.0        - 27,557. 88039.6 8,942,4 8,983+8 7,683+4           - 33r649.2      
D =  =



-67-
ANNEX II
Table 7
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
TRAINING  - MILLS
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Base Costs                           Totals Including Contingencies
83/84   84/85   85/86  86/87 87/88 Total    83/84   84185   85/86  86/87 87/88  Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
MOBILE UNIT                           - 2.003.9        -     -      - 2,003.9        - 2,380.3        -     -     -  2,380.3
OVERHEAD PROJECTOR                 46.1       -        -     -      -    46.1    50.5        -        -     -      -     50.5
ENGINEERING STUDY VISIT           651.5       -        -     -      -   651.5   713.8        -        -     -      -    713.8
AIR FARES                        579.1        -        -     -      -   579.1   634.5        -        -     -      -    634.5
INSTRUMENTATION TRAINING          651.5       -        -     -      -   651.5   713,8        -        -     -     -    713.8
AIR FARES                        217.2        -        -     -          217.2   2379.9       -                          237.9
COURSE FEE                        144.8       -        -     -      -   144.8   158.6        -        -     -      -    158.6
AGRICULTURE SHORT COURSES         651.5 1,302.9 i,302.9      -      - 3,257.3   713.8 1,547.7 1.662.4       -     -  3,923.9
AIR FARES                         217.2   434.3   434.3      -      - 1,085,8   237,9   515.9   554.1       -     -  1,308.0
COURSE FEE                        144.8   289.5   289q5      -     -   723.8   158.6   343.9   369.4        -     -    S72,0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             3,303.4 4,030.6 2,026.8      -      - 9,360.8 3.619.5 4.787.8 2,585.9       -      - lO993.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                3,303.4 47030.6 2,026.8      -      - 9,360.8 3.619.5 4,797.8 2,585.9       -      - 10,993.2



-68-
ANNEX II
Table 8
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHAIBILITATION AND INTENSIFICATI:ON PROJECT
TRAINING - SRTI
Detailed Cost Table
(TK '000)
Base Costs                       Totals Including Contingencies
83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87 87188 'otal   83/84  84/85  85/86  86/87 87/88 Total
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. STUDY VISIT, DIRECTOR
INDIA                                          36.2   36.2        -     -      -    72.4   39.7   43.0         -     -      -    82.6
AIR FARES                                       12.1   12,1       -      -     -    24.1   13.2   14.3         -      -     -    27.5
MAURITIUS                                          -   36.2       -      -     -    36.2        -   43.0       -     -      -    43.0
AIR FARES                                          -   72.4       -      -     -    72.4        -   86.0       -     -      -    86.0
INDONESIA, PAPUA NEW GUINEA                        -      -   48.3      -      -    48.3       -       -   61.6      -      -    61,6
AIR FARES                                          -      -   60.3       -     -    60.3        -      -   77.0       -     -    77.0
Sub-Total STUDY VISIT, DIRECTOR                    48.3  156.8  108.6       -      -   313.7   52,9  196.3  138.5        -     -   377.7
B. STUDY VISITS, OTHER SCIENTISTS
INDIA                                          72+4   72.4   72.4       -      -   217.2   79,3   86.0   92.4        -      -   257.6
AIRFARES                                       24.1   24.1   24.1       -      -    72.4   26.4   28.7   30.8        -      -    85.9
MAURITIUS                                          -   72.4       -      -     -    72.4        -   86.0       -      -     -    86.0
AIR FARES                                          -  144.8       -     -      -   144.8        -  172.0       -     -      -   172.0
INDONESIAF PAPUA NEW GUINEA                        -      -  144.8      -      -   144.8        -      -  184.7      -      -   184.7
AIR FARES                                          -      -  181.0      -      -   181.0        -      -  230.9      -      -   230.9
Sub-Total STUDY VISITS, OTHER SCIENTISTS          96.5  313.7  422.2        -     -   832.4  105.7  372.6  538.7         -     - 1,017.1
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                               144.8  470.5  530.8       -      - 1,146.1  158,6  558.9  677.3        -     - 1.394.8
Total BASELINE COSTS                                  144.8  470.5  530.8       -      - 1,146.1  158.6  558.9  677,3        -      - },394.8



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Detailed Disbursement Schedule
Disbursement Categories
Technical
Equipment                    Assistance      Production
Component                              and Vehicles   Civil Works   & Training 2/    Credit         Unallocated   Total
Mill Rehabilitation      (TkOOO)         277,439          1,714                                                   279,153
Farm Development         (Tk000)          50,321          5,832                                                    56,153
Strengthening Extension
Services               (Tk-000)          25,536         46,884                        25,789                      98,209
Cane Storage & Handling (TkO000)           44,515                                                                   44,515
Roads                                                     65,952                                                    65,952
Training                                    5,496                        6,892                                      12,388
Technical Assistance    (Tk'OOO)                                        33,649          _33,649
(Tk'OOO)         403,307        120,382        40,541         25,789                     590,019
Total Cost (US$ Million)                     17.53          5.23          1.76            1.13                       25.65
Disbursement Rate (%)                           76 1/          80           95
Amount (US$ M)                               13.47          4.19          1.67                           0.68
Less: 10% transferred to unalllocated         0.67          0.20          0.08                           0.95
12.80          3.98          1.59                           1.63
Less: adjustment for rounding off             0.30         (0.02)         0.09                           0.37
12.50          4.00          1.50                           2.00        20.00
1/ Equivalent to 100% of foreign and 20% of local expenses.
2/  Includes cost of counterpart staff for consultancy services.
3/  Equivalent to 100% of consultancy services and overseas training.



-70-
ANNEX III-B
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
DiSbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year        Half Year                        Disbursements
Half Year              Cumulative
1983-84         First Half-Year 1/         -
Second Half-Year           1.75                      1.75
1984-85        First Half-Year             2.00                      3.75
Second Half-Year           3.75                      7.50
1985-86         First Half-Year            3.50                     11.00
Second Half-Year           2.50                     13.50
1986-87        First Half-Year             2.00                     15.50
Second Half-Year           1.50                     17.00
1987-88        First Half-Year             1.00                     18.00
Second Half-Year           1.00                     19.00
1988-89        First Quarter 2/            1.00                     20.00
1/ Credit effectiveness about July 1983.
2/ Closing date December 8, 1988.



-71-
ANNEX IV
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Draft Proposals for Reorganization of the Cane Development and Research
Directorate, Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
The Directorate of Cane Development and Research is responsible
for supervising production of cane. The two key functional divisions are
the cane development and the plantation departments responsible for cane
production in outgrowers farms and mill farms, respectively. The Sugar
Research and Training Institute (SRTI), the Agronomy Department, and
subject matter specialists provide common services to the two functional
departments. Creation of a seed cane inspection department and expansion
of the agronomy department have been proposed, but not considered
appropriate for the size of the sugar industry in Bangladesh, whose annual
production has not exceeded 150,000 tons per annum. However, the industry
requirements would be met by reorganizing the existing divisions and
redefining their scope of duties, which are greatly overlapping at
present.
(a) Cane Development Department
Objective: To extend improved methods of cane cultivation to
farmers and to provide the support needed for increased productivity.
Scope of Work: (a) dissemination of information to farmers,
including training and demonstration; (b) provision and monitoring of
inputs to increase production; and (c) production and distribution of
certified seeds.
(b) Plantation Department
Objective: To increase productivity on mill farms.
Scope of Work: Management of Mill Farms.
(c) SRTI
Objective: To develop and test methods for increasing sugar cane
productivity.



-72-
ANNEX I]V
Page 2
Scope of Work:  (a) basic research into new and innovative techni-
ques in agronomy, pathology, breeding, entomology, soils and physiology;
(b) applied research to adapt new methods in the solutions of field
problems; and (c) testing, evaluation, and promotion of research findings;
under field conditions on mill farms and outgrowers fields, wherever
possible. SRTI would be fully responsible for field evaluation of their
results, including a proper variety assessment in as many zones as pos-
sible.
(d) Agronomy Department and Subject Matter Specialists
Objective: To lia:Lse between research and extension departments
and to service growers and industry enquiries.
Scope of Work: (a) to-ensure that research findings, which have
been validated at the farm level are incorporated into the cane develop-
ment program; (b) provision of technical back up data and information
required by the directorate; respond to technical queries or pressures
from the industry; and (c) provide technical field advisory services.
(e) Seed Inspection
This would be the responsibility of a cell at BSFIC headquarters,
headed by a Seed Inspection Officer reporting directly to the Director
Cane Development and Research, with assignments distributed as follows:
Nucleus and Foundation Seed:    Inspection by zonal Seed
Inspection Officers attached
to the Seed Inspection Cell.
Registered Seed:                 Inspe,ztion by the Mill
Agronomy Department.
Certified Seed:                  Inspection by sub-zone
Assistant Cane Development
Officers attached to the Mills
Outgrowers DepartEment.



BANG LADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Pre Effectiveness |
FYO                  FYi1                FY2                 FY3                 FY4                  FY5
1   2   3   4    1   2   3    4    1 2 3 4    1   2    3   4    1    2    3   4    1    2    3   4
Mill Rehabilitation
Appoint Consultants
Issue, Negotiate and Approve Tenders
Prepare Construction Drawings
Manufacture and Deliver Equipment to Site
Erection and Installation                                             .              _   _    _
Commission Plant
Mill Farm Development and Extension Service
to Outgrowers
Appoint Consultants
Prepare Specifications for Equipment
Issue Negotiate and Approve Tenders
Manufacture and Deliver Equipment
Erection and Installation (Irrigation)
Consultants Supervision
Procurement of Tractors and Vehicles                                  _
Infrastructure
Mill Farm
Mill Zone
World Bank - 23610



-74-
ANNEX VI
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILIETATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
RJ_M - PRODUCTION AND YIELD
(Assume:  110 grinding days; 1,500 TCD-2,000 TCD in Year 3)
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5     Year 6-20
Outgrowers
Area
Plants (non sup.)        7,750      8,000       9,500      5,500       2,500      2,000
Plants (sup.)            8,000      7,500       6,500      6,000       6,500      7,000
Plants (mech. cult.)    1,500       1,500       4,000      5,400       5,400      5,400
Ratoon (non sup.)        3,000      2,000       1,000       -           -
Ratoon (sup.)              200        500       1,000      2,000       2,500      2,500
Yield
Plants (non sup.)         14.0       14.0        14.0       14.0        14.5       14.5
Plants (sup.)             16.8       18.0        20.0       22.0        24.4       24.4
Plants (mech. cult.)      20.0       21.0        23.0       25.0        28.6       28.6
Ratoon (non sup.)          5.0        5.0         5.D       -           -
Ratoon (sup.)             12.0       12.0        12.0       13.0        13.0       14.0
Production
Plants (non sup.)      108,500    112,000    133,000      77,000      36,250     29,000
Plants (sup.)          134,400    135,000    130,000)   132,000    158,600    170,800
Plants (mech. cult.)   30,000      52,500      92,000)   135,000    154,000    154,000
Ratoon (non sup.)       15,000     10,000       5,000       -          -
Ratoon (sup.)           2,400       6,000      12,000     26,000     32,500      35,000
Total                    290,300    315,500    372,000    370,000    381,750    389,200
Lost to Gur, etc.        125,000    150,000    150,00)    150,000    160,000    160,000
Total for Crushing       165,300    165,500    222,000    220,000    221,700    229,200
Mill
Sugar Recovery Rate (x)      8.0        8.0         8.2        8.2         8.2        8.2
Sugar Production (tons)  13,224      13,240      18,204     18,040      18,179     18,794
Incremental Sugar
Production (tons)          (40)        45       5,000      4,592       4,931      5,546



-75-
ANNEX VI
Table 2
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
RSM - PRODUCTION AND YIELD
(Assume: 110 grinding days; 1,300 TCD - 1,500 TDC capacity in Year 3)
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5       Year 6      Year 7      Year 8-20
Mill farm
Plants (no irr.) acre                   600         400         -           -            -           -           -           -
Plants (irr.) acre                     -            200         400         400         400          400         400         400
Ratoons                                                         260         450          450         450         450         450
Yield Plants (no irr.) tc/acre           14          15         -           -           -            -           -           -
Yield Plants (irr.) tc/acre              -         17.6        20.8        24.2         27.6        31.0        33.0        35.0
Yield Ratoons tc/acre                               -            15        17.2         19.4        21.6        21.6        21.6
Production Plants (no irr.) tc    8,400           o,080         -           -            -           -           -           -
Production Plants (irr.) tc            -          3,520       8,320       9,680      11,040       12,400      13,200      14,000
Production Ratoons tc                   -           -         3,900       7,740       8,730        9,720       9,720       9,720
Total tc                             8,400        9,520      12,200      17,420      19,770      22,120       22,920      23,720
Outgrowers
(A) Plants (no sup.) acre            2,650       2,250        1,300         300         -            -           -           -
(B) Plants (sup.) acre               9,000       8,000        7,000       7,000       6,400       6,400        6,400       6,400
(C) Plants (mech. cult.) acre          500        1,000       2,000       2,800       3,300       3,300        3,300       3,300
Yield (A) tc/acre                        13          13          13           13        -            -           -           -
Yield (B) tc/acre                        18          19          20           21          22          22          22          22
Yield (C) tc/acre                        19          21          23        25.5        25.5         25.5        25.5        25.5
Production (A) te                   34,450      29,250       16,900       3,900         -            -           -           -
Production (B) tc                  162,000    152,000    114,000    147,000    114,000    114,000    114,000    114,000
Production (C) tc                    9,500      21,000       46,000      71,400      84,150      84,150       84,150      84,150
Total                              205,950    202,250    202,900    223,000    224,950    224,950    224,950    224,950
Lost to Gur, Chewing                71,400      68,840       72,200      75,080      77,730      80,080       80,880      81,680
Total for Crushing                 134,550    133,410    130,680    147,920    147,220    144,870    144,070    143,270
Grand Total                            142,950    142,930    142,900    165,340    166,990    166,990    166,990    166,990
Mills
Sugar Recovery Rate (%)               7.75          7.8         8.0         8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0         8.0
Sugar Production (tons)             11,079      11,148       11,432      13,227      13,359      13,359       13,359      13,359
Incremental Sugar
Production (tons)                   114          139         398       2,205       2,360       2,360        Z,360       2,360



-76-
ANNEX VI
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
I'SM - PRODUCTION AND YIELD
(Assume: 110 grinding days; 1,500 TCD capacity)
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Ye!ar 5   Year 6   Year 7  Year 8   Year 9-20
Mill farms
Area in Cane (acres)
Plants                     840      840       480      245       -         -         -        -          -
Plants (Irr.)              -        -        24U       355       5/5       )/5       5/5      5/5        5/5
Ratoons                    -        -         -         270      415       64U       o4U      b40        640
Yields (tc/acre)
Plants                    15.4    18.5       19.0     20.0       -         -         -        -          -
Plants (Irr.)              -       -        26.5      27.0      27.0      27.0      29.0    30.0        32.0
Ratoons                    -        -         -       16.0      18.0      19.0      19.0    19.0        19.0
Production (tc)
Plants                  12,936  15,540    9,120   4,900          -         -         -        -          -
Plants (Irr.)              -        -      6,360   9,585    15,525   15,525   15,525  17,250    18,400
Ratoons                    -        -        -      4,320      7,470   12,160   12,160  12,160    12,160
Total (A)                  12,936  15,540   15,480  18,805    23,995   27,685   27,685  29,410    30,560
Outgrowers
Area in Cane (acre)
Plants (Non Sup.)        4,500   5,000    5,000   4,200        3,500    3,000    2,600   2,300         2,300
Plants (Sup.)           10,200  10,200    9,500   7,900        7,000    6,250    5,800   5,900         5,900
Plants (Mech. Cult.)       100      300    1,500   2,600       3,200    4,000    4,600   4,600         4,600
Yields (tc/acre)
Plants (Non Sup.)           12       12        12      1Z       12.5      12.5        13       14         14
Plants (Sup.)               13    13.5       14.5    15.5       16.2      16.2      16.2    16.2        16.2
Plants (Mech. Cult.)        15       15        1/    18.6       18.6      18.6      18.6    18.6        18.6
Production (tc)
Plants (Non Sup.)       54,000  60,000   60,000  50,400    43,750   37,500   33,800  32,200    32,200
Plants (Sup.)          132,600 137,700  137,750 122,450   113,400  101,250   93,960  95,580    95,580
Plants (Mech. Cult.)     1500   4,500   25,500  48,360    59,520   74,400   85,560  85,560   _85,560
Total (B)                 188,100 202,200  223,250 221,210   216,670  213,150  213,320 213,320   213,320
Lost to Gur, etc.          71,640  72,500   73,300  74,500    75,000   75,000   76,150  76,705    77,855
Total for Mills (B)       116,460 129,700  149,950 146,710   141,670  138,150  137,170 136,615   135,465
A + B (tc)                129,396 145,240  165,430 165,515   165,665  165,835  L66,005 166,025   166,025
Mills
Sugar Recovery Rate (%)       8.0      8.0       8.2      8.2       8.2       8.2       8.2      8.2        8.2
Sugar Production (tons)  10,352  11,619   13,565   13,572   13,585   13,598   13,612  13,614    13,614
Incremental Sugar
Production (tons)                    581    2,058 1/   474        545       558       572      574        574
1/ Inclusion of new outgrower area in place of existing area released to adjoining mills assumed
a year ahead with project.



-77-
ANNEX VII
Table la
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT ZONES FARM BUDGET
ONE ACRE - THREE YEAR CROP CYCLE - TSM
Sugar-Aus-Mustard-Aus Cropping Pattern
Without             With
Project            Project
Yield per acre
Sugar cane                                    12 tons             17 tons
Aus 1/                                        32 mds              32 mds
Mustard                                       5 mds               5 mds
Value (Tk)
Sugar cane                                     4,824               6,834
Aus                                             3,360              3,360
Mustard 2/                                      1,000              1,000
Total                                          9,184              11,194
Costs (Tk) 3/
Sugar cane
Land preparation    4/                        550                 739  5/
Field maintenance   4/                      1,092              1,320
Fertilizers                                   810                 840
Seed                                          750                750
Seed and soil treatment                       175                232
Harvest and transport 4/                      804              1,139
Sub-total                                   4,181              5,020
Aus                                             2,925              2,925
Mustard                                           384                384
Total Cost                                     7,490               8,329
Net return to farmer (Tk)                          1,694              2,865
Incremental net income                                 -              1,171
1/ Two harvests.
2/ Price Tk 200 per md.
31 Includes cost of credit on production inputs.
2i Hired labor and animal power.
5/ Includes cost of mechanization.



-78-
ANNEX VII
Table lb
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIF]:CATION PROJECT
PROJECT ZONES FARM BUDGET
ONE ACRE - THREE YEAR CROP CYCLE - RSM
Sugar-Aus-Mustard-Aus Cropping Pattern
Without             With
Project            Project
Yield per acre
Sugar cane                                      15 tons            20 tons
Aus 1/                                          34 mds             34 mds
Mustard                                         6 mds              6 mds
Value (Tk)
Sugar cane                                      6,030               8,040
Aus                                              3,570              3,570
Mustard 2/                                       1,200              1,200
Total                                           10,800             12,810
Costs (Tk) 3/
Sugar cane
Land preparation    4/                          575                826  5/
Field maintenance   4/                       1,296               1,560
Fertilizers                                     810                840
Seed                                           750                 750
Seed and soil treatment:                       175                 232
Harvest and transport 4/                     1,072               1,340
Sub-total                                    4,678               5,542
Aus                                              3,684              3,684
Mustard                                            384                384
Total Cost                                       8,746              9,616
Net return to farmer (Tk)                           2,054               3,194
Incremental net income (Tk)                             -               1,140
1/ Two harvests.
2/ Price Tk 200 per md.
3/ Includes cost of credit on production inputs.
4/ Hired labor and animal power.
5/ Includes cost of mechanization.



-79-
ANNEX VII
Table lc
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
PROJECT ZONES FARM BUDGET
ONE ACRE - THREE YEAR CROP CYCLE - RJSM
Sugar-Aus-Mustard-Aus Cropping Pattern
Without             With
Project            Project
Yield per acre
Sugar cane                                     17 tons            22 tons
Aus 1/                                         39 mds             40 mds
Mustard                                        8 mds              8 mds
Value (Tk)
Sugar cane                                      6,834              8,844
Aus                                             4,095               4,200
Mustard 2/                                      1,600               1,600
Total                                          12,529             14,644
Costs (Tk) 3/
Sugar cane
Land preparation    4/                         575                907  5/
Field maintenance   4/                       1,272              1,524
Fertilizers                                    810                840
Seed                                           750                750
Seed and soil treatment                        175                235
Harvest and transport 4/                     1,139              1,541
Sub-total                                    4,721              5,797
Aus                                             5,282               5,282
Mustard                                           384                 384
Total Cost                                     10,387             11,463
Net return to farmer (Tk)                          2,142               3,181
Incremental net income (Tk)                            -               1,039
1/ Two harvests.
2/ Price Tk 200 per md.
3/ Includes cost of credit on production inputs.
4/ Hired labor and animal power.
5/ Includes cost of mechanization.



-80-
ANNEX VII
Table 2a
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
TSM - Balance Sheet
(Tk Million)
FY79         FY80         FY81
Current Assets
Cash at Bank/Hand                             0.6          0.4          2.7
Raw Materials and Finishedl Goods            25.0         44.3         54.6
Stores and Spares                            12.5         17.4         21.6
Debtors and Prepayment                       19.2         20.9         55.1
Others                                        0.2          0.2          0.5
57.5         83.2        134.5
Fixed Assets                                    20.3         20.9          20.3
Total Assets                                    77.8         104.1        154.8
Financed as Follows:
Share Capital                                15.2         15.2         15.2
Reserves                                      0.2          0.3          4.8
Accumulated Profits                         ( 8.1)          --           -
Long-Term Debt                               11.3         24.7         23.0
Bank Overdraft                               41.6         43.6         67.0
Other Current Liabilities                    17.6         20.3         44.8
77.8        104.1        154.8



-81-
ANNEX VII
Table 2b
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
RJSM - Balance Sheet
(Tk Million)
FY79        FY80         FY81
Current Assets
Cash at Bank/Hand                            5.4          2.9          3.4
Raw Materials and Finished Goods            31.9         43.5        46.7
Stores and Spares                           15.0         15.2         16.2
Debtors and Prepayment                      15.7         26.8         45.6
Others                                       -             -          0.3
68.0        88.4        112.2
Fixed Assets                                   33.0         34.7         33.7
Total Assets                                  101.0        123.1        145.9
Financed as Follows:
Share Capital                               13.0        13.0         13.0
Reserves                                     3.0          5.1        13.2
Long-Term Debt                              42.8         59.6         58.2
Bank Overdraft                              11.8        32.3         37.0
Other Current Liabilities                   30.4         13.1        24.5
101.0       123.1        145.9



-82-
ANNEX VII
Table 2c
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
RSM - Balance Sheet
(Tk Million)
FY79        FY80        FY81
Current Assets
Cash at Bank/Hand                               0.2         0.3         1.5
Raw Materials and Finished Goods              19.2        10.2        44.0
Stores and Spares.                            13.1        15.4        19.5
Debtors and Prepayment                        11.5        23.9        36.4
Others                                         0.1         0.1         1.4
44.1       493.9      102.8
Fixed Assets                                      12.7        12.7        13.5
Total Assets                                      56.8        6'2.6      116.3
Financed as Follows:
Share Capital                                 27.0        27.0        27.0
Reserves                                       0.5         0.5         8.5
Accumulated Profits                            (0.5)      (:3.6)        -
Long-Term Debt                                  2.0       13.5        12.2
Bank Overdraft                                12.9        17.5        32.2
Other Current Liabilities                    _14.4         7.7        36.4
56.8       62.6       116.3



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT - TSM
(TK million)
-FY 80                                              FY 81
Unit Cost/Price                                   Unit Cost/Price
Tk M                Tk/Md.                      Tk M                  Tk/Md.
Income
Sales of Sugar             79.1               316                         122.9                 473
Sales of Molasses           3.0                27                            6.3                 49
Other Income                2.9                                              1.2
Total                85.0                                            130.4
Expenditure
Variable Costs             51.3               195.9                         71.6                240.6
Fixed Expenses             24.1                92.0                        28.0                  94.2
Other Chargesi!      -    15.5                 59.3                        19.5                  65.5
Total                90.9                347.2                       119.1                 400.3
Stock Adj.                (15.6)                                          (16.8)
Profit                      9.7                                             28.1
-/Excise Duty, Distribution Charges and Road Development Cess.
(A >1



I_iNG(LADESHI
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFTCATION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT - RSM
(TK million)
FY 80                                           FY 81
Unit Cost/Price                                  Unit Cost/Price
Tk M.               Tk/Md.                     Tk M.                  Tk/Md.
Income
Sales of Sugar            69.2                 326.4                      139.4                 501.6
Sales of Molasses          4.0                  47.9                        1.5                  10.0
Other Income               (0.3)                                            0.8
Total               72.9                                           141.7
Expenditure
Variable Costs            34.9                 223.2                       72.7                 244.8
Fixed Costs  1            15.3                  98.0                       22.4                  75.4
Other Charges-            13.0                  71.7                       19.2                  71.7
Total               63.2                393.4                      114.3                  391.9
Stock Adj.                12.8                                             (4.3)
Profit                     (3.2)                                           31.7
l/Excise Duty, Distribution Charges and Road Development Cess.
(:r F4



BANGTLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFITCATION PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT - RJSM
(TK million)
FY 80  -                                         FY 81
Unit Cost/Price                                  Unit Cost/Price
Tk M.               Tk/Md.                    Tk M.                  Tk/Md.
Income
Sales of Sugar             98.8               319.4                      175.1                 477.4
Sales of Molasses           4.1                30.1                        8.1                  41.7
Other Income                2.9                                            3.9
Total                105.8                                         187.1
Expenditure
Variable Costs             57.9               211.3                      101.8                 234.6
26.4                96.4                      35.3                   81.4
Other Charges /            19.1                66.7                       23.8                   71.7
Total                103.0               374.4                      160.9                 387.7
Stock Adjustment           (2.5)                                         (14.4)
Profit                      5.3                                           40.6
-/Excise Duty, Distribution Charges and Road Development Cess.
i H
H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Income Statement - TSM 1/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/  82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
INCOME
Sugar Sales         181.5   156.0   194.0   248.0   2730 3   302.0 302.0   302.    302.0   302.0   302.0
Other Income          4.2     9.0    12.0    14.0    15.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0    17.0
Total              185.7   165.0   206.0   262.0   288.0   319.0   319.0   319.0   319.0   319.0   319.0
EXPENDITURE
co~
Variable Costs    113.7    93.0   114.0   142.0   155.0   167.0   166.0   165.0   165.0   164.0   164.0
Fixed Costs         31.7    40.4    59.1    65.4    65.6    65.7    64.3    62.0    59.7    57.8    55.9
Total               145.4   133.4   173.1   207.4   220.6   232.7   230.3   227.0   224.7   221.8   219.9
PROFIT BEFORE TAX    40.3    31.6    32.9    54.6    67.4    86.3    88.7    92.0    94.3    97.2    99.1
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
PH
F-I



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Income Statement - RSM I/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/  82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
INCOME
Sugar Sales        140.0   152.0   169.0   206.0   261.0   291.0   291.0   291.0   291.0   291.0   291.0
Other Income         3.8    11.0    13.0    13.0    17.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0
Total              143.8   163.0   182.0   219.0   278.0   309.0   309.0   309.0   309.0   309.0   309.0
EXPENDITURE
Variable Costs      85.1    97.0   106.0   115.0   145.0   160.0   158.0   158.0   157.0   157.0   157.0
Fixed Costs         27.5    37.3    55.5    60.7    61.1    60.9    59.3    56.7    54.2    51.9    49.8
Total              112.6   134.3   161.5   175.7   206.1   220.9   217.3   214.7   211.2   208.9   206.8
PROFIT BEFORE TAX    31.2    28.7    20.5    43.3    71.9    88.1    91.7    94.3    97.8   100.1   102.2
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts
rt <
H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Income Statement - RJSM I/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/  82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
INCOME
Sugar Sales        226.0   185.0   204.0   333.0   364.0   403zn   416.0   416.0   416.0            416.0   416.0
Other Income         8.4    13.0    14.0    19.0    21.0    23.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Total              234.4   198.0   218.0   352.0   385.0   426.0   441.0   441.0   441.0   441.0   441.0
EXPENDITURE
Variable Costs    143.8   122.0   135.0   198.0   216.0   238.0   246.0   246.0   246.0   246.0   246.0
Fixed Costs         39.2    52.4    68.4    76.0    77.7    79.3    78.8    75.3    73.1    70.9    69.0
Total              183.0   174.4   203.4   274.0   293.7   317.3   324.8   321.3   319.1   316.9   315.0
PROFIT BEFORE TAX    51.4    23.6    14.6    78.0    91.3   108.7   116.2   119.7   121.9   124.1   126.0
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
C) Z
X >c
4- 



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections - TSM 1/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Net Income Before Tax        40.3    31.6    32.9    54.6    67.4    86.3    88.7    92.0    94.3    97.2    99.1
Depreciation                  2.6      3.1      4.3    12.2    13.7    12.0    10.2          8.7      7.2      6.2      5.3
Total Income from
Operations                 42.9    34.7    37.2    66.8    81.1    98.3    98.9   100.7   101.5   103.4   104.4
Capital Investment            -         -      30.4    63.8    29.9        3.1     0.3      -        -        -         -
Taxes                        20.1    15.8    16.4    27.3    33.7    43.1    44.3    46.0    47.1    48.6    49.5
Total Outflow                20.1    15.8    46.8    91.1    63.6    46.2    44.6    46.0    47.1    48.6    49.5
Cash Flow Before                                                                                                                 X
Financing                  22.8    18.9  (  9.6) ( 24.3)   17.5    52.1    54.3    54.7    54.4    54.8    54.9
Financing                     -         -      26.9    56.5    26.3        2.8      0.2      -       -         -        -
Loan Repayment                -         -       -        -        -        -        9.6      9.6      9.6      9.6      9.6
Surplus                      22.8    18.9    17.3    32.2    43.8    54.9    44.9    45.1    44.8    45.2    45.3
Stock                        83.5    74.0    93.0   118.0   130.0   143.0   143.0   143.0   143.0   143.0   143.0
Own Funds to Finance
Stocks  3/                  -        7.4    11.2    16.8    29.6         6.5     -        -        -        -         -
Cash Surplus                 22.8    11.5       6.1    15.4    27.0    48.4    44.9    45.1    44.8    45.2    45.3
Dividend                     14.0    12.1       9.5       -        -      40.2    25.8    40.0    40.0    40.0    40.0
Cash Balance                  8.8      8.2      4.8    20.2    47.2    55.4    74.5    79.6    84.4    89.6    94.9
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/ 10%, 20%, 30%, and 50% of stocks financed by own resources in years 1982/83, 83/84, 84/85 and thereafter
respectively.
D- H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections - RSM 1/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Net Income Before Tax        31.2    28.7    20.5    43.3    71.9    88.1    91.7    94.3    97.8   100.1   102.2
Depreciation                  3.2      3.0     7.2    15.0    13.2    12.0    10.5         8.9      7.6     6.4      5.4
Total Income from
Operations                 34.4    31.7    27.7    58.3    84.1   100.1   101.2   103.2   104.4   106.5   107.6
dapLdta. investmernt          -        -      42.)    82.9    30.4       5.6      3.4     -        -        -        -
Taxes                        15.6    14.3    10.2    21.6    35.9    44.0    45.8    47.1    48.9    50.0    51.1
Total Outflow                15.6    14.3    52.7   103.5    66.3    49.6    49.2    47.1    48.9    50.0    51.1
Cash Flow Before
Financing                  18.8    17.4  ( 25.0) ( 45.2)   17.8    50.5    52.0    56.1    55.5    56.5    56.5
Financing                     -        -      33.2    64.8    23.8       4.4       -        -       -        -       -
Loan Repayment                -         -      -        -       -        -        2.6    11.4    11.4    11.4    11.4
Surplus                      18.8    17.4    18.2    19.6    41.6    54.9    54.6    44.7    44.1    45.1    45.1
Stocks                       41.7    47.2    52.7    63.5    80.6    89.6    89.6    89.6    89.6    89.6    89.6
Own Funds to Finance
Stocks 3/                   -       4.7      5.8      8.5    21.3      4.5      -       -        -        -        -
Cash Surplus                 18.8    12.7      9.4    11.1    20.3    50.4    54.6    44.7    44.1    45.1    45.1
Dividend                      9.5      9.4     8.6      6.1    13.0    40.0    40.0    40.0    45.0    45.0    45.0
Cash Balance                  9.3    12.6    13.4    18.4    25.7    36.1    50.7    55.4    54.5    54.6    54.7
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/  10%, 20%, 30%, and 50% of stocks financed by own resources in years 1982/83, 83/84, 84/85 and thereafter
respectively.
P3 
(D Z
en 
H'F-



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections - RJSM I/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Net Income Before Tax       51.4    23.6    14.6    78.0    91.3   108.7   116.2   119.7   121.9   124.1   126.0
Depreciation                 5.5     4.9    16.4    18.4    17.1    15.4    14.9    12.6    11.6    10.6         9.9
Total Income from
Operations                56.9    28.5    31.0    96.4   108.4   124.1   131.1   132.3   133.5   134.7   135.9
Capital Investment           -        -     38.9    79.5    36.9       5.5     -        -       -        -       -
Taxes                       25.7    11.8      7.3    39.0    45.6    54.3    58.1    59.8    60.9    62.0    63.0
Total Outflow               25.7    11.8    46.2   118.5    82.5    59.8    58.1    59.8    60.9    62.0    63.0
Cash Flow Before
Financing                 31.2    16.7  ( 15.2) ( 22.1)   25.9    64.3    73.0    72.5    72.6    72.7    72.9
Financing                    -        -     31.1    63.6    29.5       4.6     -        -       -        -       -
Loan Repayment               -       -        -       -       -        -       -       12.3    12.3    12.3    12.3
Surplus                     31.2    16.7    15.9    41.5    55.4    68.9    73.0    60.2    60.3    60.4    60.6
Stocks                      42.0    36.0    39.0    63.0    69.0    77.0    79.0    79.0    79.0    79.0    79.0
Own Funds to Finance
Stocks  3/                 -       3.6     4.2    11.1    15.6       4.0     1.0      -       -        -       -
Cash Surplus                31.2    13.1    11.7    30.4    39.8    64.9    72.0    60.2    60.3    60.4    60.6
Dividend                    12.2     5.4       -       -     20.0    50.0    50.0    50.0    60.0    60.0    60.0
Cash Balance                19.0    26.7    38.4    68.8    88.6   103.5   125.5   135.7   140.0   140.8   141.4
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/ 10%, 20%, 30%, and 50% of stocks financed by own resources in years 1982/83, 83/84, 84/85 and thereafter
respectively.
Y1m
C)  H-
H-



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Balance Sheet - TSM 1/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Current Assets         98.7   109.0   103.4   141.6   172.2   201.1   213.5   239.5   246.6   255.2   264.7
Fixed Assets           15.1    12.0    38.1    89.7   105.9    97.0    87.1    78.4    71.2    65.0    59.7
TOTAL ASSETS          113.8   121.0   141.5   231.3   278.1   298.1   300.6   317.9   317.8   320.2   324.4
Current Liabilities  74.2    77.7    71.7    77.7    77.7    92.7    88.3   107.2   109.6   113.0   117.3
Debt 3/                18.0    18.0    37.6    94.1   120.4   123.2   123.4   113.8   104.2    94.6    85.0
Equity                 21.6    25.3    32.2    59.5    80.0    82.2    88.9    96.9   104.0   112.6   122.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES   113.8   121.0   141.5   231.3   278.1   298.1   300.6   317.9   317.8   320.2   324.4
Current Ratio          1.23    1.40    1.44    1.82    2.21    2.18    2.49    2.23    2.25    2.25    2.27
Debt/Equity Ratio   45:55   41:59   53:47   61.39   60:40   60:40   56:44   54:46   50:50   45:55   41:59
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/  Assumes conversion of GOB long-term debt into equity by FY 84.                                                  H 
PH t1
(D 
H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Balance Sheet - RSM I/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Current Assets       130.0   160.0   174.2   185.0   190.0   200.5   205.0   208.0   211.0   220.4   221.1
Fixed Assets           9.2     6.2    41.5   109.4   126.6   120.2   113.1   104.2    96.6    90.2    84.8
TOTAL ASSETS         139.2   166.2   215.7   294.4   316.6   320.7   318.1   312.2   307.6   310.6   305.9
Current Liabilities  85.3   107.7   130.8   130.3   106.7   102.4    92.3    90.8    93.6   103.0   103.7
Debt 3/               13.5    13.5    38.3   103.1   126.9   131.3   133.8   122.4   111.0    99.6    88.2
Equity                40.4    45.0    46.6    61.0    83.0    87.0    92.0    99.0   103.0   108.0   114.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES   139.2   125.0   215.7   294.4   316.6   320.7   318.1   312.2   307.6   310.6   305.9
Current Ratio         1.52    1.48    1.33    1.42    1.78    1.96    2.22    2.31    2.26    2.13    2.14
Debt/Equity Ratio   32:68   22:18   45:55   62:38   60:40   60:40   59:39   58:42   52:48   47:53   43:57
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/  Assumes conversion of GOB debt into equity by FY 84.
% <



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Projected Balance Sheet - RJSM 1/
(Tk Million)
1981/82 2/ 82/83   83/84   84/85   85/86   86/87   87/88   88/89   89/90   90/91   91/92
Current Assets       190.2   193.1   203.0   230.0   270.0   290.0   315.0   320.0   325.0   337.0   345.0
Fixed Assets          25.1    22.0    44.5   105.6   125.4   115.0   100.6    88.0    76.4    65.8    55.9
TOTAL ASSETS         215.3   215.1   247.5   335.6   395.4   405.0   415.6   408.0   401.4   402.8   400.9
Current Liabilities 118.1   111.9   114.0    99.0   104.9   106.9   109.4   111.0   111.6   124.3   133.9
Debt 3/               58.2    58.2    81.4   145.6   174.5   179.1   179.1   166.9   154.6   142.3   130.0
Equity                39.0    45.0    52.1    91.0   116.0   119.0   127.1   130.1   135.2   136.2   137.0
TOTAL LIABILITIES   215.3   215.1   247.5   335.6   395.4   405.0   415.6   408.0   401.4   402.8   400.9
Current Ratio         1.61    1.73    1.78    2.32    2.34    2.71    2.87    2.88    2.91    2.72    2.57
Debt/Equity Ratio   59:41   56:44   60:40   61:39   60:40   60:40   58:42   56:44   53:47   51:49   48:52
1/ In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.
2/ Per draft accounts.
3/ Assumes conversion of GOB debt into equity by FY 84.
,-3
f)H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
GOB Incremental Cash Flow 1/
(Tk 000)
1983/84      84/85        85/86        86/87       87/88        88/89        89/90        90/91        91/92
CASH INFLOW
IDA Disbursement        40,250.0   132,250.0   138,000.0    80,500.0    46,000.0        2,300.0       -            -           -
Sugar Excise Duty          281.1     1,054.2    10,274.4    10,019.4    10,798.0    11,663.4    11,682.7    11,685.4    11,685.4
Duties and Taxes         3,461.9      4,936.1     2,339.6      1,246.6        660.4       -           -            -            -
Income Tax             (37,300.0)    9,900.0    29,200.0    46,900.0    53,700.0    58,400.0    62,400.0    66,100.0    69,100.0
Dividends              (40,100.0)  (57,600.0)  (30,400.0)   43,900.0    39,500.0    52,700.0    77,700.0    67,700.0    67,700.0
Interest                10,434.4    32,625.9    42,226.1    44,181.5    44,561.3    44,561.3    40,104.8    47,860.8    31,216.8
Loan Repayments            -            -           -            -            -        33,300.0    33,300.0    33,300.0    33,300.0
TOTAL INFLOW          ( 22,972.6)  123,166.2   191,640.0   226,747.5   195,219.7   223,624.7   225,187.5   226,646.2   213,002.2
CASH OUTFLOW
TSM                     26,900.0    56,500.0    26,300.0       2,800.0        200.0        -            -            -            -
RSM                     33,200.0    64,800.0    23,800.0       4,400.0      2,600.0        -           -            -             -
RJSM                    31,100.0    63,600.0    29,500.0       4,600.0        -            -
Others                  26,763.6    46,702.7    31,096.9       7,683.4        -            -           -            -            -
IDA Service Charge       2,399.0     2,558.0      3,075.0      3,277.0      3,450.0     3,450.0      3,450.0      3,450.0      3,450.0
TOTAL OUTFLOW          120,362.6   234,160.7   113,771.9    22,760.4        6,250.0      3,450.0      3,450.0     3,450.0       3,450.0
CASH FLOW               (143,335.2) (110,994.5)   77,868.1   203,987.1   188,969.7   220,174.7   221,737.5   223,196.2   209,552.2
1/  In current prices through 1986/87, thereafter in 1986/87 constant prices.                                                                 a
I--4
'-4



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Inflow and Outflow - GOB 1/
(Tk '000)
1983/84        84/85       85/86       86/87        87/88         88/89        89/90         90/91        91/92
INFLOWS
IDA Disbursements            40,250.0   132,250.0   138,000.0    80,500.0    46,000.0    23,000.0             -            -            -
Foreign Exchange Sugar 2/   2,238.5        9,273.5   133,942.8   148,758.8   176,350.1   190,484.0   190,843.5   190,843.5   190,843.5
Molasses Exports 3/               6.1        249-7     6,935 6      7,381-1       9,243.8    10,430.1    10,456.4          10,461.1    10,461.1
Total Inflow                42,494.6   141,769.2   278,878.4   236,639.9   231,593.9   223,914.1   201,299.9   201,304.6   201,304.6
OUTFLOWS
TSM                          18,830.0    39,500.0    18,410.0        1,960.0        140.0        -            -            -            -
RSM                          23,240.0    45,360.0    16,660.0       3,0800       1,820.0        -            -            -
RJSM                         21,770.0    44,520.0    20,650.0       3,220.0         -            -            -            -            -
Others                       18,734.5    32,691.8    21,767.8       5,378.0         -            -            -            -            -
Operating Cost 4/           ( 1,680.0)  (   707.9   ( 3,033.2)   13,920.0           693.7        171.4         80.0         13.0   (   451.0)
IDA Service Charges 5/        2,399.0      2,558.0     3,075.0      3,277.0       3,450.0      3,450.0      3,450.0      3,450.0      3,450.0
Total Outflow                84,805.5   163,921.9    77,529.6    18,307.0         6,103.7      3,621.4     3,530.0       3,463.0      3,404.9
CASH FLOW                     (42,310.9) ( 22,152.7)  201,348.8   218,332.9   225,490.2   220,292.7   197,769.9   197,841.6   197,899.7
1/  Expressed in current prices for years 83/84 through 87/88, thereafter in 1987/88 constant prices.
2/ Based on foreign exchange element of import substitution of Tk 10,534/ton for 1983/84 and 84/85, thereafter at Tk 14,609/ton.
3/  Based on export price of molasses F.O.B. Chittagong of Tk 2,864/ton.
4/  11% of incremental operating cost is estimated to be foreign cost.
5/  0.75% of amount disbursed and outstanding, and 0.5% of undisbursed amount.                                                                        X
0 H



-97-
ANNEX VIII
Table 1
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Price Assumptions
(Tk/md)
1982 Constant Prices
Financial Prices              Economic Prices
Product/Input
Aus/boro                         116                           123
Sugar Cane                        15                            33
Sugar                  464.25 - 530                            545
Molasses                        60.0                         106.3
Baggase                         0.56                          0.46 /a
Animal power
(per day)                       25                          20.8 /a
Hired labor (per day)             15                           8.5 /b
Urea                             148                           241
TSP                              115                           296
MP                               110                           227
Pesticides                     3,444                         2,858 /a
/a Adjusted by SCF 0.83.
/b  Economic wage of farm labor at varying levels of un and underemployment in
agriculture. Calculated by IBRD at 68% o the nominal rate and adjusted by
SCF = 0.83.



-98-
ANNEX VrI:II
Table 2
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
Per Acre (Cane) TSM
(Tk)
1982 Constant Prices
Financial                Economic
Land preparation
Animal power and labor - 22 mandays               550                     457.6
Field maintenance - 91 mandays                 1,365                     773.5
Materials
Urea 3 mds                                        444                     723.0
MP 3 mds                                          345                     888.0
TSP 3 mds                                         330                     681.0
Seed cane 50 maunds                               750                  1,650.0
Seed and soil treatment                           175                     136.5
Total 1/                                          3,95'                   5,309.6
Other Cost per Mds Cane TSM
Financial                Economic
Harvesting (lab)                                    0.6                     0.34
Transport (bullock cart)                            2          .            1.67
Total                                               2.6                     2.01
1/ Adjustments have been made in the analysis for yield increases with project
from 12 to 17.3 tons/acre and without project from 12 to 14.5 tons/acre.



-99-
ANNEX VIII
Table 3
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
Per Acre (Cane) RSM
(Tk)
1982 Constant Prices
Financial           Economic
Land preparation
Animal power and labor -  23 mandays            575                  478.4
Field Maintenance - 108 mandays                 1,620                  918.0
Materials
Urea 3 mds                                      444                  723.0
MP 3 mds                                        345                  888.0
BP 3 mds                                        330                 681.0
Seed cane 50 mds                                750               1,650.0
Seed and soil treatment                         175                 136.5
Total 1/                                        4,239               5,474.9
Other Cost per MDS Cane RSM
Financial            Economic
Harvesting                                        0.6                  0.34
Transport (Bullock cart)                          2                    1.67
Total                                             2.6                  2.01
1/  Adjustments have been made in the analysis for yield increases with
project from 17 to 23 tons/acre without project from 16.5 to 19 tons/acre.



-100-
ANNEX VIII
Table 4
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
per Acre (Cane) RJSM
(Tk)
Financial         Economic
Land preparation
Animal power and labor (23 man/days)         575.0             478.4
Field maintenance (106 man/days)           1,590.0             901.0
Materials
Urea - 3 mds                                 444.0             723.0
MP   - 3 mds                                 345.0             888.0
TSP  - 3 mds                                 330.0             681.0
Seed cane - 50 mds                           750.0          1,650.0
Seed and soil treatment                      175.0             136.5
Total 1/                                     4,209.0           5,457.9
Other Cost per MDS Cane RJSM
Financial          Economic
Harvesting                                         0.6             0.34
Transport (Bullock Cart)                           2.0             1.67
Total                                              2.6             2.01
1/ Adjustments have been made in the analysis for yield ncreases with project
from 16.8 to 25.2 tons/azre without project. from 16.8 to 18 tons/acre.



-101-
ANNEX VIII
Table 5 and 6
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production per Acre
TSM and RSM Mill Farms a/ - 1982 Constant Prices
(Tk)
Financial      Economic  b/
Plant crop                                          3,877          5,057
Irrigated                                           4,132          5,234
Ratoon                                              2,593          3,285
a/ Adjustments for yield increases have been made in the analysis TSM with
project from 15 to 22 tons/acre without project from 15 to 17.5 tons/acre,
RSM with project from 14 to 35 tons/acre without project from 14 to 16
tons/acre.
b/ Adjusted by average CF for farm operations = 1.3. Harvesting cost of
7.5 Tk/ton cane in addition.



-102-
ANNEX VIII
Table 7
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Variable Costs of Processing Cane per Ton
TSM Mill - 1982 Constant Prices
(Tk)
Financial            Economic
Cane transport                                        49.9                45.8 a/
Production materials                                  28.3                 21.9 b/
Factory wages                                        '29.2                 24.2 c/
Fuel and power                                        24.4                 22.4 a/
Repair and maintenance                                :27.0                21.0 b/
Distribution charges                                  23.0                 19.1 c/
Road repair                                           :22.2                18.4 c/
Excise duty                                          1:15.0
Total cost d/                                        3:19.0              172.8
a/  Adjusted by Petroleum CF = 0.92.
b/  Adjusted by Manufactured Commodities CF   0.78,
c/  Adjusted by SCF = 0.83
d/  Adjustments have been made in the analysis, with project for reduction
in cane transport cost, without project for increase in number of
crushing days from 110 to 120 due to progressive decrease in rated
capacity from 1500 to 1300 TCD by 1987-88.



-103-
ANNEX VIII
Table 8
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Variable Costs of Processing Cane per Ton
RSM Mill - 1982 Constant Prices
(Tk)
Financial            Economic
Cane transport                                        11.6                10.67 a/
Production materials                                  26.0               20.28 b/
Factory wages                                         35.9                29.80 c/
Fuel and power                                        22.8                20.98 a/
Repair and maintenance                                26.0                20.26 b/
Distribution charges                                  21.2                17.60 c/
Road repair                                           20.6                17.10 c/
Excise duty                                          106.1                   -
Total cost d/                                        270.2                136.69
a/  Adjusted by Petroleum CF = 0.92.
b/  Adjusted by Manufactured Commodities CF   0.78.
c/  Adjusted by SCF = 0.83
d/  Processing costs have been adjusted to 257.5 and 125.2 for increase in
number of crushing days from 110-120 due to reduction in rated capacity
from 1500 to 1300 TCD in 1981/82.



-104-
ANNEX VIII
Table 9
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Variable Costs of Processing Cane per Ton
RJSM Mill - 1982 Constant Prices
(Tk)
I'inancial           Economic
Cane transport                                        56.8               52.25 a/
Production materials                                  23.9                18.64 b/
Factory wages                                         31.9               26.48 c/
Fuel and power                                        26.2               24.09 a/
Repair and maintenance                                24.0               18.72 b/
Distribution charges                                  23.0               19.09 c/
Road repair                                           22.2                18.43 c/
Excise duty                                          115.0
Total cost d/                                        323.0               177.70
a/  Adjusted by Petroleum CF = 0.92.
b/  Adjusted by Manufactured Commodities CF   0.78.
c/ Adjusted by SCF = 0.83
d/ Adjustments have been made in the analysis, with project for reduction
in cane transport cost, without project for increase in number of
crushing days from 110 to 120 due to progressive decrease! in rated
capacity from 1500 to 1300 TCD by 1987-88.



-105-
ANNEX VIII
Table 10
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
Per Acre for Aus (Paddy) TSM
(Tk)
1982 Constant Prices
Financial            Economic a/
Land preparation
Animal power - 24.5 Bullock days                 612.5                509.6
Other lab. - 34 mandays                          510.0                289.0
Materials
Fertilizer                                       344.0               470.8
Seed                                             248.0               368.0
Pesticide                                          0               _
Total                                            1,714.5             1,637.4
a/ Adjusted by economic prices Annex IX, Table 1.



-106-
ANNEX VIII
Table 11
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
Per Acre for Aus (Paddy) RSM
(Tk)
1982 Constant Prices
Financial            Economic a/
Land preparation
Animal power - 22.0 Bullock days                  550.0               457.6
Other lab. - 71 mandays                        1,065.0                602.7
Materials
Fertilizer                                        284.0               357.3
Seed                                             262.0                389.2
Pesticides                                         18.0                14.9
Total                                             2,179.0             1,852.4
a/ Adjusted by economic prices Annex IX, Table 1.



-107-
ANNEX VIII
Table 12
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Financial and Economic Costs of Production
Per Acre for Aus (Paddy) RJSM
(Tk)
1981 Constant Prices
Financial            Economic   a/
Land preparation
Animal power - 23.5 Bullock days                       587.5               488.8
Other lab. - 166.3 mandays                     1,395.6                790.8
Materials
Fertilizer                                       311.0                694.6
Seed                                             342.0               508.1
Pesticides                                         5.0                  4.1
Total                                            2,641.1              2,486.4
a/ Adjusted by economic prices Annex IX, Table 1.



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - TSM
(Tk'000)
Mill                      Strengthening                               Operating    Total         Total
Year    Rehabilitation 2/   Mill         Extension         Cane       Training        Costs       Costs      Benefits 1/
Farm        Service        Handling
1          11,255           8,088.0        4,544              -           -              -        22,763       1,782
2           18,893         13,302.0        8,004           13,129        701         2,771        56,141       8,392
3           11,084          9,213.0        2,003              -           -         12,505        34,317      32,112
4              -                7.5          771              -           -        ( 3,145)      ( 2,365)      6,904
5                              -             281              -           -        ( 4,514)      ( 4,233)      8,057
6                              -              -               -           -        ( 5,416)    ( 5,416)        8,269
7                              -              -               -           -        ( 5,750)    ( 5,750)        8,497
8                              -              -               -           -        ( 5,960)      ( 5,960)      8,530
9                              -              -               -           -        ( 6,408)      ( 6,408)      8,530
10                             -              -               -           -        ( 6,408)    ( 6,408)        8,530
11-20          -               -              -                           -        ( 6,408)      ( 6,408)      8,530
Note: Rate of Return 14%.
1/  Sugar valued at weighted average price of Tk 13,400, Tk 13,668 and Tk 13,936 per ton for 1983/84, 1984/85    - 
and 1985/86 and Tk 14,204 per ton thereafter; Molasses at Tk 1,980 per ton; and Bagasse Tk 15 per ton.
2/  Including technical assistance,



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - RSM
(TkO000)
Mill                    Strengthening                               Operating      Total       Total
Year    Rehabilitation 2/  Mill        Extension         Cane       Training       Costs        Costs    Benefits 1/
Farm        Service       Handling
1          17,190          9,656         6,490              -           -         (   103)      32,109       1,544
2          24,178          9,778         8,972           13,129        701        (   640)      57,259       1,621
3          16,702              48         2,522             -           -         ( 1,619)      17,165       5,249
4            -                  9         4,342             -           -          12,078       16,429      33,752
5            -                 -         2,528              -           -          12,433       14,961      36,892
6            -                 -             -              -           -          11,421       11,421      36,892
7                     -                                     -           -          11,081       11,081      36,892
8-20         -                 -                            -           -          10,730       10,730      36,892
Note: Rate of Return 19%.
1/  Sugar valued at weighted average price of Tk 13,400, Tk 13,668 and Tk 13,936 per ton for 1983/84, 1984/85    x
and 1985/86 and Tk 14,204 per ton thereafter; Molasses at Tk 1,980 per ton; and Bagasse Tk 15 per ton.
2/  Including technical assistance.                                                                                     4 H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Financial Costs and Benefits - RJSM
(TkO000)
Mill         Strengthening                                  Operating       Total        Total
Year    Rehabilitation 2/   Extension           Cane        Training        Costs         Costs     Benefits 1/
Service        Handling
1          20,724              6,097              -              -         (   332)      25,365      (   593)
2          33,224              7,262           13,129          701              84        53,741          656
3          20,088              2,922              -              -          41,519       64,041       78,761
4             -                4,230              -              -          37,376        41,606      72,139
5                                 -               -              -          40,085        40,085       79,038
6             -                   -               -              -          45,202        45,202      89,022               C
7                                 -               -              -          45,202        45,202       89,022
8-20                              -               -              -          45,202        45,202       89,022
Note:  Rate of Return 37%0.
1/ Sugar valued at weighted average price of Tk 13,400, Tk 13,668 and Tk 13,936 per ton for 1983/84, 1984/85
and 1985/86 and Tk 14,204 per ton thereafter; Molasses at Tk 1,980 per ton; and Bagasse Tk 15 per ton.
2/  Including technical assistance.
Ln|H
h-4



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REIABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits
(Tk -O00)
Mill     Mill  Strengthening   Oane                             Technical  Operating   Total   Incremental          Paddy       Total
Year   Rehabili-  Farm    Extension   Handling  'Roads 1/  Training  Assistance   Cost              Cost    Benefits 2/   and Cane   Benefits
tation              Service                                                                                        Benefits
1      47,385    15,647    11,693           -        3,152      3,363       7,482        1,373      87,348        2,137          -          2,173
2      78,850    21,167    17,656         37,374    5,758       4,104       7,674        5,728    166,885         6,992       ( 1,491)      5,501
3      47,961      8,543      6,517         -        3,152      2,064        7,176      12,408      87,821      107,433       ( 3,858)   1(03,575
4         -            16     8,475         -           -           -        5,148      11,544      25,783      112,182           139    112,321
5         -          -        2,570         -           -           -          -         9,(10      11,580      121,678           448    1'2,126
6          -                                                        -          -         4,368       4,368      166,457        27,199     193,656
7         -          -          -            -          -           -          -         3,457       3,457      166,589        27,128     193,717
8          -                    -            -          -           -          -         3,252       3,252      166,683        27,176     193,859
9-20                  -                -          -           -                -         2,937       ',937      166,683        27,176     193,859
Note:  Rate of Retirni 38%.
1/  30% of the cost attributable to this project.
2/  Representing value of sugar priced at Tk 10,538 per ton in 1983 and 1984 and Tk 14,609 per ton thereafter;
Molasses at Tk 2,850 per ton and Bagasse at Tk 12.3 per ton.                                                                                    c



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - TSM
(Tk'OOO)
Year     Mill               Strengthening                                  Technical   Operating    Total         Total
Rehabi-     Mill    Extension    Cane        Roads 1/  Training  Assistance    Cost           Costs    Benefits
litation     Farm      Service    Handling
1         10,843    7,028    3,535             -         966       1,121       2,494           -       25,987      1,396
2         19,032   12,418    6,052          12,458    1,922        1,368       2,558       (  252)    55,556       5,346
3         10,950    8,513    1,437             -         966         688       2,392       (5,125)    19,821    28,234
4             -          8      -342                     -           -         1,916       (6,597)   ( 4,331)    6,293         r
5             -        -         171           -         _           _           -         (8,274)   ( 8,103)    7,666
6             -        -          -            -         -           -           -         (9,242)   ( 9,242)    8,271
7             -        -          -            -         -           -           -         (9,488)   ( 9,488)    8,403
8             -        -          -            -         -           -           -         (9,640)   ( 9,640)    8,497
9-20          -        -          -            -         -           -           -         (9,955)   ( 9,955)    8,497
Note:  Rate of Return - 18%.
1/  30% road cost.                                                                                                   < 
aTD
C



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - RSM
(Tk-OOO)
Year    Mill           Strenghtening                                  Operating  Technical   Total    Total
Rehabi-   Mill    Extension      Cane     Roads 1/  Training      Cost    Assistance  Costs   Benefits
litation   Farm     Service      Handling
1      16,445    8,619      3,574         -         958       1,121    (1,158)      2,494     32,053      1,265
2      26,165    8,749      6,405       12,458    1,916       1,368    (2,724)      2,558     56,895      1.082
3      16,756       30      1,871         -         958         688    (4,409)      2,392     18,286      4,599
4        -           8      4,120         -         -           -       2,749       1,916      8,793    34,097
5        -         -        2,399         -         -           -       1,892         -        4,291    36,851
6        -         -          -           -         -           -         357         -          357    37,048
7        -         -          -           -         -           -         130         -           130    37,048
8-20     -         -          -           -         -           -       (  77)        -      (    77)   37,048
Note: Rate of Return 36%
1/  30% of road cost.
00 | H



BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Summary of Economic Costs and Benefits - RJSM
(Tk'000)
Mill    Strengthening                                    Technical   Operating   Total       Total
Year    Rehabi-    Extension        Cane    Roads 1/  Training  Assistance    Costs         Costs   Benefits
litation     Service      Handling
1      20,097         4,584           -       1,228       1,121     2,494      (   215)    29,508   (   488)
2      33,653         5,199        12,458    1,950        1,368     2,558      ( 2,752)    54,434         564
3      20,255         2,323           -       1,228         688     2,392       21,942      48,828    74,600
4        -            4,013           -         -           -       1,916       15,392      21,321    71,792
5        -                                                              -       13,253      18,253    77,161
6-20             -                    -         -           -          -        12,815      12,815   121,138
Note: Rate of Return 55%.
1/ 30% of road cost.



-115-
ANNEX IX
BANGLADESH
SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Document 1. Agricultural Aspects
Document 2. Mills
Document 3. Cost Estimates
Table 1.  Summary of Project Cost - RJSM
Table 2.  Summary of Project Cost - RSM
Table 3.  Summary of Project Cost - TSM
Document 4.  Financial Statements
Table 1.  BSFIC - Balance Sheet
Table 2.  BSFIC Mills Consolidated Income Statement
Table 3.  BSFIC Mills Consolidated Balance Sheet
Document 5. Gur vs. Sugar



ORGANIZATION OF BANGLADESH SUGAR FOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
(AS IN OCTOBER 1981)
BOAFRD                                                                                                          Ccarmnc
DIRECTORS
1  Director              Director                              r     Directr,
Director         Director                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plannina acd  (Production and          (Cane Developament
(Fln ,ncel      IMarketing)                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~Dacela nmTeotl  Engineering)                 and Resiearch)
|Controller of  |fn                                                                                                                                                                 Che Sertr     .Ii  X                                                               H
| Accounts                                                                                                                                                   Deecprt              ChmI                                                I 
lf             i _           f          II    I I .                                     I                                                   (                         -
Wmreiid  BaIk   23530



BANGLADESH SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
MILLS
EXISTING ORGANIZATION
DCMEL/               DC!-              OCMD/M o.81             DCAtI-/                DCA'4-/
S| AG"r  1           A
Am-t./  A-i.w/l 31               ChCntiD 0                    2     D                        Afuof.  AncreA-CheAg-
Asest. Much   AneH   r]gn---;rOs;t;;thSef.vl A t
AC CD04nier h/A   C9                                                                                        .AC1/A  .   9                            Ag,.c.          A  .  -'            Arc
F eldisra            Sl-                    S
1/ Depoty Chief Cone Develop-ent Officer                               9/ Ass/stunt Medical Officer
2t Cane De-lopten Officer                                           It Deputy Chief Administrat-e Officer
31 Cane Procurement Officer                                         I1  Seeinr Administration Officer
4/ ASsistant Cane Developmen  Officer                                 12/ Assistnr Administrutice Officer
5/ Assistant Can- Procurement Officer                                 13_  Send Inspection Officer
6/ Cane Devnlr. meef Assistant                                        14/ Deputy Controller Acciunts
7/ Deputy Chief Mechanical Engineer                                   15/ Assistant Accounts Officer
8I Deputy Chief Medical Officer                                       16/ Assistant Plantation Office
9a Assistant Medical Office-10/ DOputy Chief Adm
*New Department establshed in 1980                                                                                                                                                              World flak   235



BANGLADESH SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
MILLS
PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION
General Manager
Agricultural Manager
|Outgrower Manager |          |    Farm Manager      l
Workshop Manager                     Agronomist                                                                          ar
l                                   |   ~~~~~~~~~~~ACDO Credit l
.   .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Storekeeper      Workshop Foreman         Asst. Agronomist
Spare Parts       osopWorkshop Foreman]
Mechanic                                                        CCIC and                         DA Farm            F   Mechanic/Welder
Electrician      |     DA Agronomy                                 CDA                         CDA Irrigation               Electrician
Artisans                                                                                                                     B
World Bank - 23529



-119-
BANGLADESH SUGAR REHABILITATION AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
MI LLS
PROPOSED FACTORY ORGANIZATION
General Manager
Factory Manager
Engineering Department                Production Department                        Laboratory
Chief Engineer                         Chief Chemist                            Chemist
Mechanical Engineer    _
Shift Engineer                      Shif  C         :mi                 Liboratory Analyst
Mill House                         Juice Station                 f    Laboratory Chemist
_E~Boiling House                       _       Pan Station                         Records Chemist
Boiler                         Centrifugal Station
_    Workshop         |          _      Bagging Station
Electrical Engineer                  NOTES:
A. Added Factory Manager
B. Engineering Department
Asstl Eect. !gn ~r   1 . Asst. Mech. Engineers designated Shift Engineers.
g    Asst. Elect. Engineer    r          2. Electrical Engineer responsible for maintenance of instruments.
C. Production Department
1. Deleted Chemist.
Povver Generation                       2. Asst. Chemists designated Shift Chemists.
Power Generation       r             D. Laboratory
1. Deleted Asst. Chemist.
Elect. Workshop
World Bank - 23528






=819.                           96. t \   r                                                           IBRD 16137
/\t  >    <890  90  BANGLADESH                            92      DECEMBER 1981
Panchogarh\                          UGAR REHABILITATION  AND INTENSIFICATION PROJECT
Location of Sugar Mills and Growing Area
Q ,<1 {4  ; \    t ,   \   St1                      SUGAR MILLS:
26-i'l           N~~r. k                                                      Existing                                          26-
0     Under Construction
Concentration of Sugar Growing Area
   g6 Sugar Research Institute
Setobganj          Dm1 U                                                             Roads
Railways
Rivers
-- Airports
District Boundaries
International Boundaries
25-           Jiuha                    ~w                    n ~ j .~Chhatak
K   Ra:shohi                               TangreaiI
24'oydebpur 0At                                                                      Md.''ur
Brahmanbaria                   ~~~~~~~~24--
Meherp                >9 a<2u&4J                                                                            ;2
Dorsanas MDaro                                  Chrt   Daud*kan
L.3                        ,                             S;. 'W>  'K                        Fe'                                      2
LAD \S- 4-  A                                                                            COX'S Bazarr        .          j
1NDiA .<      
:   -  X       tz           .          o    ~     ~~ ~       ~ ~ ~~ 25  50  7L; Miles                                     I
..  p                              0 210                 80           120 Kilomeiers Co
.                       0t     dP Tdmn/his map has been prepared br the World BJankc s staff esc!os;rely for the convenience         2
-i.                                         of thre readers of the report to Which itiS attached. The dese,noations osad and the 
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bo riarhirses alshge We on thismo dor not tsOif,on the part of the World Bank and its 
S \RI LANKA         ..                 aceptancOeofsuch bOloudariest. o of an te/tr or .5noseet
_   .1                                               93C                           9P                           92






IBRD 16138
88                                                                  89                 BANGLADESH                                       90           DECEMBER 1981
This map has been prepard by the
World Bank's staff e,nclrsely for                 SUGAR  REHABILITATION  AND  INTENSIFICATION   PROJECT
the con venlene of the readers of   jE                                
the report to whrch It ;s attached.                                                                  rojeCt    Area
The den-mmat,ons used and the                                                                        r               Area
bo,ndo,ne sho,,,n us this map     J                                                                  Sugo  Mill Rehabilitation                   SOIL  TYPES.
do sot imply, on the pa,t of the  4                                                                                                               ______
World Bank and Its affiliates,any                                                             0     Existing Sugar MlIls                   O     ld    Piedmont Himalayan (TSM)
judgment on the legal statos of             (                                                       Sugar Mill Research Institute               Barind Tract (ParN of RSM)
any terr,tory or any endorsement                                                                      r      Z                           :     2   t  flood   l
go a ...pt-a of-uhburais                     _( f               9              \                     Prolect Zones                       :::ITista Flood Picin (RSMI
OrS a.unetance of neck baundaries.                             Roads                               @     G anges Flood Plain (RJSM)
Railways                                    District Boundaries
<  %Risers                                                     Internationil Boundaries
[26s                                                              *  Niphomar\L;                                                                                               260-
G bndha,               ..
T                                   0             20           40            60           80
89'ow sb -                                                           90, ......
N  \<i449  > < \Sirogizeijyy (~~~~~~.. ... ...
t  z                    4:;                                                                                         (0AN-AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  0....  89 9. 



