OF F1  AL
. oCREDIT NUMBER 1399 BD
Project Agreement
(Sugar Rehabilitation and Intensification Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH SUGAR AND FOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
Dated                   31           1983


﻿CREDIT NO. 1399 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         a     3 f            , 1983, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT SSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
(hereinafter called BSFIC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of BangladLdh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BSFIC agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to BSFIC and
to the Sugar Companies on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS   BSFIC,  in  consideration   of  the   Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) BSFIC shall carry out Parts C, F, (other
than F.1 (b)) and G of the Project, and cause the Sugar Companies
to carry out Parts A, B, D, E, and F.1 (b) of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, all


﻿-2-
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
(b) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, BSFIC shall: (i) establish and thereafter main-
tain a Project Coordination Unit which shall be formed by the
general managers of the Project Mills and the departmental
managers of BSFIC responsible for project implementation and
shall be chaired by the Director, Planning of BSFIC and with
powers and responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; and
(ii) employ, and thereafter maintain an agricultural manager and
a factory manager in each Project Mill with powers and responsi-
bilities satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. In. order to assist BSFIC and the Sugar
Companies in carrying out the Project, BSFIC shall employ, or
cause to be employed, consultants whose selection, qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association in accordance with the principles
and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) BSFIC undertakes to insure or cause the
Sugar Companies to insure, or make or cause to be made adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit (made available to it by the
Borrower or relent by the Borrower to the Sugar Companies)
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by BSFIC or the Sugar Companies to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) BSFIC shall cause all goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit (made available to it by the
Borrower or relent by the Borrower to the Sugar Companies) to be
used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.05 (a) BSFIC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   BSFIC shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained
records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association (A) quarterly
reports on the progress of the Project and (B) at regular
intervals   all  such   information  as   the  Association   shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by BSFIC of any contract for goods,
works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and che contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between BSFIC and
the Association, BSFIC shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by BSFIC and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) BSFIC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of BSFIC and of each of the Sugar Compa-
nies and any relevant records and documents.


﻿Section 2.06. BSFIC shall cause each of the Sugar Companies
to duly perform all its obligations under its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BSFIC
shall not take or concur in any action, and shall ensure that no
action is taken by the Sugar Companies, which would have the
effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) BSFIC shall, at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, the performance by the Sugar Companies of their
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) BSFIC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by BSFIC of its obligations under this
Agreement, or the performance by the Sugar Companies of their
respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations
Section 3.01. BSFIC shall carry on its operations and con-
duct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial practices under the supervision of qualified and ex-
perienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. BSFIC shall ensure that each of the Sugar
Companies at all times operates and maintains its plant, mills,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, purchases spare parts therefor, and makes all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering and financial practices.
Section 3.03. BSFIC shall causc the Sugar Companies to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provi-
sions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.04. BSFIC shall cause each of the Sugar Companies
to take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
such rights and interests in land and all such other rights,
powers, privileges and franchises as are necessary or useful in
the conduct of its business; and
Section 3.05. BSFIC shall cause the roads included in the
Project to be maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices and shall make available, or cause to be made avail-
able, promptly as needed, sufficient funds and facilities for the
purpose.
Section 3.06. BSFIC shall ensure that sugarcane extension
officers will be given long-term training in sugarcane agronomy
and extension.
Section 3.07. BSFIC shall, before undertaking the installa-
tion of any new sugar milling facilities: (i) carry out a fea-
sibility study to ascertain the economic and technical viability
of such incremental milling facilities and the need for them in
the public sector; and (ii) before acting on the recommendations
of any such study, ensure that the said recommendations are
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BSFIC shall, or shall cause each of the
Sugar Companies, to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are requested
from  the   Credit  Account   on  the  basis   of  statements   of
expenditure.
(b) BSFIC shall cause to be retained, until one year after
the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidelncing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
Section 4.02. BSFIC shall:


﻿-6-
(L) have the accounts referred to in Sections 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement and financial statements related thereto (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(b) cause to be furnished to the Association, not later
than four months after the end of each fiscal year, the draft
unaudited accounts and financial statements of each of the Sugar
Companies;
(c) furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such fiscal year, (i) certified copies of
the financial statements of BSFIC and of each of the Sugar Com-
panies for such year as so audited, and (ii) the report of such
audits by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including, without
limitation to the foregoing, separate opinions by said auditors:
(A) on the separate accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of
this Agreement; (B) in respect of the expenditures and records
referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, as to whether
the proceeis of the Credit made available to it and withdrawn
from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(d) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning said accounts, financial statements, records and expendi-
tures, as well as the audit thereof, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, BSFIC shall cause each of the Sugar Companies: (i) to
achieve by June 30, 1984, and maintain a ratio of current assets
to current liabilities (hereinafter referred to as the current
ratio) of at least 1.25 until June 30, 1985, and at least 1.50
thereafter; and (ii) to achieve by June 30, 1984 and thereafter
maintain a debt/equity ratio not greater than 60:40.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, BSFIC
shall cause each of the Sugar Companies to declare dividends, or
make any other distribution with respect to its share capital,
only after the current ratio and the debt/equity ratio referred
to in paragraph (a) above have been met.


﻿- 7 -
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "current assets" means cash and near cash
items   including   marketable   securities,   net
accounts   receivable,  inventories   saleable   or
convertible to saleable goods within one year from
the date of report, prepaid expenses, and all
other assets which could, in the ordinary course
of business, be converted within twelve months
into cash;
(ii)  the   term   "current   liabilities"   means   all
short-term   obligations  payable   within  twelve
months, including accounts payable, bank over-
drafts   or  short-term  bank   credits,   customer
advances, suppliers' credits, taxes, dividends,
bonuses and current portion of long term debt;
(iii) the term "debt" emeans any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred;
(iv) the term "equity" means all unimpaired paid-in
share capital plus accumulated net earnings not
set apart for specific purposes, and reserves not
allocated to cover specific liabilities; and
(v) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan
contract or agreement on the date the contract or
loan agreement providing for such debt is entered
into, and, in case of a guarantee, on the date of
execution and delivery of the agreement providing
for such guarantee.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of BSFIC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-8-
(1) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If   the Development   Credit Agreement    terminates  in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BSFIC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
For BSFIC:
Bangladesh Sugar & Food
Industries Corporation
Shilpa Bhaban (5th Floor)
91, Motijheel C.A.,
Dhaka-2
Cable address:                    Telex:
SUFICORN                          642210 BSFIC BJ
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BSFIC may be taken or executed by BSFIC or
such other person or persons as BSFIC shall designate in writing,
and BSFIC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
egional Vice President
South Asia
BANGLADESH SUGAR AND FOOD INDUSTRIES CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BSFIC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. BSFIC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the 'basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   To the extent possible, goods of a similar nature shall be
grouped and awarded under a single contract.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of Bangladesh may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
BSFIC and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of


﻿- 12 -
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods which are proprietary items or spare parts may be
procured through negotiated contracts or through competitive
bidding among licensed suppliers, all in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less each and which do not exceed in the aggregate the
equivalent of about $500,000, may be awarded after solicitation
and comparison of at least three price quotations from reputable
suppliers.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, except that civil works required for mill rehabilitation
under Part E of the Project may be carried out by force account.
4.   Vehicles may be procured on the basis of local procure-
ment procedures satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more each:
(a) Before bids are invited, BSFIC shal' furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require


﻿- 13 -
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BSFIC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform BSFIC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, BSFIC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BSFIC and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, BSFIC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or


﻿- 14 -
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform BSFIC and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of A-    tAS__
1981.
FOR SECRETARY


