World Bank Financed
Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARY REPORT
Fourth Railway Engineering Exploration and Design Institute
Wuhan Academy of Environmental Sciences
September 2003
E697 

Rev. V. 1

World Bank Financed
Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARY REPORT
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Introduction
1.1 Project Background
1.2 Strategic Considerations
1.3 Basis of the EA
Project Description
Baseline Environment
Analysis of Alternatives
Environmental Impacts
5.1 Noise
5.2 Vibration
5.3 An Quality
5.4 Water Environment
5.5 Ecosystem
5.6 Socio-economic Impact
5.7 Resettlement and Relocation
5.8 Safeguards Policies Assurance
Miti gat i on
6.1 Design Phase
6.2 Construction Phase
6.3 Operation Phase
Public Transport
7.1 Project Area Baseline
7.2 Impacts
7.3 Mitigation
1
1
1
2
2
3
4
9
10
10
11
12
13
13
14
15
16
16
16
19
21
22
22
23
23
EA Summary Wuhan Urban Transport Project
8. Environmental Management Plan
8.1 Objectives
8.2 Management and Supervision Organizations
8.3 Environmental Monitoring
8.4 Institutional Strengthening and Training
8.5 Estimated Cost for Environmental Management
9. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
10 Conclusions
List of Tables
List of Figures
EA Summaiy 11
24
24
24
25
26
26
26
29
Wuhan Urban Transport Project
List of Tables
Table 2-1
Table 3-1
Table 3-2
Table 3-3
Table 3-4
Table 6-1
Table 6-2
Table 8-1
Table 8-2
Table 9-1
Table 9-2
Wuhan Urban Transport Construction Project
Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Results for the Project Area
Existing Noise Level at Key Sensitive Receptors along Project Roads
Surface Water Quality Standard Compliance Status
Major Socio-economic Indicators (2001)
Noise Mitigation Measures
Compensation for Trees Cut
General Environmental Monitoring Program
Summary of Estimated Cost for Environmental Management
Public Consultation Summary
Information Disclosure Summary
List of Figures
Figure 1
Figure 2 Key Project Components
Figure 3 East Lake areas
Project Location - Wuhan
EA Summary ... 111
4
5
6
8
9
17
20
25
26
28
28
After Page
2
4 14
Wuhan Urban Transport Project

World Bank Financed
Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Environmental Assessment
SUMMARY REPORT
Wuhan, Hubei Province, People’s Republic of China
(September 2003)
1. Introduction
This document is the Summary of Environmental Assessment (EA) for the partially
World Bank financed Wuhan Urban Transport Project (the Project). The Project consists
of new roads to be constructed on green field, upgrading of existing urban roads, road
maintenance, public transport and environmental management in the provincial capital of
Wuhan, Hubei Province, P.R.China (PRC). This document provides a general summary
of the findings in the Project Environmental Impact Assessment (EM) and
Environmental Management Plan (EMP), including legal and policy framework and
applicable environmental standards, environmental baseline, major potential adverse
impacts to the physical, ecological and socio-economic environments in the Project area,
analysis of alternatives, mitigation measures designed, public consultation programs, and
environmental management plan for the Project. This Executive Summary could serve as
a concise Project environmental report to environmental administrators, decision-makers,
project-affected groups, non-government organizations (NGO’s) and the general public,
as well as to the executive board of governors of the World Bank.
1.1 Project Background
As one of the most important cities and transportation hubs in central China (Figure1 .l-1),
the Project city Wuhan has been experiencing a rapid economic development and
urbanization in the past 20 years. However, its urban transportation system has lagged
behind the overall development pace, impeding sustained development and improvement
of the standard of living for its residents. Many transportation bottlenecks in and around
the city have formed due to missing links, poor road conditions and/or lack of
maintenance, seriously affecting the efficiency of the city’s transportation system and
adversely impacting urban environmental quality. These deficiencies and under-
development in Wuhan urban transport system have affected the city as a regional
economic center and a frontier in developing China’s west. The proposed Project, to be
partially financed by the World Bank, represents a major effort in alleviating
transportation bottlenecks and improvement of the transport system.
The preparation for this project started in 1998. Over the years, various state and
municipal government agencies have conducted a series of studies and preparation works,
including project proposal in 1998, feasibility study report in 2000 as well as different
revisions in the following years, and consultations with various governments and non-
government organizations. Over the same period, the World Bank has sent a series of
missions to prepare the Project and in December 2002, pre-appraised the Project.
EA Summaly 1 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
1.2
In June 2002, the Fourth Railway Exploration and Design Institute in conjunction with
Wuhan Academy of Environmental Sciences was retained to conduct an Environmental
Assessment (EA) for the Project. An EA terms of reference (TOR) was prepared in
September 2002 and on December 9, 2002 the TOR was reviewed and approved by an
expert panel of the State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA). The first draft
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report was prepared in December 2002 which
was pre-appraised by World Bank. After revisions accordingly to the Bank’s pre-
appraisal comments, the revised draft of EM, together with Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) and a draft EA Summary were complete in March 2002 and submitted to the
SEPA and the Bank for further review. The current document represents the final draft of
EA Summary, following additional revisions accordance with comments received fiom
SEPA and the World Bank.
The Project is classified as a Category A project since it involves massive infrastructure
construction on green field as well as urban built-up areas. The construction and
operation of the Project urban roads would result in increased noise, motor vehicle air
emission, discharges to lakes or rivers, disturbance to the ecosystem, visual impacts and
resettlement of urban residents.
Strategic Considerations
According to Wuhan Urban Master Plan (1996-2020), the Wuhan city proper will be
expanded from 3.9 million population in 1998 to 4.5 million in 2020. Over the same
period, the urban area is to expand from 240 km2 to 427.5 km2, to be centered around two
core areas on each side of Changjiang (Yangtze) river. The city will not only be a
regional political, economic and transportation center but also a major gateway from the
more developed coastal areas to the China’s vast west and play a key role in the
ambitious national Develop China’s West program. An efficient urban transportation
system is one of the key components in the Master Plan and one of the fbndamental
elements in achieving the city’s development goal. However, A recent urban
transportation system strategic study shows serious efficiencies in the city’s
transportation system and an urgent need for upgrading through various physical works
and policy initiatives, including road construction, road maintenance, traffic control,
public transit and transport environmental protection.
Wuhan is divided by Changjiang and Hanjing rivers into three sections, each of which
has numerous lakes and water ponds, as well as densely populated residents. Building an
efficient urban transportation in the divided urban area is a major challenge. According to
Wuhan City Transportation Master Plan, the city’s transportation system faces three
major issues or challenges: river crossing, transportation in congested urban built-up
areas and management of pass-through motor vehicle traffic. This World Bank financed
Wuhan project includes components to address the priorities in all three issues. The
project will include construction and upgrading of several ramps to the existing river
crossing bridges to maximize their role in the transportation network. The project will
have major components in solving the urban or city core transportation issue through new
road constructiodconnection the missing links, and existing road upgrading and
maintenance. The several Project roads on the inner and mid ring roads will contribute
completion and upgrading of the ring road systems will help address the issue of transit
motor vehicles through detouring such vehicles from downtown and city core areas.
EA Suininary 2 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
5
i
*
Clearly, the Project will address all three key strategic transport issues in Wuhan as
outlined in the Master Plan. In fact, the Project roads and other project components are
among the top priorities in these master plans in addressing the urgent issues in the
Wuhan urban transport system. By alleviating the transport congestion &d removing
traffic bottlenecks and thus improving the transport efficiency, the project will support
the city’s sustainable economic development, improvement of the standard of living for
its residents, and environmental upgrading.
1.3 Basis of the EA
Relevant regulatory, policy and administrative requirements for environmental
assessment of development projects in China, both at the state and municipal levels, were
followed during the preparation and evaluation of environmental assessment, as were the
Bank’s ten safeguard policies. Major laws and regulations applied in the EA are as
follows:
Laws of Environmental Protection of the PRC of December 26, 1989;
Law of Air Pollution Control of the PRC of September 1,2000;
Law of Water Pollution Control of the PRC of May 15, 1996;
Law of Environmental Noise Pollution Control of the PRC of March 1, 1997;
Management Regulations on Environmental Protection for Construction Projects of
November 18,1998;
Circulation on Strengthening EL4 for Construction Projects Receiving International
Financing of 1993;
Technical Specifications for Environmental Impact Assessment;
Scenic Sites Management Guides;
Notice on Classification Report on Surface Waters Function, Atmospheric
Environmental Quality Area and Environmental Acoustic Area in Part of Districts
and Counties of Wuhan City of 1995; and
Regulations on Lake Protection in Wuhan of 2000.
Of the ten World Bank safeguard policies, Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01),
Involuntary Resettlement (OD4.30), Cultural Property (OP4.1 l), and Natural Habitats
(OPBP4.04) are applied in the EA first as a screening and, where triggered, included in
the full assessment. Since there are no project components that would involve forest, pest
control chemicals, indigenous people, international waterways, dams or construction in
disputed areas as defined under the World Bank’s OP7.60, safeguard policies related to
these subjects are not applied in the EA. Relevant international environmental agreements
in which China is a signing party have also been included where applicable as a basis for
the EA.
2. Project Description
The Project is located mostly in the urban area of Wuhan and a small portion in the
suburb (Figure 2.2-1). Project components will include large scale physical works as well
as improvement and upgrading of relevant management systems and software. According
to the common characteristics of various components, the project may be divided into
five categories: road network development (road infrastructure construction), traffic
management and road safety, public transport, road maintenance and environmental
management. A summary description of the contents of Wuhan Urban Transport
EA Summary 3 Wuhan Urban Transpol? Project
Construction Project is shown in Table 2-1 and a more detailed and specific description
for each of the components are provided in the EIA report.
Table 2-1 Wuhan Urban Transport Construction Project
Components cost
(RMB10,OOO) Contents of construction
Trunk roads I 5 segments with a total lencrth of 44.534 m
Interchanges and intersections
Main roads
Branch roads
Road network
development
9 new interchanges and 2 new underpasses
19 segments with a total length of 45,436 m
3 segments with lenrzth of 2.755 m
405,026
Traffic
management
and road
3. Baseline Environment
Pedestrian works I 9 pedestrian bridges and 9 underpasses
Improvement of pedestrian and bicycle transport systems; priority of public
transport; intersection channelization/optimization; road transport regional
control system (ATC); road transport safety; public education for road safety
27,456
Physical Setting
Public
transport
Road
maintenance
Environmental
management
Wuhan City is situated in the Changjiang River Middle and Lower Reaches Alluvial
Plain. The terrain in the urban area is smooth with fewer eroded residual hills in the
southeast of Hubei Province. Wuhan belongs to humid sub-tropical monsoon climate
with distinct four seasons, The average annual temperature ranges from 16.8"C, and
average annual precipitation from 1214-1448 mm, concentrated mostly in the summer.
The predominant wind direction is southeast in June through August and north or
northeast in other months of the year. One of the major characteristics in terrain of the
Wuhan area is its abundant surface water resources. Besides the nation's landmark
Chiangjiang (Yangtze) river, many other smaller rivers, creeks, lakes and ponds flow
through or are located in the urban Wuhan area. The total lake water surface area within
the mid ring road (MRR) is 65 km2, about 27% of the total land area.
Modemized public transport dispatching and information management
system; technical assistance; public transport reform; priority bus lanes
Construction and reconstruction of 1 1 bus terminals
Construction of 12 bus stations
Reconstruction of 24 bus stops
9 road segments with a total length of 42,783 m
Reform municipal road maintenance institution, upgrade maintenance
equipment, strengthen road maintenance research
Motor vehicle emission monitoring system and traffic noise monitoring
automatic display system, Strategic EA
26,078
29,359
1,449
City wide existing ambient air quality was determined using data from five permanent air
quality monitoring stations around the city, run by the municipal monitoring station. The
data show that the average annual NOz, TSP are mostly near or slightly exceed the Class
I1 ambient air quality standards, but CO has constantly complied (below) with the
applicable standard. Over the last three years, however, NOz concentrations has been
reduced and well below the applicable standard. .
Total cost
EA Suminaiy 4
493,634
Wuhan Urban Transport Project

In addition to the city wide data, the EA included a project specific air quality monitoring
program which included 16 monitoring points along 15 project roads. These air quality
data, collected in September 2002, represent the air quality baseline of the project area.
The project area air quality data are presented in Table 3-1.
The above results show that SO2 were all below to well below the applicable standard, an
apparent achievement of the city’s long time effort of industry relocation and use of
cleaner fuels. The monitoring results for NOz was mixed with some data complied with
the standard (0.12 mg/Nm3) while others against it. Baseline PMlo and THC mostly
exceeded the applicable standards (0.15 and 0.16 mg/Nm3, respectively), some very
seriously. Compared with the city-wide data, air quality is poorer in the project road areas,
particularly those in busy and congested roads. This is because that the project roads are
mostly located in the well built up areas and urban centers. In these areas, motor vehicle
emissions are one of the major air pollution sources.
Noise Baseline and Sensitive Receptors
Along the project roads and within the impacted areas, a total of 126 facilities are
identified during EA field investigation as sensitive or otherwise vulnerable to negative
changes in the surrounding environment, such as air pollution, increased noise,
construction dust, etc. These sensitive receptors include 91 residential housing
developments or zones, 19 schools, one kindergarten, six hospitals, two seniors
homes, and seven government organizations/institutions (mostly office towers which
house a large number of people). These sensitive receptors are located about zero to 110
m from the red line (road land boundary) to the nearest points in these sensitive receptors.
To understand the noise baseline, a monitoring program was conducted covering
representative sensitive receptors. The results from the monitoring program for the most
sensitive receptors (a total of 26 schools, hospitals and lundergarten) along project roads
are presented in Table 3-2.
EA Summary 5 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Name of sensitive
I I Vocational School I
I
13
14
First Chinese Met- I
I I
7.4 50.7 I
9 Wuhan Sci
10 G ” ’
Youyilu Middle School 0 72.5 I
I
Youyi Road
Minyi Hospital 8 70.5
I 12 I AiminPrimarySchool I MayingRoad I 3.8 I 62.7 I I I
16
17
18
No.6 Lodging Middle School Houhu Road 20
Jiang’an Red Cross Hospital 5 68.0 I
I
Lugouqiao Road
Hubei Education College 40 63.5
Hankou Railway Middle Zhongshan Ave. I l 5 I School
19
20
21
22
Lujialing Primary School 20 56.9 I
Caijiawan Middle School 110 57.5 I
Agricultural Cadres’ College Luoshinan Road 100 56.8 I
No.2 Staff Hospital Qinghua Road 60 53.5 45.5
24
25
26
~~~ I 23 I MinglunjiePrimary School I Jinshui Road 1 5 1 63.5 I I I
Miaoyi Kindergarten Nanniwan viaduct 30
Houhu Primary School Sanjintan viaduct 0 61.8 I
Liqiao Primary School Lizhi viaduct 10 48.5 I
The above noise monitoring results show that noise some areas meet the day and night
time applicable standards (55 dB(A) for day time and 45 dB(A) for night), while that in
other areas do not. Basically, noise at urban center such as Taibeiyi Road is very high
because of the busy traffic and other urban activities. To the contrast, the suburb area,
particularly areas where is no road now and a new road is to be constructed such as
Qinghua Road, is quiet and has high acoustic quality as indicated by the below or near
applicable standard noise levels. The baseline noise for other general sensitive receptors,
EA Summary 6 Wukan Urban Transport Project
such as residential buildings, etc. are very similar. Those located in downtown built up
region have high existing noise levels while others located in the suburb are surrounded
in a quiet environment.
Vibration
As there is limited elevated viaduct works in this project, vibration is not expected to be a
major issue. It is however, a potential impact factor to be covered by the EA according to
relevant Chinese EA guidelines and regulatory requirements. Baseline vibration along the
project roads was monitored during the EA. The monitoring sites were selected in
representative residential, schools, hospitals and cultural relics which may be sensitive to
traffic vibration and a total of 22 such sites were monitored in the EA. The monitoring
results show that for those sites located near existing roads, the vibration levels were
ranged between 50.2 to 67.3 dB during the day and 57.0 to 67.5 dB at night, all below the
applicable standards (75 dB for day time and 72 dB for night). Vibration levels were
much lower at those sensitive receptors which are located near proposed new road sites.
As there is no road and traffic at these sites at the present, vibration was ranged 48.5 to
63.8 during the day time and 48.0 to 59.3 dB at night.
Sunsltiite
Sunshine to buildings located near the proposed interchanges could be blocked once the
multi-layer structures are complete. Of the 11 elevated interchanges, five have no
sensitive receptors located within the shaded areas of the finished structures, while there
are residential buildings, schools and a kindergarten surrounding the remaining six
interchange sites. The baseline sunshine investigation shows that on the winter solstice
day, which is the shortest day of the year, all buildings on the north side will receive 10
hours of sunshine at the first floor windows. The amount of sunshine meets the applicable
standards (1 hour for residential and 3 hours for schools and hospitals). The buildings on
the south side do not receive any sunshine as the buildings face north.
Drainage System and Surface Water
The urban Wuhan areas are divided into 22 drainage systems with a total catchment area
of 198 km2. The sewer system in the old city area is primarily combined storm and
sanitary sewer system while in the newly developed area, the sewer systems are separate.
There will be Project components in both old and newly developed areas. Most of the
major surface water bodies will serve as receiving water for the runoff from the Project in
both the construction and operation phases, including Changjiang, Hanjiang and Fuhe
rivers as well as East lake and for other lakes. Because of the water levels and flood
control facilities, sewer is pumped to rivers but discharged directly to lakes.
Based on the latest environmental quality annual report for Wuhan (2002), surface water
in virtually all water bodies in the city has been contaminated as characterized by the
standard compliance status. The main findings of the annual report on quality of water
bodies relevant to the Project are presented in Table 3-3. The table shows that the main
pollutants are organic substances, coliform, nitrogen and phosphorus, indicating the
domestic sewage is the main source of wastewater and receiving water contamination. In
particular, as water in the area lakes is stagnant most of the time, and its assimilative and
dilution capacity is poor and the lake water turnover time is typically very long, any
excessive discharge of nutrients to the lakes could result in eutrophication. In fact, the
EA Summary 7 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
excessive growth of algae in the lakes and fish kills from oxygen depletion due to the
large amount of nutrient inputs in the summer time have occurred from time to time in
Wuhan’s lakes.
Waterbody
Changjiang Wuhan Section
Fuhe river
Standard Main functions Parameters exceeding
Category standards
I11 Drinking, navigation, fish TP, Mn, coliform
V Flood control, receiving BODKOD, NH4, TP,
East lake
Sha lake
oil
I11 Drinking, fish, scenery NH4, TP, coliform Iv Fish, receiving BODKOD, NH4, TP,
Ecosystem
South lake
Moushui lake
Nantaizi lake
East lake is listed in the 1998’s Asian Wetland Directory, as well as a state level scenery
site, urban recreation area, popular resort and health rehabilitation area. Based on a site
ecological study up to 1986, the latest available study report of such kind, there were 76
species of phytoplankton, 203 species of zooplankton, 67 species of fish. In addition, the
climate as well as shallow water bodies with abundant food sources have attracted many
migrating birds to spend their winter in Wuhan area lakes including East lake. Typically,
the migrating birds arrive in November of each year and leave Wuhan in Match of the
following year. According to the recent observation, each year East lake attracts about
several tens of thousand birds in the winter time. These birds mostly find their foods in
the mid and east area of East lake during the day, while spend their night in Moushan
which is a small hill in the south end of the lake.
Iv Fish, receiving NH4, TP
Iv Fish, receiving BODEOD, m, TP
Iv Fish. receiving BOD/COD. NH,. TP
Due to water pollution and extensive human activities in and around East lake, the
biomass, species and aquatic ecosystem have been changing. The biological group
structures tend to be simplified and the level of biodiversity has been lowered in the
recent years in East lake. But East lake continues to be a very important natural habitat in
the mid reach Changjiang river area and a rare natural wetland in an urban area of large
cities such as Wuhan.
Other components in the urban ecosystem consist mainly of planted trees, woodland and
green areas throughout the city area including all project sites. There are about 106
species of trees in Wuhan, mostly belong to broad leaf trees and deciduous broad-leaf
trees, located along road sides, parks and open areas in the city.
Cultural Property
A survey by the EA team was conducted during the project EA, covering all project roads
and other project facilities such as bus terminals of both recommended and alternative
sites. The survey included data collection and evaluation, walk-through of the entire
project, visual observation and consultation with cultural relic bureau and specialists.
Two provincial level cultural relics sites were identified within the project impacted area:
EA Summary 8 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Wuhan Office of the New Fourth Army, which is located at the Lugouqiao road in the
Hankou section and Xinhai Revolution Gate, located in about 150 m from a project road
Jinshui road. The New Fourth Army is one of the most influential army groups in the
modem Chinese revolutionary history and the formal headquarters currently service as a
memorial and revolutionary museum. Xinghai Revolutionary Gate, originally known as
Zhonghe Gate, is one of the ten, and the only servicing, city gates for ancient Wuchang.
In the revolution which overthrew the Qing Dynasty, the revolution army first attacked
the Zhonghe gate and from there entered Wuchang section of the city and thus marked as
the beginning of the victory. The Xinghai revolution is one of the most significant
milestones in the Chinese modem history and its success ended the five thousand years of
the feudal society in China and marked the beginning of the modem Chinese history. The
existing revolutionary gate was re-built in 1981.
Socio-economic Baseline
According to the 2001 census, the total population in Wuhan was approximately 7.58
million including 4.49 million urban population, or about 59% of the total. The city is
divided into 11 urban districts and two suburb districts. As the provincial capital, Wuhan
is the political, economic, science and cultural center of not only Hubei province but also
mid China. Other key socio-economic indicators of the project area are presented in
Table 3-4.
4. Analysis of Alternatives
The analysis of altematives was conducted during the EA in the following aspects:
different road alignments, different design configurations, and with and without projects.
Two road segments servicing the same areas were compared with and evaluated for the
alternative routes. The locations and relationships of these altematives are shown in the
maps in Figure 3.1-1 and 3.1-2 in the main EIA report.
For the Sixin area, Sixin Avenue is compared with North Moushuihu road. Sixin road is
selected following the analysis because it better serves the new community which
currently does not have adequate road connection with the city, has less sensitive
receptors along its alignment, and less requirements for resettlement, although the North
Moushuihu road would better connect with the regional road network.
For the Houhu area, Xinfu Avenue is compared with Houhu road. Following the analysis,
Houhu road is selected because it would better connect with the existing roads in the area.
EA Summary 9 Wulzan Urban Transport Project
The potential environmental impacts, such as the number of sensitive receptors, and
amount resettlement, etc. are very similar.
Three pairs of design configurations were compared and analyzed during the EA:
Elevated viaduct versus underground tunnel at the Naniewan interchange. The
former is selected based on the less interruption of the municipal services through
utility relocation, no accumulation of water, better air emission dispersion and low
costs.
Underground versus over head pedestrian street crossing at the Hanyang cultural
museum area. The former is selected based on its less visual impacts in an area
surrounding by Guishan mountain, museum, and other visual sensitive sites.
Elevated viaduct versus ground road at Qinghua road. The former is selected based
on its ability to retain the continuity of East lake water body and less overall impacts
to the wetland area. However, raising Qinghua road as an elevated viaduct will still
mitigate adverse impacts to the acceptable level based on the current assessment.
Further, considerable assessment is required to identify and evaluate other possible
alternatives to serve this area and/or mitigation measures to address the impacts.
More discussion on Qinghua road is presented later.
In terms of with and without project scenarios, the Project would improve air quality
from a city wide perspective due to the improved motor vehicle operation efficiency and
average speeds. Even at some of the project roads, the air quality and noise are expected
to reduce when the construction is complete. This is because at some busy roads, the
existing noise level and air emissions are high due to traffic congestion. The project
would greatly alleviate such congestion through road upgrading. The reduced noise levels
and air emission will offset increases in noise and air emission from increased traffic after
the project.
5. Environmental Impacts
5.1 Noise
Construction Phase
Construction noise will be primarily from construction machinery and heavy duty
construction trucks. Based on the noise intensity and compounded effect of simultaneous
operation of multiple machines, it is expected that noise impacted areas will be
approximately 50 m from the noise sources for day time and 100-150 m at night. It will
take about 150 m for the noise to meet the standards at night. The night time construction
cannot be avoided as many construction activities in urban area can be limited during the
day time and the demanding construction schedule. Such impacts would particularly be
significant at the elevated interchange areas as they would be the mostly likely sites for
night time construction. The site investigation shows that within the potentially impacted
areas near these interchange construction sites (within the 150 m areas), there are
approximately 6500 residents at present. These residents will be disturbed by the noise
levels during the highly likely night time construction.
EA Summaiy 10 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Operation Phase
Noise levels for the 117 residential areas, schools, hospitals and seniors houses which are
located near the project roads are predicted for the'years 2007,,2012 and 2020 for the
short, medium and long terms impacts. The results show that noise at some of the
sensitive receptors will exceed the applicable standards while at others, be within the day
time standards. At the project completion year (2007), nine road sections will see a
decrease in noise levels due to the improved road conditions by the Project. Noise levels
at the reminder sensitive receptors will be increase from the present levels. Furthermore,
the model shows that with the increasing traffic volumes along the project roads, noise
level would further increase, resulting in more road segments to exceed the applicable
standards over time.
For upgrading of existing road component, the increase in noise after project completion
is not apparent. This is because existing noise levels are already very high due to vehicle
homing and frequent acceleration, deceleration and braking at congested roads. In fact,
noise reduction has been predicted by the model at some of the busiest and most
congested roads and intersections. In contrast, the incremental increase in noise levels at
the new road construction site such as Qinghua road will be very high, according to the
modeling results. The existing quiet environment in these areas will be disrupted and
replaced with high noise from road traffic after construction.
5.2 Vibration
Construction Phase
Vibration sources are mainly from construction machinery. Experience from similar
construction activities show that at an average of 30 m from heavy construction machines,
vibration levels are expected to near or below 72 dB, which is the applicable standard.
The construction activity which would cause the strongest vibration is piling operation
which will occur at the elevated interchange sites. The impacted areas where vibration
levels would exceed the applicable standard, are about 80-100 m from the piling
operations. Several thousands residents will be affected by the vibration during the
construction phase.
Operation Phase
Vibration during the operation phase is mainly from passing motor vehicles, especially
heavy trucks on elevated viaduct or interchanges. Clearly, such impacts would be long
lasting. A mathematical model was used in the EA to predict vibration levels during
operation, and the results show that vibration at all surface roads modeled will be within
the applicable standards. At the interchanges, two sites (Sanjintan and Qingling
interchanges) will experience higher than standard vibration, mostly during rush hours
and after 2012. The site investigation indicates that the site is currently on open areas
with no sensitive receptors nearby. If no sensitive facilities will be built too close to these
interchanges in the future, the vibration impacts during the operation phase would be very
limited.
EA Summaiy 11 Wukan Urban Transport Project
5.3 Air Quality
Construction Phase
Airborne dust will be a primary air contaminant during the construction phase. The
sources of the dust will primarily be demolition activities, materials storage areas and
transportation. The factors affected dust airborne will include climate conditions, mainly
wind speed and direction, and moisture in the ambient air, and type of construction
activities. The impact area can be about 40 m from the source of dust based on
construction site and road side tests, while areas beyond 50 m the impacts will be
gradually phased out. Another source of air emission is asphalt and concrete mixing
stations. The impacted area can be 100 m leeward from the source according to a MOC
study in 1999. Once air born the dust impact may last 30 minutes and PMlocould last
even longer.
Operation Phase
MOBILES, the motor vehicle emission intensity model and CALINE4, the air pollutant
dispersion model are used in the EA to forecast the impact of exhaust emission of motor
vehicles to the environment immediately adjacent to the project roads. The modeling
results indicate that higher than standard air quality scenarios will occur in some project
roads particularly interchange sites in 2007 and 2012 under the unfavorable climate
conditions, while under noma1 conditions the air quality is expected to meet the
applicable standards. In 2020 as more stringent motor vehicle emission standards (Euro4)
will be introduced and enforced in the city, improvement in air quality from reduced
emissions from individual motor vehicles will offset the effect from increased motor
vehicle traffic. The model also shows that in some roads, air quality will improve after
the project, because the project components such as interchange construction, road
widening, intersection chanalization would greatly improve road conditions and existing
congestion which is a major source for high motor vehicle emission. Therefore, the
project will help improve air quality even near the project areas, particularly in the
currently congested roads and intersections.
To evaluate the potential impacts of the project to air quality from the city wide
perspective, ISCLT3, the air shed model, is used for Wuhan region with considerations of
other air pollution sources. The results show that from the city-wide perspective, air
quality will improve, due mainly to smoother traffic, increased average motor vehicle
speeds and more efficient motor operations after the project completion. The improved
city wide air quality represents a major positive impacts and contribution to Wuhan’s
environmental improvement brought by this urban transport project.
The project is expected to contribute to the reduction of global warming gases when
compared with the same traffic on other existing roads in the same city. Compared with
the without Project scenarios, it is expected that more NOz but less CO and THC will be
generated. This is due to the significantly increased motor vehicle speeds on the roads
and smoother motor vehicle speeds (less acceleration, deceleration and idling) over motor
vehicle traffic on the existing highly congested roads.
EA Summary 12 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
5.4 Water Environment
Construction Phase
This project will cross water body except part of Qinghua road which will be built on
over part of the East lake. In addition, some construction activities will be carried near
lakes. The in-water construction could impact water quality in the sensitive East lake
through oil leaking/dripping which then enter into the water, re-suspension of sediment
during in-water construction, surface runoff contaminated with waste and/or materials
piles, increased suspended solids from surface runoff from construction sites near water
and sewage from construction camps. If not handled properly these activities will result
in pollution of surface water bodies near the construction, camps, or waste disposal sites.
The area affected will generally be a short distance downstream from the bridge or other
near water construction sites and the impacts will last the time of construction to shortly
after construction activities cease. As the lake water is very stagnant and do not flow
much, the contamination would be confined to a small areas near the site.
Most construction camps for this project will be set up in rented facilities in the urban
areas which are serviced with municipal sewer system. In a few suburb roads, temporary
construction camps in un-serviced areas will be erected. If not handled properly, domestic
sewage as well as other wastewater may be discharged into lakes directly, resulting in
lake water contamination.
Operation Phase
Wastewater sources from the operation phase will include mainly pavement runoff of the
first flush in a rainfall event. The surface runoff are relatively small compared with the
receiving river flows but contaminant concentrations such as COD and SS can be high,
particularly the first 15 minutes of a rain event. As discussed in the baseline description,
most sewers in the old city sections are combined and as such all surface runoff caught by
the sewer system will be routed to wastewater treatment plants before discharging. In the
new areas however, storm water will be discharged to the lake directly. But as the volume
is relatively small and the lake water is stagnant, impacts from surface runoff will be
limited both in terms of strength and areas in the receiving water.
The transportation of hazardous materials could pose a risk of water contamination from
traffic accidents occurring while passing on Qinghua road over the East lake or near other
water bodies which involve vehicles loaded hazardous materials and result in major spills.
Based on the frequencies of occurrence of such severe accidents, the prediction results
indicate that there exist a very small probability ( l . l ~ l O - ~ per year), based on the motor
vehicle fleet, tank trucks which may be involved in transportation of dangerous goods,
and traffic accidents records over the past 30 years. If this types of unlikely accidents do
happen, catastrophic consequence may result to water quality, aquatic life, ecosystem
including birds and other wildlife who depend on these surface water bodies, health and
safety of the people living downstream from the accident locations.
5.5 Ecosystem
About 4 km of Qinghua road will traverse East Lake National Scenery Site, including
1028 m directly above the lake itself. Within the Scenery Site, the road is surrounded by
EA Summary 13 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
wood and farm land with very limited disturbance of human activities. Construction and
operation of Qinghua road will significantly raise the noise and air emission levels in this
otherwise quiet and good quality environment. At the section above the lake, the road
will be raised to leave a 2 m clearance above water level to provide the continuity. As
described above, the East lake is a sensitive wetland which is a habitat for many species
of aquatic life including fish, as well as for water fowls and migration birds. The
operation of Qinghua road will increase noise levels in this otherwise quiet environment,
which could drive away birds and other wildlife. The runoff from the elevated viaduct
can be contaminated (see water quality section), and if allowed to discharge freely, it
would enter the East lake directly and quickly resulting in contamination of the areas
underneath the elevated viaduct, affecting vegetation, zooplankton and fish, which as
food sources to birds, affecting birds.
The core area of the wetland is located in landwater criss-crossed areas near the Tuanhu
lake area in the middle of the East lake and many migrating birds take the Moushan, a
small hill at the south of the lake as habitat at night (see Figure5.6-1). The proposed
Qinghua road is outside the core wetland zone and even further away from Moushan. In
fact, the distance from Qinghua road to the closest point of the wetland core is about
1000 m. However, the construction and operation of Qinghua road would still affect the
surrounding area which is quiet with substantial bird, waterfowl activities. These birds an
waterfowl would be driven away by the traffic noise and vehicle emission, and possibly
worsening air and water quality.
5.6 Socio-economic Impact
Scenic site
The East lake is a state level scenery site and a major tourist attraction in Wuhan.
Qinghua road, as an elevated viaduct, will cause visual impacts as the concrete, 2 m
above water structure would be eye-catching in a mostly natural setting and beautiful
scenery. However, tourists are less likely to visit the Qinghua road area as the main
attraction and tourists facilities are located in areas west of the Gouzheng lake and south
of Tua lake (Figure5.6-1). These areas are about 2 km to Qinghua road or longer and
visual impacts are expected to be limited at this distance.
In the urban areas, construction of interchanges could also create adverse visual impacts.
In particular, some interchanges are multiple layers and large scale, and as a concrete
engineering work, may not be in harmony with the surrounding settings.
Community development
The project will greatly improve the transportation conditions in those suburb areas
where road conditions are poor, some even without proper road to connect with the rest
of the city. The new road construction, connection with the missing links as well as road
upgrading will improve the newly developed or some of the rural communities. With the
improved transportation will help attract further development, investment, commercial
activities and services to the new area or suburb/rural areas. Clearly the new or improved
transportation infrastructure and services will provide more convenience to residents in
these communities, as well as to contribute to improving the quality of life and standards
of living.
EA Summary 14 Wuhan Urban Transport Project

In particular, some of the communities covered by the project is are extremely congested
with little municipal services. The conditions under which residents in these communities
and neighborhood live, are shocking. With project construction, the new road can be
integrated into the city’s massive effort in the community renovation and upgrading of
these communities.
Communitv severance
Because the new roads or newly widened roads may be separated at the middle media
and because the traffic volume and traffic speeds on project roads will be significantly
increased, local residents may feel being separated from the other side of the roads which
may have the schools, hospitals shops and other services. Besides intersections where
there will be traffic lights to control and relate the motor vehicles, the project will have
grade separate crossings including nine pedestrian overhead passes and eight
underground pedestrian passes. In addition, street level crossings and dedicated
pedestrian traffic lights will also be created. These street crossings will be located in
strategically important sites, such as schools, large department stores, tourist attractions,
markets and other public places where there are large crowds. Together with regular
traffic light controlled intersections, these street crossing provisions in the project will
help minimize the impacts of community severance and provide maximum convenience
to the citizen of Wuhan.
Cultural Relics
The two cultural relics identified during the project site investigation are not expected to
impacted significantly. Vibration and construction dusts are the major issues during
construction. In addition, due to the construction, the access to these sties will become
limited. In fact, the impacts will be positive. Following the project construction, the
transportation conditions and access to these cites will be greatly improved. This would
help attract more visitors to the cultural relics sites.
5.7 Resettlement and Relocation
The resettlement and relocation of the proposed project will occupy permanently 2 14.4
ha. of land, involving 2699 households, 301 enterprises, one village and a total of 11,919
people. The total housing areas will be 588,310 m2, including 284,391 m2 of residential
and municipal housing and 303,919 m2 of enterprises or institutional buildings. In
addition, the project will also involve occupying or relocating public utilities and other
public services.
The impacts will include mismanagement of house compensation funds, insufficient
compensation for house replacement and delayed payment of the compensation funds.
However, in general, the new houses following the relocation are expected to be better
and bigger than the houses they replace with using the resettlement and relocation
compensation funds, representing an improvement of housing conditions and the
standards of living. Most houses to be dismantled by the project are of poor or very poor
conditions and some even without tap water and/or sanitary facilities. The relocated
housing are modem design with all the comfort and facilities. They are typically located
in the suburb with more open space and fresher air. However, the relocation itself will
disrupt the residents’ daily life and routines. Many who have been living in the same
neighborhood for years or even generations may not be used to or like the new
EA Stimmnly 15 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
environment even if they represent a substantial improvement. Furthermore, people may
lose some of the convenience available only in downtown areas, as well as losing
potentially money when relocating to new houses.
The total cost of resettlement and relocation, including compensation to all affected such
as residents, commercial outlets, public utilities, and other private or public properties is
estimated to be RMB2.39 billion.
5.8 Safeguards Policies Assurance
The EA team conducted a screening for ten safeguard policies of the World Bank and,
when triggered by the Project conditions, full assessment. The safeguard policies which
are incorporated in the EA include Environmental Assessment (OP4.01), Natural Habitat
(OP4.04), Cultural Property (OP4.1 l), Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12) and Public
Disclosure (BP 17.50). Those safeguards which have gone through an initial screening
but found not warrant a full assessment include Pest Management (OP4.09), Forest
(OP4.36) and Indigenous Peoples (4.20). The remainder safeguards are not applicable
because the Project does not have any components involved these safeguards issues.
These include Safety of Dam (OP4.3 7), International Waterways (OP7.50) and Disputed
Areas (OP 7.60).
6. Mitigation
For the adverse environmental impacts of the project, the EA team has developed a series
of measures to avoid, minimize, mitigate or otherwise compensate the adverse impact
from the project. These mitigation measures are summarized below.
6.1 Design Phase
Air Quality
Wuhan currently has a limited motoring vehicle inspection program which inspects at
road side about 10-15% of the city’s motor vehicle fleet each year. The city government
also plan to introduce and enforce Euro3 by 2010 and Euro4 by 2020 in the city. This EA
proposes to include the development of a motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (UM)
program as a major mitigation measure. More specifically, this component may include
(1) a study for development and implementation plan of an Ihl system including
procedures, locations of inspection stations, institutional staffing and budgetary
arrangements, applicable standards, priority vehicle determination, gradual
implementation plan with a focus on components to be included in the currently World
Bank financed project, and expected results/benefits/air emission reduction from the I/M
program, (2) procurement of I/M equipment to upgrade the current inspection capability
in accordance with the I/M implementation plan, and (3) other necessary facilities such as
buildings for inspection stations and/or laboratory/test center facilities. A detailed terms
of reference (TOR) will be developed for the study and implementation of the Bank
financed components during the project appraisal stage and the I/M system upgrading
will be completed prior to the completion of this urban transport project.
In addition, as part of the overall transport strategy for Wuhan, the project road design
will be given full consideration to optimize the transport network. The over loading of
traffic at downtown roads will be minimized and transit traffic through city center will be
EA Summaiy 16 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
avoided. The project itself will significantly improve the motor vehicle operation
efficiency and average speeds and thus reduce air emissions by individual motor vehicles.
Mitigation Measures
Noise
Implementation Places Estimated quantity Estimated cost
(RMB x1000\
A number of measures to minimize noise have been incorporated into the design for
sensitive receptors at which there will be significant incremental increase in noise level.
These measures are summarized in Table 6-1.
Double glazed
windows
Noise barrier
Tree planting
8 institutions
1 hospital
1 kindergarten
1 school
1 residential area 624 m2 612
2 residential areas 300 m 3000
2 residential areas 14,000 m2 280
I Noise insulation I 45 residential areas I 34,089 m2 I 17,045 I
In addition, in residential and other sensitive areas where no mitigation measures are
planned because the incremental increase in noise levels will be insignificant, increased
noise monitoring will be implemented and enforced to ensure the actual noise levels after
road upgrading will comply with the predictions. Mitigation measures will be taken if the
monitored data show noise levels increased significantly higher than the EA predicted.
Noise insulation windows will be installed to the first row of impacted houses. The
implementation time is determined based on the noise prediction results. Basically the
measures will be implemented prior to the increase in noise levels at the application
locations. In sensitive receptors where noise impacts will be significant during the
construction phase, the implementation time will be in the construction phase.
Vibration
As road surface quality directly affects vibration levels from the roads, high quality
asphalt materials will be designed for road surface paving materials, particularly at the
elevated viaducts and multi-layers interchanges. Considerations will be given in future
urban development planning and zoning to locate non-vibration sensitive facilities near
elevated interchanges.
East lake and ecosystem
East Lake is both a national level scenery site and an important part of Jianghan lake area
wetland, which is vulnerable to such activities as the construction and operation of
Qinghua road. Given the limited time and available information at present, it is sure that
all adverse impacts as well as the consequences to the local ecosystem particularly to the
migrating birds and their habitats have already been well understood, although the road
EA Summary 17 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
itself legally complies with relevant plans and regulations. Furthermore, mitigation
measures which can be developed at the present time may not be effective and are likely
not able to address the adverse impacts already identified.
The above assessment shows that in some of the key environmental and ecological
aspects, Qinghua road would have significant impacts to East lake. The impacts are
expected to be so high that they may be beyond mitigation to reach an acceptable level.
Either considerable, fiuther and more detailed assessment and mitigation planning are to
be conducted for Qinghua road or this road is eliminated altogether and an alternative
road alignment is identified to service the area. The further study will allow the PMO and
design team, as well as EA team more time to explore the feasibility of a different
alignment or other options which do not traverse the scenery area and the lake itself. If
the network capacity is proven by further study to be sufficient to service this area
without Qinghua road, there may be no new road in this area at all. This additional study
may be complete well ahead of the 2006, the time originally scheduled for Qinghua road
construction and thus will not affect the construction plan.
In light of the possibility of changing the Qinghua road alignment or not building it at all,
Gong Ye avenue which provides linkage to Qinghua road, may also need to change or
delete. Construction of Gong Ye avenue was originally scheduled for year 2004. The
PMO has accepted EA team’s proposal to re-schedule the construction of Gong Ye
avenue to 2006 to allow time for hrther studies.
Community Severance
To minimize the impacts of community and access to services in the project areas, a total
of 12 grade separate pedestrian passes have been included in the project design. In
addition, the project design will also include street level pedestrian crossings and traffic
light controlled pedestrian crossings. Together with intersections which are controlled by
traffic lights and thus provide additional street crossings among the project roads, the
impacts on community severance and access to services will be minimized. As bicycles
are a main transportation tool used by Wuhan citizens, all grade separate passes will
include provisions in the design to allow bicycles to use readily.
Visual Imuacts
For outstanding and eye-catching structures such as interchanges, the architecture will
have local characters and configurations which harmonize with the surrounding settings,
architectural styles and landscape. Road supporting facilities, such as drainage and
catchbasin, etc., will be hide under greens where possible.
Resettlement and Relocation
All relocated residents will be properly compensated and received training for new
employment. Special consideration will be given to the elderly, illiterate and farmers in
terms of compensation. For people whose sources of well water will be disrupted by the
construction by the construction of tunnels, additional water wells and other water supply
sources will be developed.
EA Summaly 18 Wuknn Urban Transport Project
6.2 Construction Phase
Construction Noise and night time construction
Large and noisy construction activities will be kept away from populated areas (150 m
minimum) where possible. Operation of loud construction machinery and major
construction activities such as piling for interchanges will strictly restricted to the day
time only. Temporary noise barriers will be constructed to protect the sensitive receptors
from the impact of construction noise. Construction traffic will be directed to avoid
sensitive locations and banned at night time. Noise construction activities will be
carehlly scheduled to avoid the most sensitive time. In the school areas, construction
may be scheduled for vacation months and on weekend if possible. No major
construction activities and any night time construction activities will be allowed two
weeks prior to and during the national exam period (likely to be the first week of July
each year). In the residential areas, noisy construction activities will be scheduled not to
be between 12:OO to 2:30 in the afternoon to avoid disrupting the afternoon naps.
Where night time construction activities must be conducted, the public to be affected will
be noticed well ahead of time, to explain the type and length of time of night construction
activities and the nature of the impacts (noise, etc.). Public comments and concems will
be received and addressed properly through both pre-active consultation and telephone
hotlines posted in notice boards in every construction sites. Temporary noise barrier will
be installed at the noise sources and the most sensitive receptors.
Roads used for construction vehicles and construction sites will be water sprayed three
times a day (morning, noon and afternoon), or more frequent on dry and windy days to
suppress airborne dust (once every two hours). The demolition sites will be separate with
sailcloth or similar sheet from the surrounding areas to filter the air borne dust. The
buildings under demolition will also be water sprayed to suppress the dust. The mixing
stations and other point sources of air emissions will be located leeward far enough from
sensitive receptors (300 m minimum). Trucks loaded with soil and other dusty materials,
as well as materials stockpiles will be covered with canvas. All trucks leaving
construction sites will be washed to clear up the dirt and mad on vehicle tires.
Construction trucks will be allowed to use only the pre-selected roads in the urban areas.
Water
To minimize adverse impacts to surface water during construction, cofferdam techniques
will be used in elevated viaduct column construction at Qinghua road with complete
isolation of work areas, if it is determined by further studies to build this road. Several
other new road sections or upgrading of existing roads are also located at lake side or
waterfront. Runoff from disturbed soil and other construction activities could be
discharged to natural water bodies resulting in increased suspended solids in the receiving
water. The discharge from construction camps located in rural areas will be a potential
source water contamination. Interception ditch will be built at the key waterfront area to
hold surface runoff and to allow a sedimentation process before the runoff is allowed to
be discharged to the environment. To mitigate the potential impact of construction camps,
no sewage from construction camps will be allowed to discharge without treatment. The
EA Summary 19 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
sewage will be either held at the site and empties to treatment facilities regularly or
through on site treatment such as septic tanks to meet the irrigation discharge standards.
Urban landscaping
All green areas which will be occupied temporarily for materials storage, etc. will be
restored immediately after the uses are terminate. For areas where trees must be cut for
road construction and widening, at least two new trees will be planted for each one cut.
The trees lost and to be newly planted during construction are summarized in Table 6-2.
Cultural Relics
All trucks and other transportation vehicles speeds will be strictly enforced at the areas
near the two cultural property sites to minimize the potential vibration and noise. Trucks
loaded with bulk materials will be covered with canvas to minimize potential dust and the
roads and construction sites near the properties will be frequently watered daily. Low
noise machinery will be used for construction in the areas near the cultural properties if
possible.
EA Summary 20 Wultan Urban Transport Project
A procedure for handling “chance finds” will be prepared and provided to the contractors,
who will be requested to halt construction until the chance finds have been studied by
professional archaeologists. Contractors may resume work at the site only if so instructed
by authorities and cultural relics specialists following their on site investigation.
Contractors will be educated to strictly follow the procedures during the construction. In
fact, the requirements will be included in the construction contract so that they will be
contractors’ contractual obligations. The procedure calls for immediate halt of
construction activities and contact relevant authorities. All contractors and construction
supervision companies will receive training on the basic knowledge of cultural relics
identification and protection, as well as the procedures when encounter chance finds
during construction.
Contractor Management
Experience with previous World Bank financed urban transport projects in China, has
indicated that high awareness and full participation of contractors in environmental
management during the construction phase are critically important to ensure
environmental performance and pollution control at the construction sites. Environmental
protection will start from pre-qualification of contractors when environmental awareness
and management systems will be an evaluation criterion. The environmental mitigation
measures, management and monitoring plans will be incorporated into bid documents to
ensure there will be sufficient funding prepared by the bidding contractors for these
activities and the environmental management will be contractual obligations to the
contractors. Finally, short course training will be provided to all winning contractors and
construction supervision on environmental policies and regulations, potential impacts,
mitigation measures, daily monitoring and reporting, and emergency handling.
6.3 Operation Phase
East lake ecosystem
As indicated previously, the decision is delayed if to build Qinghua road through East
lake or on a different alignment around the lake protective areas or not to build it at all. If
this road is to be built following a detailed further study, only local vehicles will be
allowed to use Qinghua road to minimize the traffic volume in East lake area. Further
studies will be conducted to identify and evaluate potential options including the “without
Qinghua road” option. Detailed mitigation measures will be developed during the further
studies if these studies determine to construct Qinghua road on the current or alternative
alignment.
Noise
Traffic management will be enforced and motor vehicles will not be allowed to speed or
horn while going through sections near sensitive receptors such as schools, hospitals,
seniors houses, cultural properties, etc. These bans will be informed to drivers through
traffic control boarddsigns along the project roads.
Air emission
A motor vehicle air emissions control strategy requires integrated approach from
numerous government agencies as well as private sector stakeholders. The city will
EA Summary 21 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
enforce applicable standards for motor vehicles and fuels and implement the motor
vehicle inspection programs to minimize the air emissions from the increased motor
vehicle traffic on the urban roads. The I/M system will be upgraded and implemented
during the operation phase to eventually cover the entire motor vehicle fleet in Wuhan to
control the emission to the minimum.
Water and transportation of hazardous materials
Leaking vehicles, whether from their fuel tanks or from the containers they carry, will not
allowed to use the project roads as it will go several sensitive and ecologically valuable
surface water bodies. The city will set up an emergency response group involving
relevant agencies and professional institutions to handle transportation of hazardous
materials and emergency response in an event of a traffic accident involving trucks
located with hazardous materials, particularly in sensitive locations such as Qinghua road.
The emergency response group may be set up at the a municipal service company which
after proper training, will be able to provide emergency assistance together with its other
municipal services 24 hours day. In addition, licensing and permitting procedures will be
strictly enforced to control the traffic involving hazardous materials on urban roads in the
city, connecting road and rural roads network.
Urban planning
To avoid sensitive receptors from being exposed to adverse impacts such as noise, air
pollution, vibration and reduced sunshine, no such sensitive buildings will be allowed to
build within the impacted areas from the project roads. No new school, hospital or other
sensitive facilities will be allowed to build within 100 to 200 m from the central line of
the project roads (noise and air pollution) or 30 m from the interchanges (sunshine and
vibration).
Monitoring
Extensive environmental monitoring programs will be implemented during both
construction and operation phases (details below) to ensure that adverse environmental
impacts are as projected during the EA and the mitigation measures proposed will be
implemented and effective. In adequate mitigation or new adverse impacts emerged
beyond the EA prediction will be detected by the monitoring programs promptly and
appropriate new actions will be taken to address them.
7. Public Transport
7.1 Project Area Baseline
The public transport component consists of 11 new integrated bus terminals (those
integrated with train or long distance bus stations), 12 regular bus terminals (starting and
finishing bus stations for one or several routes of buses) and 14 bus stops. The terminal
construction mainly includes bus lane, parking, limited maintenance, bus
washingkleaning, bus waiting sheds, and gas stations while the bus stops include
platforms, bus waiting sheds and boards. The integrated bus terminals will occupy 4000-
10,000 m2, serve 3-18 bus routes with 73-230 buses with bus parking capacity of 18-55,
and some are integrated with train and long distance bus stations. The regular terminals
will serve 3-7 routes with bus parking capacity of 20-54 buses. The bus stops are located
EA Summary 22 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
7.2
7.3
road side occupying a very small area each. As the bus stops are simple and small
involving minimum physical works, the impacts assessment mainly focused on the bus
terminals. ,
The bus terminals are typically located in towards the ends of the well built-up areas. Of
the 23 terminals, 14 have no sensitive receptors around them. There are two schools and
seven residential zones within close distances to the remaining terminals. The baseline
noise monitoring during the EA shows that except three locations where noise levels are
below or near the applicable standards (Class I: 55 dB(A) for day time and 45 dB(A) at
night), in all other bus terminal sites noise exceeds the standards, sometimes substantially.
There are no other sensitivities near the proposed bus terminal sites such as cultural
properties or sensitive receiving water bodies.
Impacts
Based on the assumptions that at each bus terminal, buses leave and enter the terminal
every 5 minutes at the peak hours and while at the terminal the average bus idling time is
2 minutes, emission and dispersion modeling during the EA predicts that the air quality in
the surrounding areas will meet the applicable standards (Class 11, 4 mg/Nm3 for CO
daily average and 0.12 mg/Nm3 for daily average NOx). The results of noise modeling
for the terminals indicate that at most terminals, the noise from bus operation alone will
be lower in most cases than the existing baseline noise. When compounded with the
existing noise background, the incremental increases of noise in the surrounding areas are
expected to be limited. However, as the baseline noise exceeds the applicable standards at
the sensitive receptors, noise levels after the project will continue to exceed the standards.
However, the noise will be primarily from other existing noise sources and contribution
to the noise standard exceedance from the bus terminal operation will be limited in most
locations.
The bus washing operations will generate a certain amount of wastewater contaminated
with oil and sediment. In addition, the terminals will generate domestic wastewater from
the staff and passengers. Among the terminals, the wash water will be about 40-115
m3/day with 100 mg/L COD and 10 mg/L oil. As the areas where the terminals are
located are serviced by the municipal sewer system, all bus wash effluent and domestic
wastewater will be discharged to the sewer system. Except oil from the wash effluent is
higher than the normal domestic wastewater, others are well within the normal range of a
typical domestic wastewater and will not impact the sewer system and the end of the pipe
municipal wastewater treatment plants.
At six terminals, gas stations of underground tanks of 15 m3 each will be built. Among
the six, two have buildings near them while other are located in rather open space. These
gas stations could pose a potential risk to the surrounding community and the
environment from fire, explosion and gasoline spills, although such risks are limited as
there are mature technologies and experiences to build and operate gas stations in urban
and built up areas.
Mitigation
A key mitigation measure is through proper planning not to locate sensitive facilities such
as schools and residential buildings too close to the bus terminals. Most of the bus
terminals will be built in relatively open areas and the future planning and development
EA Suminaiy 23 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
of the surrounding will be given careful considerations of potential impacts from the bus
terminal operations such as air emissions, noise and gas station risks.
In some of the bus terminals where there will be relatively large volumes of bus wash I
effluent, oil/water separators will be installed to remove the oil content before discharged
to the municipal sewer.
The gas station design will strictly follow applicable design codes and include provisions
for static electric, thunder and fire proof, as well as safety distance. The underground oil
tanks will have secondary containment and monitoring facility to detect any potential
leaks. The gas station staff will be trained and equipped for emergency response for fires
as well as gasoline spills.
8. Environmental Management Plan
An environmental management plan (EMP) has been developed in a separate and stand
alone document. The EMP includes policies basis and applicable environmental
standards, environmental management system, mitigation measures and monitoring plans
for both the construction and operation phases.
8.1 Objectives
The EMP provides a framework for the implementation of mitigation measures and
environmental management and monitoring during the Project implementation. As such,
it represents the commitment of Project proponent as well as the govemments of the
Project area for environmental protection, pollution control and impact minimization.
More specifically, the EMP is to:
0 Set out the legal and policy framework as well as applicable environmental standards
with which the Project will be compliance;
0 Identify and design with sufficient details and specifics of mitigation measures for
adverse impacts of the Project;
0 Specify institutional roles and responsibilities for mitigation measures
implementation and environmental management during Project;
0 Outlines the requirements for environmental monitoring programs and reporting
needs; and
0 Provides a stand alone document which may be used during Project implementation
for Project supervision.
8.2 Management and Supervision Organizations
There will be two layers of organizations who will be responsible for environmental
performance of the Project. The first is environmental management organizations
including the Wuhan Construction Committee, the Project Management Office (PMO)
which is the Project proponent, the urban road maintenance which will be responsible for
road maintenance and various technical groups for environmental monitoring and design.
The other group is the environmental supervisory organizations which include SEPA and
Environmental Protection Bureaus of different levels of govemment in the Project region.
EA Strmmaiy 24 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
8.3 Environmental Monitoring
The EMP includes environmental monitoring programs for both construction and
operation phases. The parameters to be monitored include resettlement, noise, dust, water
quality, and solid waste disposal. During the construction phase, environmental
monitoring will be conducted in two approaches: daily and routine monitoring consisting
of mainly visual observations and limited equipment measurements such as hand-hold
noise meters by contractors and construction supervision companies; and periodic
monitoring by professionals using standard methods recognized by regulatory authorities.
Proper training of contractor and construction supervision staff for the environmental
monitoring, as well as on-going supervision and assistance to these staff, will be provided
by environmental professionals. Monitoring reports will be compiled at intervals of once
every three to four months, summarizing the findings of the monitoring. The reports will
be submitted to project proponent as well as relevant agencies and the World Bank.
During the operation phase, noise levels will be monitored once a month for the first six
months and once every six months thereafter for the first three years of operation. The
general environmental monitoring program is summarized in Table 8-1.
EA Summary 25 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
8.4 Institutional Strengthening and Training
To ensure the environmental performance of the Project, the EMP emphasizes the
institutional building and strengthening. Besides an organizational structure involving
various management and supervision organizations for environmental decision making,
monitoring, reporting and further mitigation planning and implementation, the EMP
includes detailed programs for personnel training. The programs involve training aboard
and domestically for professional, managerial and technical personnel from the
governments, project proponent and operation units, environmental institutions and
contractors and construction supervisions, to enhance their awareness with the applicable
regulations.
Items Stages
Environmental Constructiodoperation phase monitoring
Monitoring
mitigation Sound insulation windows
Procurement of monitoring instruments and equipment
Impact Sound barrier
Air conditioning and ventilation facilities
The environmental training for contractors and construction supervisions will be held
prior to the commencement of construction. The objective is to ensure that each
contractor and construction supervision unit will have staff on site full time for
environmental monitoring on a daily basis. The training will cover the basic knowledge
of environmental protection and pollution control, the result of EL4 and requirements of
EMP, methodology of site environmental management and monitoring, and reporting
requirements. The training for the Wuhan Construction Committee, the PMO, the road
maintenance company, and environmental institutions will cover environmental
management, regulatory framework, applicable environmental standards and their
implications to the Project, mitigation planning, environmental decision making and
pollution control technologies. Some of this training will be carried out overseas.
Estimated Cost
(RMB x1000)
6,747.3
3,000
12,779
612
8.5 Estimated Cost for Environmental Management
Staff training
Total
The cost for environmental management and mitigation measures have been estimated
and included in the Project budget. The estimated cost is summarized in Table 8-2.
Landscaping for noise attenuation 280
1,010
14,490
Landscaping 28,560
Preparationhonstruction 1,150
68,62 8.3
Motor vehicle emission control strategy study
Ambient air and noise monitoring system
Total
68.62 8.3
9. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
Three rounds of public consultation have been carried out during the EA: the first round
at the preparation of EA terms of reference (TOR) between September 4-7, 2002, the
second round at draft EA reports between December 26-29, 2002 and the third round at
EA Summaiy 26 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
review stage of draft A reports between March 26 to April 10,2003. Various techniques
have been used in public consultation, including public opinion surveys through
questionnaires, public meetings at neighborhood committees in the project areas,
stakeholders meetings and interviews with affected groups, organizations and individuals.
The people consulted included mainly those who will be affected directly by the project.
Relevant government and non-government organizations and experts on various
environmental and socio-economic issues have also been consulted.
In three rounds of public consultation, there were over 500 people in total attending
public and stakeholder meetings. Furthermore a total of 4200 copies of a public
questionnaire were distributed in the three rounds of public consultation and 4059 copies
of completed questionnaire returned. The public expressed their support to the project in
general and their concem and suggestions on specific environmental issues including
noise (construction and traffic), air borne dust, air emissions from motor vehicles, traffic
planning, landscaping, etc.
Besides the directly affected residents in the project areas, the EA team met with people’s
representatives from seven urban districts. In addition, the team consulted Environmental
and Resources Sub-committee of the municipal People’s Political Consultative
Committee and Youth Volunteers Group, a local NGO very active on environmental
issues. These individuals and groups expressed their views on the construction of the
urban roads and suggestions for mitigation.
The EA team has responded to the public concems and suggestions including a series of
dust control measures during construction, noise insulation and double glazed windows at
sensitive receptors which are expected to experience significant incremental increase in
noise levels after the project, careful traffic planning to effective and efficient traffic
network with adequate and appropriate considerations to public transportation, pedestrian
and bicycle traffic and street crossing, and a large scale landscaping programs with much
more new trees planted than those cut during the project.
In compliance with E M process requirements of Chinese govemment and the World
Bank, the completed draft EIA and EMP reports as well as part of the public consultation
records was distributed in public places in the project, such as libraries, townships, etc.
The concerned public can have the access to and review of the reports at these places. In
addition, Project information, availability of the reports as well as the public meetings
during the two rounds of the public consultation were advertised in Wuhan Evening
News, a major and widely distributed local newspaper and Wuhan EPB’s intemet web
site. The EA team plans to disclose the final EA reports in public places to the general
public once the final version is completed.
Public consultation activities and information disclosure for this Project is summarized in
Table 9-1 and Table 9-2, respectively.
EA Summaly 27 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
First
round
Form By whom and for Time location
Consultation By PMO and EA team Sept.4 31d F. Conference
representative and Wuhan Municipal
Youth Volunteers Design Institue
Public meeting By PMO and EA team Sept.6- Changqing,
for affected local 7,2002 Qingshan park, and
residents Beibuting
Public opinion By PMO and EA team Sept.13- Project road areas
individuals in the 2002
whom
meeting for local People’s 2002 room
survey for randomly selected 20, L- Draft EA
WB
policy
OP4.01
OP4.01
OP4.01
report
Dec.28,
2002
review
Xuping OP4.01
Department store;
survey
Stakeholder
meeting
Public opinion
survey
a Public meeting I By PMO and EA team
for randomly selected
individuals
By PMO and EA team for
agencies and organizations
related to East Lake
management
By PMO and EA team for
randomly selected
individuals of project
areas
- 1 for affected residents
2003
March
17,2003
March
28 to
Auril6,
I
Public opinion I By PMO and EA team
East Lake Scenery OP4.01
Site Management
Commission office
Project road areas OP4.01
Information Date Locationlmedia WB policy
I XibeihuPlaza I
Dec.26 I Project road areas I OP4.01
Notice to the public about I Sept.5,2002 I Wuhan Evening News
2002to Jan.3, I
OP4.01
I I
the public meetings and
locations and contents
Project summary and Key
EA information
Notice to the public on
second round of public
consultation including
~ e p t . ~ , 2 0 0 2 Changjiang Daily
Sept. 9,2002 Wuhan Communications OP4.01
Dec. 28,2002 Wuhan TV stations OP4.01
Dec. 29,2002 Wuhan Evening News
Radio
Table 9-2 Information Disclosure Summarv
. locations and contents
Advertisement on draft EA Feb. 19,2003 Wuhan Evening News OP4.01
report locations
Draft EA report and EMP
Final EA and EMP
Since Feb.18, Wuhan public library OP4.01
2003 Fourth Railway Design
Institute
Wuhan Academy of
Environmental Sciences
2003 Fourth Railway Design
from March 30, Wuhan public library OP4.0 1
Institute
Wuhan Academy of
Environmental Sciences
EA Summary 28 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
10. Conclusions
The Wuhan Urban Transport Project will play an important role in alleviating
transportation bottleneck and traffic congestion in the city of Wuhan particularly the
center center areas, promoting economic and municipal development, improving the
standard of living of the city’s citizens, and reducing environmental emissions and
improving environmental quality. As priority components in the Wuhan Master plan and
Wuhan Master Transport, the project roads will also contribute to the completion and
upgrading of the city road and transportation network. The new road and connection of
missing links component will provide connecting roads and new links to some of the new
urban and suburb areas and/or areas previously not serviced by municipal roads and
public transportation.
The project will bring positive impacts or benefits to the environment and communities.
From the city wide perspective, air quality is expected to improve due to the improved
motor vehicle operation efficiency and increased average driving speeds. In fact, even
along some of the highly congested project roads and intersections, air quality and noise
are also expected to improve so significantly that it will offset the potential increase in air
emissions and noise due to the increased traffic volume after the project. The new and
upgraded roads as well as public transportation will also contribute to community
development, quality of life and convenient outings and getting around in the city.
However, construction and operation of the project will result in a number of adverse
impacts to the physical and socio-economic environment in the Project areas. These
impacts include increased motor vehicle emissions and deteriorating air quality along
project road areas, significantly increase in noise levels at sensitive receptors by most of
the project roads, damages to the East lake ecosystem and scenery, cut of a large number
of trees, impacts to water quality in receiving lakes, community severance, air borne dust,
traffic interruption during construction,. Some of these impacts can be significant.
With the mitigation measures designed specifically for address the adverse impacts, the
impacts will be prevented, reduced, minimized or otherwise compensated. Furthermore,
an environmental management systems involving environmental management and
supervision organizations, environmental monitoring, institutional strengthening and
personnel training will be established to ensure the environmental performance of the
Project. With appropriate implementation of the mitigation measures, as well as the
environmental management systems, the adverse impacts will be reduced to acceptable
levels. The Project is environmentally acceptable and feasible when mitigation measures
and EMP are implemented effectively.
EA Summary 29 Wuhan Urban Transport Project
