                                                 Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                  ReportNo: 25590-CHA




                                    PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ON A

                                             PROPOSEDLOAN

                                 INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$200MILLION

                                                   TO THE

                                     PEOPLE'SREPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                                   FOR A

                                 WUHANURBANTRANSPORT PROJECT

                                              February 12,2004




Transport Sector Unit
IEast Asia and Pacific Region
1 This documenthas a restricteddistribution and maybe usedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
  official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                   (Exchange Rate Effective January 2004)

                                      Currency Unit = RMB Yuan
                                          RMB1.00 = US$0.12
                                           US$l.OO = RMB8.28

                                               FISCAL YEAR
                                           January 1 -- December 31

                                  ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

ATC    Area Traffic Control                           VA             Vehicle-actuated
BRT   Bus Rapid Transit                               VMS            Variable MessageSigns
CITC   China International Tendering Company          WBCC           Wuhan Bridge Construction Company
CMIS   Computerized Management Information System     WBOB           Bank's Beijing Office
CNAO   China National Audit Office                    WCC            Wuhan Construction Commission
HPAB   HubeiProvincial Audit Bureau                   WCCTPDI        Wuhan ComprehensiveTransport Planning
HPFB   HubeiProvincial FinanceBureau                                    And Design Institute
I/M    Inspection andMaintenance                      WGPTC          Wuhan Group Public Transport Corporation
MOF    Ministry of Finance                            WMAB           Wuhan Municipal Audit Bureau
MPLG   Municipal Project Leading Group                WMCIMO         Wuhan Municipal Capital Investment
MVECS  Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy                          Management Office
NMT    Non-motorizedTransport                         WMEDRIC        Wuhan Municipal Engineering Design &
N M V  NonMotor Vehicle                                                  ResearchInstitute Company Ltd.
OPO    One PersonOperation                            WMFB           Wuhan Municipal Finance Bureau
PMR    Project Management Report                      WMG            Wuhan Municipal Government
PPLG   Provincial Project Leading Group               WPO            Wuhan Project Office
PSO    Public Service Obligation                      WPTGC          Wuhan Public Transport Group Company
RM     RoadMaintenance                                WPTMO          Wuhan PT Monitoring Office
RMMS   Road Maintenance Management System             WTC            Wuhan Transport Commission
RMMIS RoadMaintenance Management Information          WUCFMO         Wuhan Urban Construction Fund
          System                                                       Management Office
RUE    RoadUser Education                             WUCUFU         Wuhan Urban Construction Utilization of
SEA    Strategic Environmental Assessment               PMO             Foreign Investment Project
SEPA   State Environmental Protection Administration                    Management Office
T A    Technical Assistance                           WUTP           Wuhan Urban Transport Project
TDM    Travel Demand Management                       WUTPLG         Wuhan UrbanTransport Project Leading Group
T M    Traffic Management                             WUTPO          Wuhan UrbanTransport Project Office
UTP    Urban Transport Planning                       WUTS            Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy



                                      Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                          Country ManagedDirector:       Yukon Huang, EACCF
                           Sector ManagedDirector:       Jitendra N.Bajpai, EASTR
                 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          EdwardDotson, Senior Urban Transport
                                                         Specialist, EASTR

                                                                      FOROFFICLALUSEONLY

                                                     CHINA
                                 WUHAN URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT


                                                   CONTENTS




    A. Project DevelopmentObjective                                                        Page

       1. Project development objective                                                      2
       2. Key performance indicators                                                         2

    B. Strategic Context

       1, Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
       2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
       3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 7

    C. Project Description Summary

       1. Project components                                                                 9
       2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      10
       3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
       4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      11

    D.Project Rationale

       1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          13
       2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies       14
       3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                 15
       4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   16
       5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        16

    E. Summary Project Analysis

       1. Economic                                                                           17
       2. Financial                                                                          17
       3. Technical                                                                          19
       4. Institutional                                                                     20
       5. Environmental                                                                     21
       6. Social                                                                            23
       7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25




This documenthas a restricteddistributionandmay be used by recipients onlyin
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     26
   2. Critical risks                                                                     26
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     28


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            28
   2. Other                                                                              29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          30

1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         31



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         58
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           59
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    63
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    65
           (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     80
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    81
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                                 82
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            86
Annex 11: Environmental Assessment                                                       88
Annex 12: Resettlement                                                                   95
Annex 13: Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy                                                 100
Annex 14: Reform o f Public Transport                                                    109




MAP(S)
1. IBRDNo. 32429
2. IBRDNo. 32430
3. IBRDNo. 32431

                                                  CHINA
                                        WuhanUrban Transport Project
                                    ProjectAppraisalDocument
                                        East Asia and Pacific Region
                                                  EASTR




30RROWER                                                            381.80         16.40   [    398.20
[BRD                                                                 71.00    1I  129.00        200.00
rotal:                                                             452.80  I      145.40  II
                                                                                  _ _ .         598.20
                                                                                                ..- -.
                                                                                     - I -
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: MUNICIPALITY OF WUHAN
Project Office
Address: No. 130Yanjiang Ave. Hankou Wuhan China
Contact Person: HuiShuZhi, Vice Director
Tel: 86-27-85886173              Fax: 86-27-82811498                Email: Whjtxmb@Public.Wh.Hb.Cn
EstimatedDisbursements ( Bank FYlUS$m):




Project implementation period: December2003 December2008
                                              -
Expectedeffectiveness date: 06/0112004 Expected closing date:*06/30/2009

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Wuhan Urban Transport Project will promote the development o f an integrated, efficient, and
sustainable transport system for the movement o f people (especially the poorer sections o f society) and
goods inWuhan. More specifically, the project aims to support:

(i)      Investments intransport infrastructure and services that address the needs o f the existing system -
         inparticular, the issues related to capacity, safety andsustainability, andmobility ofusers,
         (particularly the most vulnerable sections o f society) within a long-term framework provided by the
         approved Master Plan
(ii)     Formulation o f a transport strategy to guide investment decisions
(iii)    Reforms to improve performance o f bus service delivery.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators to measure the progress on each o f the three project development objectives
are listedbelow (see Annex 1):

(i)      Investments intransport infrastructure and services
         0   -Capacity  and EfJiciency: to evaluate improvements in
             -    Travel times o n key external/cross town, cross river and central area routes
                  Average daily ridership on the bus system


         0   Mobility: reduction intravel times for users o f most heavily used modes o f transport


         0   Sustainability:
              -   Implementationo f annual road maintenance plans based on the Road Maintenance
             Management System (RMMS)
              -   Formulation and adoption o f an effective motor vehicle emission control strategy

(ii)     Support for the Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy (WUTS) through the following measures:
         0    Further detailed studies as proposed inthe WUTS Study Report
         0    Preparation o f a transport policy "White Paper"
         0    Identification o f Five year investment programs

(iii) Bussystemreformthrough
         0    Completion o f bus route tendering on a competitive basis across the bus system

The Wuhan Municipal Government (WMG) agreed with these performance indicators at negotiations. For
the road safety interventions inthe project, as it is technically not possible to forecast the expected
reduction inthe incidence and severity o f accidents, particularly among pedestrians and non-motorized
transport (NMT) users, no indicator could be agreed. However the interventions will be monitored and
evaluated.




                                                       - 2 -

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R2002-02 18 [IFC/R2002-02241              Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/19/02

   The CAS supports China's transition from a rural, agricultural society to an urban, industrial society,
   and from a centrally planned to a more globally integrated market-based economy. The CAS also
   notes the growing concerns about the social consequences and sustainability o f China's economic
   growth. These economic trends, at the core o f China's Tenth Five-year Plan, also form the basis for
   the three themes o f Bank's operation strategy inChina, namely to:
   (1) Improve the business environment and help accelerate China's transition to a market economy
   (2) Address the needs o f the poorer and disadvantaged people andregions
   (3) Facilitate a more environmentally sustainable development process

   The Wuhan UrbanTransport Project (WUTP) would enhance the urban efficiency and mobility within
   an important medium sized city situated inthe center of China, and encourage a market-based delivery
   o f urban transport services, particularly public transport.

   The physical and institutional elements o f the project address the three CAS themes. Development of a
   sustainable and balanced urban transport systemwould improve the business environment and labor
   mobility inWuhan. Reform o f state owned bus companies and introduction o f competition inthe
   supply o fbus services would accelerate China's transition to a market economy. The project also
   supports improvement in safety o f transport facilities and mobility o f the economically disadvantaged
   through investments intraffic management measures, and improved facilities for pedestrians, NMT and
   public transit. Finally, the development o f a comprehensive emission mitigation program would
   promote an environmentally sustainable development process.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
   2.1 Main Sector Issues.

   2.1.1 Rapid growth in urbanization and motorization.
   Both trends are actively encouraged by the central government and expected to grow further inthe
   foreseeable future. The urban population inChina is projected to increase from 30.2 percent (3 19
   million) in 1995 to 49.1 percent of the total population (71 1.7 million) in2020. Car ownership, which
   has increased rapidly inthe last decade, is projected to increase tenfold from a current average o f 10 to
   100 per 1000 residents in2020. Both trends are also true o f Wuhan: the city's Master Plan projects an
   increase inthe city's population from 3.9 million in 1998 to 4.5 million in 2020. Similarly,
   auto-ownership rates inthe urban districts o f Wuhan increased from 56 motor vehicles per 1,000
   residents in 1998 to 99 per 1,000 in2001 and are projected to increase to 116 in2010 and 167 in
   2020. Per-capita travel is expected to increase accordingly: from 1.98 tripdday in 1998 to 2.41 in
   2010 and 2.65 in2020. Economic opportunities in growing Chinese cities like Wuhan are extensive,
   and if `hukou'relatedrestrictions to urban migration are relaxed it is likely that growth inthe city
   could be even greater.




                                                    - 3 -

2.1.2 Acceleratedinvestmentin roadcapacitywithout adequate planning.
Rapid increase inpopulation and number o f vehicles is overwhelming the urban transport
infrastructure inWuhan, which typifies the general experience o f most Chinese cities. Its transport
infrastructure is overburdened, and the last decade saw a decline inmobility for most classes o furban
trips. City authorities inWuhan are addressingthese issues primarily with an ambitious road
constructionprogram. Significant local financing is available from domestic banks for investments in
road expansion.

However, this `solution' creates as manyproblems as it solves. Firstand foremost, mobility on
non-motorized modes is further degraded. Secondly, the planning process is not systematic and
comprehensive, and does not assure that a well thought out, properly prioritizedroad-building program
emerges from what starts (as is the case elsewhere inthe world) as a list o f perceived priorities.
Perhaps the most important challenge in Wuhan (and in other similar Chinese cities) is to ensure
that the sign8cant investments that will be made in urban infiastructure in the coming two decades,
will eficiently enhance the mobility and safety of      residents in a sustainable manner.

While the description that follows is particular to Wuhan, it is equally true o f many other Chinese
cities.

2.2 About Wuhan

Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, is one o fthe foremost centers of economic growth outside the
coastal regions o f China. The Yangtze and Han rivers divide the city o f Wuhan into the three towns o f
Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang. In 1998, the GDP o f this industrial, commercial and trade center
was FWB 101.5 billion. The average GDP growth from 1990 to 1998 was 15.3 percent higher than
the national average. The city's economy is expected to grow at 7 percent to 9 percent annually inthe
near future.

2.3 Trends in mobility

2.3.1 Decliningpedestrianand cyclistmobility.
Though still significant (37 percent pedestrian and 29 percent bicycle trips together accounted for
two-thirds of all trips inWuhan ina 1998 survey), the mobility o f pedestrians and cyclists is declining,
as motor vehicles progressively dominate the roads. NMT, traditionally the mainstay o f urban
transport in Chinese cities and still the mainstay of the poorer sections o f the society, currently suffers
from inadequate attention from city transport planners. This is particularly true from a safety
perspective: pedestrian crossings are limited, traffic management for cyclists is based mainly on control
and prohibition, there are no NMT networks, and cyclists are often forced to operate indangerous
mixed traffic. The construction o f new roads, built essentially to accommodate automobiles, is
aggravating these problems.

2.3.2 Traffic congestionresultingfrom inadequatecapacityand poor management.
The road network remains inadequate and overburdened by the increase inthe number o f motor
vehicles. Though increasing innumbers, motor vehicles accounted for only 12 percent o f all trips in
1998. The functional road hierarchy is incomplete and ill-defined resulting inmost traffic being loaded
onto a few major arterials, key lmks inthe network are missing, and traffic management (signals,
channelization) is limited and often inadequate (long cycle times, no redaspects at 20 percent o f the
signaledjunctions). Encroachment from businesses and parkingfurther exacerbates this shortage. In



                                                 - 4 -

Wuhan, three specific forms o f traffic significantly increase congestion: traffic associated with the
Hankou town centre, cross-river traffic inthe city core that principally uses two Yangtse river
crossings, and some o f the through and intemal traffic that comes through the city center.

2.3.3 Inadequatelymaintainedroads.
Maintenance budgets typically provide only 40 percent o f what is, infact, required. Much o f this
provision goes towards staff salaries, leaving little for road maintenance. There i s no systematic
maintenance or asset management system inplace. Organizationally, government and operator
functions are combined inpublic maintenance units and a number o f different government
organizations are responsible for road maintenance and reconstruction.

2.3.4 Publictransport requiresmuch-neededattention.
Though public transport is important and growing (buses accounted for a 22 percent share o f trips in
1998 and this is forecast to grow significantly, both inshare and volumes), the sector is beset by the
following problems/concems/issues:
0     Limited network coverage Despite a substantial number o f bus services (in2001 there were
                                   -
seven bus companies, operating 5500 buses on 244 routes over 4300 kms), the overall coverage is
limited. The route network needs revision: most bus routes are inthe city center while the extensive
new developments on the urban fringe are poorly served. Routes runprimarily along arterial roads and
access often requires long walks.
0    Poor on-street management - Busvolumes are unusually highon primary routes (approaching
500 per hour on maincorridors and the Yangtse river bridges), stops are congested, and on-street
management o f buses is poor.
0    Shortage of depot and terminalfacilities - More than other cities, Wuhan suffers from a shortage
o f public transport depot and terminal facilities. Buses often have to be parked o n the streets and
poorly planned terminals impede efficient transfers.
0     Unclear institutional roles Institutional problems are similar to other Chinese cities. Though
                                   -
plans for reform are being finalized, the roles and responsibilities between the municipality and the bus
companies need clarification. Buses do not operate within a competitive/market-basedenvironment.
0    Lowfares - Fares are low, though they cover more than 90 percent o f the operating cost
(excluding capital costs), inthe six state-owned bus companies (the seventh is a joint venture with a
Hong Kong company).
     Lack of integrated networkplanning - The municipality has an ambitious plan for the construction
o f a rail network o f six metro lines. The initial elevated line is currently under construction. However
there appears to have been little integration o f rail andbus service planning.

2.4 Institutionalstructure and Policymaking

2.4.1 Urbantransport is largelythe responsibilityof the municipalgovernment the provincial and
                                                                                         -
state governments have a relatively minor role. The municipal government i s responsible for planning,
financing, and implementing all infrastructure, and also for operations and policy.

2.4.2 Investmentsintransport infrastructure are directedby a 20-year UrbanTransportMaster
Plandeveloped bythe municipal government. The Master Planis a legal document that needs to be
approved by the State Council (inthe case o f cities with a population o f over 1million). Intheory, this
structure is meant to ensure continuity inthe planningprocess and bolster technical integrity over
political expediency. Inpractice, the task team's experience indicates that it is infact short-term
political expediency that prevails. The Twenty-year Master Plan is a non-fiscally constrained



                                                   - 5 -

investment plan without any systematic processes for the planning,programming and budgeting o f
investments. There are no requirements or incentives inthe planto formulate or implement integrated
and modally balanced transport policy. Further, once a plan is approved, local authorities retain
significant latitude to set priorities and timings for individual projects.

2.4.3 Mosttransport planningand policymakingoccursin an unsystematicad-hoc manner. There
i s a multiplicity o f uncoordinated agencies, with little day-to-day contact, involved in aspects o f urban
transport planning and operations. They include, the Urban Planning Bureau, the Municipal
Construction Bureau, (responsible for road construction and maintenance), the Wuhan Transport
Commission (responsible for public transport provision and regulation), the Traffic Police (responsible
for traffic management and enforcement) and the Environmental ProtectionBureau (responsible for
vehicle emission controls).

These (and other) agencies are bound by few controls or requirements that would, otherwise, ensure
coordinated formulation and implementation o f transport planning and policy. For example:
0     A dearth of stablefinancing sources, particularly for maintenance o f existing infrastructure.
When funds for construction are needed, the city has considerable leeway to institute new special
purpose taxes but maintenance is often ignored.
0     Land-use planning and transport planningprocesses operate completely independently o f each
other and are not integrated inany manner.
0     Tools exist but are not used optimally. Wuhan has relatively good data: Origin Destination
household survey data (1998), motor vehicle OD data (1999), bicycle and taxi use data (2001) and
data from surveys o f major bus terminals. A travel demand model has been built to forecast travel
demand for 2010 and 2020, and assignments made to the Master Plan road network. A separate study
was undertaken to define the rail network. However these studies were not used to test the Master Plan
transport proposals or to define the investment plans for 2005 or 2010.

2.5 Road Safety

Modal shift towards a larger use o f motor vehicles has heightened the road safety concerns inWuhan.
The incidence and severity o f accidents are high, even when compared with other cities o f similar
population and motorization within China. Road accidents appear to be largely due to increased speeds
and volumes o f vehicles, poor driver behavior and poor road sense o f pedestrians. In2001, the total
number o f road accidents was 11,595 with 631 persons killed and 7,517 persons seriously injured.
Economic losses (excluding the costs o f pain, grief and suffering and projected contribution to society)
were RMB 26 million. Since 1999, the number o froad accidents has declined slightly while the number
o f fatalities and casualties have remained stable. InWuhan Municipality, 80 percent o f accidents
occur inurban areas with 50 percent considered fatal. The fatality rate/million population in2000 was
90, compared to 55 inShanghai (1999).




                                                   - 6 -

   2.6 Air and Noise Quality

   Vehicular emissions are not a serious issue, except inareas close to main roads, where particulates are
   a problem despite lead-free fuel used since 1998. The city government has a basic emissions control
   strategy inplace. National vehicle emission standards are enforced through an annual testing and
   inspection system complemented (since 2000) with spot random checks. The city government has
   started planninga modeling effort to quantify the contribution o f different sources to air pollution.
   Noise is also considered a severe problem inthe urban center and the government is working on
   strategies to lessen the noise impact o f.motor vehicles.

   2.7 Government Strategy

   Urban transport issues are largely the domain o f the local Wuhan Municipal Government (WMG),
   which is currently focusing on accelerating expansion o f the road network. Inthe past, it was the
   political leadership that made the decisions regarding new road construction, with technical analysis
   playing a subservient role (ifany). Though a new generation o f planners equipped with adequate
   analytical tools exists inWuhan, they lack the experience and influence to be effective.

   Apart from new road construction, the most significant urban transport initiative undertaken by WMG
   i s the construction o f a light-rail line. Interms o f bus transport, W G has been working on
   reorganizingthe bus transport sector since 1999. InOctober 2001 the overall responsibility for system
   planning was movedto the newly created Wuhan Transport Commission (WTC). The WTC has
   outlined a program for reform, which was recently approved by WMG. A summary is presented in
   Annex 13.

   The Government has also implementeda series o f policy measures related to urban transport. New
   motorcycle registrations have been banned since mid-2002. Inearly 2003, the city banned `mamus'
   (motorized three-wheeled jitneys).

   The reason behind the government ban on motorcycles i s unclear. Before the ban, motorcycles were a
   popular mode o f transport (registrations grew at 27 percent over the 1991-2001 decade and by 2001
   accounted for over halfo f the 447,505 registered motor vehicles inthe municipality). Though there are
   valid safety issues related to their use, motorcycles present a relatively cheap and efficient (interms o f
   energy and use o f road space) altemative to autos that fulfills many o f the same aspirations for
   personal mobility. Though no systematic analysis is available, it is unlikely that banning motorcycles
   outright without accompanying automobile relatedrestraints would offer a sustainable solution to
   congestion problems.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
   3.1 Sector Issues to be addressed
   The most important sector issue that this project addresses is the institutional coordination across
   agencies and modal policies.




                                                       - 7 -

The aim o f the project is to develop W T S into aphased andfinancially constrainedprogram of
investments andpolicies based on systematic analysis and inputs from all concemed stakeholders
(details inAnnex 14). Inaddition, this project will support institutional reform in theprovision of
public transport services inWuhan, basedonthe proposals outlined by WTC. The physical
investments, proposed inthe project, address the key issues identified inWUTS, inparticular:
0    Enhancingpedestrian and NMT safety by constructing new road infrastructure and missingroad
links, and implementing traffic management and road safety programs
0   EnhancingpedestriadNMT mobility by financing a network o f pedestrianiNMT routes including
new footways and pedestrian crossing facilities
0    Developing a road network with a rationale structure and clear functional hierarchy that supports
sustainable development
0    Reducing traffic congestion and enhancing mobility and safety for vehicle users by increasing road
capacity and implementing integrated traffic management measures
    Improving road maintenance by procuring road maintenance equipment and financing
maintenance on part o f the existing Wuhan roadnetwork
0    Improving the quality ofpublic transport service by financing investments inphysical
infrastructure (termini, bus-stops) as well as computer management systems
0    Improving air quality by facilitating implementation o f a motor vehicle emissions control strategy

3.2 Strategic Choices
The organization o f the project, and the selection o f its components and appropriate fundinglevels
reflect three strategic decisions.

3.2. I        Encouraging an integrated multi-sectoral approach. As inprevious Bank financed urban
transport projects inChina, it was necessary to encourage an integrated multi-modal approach inthe
Wuhan project, essentially to ensure that the funding program for the project reflects the immediate
needs o f all modes, and addresses the key negative impacts o f transport. Developing a complex
multi-facetedproject was the only credible way to bringall the various agencies, which provide urban
transport services inthe city, to work together towards an integrated transport vision that reflects the
needs of all o f Wuhan.

3.2.2         Focusing on the strategy as the centralprocess innovation. The team considers this to be
the most useful and innovative support that the Bank can give to WMG, since it will provide the basis
for long term rational decision making on transport investments, and improved service delivery. It will
also leave behind a legacy of tools and empowered professionals who understand the value o f
systematic analysis insupporting, advocating or opposing ideas as appropriate.

3.2.3         Selectivity: focusing onpublic transport reform. An integrated multi-modal project, such
as this, needs to choose issues carefully. There were many policy, investment and process issues where
the Bank could have added value such as the proposed rail system, integrating land-use andtransport
                                    -
planning, pricing-based demand management measures, or sustainable user-charged financing
mechanisms. However, the project focuses on two primary reforms: the development o f an integrated
approach to transport planning based on a systematic transport strategy, and public transport reform.




                                                  - 8 -

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
The proposed project has six components as describedbelow:

Component1: Roadnetworkdevelopment. This component addresses the immediate needto improve
the roadnetwork operations withinthe city, and to expand the bicycle and pedestriannetworks. The five
programs, within the component, are designed to:
0   provide suitable routes for through or cross-town traffic
0   improve utilization o f existing cross-river bridges
0   relieve congestion incentral down-town areas
0   provide adequate roadnetworks indevelopment areas
0   provide safe conditions for pedestrians
The civil works for these five programs include the construction o f new primary, arterial and local roads,
upgrading/widening o f existing roads, construction o f interchanges and construction o f pedestrian
overbridges or underpasses.

Component2: Traffic managementand road safety. The aim o fthis component is to builduponthe
strengths o f the existing transport network management to better utilize existing assets and resources. The
detailed content includes
0   pedestrian and bicycle measures
0   bus priority measures
0   channelization o fjunctions
0   provisiono f traffic signals at junctions and an urban area traffic control (ATC) system
0   a road safety and accident analysis program
0   a road user education program
0   road marking equipment

Component3: Publictransport. The objective of this component is to facilitate an increase inthe
efficiency and effectiveness o f bus services inthe city. A key element o f the effort related to public
transport is support for the ongoing reform o f public transport operations. The physical investments
related to this component include:
0   a Computerized Management Information System (CMIS) to increase the efficiency o f operators in
    routine administrative and technical tasks, and a GPS based bus location systemto improve the
    on-street management o f bus operations
0   construction o f passenger facilities, including bus interchange stations, bus terminals and bus stop bays
The component also includes studies o f bus priority and bus rapid transit measures on selected corridors.
Provision is made for the implementationo f a pilot Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) scheme, if considered viable.

Component4: Roadmaintenance. This component aims to:
0   assist the government's intent to reform and improve the current road maintenance management through
    training and study for Road Maintenance Management Information System (RMMIS)
0   improve the current roadmaintenance facilities by purchasing advanced road maintenance equipment
    reconstruct the most damaged road sections inWuhan.




                                                      - 9 -

Component5: Environmentalmanagement. The aim ofthis component is to mitigate the adverse
impacts of road construction, minimize vehicle emission, and increase the positive environmental impacts
o f the project. The detailed content includes:
0    constructing noise barriers and other facilities to mitigate noise from the new roads
0    plantingalong new roads
0    expanding the vehicle emission andtraffic noise monitoring system
0    facilitating implementation o f a motor vehicle emission control strategy
0    upgradingthe vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M)system.

Component6: CapacityBuildingandTechnicalAssistance(TA). This component will strengthen the
technical and management skills o f the municipal staff, and includes:
0    domestic and intemational training for officials from project implementing agencies
0    funding for consultant studies on issues and topics relatedto the other five components o fthe project
0    office equipment to enhance the productivity o f the implementing agencies




 4. Roadmaintenance
 5. Environmental management
 6. Capacity buildingand TA                                             7.90         1.3        7.20        3.6
                                               Total Project Costs   579.80        96.9       198.00       99.0
                                      Interest during construction     16.40         2.7        0.00        0.0
                                                     Front-end fee      2.00         0.3        2.00        1.o
                                       Total FinancingRequired       598.20        100.0     200.00       100.0

2. Keypolicyand institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
The project will seek to promote policy and institutional reforms intwo major areas.

     2.1 The development of an integratedapproachto transport planningbased on a systematic
     transport strategy. The project will seek to assist WMG in
     0     establishing a policy and institutional framework for integrated urban transport investment and
           management
     0     improving the procedures for funding allocation to different modes
     0     developing opportunities that will allow different planning agencies to work together. Assistance
           will also be givento develop an initial investment strategy and procedures for subsequent updates
           o f the plan. Details o f the strategy are available inAnnex 14.




                                                        - 1 0 -

    2.2 The regulatoryandplanningframework for publictransport. The project will aim to support
    WMG's reform efforts to:
    0    separate the responsibilities o f govemment from those o f the operators
    0    establish a new operational and managerial system that encourages competition and provides
         higher quality transport services
    0    use market mechanisms to attract funding from sources other than the municipal government
    0    improve the P T regulatory framework, especially to establish a bus route franchising policy
    0    promote integration o f rail and bus services and promote bus rapid transit services inthe city

    Details o f WMG plans are available inAnnex 13.

3. Benefitsand target population:
    The project is expected to benefit all users of the urban transport system, in all income groups. Major
    benefits will include:
    0   saving o f personal travel time and freight time for all road users as a result o f reduced traffic
        delays and improvements inroad maintenance
    0   improved travel comfort and convenience for bus users
    0   improved travel comfort and safety for pedestrians and non-motorized vehicle users
    0   increasedroadmaintenance finding and reduced maintenance costs which will reduce operating
        costs for all vehicle owners
    0   reduced vehicle emissions

    To ensure that the project is indeed designed to maximize the benefits to the economically and socially
    disadvantaged, the team has conducted a survey o f the travel pattems and needs o f the vulnerable
    groups (the economically disadvantaged, women, andrecent migrants) inWuhan. Results from this
    study will be used inthe detailed designof project components during implementation.

    Inaddition, WMGtransport planningand operating staff are expected to benefit from the extensive
    capacity buildingcomponents o f the project.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
    4.1 ExecutingAgency. The project will be executed by the Wuhan Municipal Government (WMG).
    WMGhas established a project team, comprising of technical staff from the concemed government
    agencies, to oversee the preparation and implementation o f the project. The Wuhan Municipal Capital
    Investment Management Office (WMCIMO) will have overall responsibility for the preparation and
    implementation of the project. The Wuhan Urban Transport Project Office (WUTPO), under
    WMCIMO, will be responsible for managing and coordinating the implementation o f the project by the
    various implementing agencies.
    4.2 ProjectGuidance. At the municipal level the Wuhan Urban Transport Project Leading Group
    (WUTPLG) has been established to provide overall guidance to WUTPO inproject preparation and
    implementation.




                                                     -11-

    4.3 ImplementingAgencies. Responsibility for implementation o f the individual components will be
    as follows:


           Component                                       ResponsibleAgency
           Road Infrastructure                     Wuhan Bridge Construction Company (WBCC) - a Unit
                                                   o f WMCIMO.
           Public Transport                        Wuhan Transport Commission (with the participation o f
                                                   Wuhan Group Public Transport Corporation (WGPTC)
                                                   for the CMIS
           Traffic Management                      Public Security Bureau
           Road Maintenance                        WBCC for civil work
                                                   Wuhan Urban Management Bureau for RMReform, RM
                                                   Management Information System, and Equipment
                                                   Procurement

           EnvironmentalManagement                 Municipal Environment Bureau
           Institutional Development & TA          Individual implementing agencies will each manage their
                                                   own TA. The Project Office (WUTPO) will have
                                                   responsibility for procurement.
    Subproject offices have been established ineach o f the implementing agencies.

    4.4 Funds Flow. The Ministryo f Finance (MOF) will on-lend World Bank loan funds to the Hubei
    Province Government (through the Provincial Financial Bureau). The Provincial Financial Bureau will
    intumon-lend funds to WMG (through the MunicipalFinancial Bureau), which will inturn on-lend
    funds to WMCIMO. WMCIMO will act as the representative of the municipal government to manage
    the loan and ensure future repayment. The sources of counterpart funds and repayment are the
    municipal budget and extra budget sources, which have been analyzed insection E and Annex 5. Loan
    type will be LIBOR-based Variable-spread loan anduse U S dollar as single currency.

5. ProjectManagementActivities

5.1 Procurement, The project office will be responsible for oversight and coordination o f procurement
activities during the implementationo f the project. A division has been established andthe Bank team has
provided some basic training to the staff. The subproject offices for each component have also allocated
staff to assist inthe procurement activities. The Bank will provide further training to staff inthese offices.
A procurement planhas been developed as part o f the Project ImplementationPlan (PIP).

5.2 Financialmanagement. The project office will be responsible for all activities o f financial
management,

5.3 Environment. Responsibilities for all environmental management activities are includedinthe
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).




                                                    - 1 2 -

5.4 Resettlement. Responsibilities for implementation o f resettlement are documented inthe Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP).

5.5 Construction supervision. The project will use Bank funds to hire civil work supervision teams to
undertake construction supervision and quality control o f civil works. Since the Wuhan Bridge Company
(WBC) will be the implementing agency for civil works under the road network improvement androad
maintenance components, W B C will also have overall responsibility for construction supervision for all
components. W B C will act as the owner o f the civil works during construction. WBC will select a
construction supervision consultant team to act as the chief engineer, responsible for quality and contract
management and hiringo f site engineers. W B C will also hire a small intemational consultant team to act
as advisors to WBC, to provide training inFIDICBank construction supervision responsibilities and
procedures, and to set up a client/engineer/contractor management procedure inthe first year. A small team
o f local consultants will supervise the initial civil works contracts during the first year o f the project.
Construction supervision consultant services for all future years will be open to intemational and local
consultant companies.

5.6 ProjectImplementationPlan(PIP). Each implementing agency has prepared a PIP for its respective
component, based on which WUTPO has prepared a comprehensive PIP. The PIP will guide the
implementation o f the project and will be updated as requiredby WUTPO with the help o f each sub-project
office.

5.7 ProgressReporting andPlanning. WUTPO will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual
progress reports and annual implementation programs, based on inputs from the subproject offices. The
quarterlyreports will focus onphysical and financial progress, outline implementation problems for all
components, and suggest corrective actions. The Annual Progress Report will be used to review the
progress achieved inthe preceding year, update the PIP, and set out the implementation program for the
following year. Halfway through the implementationperiod (around M a y 2006), there will be a mid-term
review, which will consider if any major changes are requiredinthe project structure.



D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternativesconsideredand reasonsfor rejection:
Various alternatives were considered and explored for the scope and size o f the project, and also for the
financing levels o f individual components. Different alternatives were also assessedfor the selection o f
schemes within each component, particularly the roadnetwork development component.
1.1 Project scope, size, and component financing levels
ProjectScope. The initial investment proposal presentedby Wuhan municipality focused mainly onroad
infrastructure. The Bank, however, expressed its concern over the limitedscope o f the project.
Subsequently, a more comprehensive urban transport improvement program was developed by WMG.

Allocation betweencomponents. The allocationpresentedinsection C was a result of (i)               feasibility
studies conductedby individual implementing agencies to define the minimum and desirable levels o f
investment for each component; and (ii)    discussions with WMG to determine the level o f investment to
components 2 through 6 (all components except road network development).




                                                       - 13-

1.2 Selection of schemes

Roadcomponent. The road development schemes were selected from a list generated by WMG. The
schemes were tested extensively, prior to their selection, using the network analysis modeling tool,
developed as part o f the transport strategy development effort. As a result o f this analysis WMG dropped
some schemes that it was initially committedto, including the eastern leg o f the middle ring road in
Wuchang. Almost all o f the infrastructure investment has been finalized. Additional analysis o f traffic
demand, costs, benefits and desirable construction dates o f the remaining schemes will be undertaken inthe
initial implementationperiod o f the project to select and prioritize the most appropriate schemes for
assistance.

The public transport component. Extensive bus priority measures, including a busway, were considered.
Initial analysis suggested that bus priority measures could not be technicallyjustifiedat this stage. On
major corridors flows o f up to 500 buseshour dominate the available road space and there is no evidence
(to support bus priority) o f buses being unduly delayed by other traffic. However, provision has been made
for further analysis and for the detailed design and implementation o f any resulting limitedpriority
measures that may be needed. Further studies are proposed to include one o f BRT alternatives, which
takes account o f LRT/Metro lines.

2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other developmentagencies(completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                        Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue                                Project                        (PSR) Ratings
                                                                                   [Bank-financed projects only)
                                                                                   Implementation   Development
  3ank-financed                                                                     Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)

  Sector issues in all projects are          Shanghai Metropolitan                       S               S
  generally those listed insection B2.       Transport Project I(completed)
                                             1992

                                             Shanghai Metropolitan                       S               S
                                             Transport Project I1
                                             (completed) 1993

                                             Guangzhou City Center                       S .             S
                                             Transport Project (ongoing)
                                             1998

                                             Liaoning Urban Transport                    S               S
                                             Project (ongoing) 1999

                                             UrumqiUrban Transport                       S               S
                                             Project (ongoing) 2000

                                             Shijiazhuang Urban Transport                S               S
                                             Project (ongoing) 2001
  )ther development agencies
  '/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), I- (Highly Unsatis ctory)



                                                       - 1 4 -

3. Lessonslearned and reflectedin the project design:
Useful lessons can be drawn fromthe experiences o f two completed urbantransport projects
financed   by the Bank inShanghai, and four ongoingprojects inChina - Guangzhou, Liaoning,
UrumqiandShijiazhuang.

3.1 The needfor an integratedmulti-modalapproach
Typically there was an over-reliance on roads with little systematic planning and appreciation for integrated
solutions consisting o f traffic management, facilities for pedestrians and cyclists, public transport,
improved road maintenance and financing, and supporting institutional structure. The key challenge for the
Bank team was to work with municipal authorities to broaden the scope o f client-identifiedinvestments to
include other dimensions that can address the traffic congestion problem that the Bank would consider
sustainable.

Duringthe preparation phase the initialrequest for a set o froadschemes has beentransformedinto a truly
integrated project with two process innovations for China: the development o f strategy and the public
transport reform.

3.2 Participationof decision makers
The mayor and the directors o fthe major government agencies concernedhave a very important decision
making role inany urban transport project. Therefore one o f the main tasks for the Bank has been to gain
the support o f municipal government, especially the key decision makers. InWuhan, the Bank was able to
persuade WMG to appoint a Vice-Mayor to lead the transport strategy development effort. This has been
crucial ingetting buy-infrom the city on the planning process and its outputs.

3.3 Participationof agencieswith a stake in urban transport
The key to developing a balanced and sustainable project is the active participation o f all institutions
responsible for urbantransport. The level o f institutional participation inWuhan was exemplary
throughout the project preparation phase. Infact, the degree o f institutional involvement and commitment
was higher inWuhan than inprojects elsewhere.

3.4 Managerialandtechnicalcapacitybuilding ofmunicipalstaff
There was a need to complement the high level o f technical knowledge demonstrated by the local team in
Wuhanwith practical experience. The Bank team facilitated the provision o f hands-on advice and support
from seasoned professionals inthe preparation stage to empower the local professionals. This effort has
beenvery successful and has resulted inthe development and gradual acceptance o f the transport strategy.

3.5 Focus on key processinnovationoutcomes
An integratedproject with multi-components (inthe case o fWUTP components such as roaddevelopment,
public transport, traffic management, road safety, road maintenance, environment, and institution building)
runsthe riskofrunninginto management difficulties duringits implementation. The proposedproject
would therefore focus on key issues o f developing a viable transport strategy andpromoting reforms inthe
delivery o f public transport inWuhan.

3.6 Traffic management
The traffic police, responsible for traffic operations and enforcement, often have limited experience and
appreciation o f comprehensive traffic management. The Bank's past experience with transport projects
indicates the need to integrate traffic management with project sponsored investments inArea Traffic



                                                      - 1 5 -

Control (ATC) systems inorder to obtain the interest and buy-ino f the traffic police. Inthis project, the
traffic police have demonstrated a good level of knowledge o f traffic management, and hence the project
focuses more on buildingownership and coordination during implementation. The project component
supporting ATC systems has the most substantive and detailed traffic management plans of any
Bank-funded urbantransport project inChina.

3.7 Unprecedentedmotorizationrate
The current motorization rates inChinese cities are higher than rates elsewhere inthe world. Previous
projects have found their forecasts to be overly conservative. Similarly, earlier projects found that they
underestimated bicycle traffic volumes. Experience indicates that NMT increases with a city's growth. The
forecasts o f traffic used for this project, reflect the overall trend inChina.

3.8 Appreciation for rail over bustransport solutions
An interest inpublic transport oftentakes the form o f investments inrail. The Bank, however, helpsto
focus attention o n bus system improvements, bus priority measures and busways. This project would aim
to demonstrate the benefit o f considering both rail-based and bus-based mass transit solutions.

3.9 Ownershipof reformagenda
Reform o f municipal services remains an important issue on the government agenda. Butthe pace o f
reform is govemed by local agencies and national political conditions. The Bank can only encourage
reform measures that have worked elsewhere, while the client should be willing to seek Bank assistance for
its implementation. The Bank i s encouraging the reform o f public transport in Wuhan.



4. Indicationsof borrower commitment and ownership:
There is little doubt that the borrower is committed to the success o f the Bank project ingeneral. At both
the provincial and city levels, groups comprising o f senior government officials have been established to
facilitate coordination for this project. There is also a clear indication o f borrower commitment to, and
ownership of, both the physical and institutional elements o f the project. All the major physical investment
components have been proposed by the WMG. As stated earlier, the level o f engagemenu initiative shown
by the counterpart inthe design o f the traffic management component has been exemplary. Inthe case o f
the institutional components, the borrower has proposed the public transport reform component andthe
Bank's role has been one o f adviser and facilitator. Inthe case o f the integrated transport strategy, WMG
has shown a highlevel o f commitment and ownership by creating a project office with staff from all
concemed agencies. The project office has undertaken a considerable amount o f analytical and design
work for the project with limited help from local consultants. The best indicator o f WMG's ownership o f
the transport strategy development process has been their decision to drop plans to construct an eastern leg
o fthe middle ringroad, which was at one time a major part o f the road component, based on the results
from the network analysis.


5. Value added of Banksupport inthis project:
Ingeneral, the Bank's value-added support inany urbantransport project is that o fpromoting a
comprehensive approach to finding solutions based on the best practice experience inChina and elsewhere.
This advice also reflects the Bank's recently completed review o f Urban Transport. Moreover, the Bank
will demonstrate the benefits ofparticipatory planning and budgetingprocesses, and the use of
methodologies for prioritization o f policies, programs and investments. The project provided all concemed
agencies the opportunity to jointly find solutions to any issues. Bank involvement will improve the


                                                        - 1 6 -

institutional capacity, managerial and technical abilities inall concerned agencies, and further their
practical experience. This directly strengthens municipal management and improves service delivery.
Bank involvement also provides access to low-cost finance. It helps the government to provide more
support to lower income groups by developing surveys, which provide data on their needs. It also assists
the sectoral reform process, includingthe introduction o fprivate sector participationinservice delivery.


E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit          NPV=US$706 million; ERR = 23 % (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Economic analysis was carried out first for the evaluation o f altemative transport development programs,
and then for the evaluation o f the proposed project. Duringthe transport strategic planning process, four
altemative development programs up to year 2007 were tested using a travel demand model calibrated with
local data. These alternatives included (i) do-minimum; (ii) management oriented program; (iii)
                                                               traffic
public transit oriented program including mass rail transit; and (iv) road transport oriented program. By
comparing alternative terms o f traffic performance, investment costs, and economic rate o f return, a
preferred program was subsequently formulated. A budget-constrained investment program for the period
2003-07 was identified. The Bank funded project was defined from this program.
A cost-benefit analysis was undertakento evaluate the components o fthe proposedBank project. The
quantified network benefits included savings inpersonal travel time and vehicle operating costs, and overall
reductions intraffic accidents. These benefits represent the majority o f the total project benefits, andwere
estimated usingthe travel demand model developed for Wuhan.
The ERR was calculated based on savings inpersonal travel time and vehicle operating costs against the
total project costs. The ERR, under the most likely traffic growth scenario, is 19 percent. Sensitivity tests
were performedusing altemative traffic growth rates, likely cost overruns, likely benefit reductions, or a
combination o f all these. The test results suggest that the project economic viability is robust. Moreover,
the review o f benefit distribution among different income groups shows that all modes will benefit from the
project. Pedestrians and bicyclists will be the prime recipients o f the safety benefits realized from the
traffic management component o f the project.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
MunicipalFinance. The analysis has focused on two aspects: (a) the municipal financial capacity to
provide funds for the Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy (WUTS), and (b) the counterpart funds for the
project.

2.1      Municipalfinancial capacity. The task team has conducted a detailed assessment o f municipal
financial capacity. The scope of the assessment included the current and projected fiscal income and
expenditure, urban infrastructure revenue and expenditure, andthe capacity remaining for capital
investment outside the Bank project. The municipal financial ability o f Wuhan is ranked inthe middle o f
the range when compared with similar size cities inChina. The revenue available to Wuhan municipality
was RMB 10 billion in2002 (see details inAnnex 5). Like other Chinese cities, the municipality has


                                                     - 17-

adopted an approach o f balancing expenditure on urban infrastructure with revenue from in-budget and
extra-budget sources. The municipality first uses the overall infrastructure revenues to pay for routine
urban infrastructure expenditures, and then allocates the remaining funds for major capital investment. The
capital investment funding for the municipality is FZMB 1.24 billion in2003.

2.2      Municipal capital investment capacity. Duringthe early stages o f the Wuhan Urban Transport
Strategy Study, the municipality proposed a very ambitious investment plan to improve the urban transport
system inWuhan. However, this plan far exceeded the municipal financial capacity. The local planning
team, with the help o f the Bank team, prioritized the list o f proposals inthe urbantransport infrastructure
investment plan, keeping inmindthe given municipal financial constraints and the needs o f different road
users, especially the lower income groups. More importantly, the joint team explained the financially
constrained situation to the municipal decision makers, and obtained their agreement to use the limited
funds to provide services to solve the major urban transport problems identified inthe WUTS. Other than
the Bank urban transport project, the municipal government is proposing a Metro Line 1 (phases Iand II),
a cross river tunnel, and a waste water plant project (financed by ADB) as the major capital investments
for the next five years (see details inAnnex 5).

2.3      Counterpartfunding arrangement. The project counterpart funds will absorb more than two
thirds o f the city's capital investment capacity inthe first two years. Inorder to increase their financial
capability, the municipality has decided to use domestic bank loans for the counterpart funding. Two third
o f the counterpart funds will come from domestic bank loans and the rest from normal municipal capital
investment funds. (The municipal government has provided the Bank with all signed lending agreements
and a repayment plan for the domestic Bank loans.) The municipal counterpart funds will come from four
extra -budgetary sources: (i)    landreservation surcharge, (ii) vehicle testingfees, (iii)
                                                                  annual                           transport
construction surcharge (which will be collected from hotel guests), and (iv) parking fees. The task team
has reviewedthe details o f each source and determined that the sources and the projectedfuture volumes o f
funds are reasonable and that the funds will be collected. The task team has receivedthe copies o fthe
government confirmation letters to these four revenue sources. Therefore, the counterpart funding
requirements, including interest during construction and commitment fee and the interest for the domestic
bank loan, are well withinthe generally accepted limits o f affordability for the municipality.

2.4      Public Transport Financial Review. This review was undertaken to determine the financial
sustainability o f the current system and financial issues to be monitored inconnection with the institutional
reform o f public transport. Although, the public transport companies have been runningsome losses, the
government intentionwas to provide no subsidy to bus companies in 2003. The government proposes to
address the issue o f operational losses duringthe reform o f this sector. This is one o f the topics that will be
discussed during the course o f the PT sector reform. Usingdata provided by the companies, a 5-year
baseline financial projection shows (usingreasonable assumptions on patronage growth, fare increases and
staff reductions), that the companies can achieve full cost recovery within the life o f the project. This
analysis has improved the understanding o f the financial situation for the public transport sector inWuhan,
and the need for further reform. Further details are provided inAnnex 5.




                                                      - 18-

3. Technical:
The Bank team conducted a thorough technical assessmento f the proposals for each component o f the
project as summarized below by component:

3.1 Strategy and Policy
        Urban transport strategy
                Development o f a network analysis tool, which integrated data from several existing
                databases (census, OD household survey, motor vehicle OD data, bicycle and taxi-use
                data, bus passenger data) and facilitated extensive analysis feeding into the urban transport
                strategy.
                Ongoing development o f an integrated urban transport strategy that reflects extensive
                analysis o f different infrastructure investments (such as road investments, investments in
                bus priority lanes and other passenger transport investments) ina comprehensive
                benefit-cost framework.
                Ongoing analysis to integrate the schemes funded under the Bank project with other
                investments made by WMG both duringthe project period (through 2007) and later.
                Introducing the concept o f continuous planning and the possibility o f (and benefits from)
                revisiting the 2020 Master Plan in light o f changed situations, priorities and actual
                demand.
                Further refinement o f the urban transport strategy, including coordination o f traffic
                management strategy with overall strategy, formulation o f parkingpolicy, and formulation
                o f public transport priority.
        Maximizing the benej?tsto thepoor
An ongoing study o fthe travel needs o f low income groups andthe vulnerable inWuhan will (i)      determine
potential impact o f the project on vulnerable groups(the poor, women and recent migrants), and (ii)   identify
measures that would maximize net benefits for the vulnerable groups.

3.2 Road Network
        (i)     Development o f a functional road hierarchy.
        (ii)     Selection, justification, design and timingo f new road construction schemes based on
                project objectives and traffic demand. Analysis o f all suggested road schemes proposed for
                the Bank project using the WUTS planning process (see Annex 14).
        (iii)   Integration o f landacquisition, resettlement and service diversions into costs and
        implementation schedules.

3.3 Traffic Management
        (i) Physicaljunctionchannelizationdesign.
        (ii)     Specificationand design o f the Area Traffic Control System.
        (iii)   Design and management o f facilities for pedestrians and cyclists.
        (iv)    Requirements for appropriate parking standards, regulations and measures to implement
                parkingpolicy.
        (v)     Justification, location and design o f public transport priority measures.

3.4 Public Transport
        (i)     Ongoing analysis o f reform proposals for public transport including the separation o f
                govemment functions (for strategic planning, pricing and subsidies, regulation and modal
                integration) from enterprise functions (for operations and business planning), restructuring


                                                      - 19-

                  o f current PT enterprises, introduction o f competitive tendering for service delivery and
                  introduction o f more private sector or joint venture operators.
         (ii)     Operational analysis o f bus operators, leading to proposals for development o f
                  Comprehensive Five Year Plans focusing on route development programs, new bus
                  requirements, depot and terminus requirements, passenger and revenue forecasts, capital
                  andoperating cost forecasts and assessmentso fthe overall financial position.
         (iii)    Analysis o f proposals for interchanges, termini and busbays.
         (iv)     Analysis o f the potential for bus priority measures and busways.   '




4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
Wuhan Municipal Government is the executing agency for the project. Through most o f its preparation,
the project was managed by the Wuhan Construction Commission on behalf o f WMG. For the completion
o f preparation and for implementation, the project will be managed, on behalf o f WMG, by the Wuhan
Municipal Capital Investment Management Office (WMCIMO). The project office (WUTPO) will be
retained. As its name implies, W M C I M O would be expected to focus on the investment aspects o f the
project. Based on experience with other projects, it will be particularly important to ensure that the project
management arrangements facilitate the dialogue o n WUTS andUT policy between the Bank and Wuhan
Planning Bureau and on P T reform between the Bank andWTC. These details were discussed at
appraisal, are to be included inthe PIP and monitored during the project implementation.
4.2 Project management:
WUTPO, which has successfully managed project preparation to date, needs to be expanded to ensure
smooth implementation o f this large project more efficiently. The coordination ability o f WUTPO will also
needto be strengthened. The same agencies, which successfully prepared the various components, will be
managing their implementation. The implementation capabilities o f these implementing agencies will also
need to be strengthened.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessmenthas beencarried out, which is summarized inAnnex 6. This assessment
concluded that the procurement risk is average. The assessment found that although the proposed
arrangements for managing the procurement function are appropriate, the procurement staff needed more
training, especially those inthe implementation agencies for the various components. Therefore, a training
program was provided prior to the start o f project implementation to ensure that all relevant staff are fully
conversant with the Bank's guidelines and procedures. Further training can be provided as necessary
duringimplementation.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financial management assessment was carried out which is summarized in Annex 6. The project will
produce project financial statements on a semi-annual basis, including Balance Sheet, Summary o f Sources
and Uses o f Funds by Project Component, Statement o f Implementation o f Loan Agreement, and Statement
o f Special Account. The project will use reports of the standard format agreed between the Bank and
MOF. Retroactive financing in an aggregate amount not exceeding $15,000,000 will be provided to
finance some civil works, consultants and equipment undertaken after June 16, 2003. Audit arrangements
will follow the new Bankprocedures.




                                                      - 20 -

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project complies with the requirements o f O.P.4.01. The project is classified as EA Category `A'since
it involves involuntary resettlement, major roadconstruction (partly onnew alignments) andincreased air
pollution and noise, particularly adjacent to new roads.

A comprehensive environmental assessmenthas been carried outjointly byNumber Four Survey & Design
Institute o f China Railways Ministryand Wuhan Research Academy o f Environmental Sciences in
accordance with the policies andprocedures of China and the Bank (see Annex 11).

The Bank reviewed and commented on the EA report and the E M P at various stages o f preparation. The
revisedreports meet the Bank's requirements.

The projected increase invehicles and motorized travel (with or without the project) will tend to increase
local and global air pollution unless appropriate mitigation measures (not directly associated with the
project) are introduced. Air pollution, noise, traffic management and safety, will be o f concern during both
the construction and operational phases. Constructiono f new roads inthe project will also produce
environmental impacts including dust, waste management and disposal, water pollution and erosion during
the construction phase, which will needto be mitigated. Road construction will also cause resettlement.

However, the proposedroadnetwork andtraffic management components are also expected to have
positive environmental impacts as they are designed to reduce traffic accidents, reduce personal time spent
traveling, vehicle idling time and overall traffic congestion, though air pollution may increase in some
localized areas. The public transport component will also have a positive effect on the environment by
slowing the growth o f motorized private vehicle use. Environmental institutions will be strengthened
through environmental monitoring equipment upgrading, staff training, and formulation o f a vehicle
emission control strategy.
5.2 What are the main features of the E M P and are they adequate?
As part o f the EA process, a separate E M P has been prepared. The E M P includes: mitigationmeasures, an
environmental monitoring plan, environmental monitoring supervision plan, institutional arrangements, a
training plan and estimated costs for all environment related activities. It provides for the inclusion o f
environmental protection inthe design, construction and operational phases.

Design phase. Mitigation measures included inthe project design include additional facilities for noise
barriers, double-glazing and air conditioners to mitigate noise impacts at sensitive sites, and plantingalong
the proposed project roads. Project designs have been reviewed to ensure the careful positioning o f
facilities with appropriate landscaping and buffer zones to control noise and to mitigate the impact o f
increasedvehicle emissions adjacent to the new roads and to reduce severance.

Constructionphase. Duringconstruction, measures will be introduced to limit noise, dust and other
impacts o f construction. Full time environmental management staff will be assigned at each construction
site. Training will be provided to them. Ifconstruction at night i s unavoidable, then the contractors will be
required to give advance notice to all affected residents, and to undertake additional monitoring and
mitigation measures.




                                                      -21  -

Operational phase. The project also includes a component for the settingup automatic monitoring
sub-stations for air quality and noise and development o f a vehicle emission control program.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: June 2003 (Draft dated M a y 2003)

The Bank has received and reviewed several drafts o f the EA, EA Summary and EMP reports. The State
Environmental ProtectionAdministration (SEPA) reviewed and cleared the final draft EA (dated May
2003) in late July 2003. The final draft EMP was updated and received inAugust 2003. The final draft
EA Summary (dated September 2003) was received on October 15,2003. Copies of drafts o f all
documents have been successively disclosed inWuhan inChinese and in Englishinthe Bank's Public
Information Center inWashington, starting with the first draft EA inFebruary 2003. The Englishversions
o f the documents have been disclosed inBank's Beijing Office since June 12,2003.

5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environniental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan'? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Key stakeholders include the Wuhan Construction Commission, Wuhan Environmental Protection Bureau,
local communities and governments, project affected peopleh-esidents along the proposed new roads, bus
passengers, and local NGOs. The public consultation on the EA has involvedthese groups.

Public and stakeholder consultations were carried out inthree stages:

     Thefirst stage consultation was conducted between September 4th and 7th, 2002 when the TOR for
     the EA was prepared. There was a notice on September 5th, 2002 intwo local newspapers (the Wuhan
     Evening News andthe Changjiang Daily) detailing the locations and agendas for the public meetings
     related to this consultation. Participants were representatives o f project affected people who live inthe
     areas around the proposed project roads. A summary o f the project andkey EA information was
     announced on September 9th on Wuhan communications radio.
     Thesecond stage consultation was carried out betweenDecember 26th and 29th 2002, indifferent
     locations through means o f meetings and interviews with project-affected people and interested groups,
     when the first EA report was compiled. The public was notified o f the location and agenda for this
     second round o f consultations by way o f announcements on December 28th on Wuhan's TV stations
     and inthe December 29th edition o f the Wuhan Evening News.
     The third stage consultation was conducted from March 26th to April 10th ,2003, at the review stage
     o f the draft EA report. As with the other two stages, consultation was carried out in different locations
     and a variety o f techniques have been used including site visits, public surveys and interviews with
     project-affected persons and groups. Duringthe consultations, the consulted groups were advised o f
     the EA revisions and were given feedback on the solutions to their concerns. The public was notified
     o f the thirdround o f consultations through an announcement inthe Feb 19,2003 edition o f the Wuhan
     EveningNews.

Inall stages, local communities were consultedthrough
(i)       meetings with representatives o f project-affected people from areas o f project roads;
(ii)      meetings with neighborhood committee, representatives o f local district government and deputies o f
          the local People's Congress; and
(iii)     public opinion questionnaires supplemented by interviews. Inall, over 3,500 people participated in
          the consultation process.


                                                         - 22 -

The first draft o f the EA report and the E M P were placed inthe Wuhan public library, the offices o f the
WuhanAcademy of EnvironmentalSciences andthe offices o fthe FourthRailway Design Institute on
February 18th2003. Subsequent drafts o f these documents were placed at the same locations. Drafts o f
the EAandEMP documents were initially disclosed inthe Bank's Infoshop inWashington onFebruary
18th 2003.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP'?
A contract will be signedwith a qualified firm or institute to monitor the environmental impacts o fthe
project both duringconstruction and after the project is operational. Appropriate monitoring indicators
have been chosen to measure air quality and noise impacts duringconstruction and operation.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Improvements to transport services for low-income residents are implicit inthe project development
objectives. This will be achieved mainly through the improvements to pedestrian facilities (footways,
pedestrian crossings etc), creation of NMV routes and bus service improvements. The road safety program
aims to reduce accidents and casualties, which tend to involve poorer residents. As stated earlier, the Bank
team has also conducted a survey o f the travel needs o f vulnerable people inWuhan to help refine elements
o f the project investments such that the benefit for the poor is maximized.

OP. 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement applies to this project. The project complies with the requirements
o f OP 4.12. The road network and public transport components o f the project are expected to require land
acquisition. The road network schemes inthe project were chosen after comparing several alternatives with
a view to minimizing resettlement and adverse impacts. The Project Office undertook baseline social
analyses and resettlement planning studies to show how incomes and living standards will be improved, or
at least restored, for all persons adversely affected by the project. A Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) has
been prepared by the borrower. Final designs for schemes to be undertaken inthe public transport
component will not be available untilthe project is under implementation. Civil works associated with the
public transport component are scheduled to occur inthe thirdyear o f implementation. Because it is
impossible to prepare a fully-specified RAP for this component prior to appraisal, the Project Office will
prepare a separate resettlement implementation plan consistent with RAP principles and standards for Bank
review and acceptance prior to the thirdyear o f implementation. Annex 12 reviews adverse impacts related
to land acquisition or changes in land use for the project, and summarizes the measures included inthe
RAP for mitigating them. Related public consultation and disclosure activities are also summarized inthe
same Annex. The road network component involves works scattered throughout the city, with 62 urban
residential community committees and48 suburban villages affected invaryingdegrees by land acquisition
and structural demolition. Inall, 176 hectares o f collective-owned land will be acquired invillage areas.
Housing demolition will require relocation o f 1164 urban households and 1064 suburban households.
Other significant impacts include relocation o f shops, enterprises and public institutions. Of the collective
land to be acquired, about 124 hectares is cultivated with the remainder used for house plots or other
purposes. Most suburban villagers, however, derive relatively little or no income from agricultural
production. Land compensation will be based on the highest average annual output value per mu among the
same land inthe affected municipal districts. Ineach case, compensation rates meet or exceed legal
requirements and meet or exceedreplacement cost valuation. Villagers themselves decide on appropriate
rehabilitation measures for collective members, which typically includes redistributiono f remaining land


                                                       - 23 -

andcollective investment o fland compensation. Insome cases, those affected opt to receive a cash
resettlement subsidy and relinquish collective membership infavor o f urban residency.

Compensation rates for demolished structures are based on replacement cost for the structure itself and a
supplemental zonal valuation. Compensation rates for illegal structures are based o n replacement cost for
the structure, but do not include the supplemental zone valuation.

The RAP includes several features that go well beyondminimumresettlement requirements. Among them:
special arrangements for poor and vulnerable households to obtain subsidized rental apartments or to
obtain discounts and subsidies on purchase o f replacement housing, and a scheme to provide households
losing very small residential units with additional compensation so they may purchase replacement housing
meeting community minimum size standards.

Based on preliminary estimates, the public transport component is likely to include acquisition o f about
nine hectares o f collective-owned land and to require relocation o f about twenty households, scattered
among four suburban villages. The Bank policy relative to indigenous people (OD 4.20) does not apply
and an IPDP is not required. The social assessmentand socio-economic survey found that there are no
ethnic minority communities inthe project area.


6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participating in the project?
All affectedhouseholds andvillages were identifiedthrough a socio-economic census. Additional details
regarding sources of income and local living standards were obtained through a baseline survey and
through the social assessment process. Project informationwas provided to the affected households and
villages, and municipal district governments through newspaper, posters and public meetings. The draft
version o f the RAP was advertised on Feb. 17,2003 inthe Wuhan Daily, and placed inthe Hubei
Provincial Library and the Wuhan Municipal Library. Subsequent drafts o f the RAP were placed at the
same locations

An extensive public consultation process, including focus group discussions and key informant interviews,
was designed as part o f a two-stage consultation strategy (concurrently with public consultations related to
the environmental assessment) to disseminate project information, collect people's concerns, needs and
recommendations, and consult the affected people about the resettlement and rehabilitation strategy.
Particular attention was devoted to the low-income residents and vulnerable group o f people duringthe
consultation process to ensure that the information dissemination methods were appropriate and adequate.
Information dissemination and consultations are designed to continue during the project implementation.

A resettlement informationbooklet, including detailed entitlements o feachhousehold, compensation and
entitlement policies and grievance procedures will be prepared and distributedto the displaced people prior
to the resettlement implementation. Displaced communities will play a key role infinalizing and
implementing their livelihood restoration programs.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
The PopulationResearch Institute o f Wuhan University was contracted to head the social assessment
exercise. This has contributed significantly to the preparation o f the RAP. Residential committees and
village committees have also been consulted with and participated inthe resettlement planning process and
the preparation o f the project.


                                                     - 24 -

6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
The institutional arrangements for resettlement implementation are detailed inthe RAP. The
Population Research Institute of Wuhan University, independent from the provincialand
municipal government and the project management office, will be contracted to serve as the
independentmonitoring agency o f the resettlement program. The project will be monitored and
the living standards o f the PAPSwill be evaluated over the course o f the project implementation.
The monitoring results will be regularly reported and, ifneeded, remedial actions will be designed,
6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social developmentoutcomes?
Bothinternal and independentexternalmonitoring of the resettlement programwill be conductedregularly
during project implementation. The PopulationResearchInstitute inWuhanUniversity will carry out
independentmonitoring every six months. Apart from physicalprogress, this review will evaluate
livelihoodrestorationefforts and their effectiveness. The RAP describes indetail the purpose of
monitoring, responsibilities,indicators, methodology, procedures andreporting requirements.

7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describeprovisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
Sections E5 & E 6 describe provisionsmade to ensure compliancewith OP 4.01and OP 4.12. The draft
EA andRAP were first disclosedinthe Infoshop inWashington on February 18,2003.




                                                   - 25 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability has environmental, social, financial and economic dimensions. Socially sustainable
development o f the transport system inWuhan requires a policy and institutionalframework for effective
handlingofresettlement. The project aims to leavebehindthe institutionalcapacity, and an efficient
delivery mechanism to address the adverse social impacts associated with urban infrastructure projects. It
also requires that policies be designed to benefit all transport users, particularly the socially disadvantaged
and notjust those with access to motor vehicles. The surveys o f the disadvantaged groups undertaken
duringproject preparation are being usedinthe design andrefinement of service delivery. The project
places emphasis on providing for the continuation of these surveys as a means o f determining the needs o f
the disadvantaged. The environmental sustainability o f the project is dependent on the extent to which the
overall level o f local and global emissions due to increasing travel demand is monitored, contained or
reduced. A Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy is designed to do this.

The sustainability o f the physical assets is feasible. However, adequate resources for operating the system,
for maintenance and replacement o f assets, and for increasing capacity inresponse to user demands remain
the most important consideration. For the bus system, reform measures discussed to date are designed to
reduce costs, eliminate subsidies and introduce competition. If successful, they will ensure the long-term
sustainability o f the system. Ifduring the project these reform measures are found to be inadequate, other
regulatory and competition possibilities will be suggested. For the maintenance o f roads and traffic
management, measures are requiredto improve management o f existing funds, ensuring provisioning inthe
budgets andpossibly increases inuser charges. These aspects will be reviewed inthe continuing work on
the transport strategy.

The institutions responsible for construction o f roads, and traffic management are already experienced and
fully effective. The staff o f the agencies responsible for planning andprogramming o f transport
investments, and bus service delivery are capable but need more hands-on experience, while the institutions
themselves inwhich they work require strengthening. These aspects will be addressed during the
implementationo f the project.

There is a risk that some o f the policy prescriptions underpinning sustainability will not be followed inthe
medium to long term. The risks are being mitigated by very close cooperation and extensive discussions
betweenthe Bank and the Municipality duringpreparation. This cooperation is coupled with the extensive
use o f local staff and consultants, with a thorough knowledge o f Chinese conditions, working inpartnership
and adapting policy solutions that have beenwell tested around the world for the Chinese environment.


2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):
                     Risk                      I    Risk Rating     I            Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
The Municipality does not continue to                    S           This is a real risk given the greater emphasis in
maintain or manage the new road space to                             China on construction. Further development o f
makemost efficient use o fit                                         WUTS throughout the project to mainstream
                                                                     road maintenance and traffic management
                                                                     policies, programs and budgets, coupled with an
                                                                     annual review o f maintenance budgets should
                                                                     help change this emphasis.


                                                       - 26 -

nitial adverse public reactionto the              M       Wunicipality and the traffic police are aware o f
mplementation o f traffic management                      :he importance o f public consultation and have a
TM) measures.                                             zood record, which is expected to continue,
                                                          :specially with continuedBank support and
                                                          idvice duringproject implementation.

'he traffic police do not enforce traffic         M       The measures are designed to the extent possible
nanagement measures.                                      :o be self enforcing, and the police are
                                                          :ommitted to them. Continued Bank support
                                                          mdadvice should sustainthat commitment.

3us operators take no steps to address            M       rhere are a number o f measures inthe project to
ither operational inefficiencies such as                  w i s t operators address these issues (including
lunching at bus-stops, to maximize the                    CMIS, reconstructiono f stops and TA from
iotential o f bus lanes.                                  local and international experts). There is also
                                                          pressure from the Municipality to reduce costs
                                                          and improve services.

NMG fails to give adequate policy                 M       Further development o f WUTS throughout the
upport to bus priority.                                   project to reinforce the need for such policies,
                                                          coupled with study tours to help WMG decision
                                                          makers understand how the policies can be
                                                          implemented, and TA support for the careful
                                                          preparation o f good quality schemes.

:he bus operators do not take advantage           M       Staff reduction has been limitedto date inbus
ifITto reduce staff, retrainstaff improve                 operators inChina. Bank agreement to
nanagement, and operational                               procurement o f the Stage 1IT equipment will be
n-oductivity                                              linked to a time based action planfor training
                                                          andefficiency measures, and for Stage 2
                                                          equipment to progress inimplementingthe
                                                          action plan. TA support is also provided for the
                                                          formulation o f business plans. The
                                                          Municipality wishes to reduce subsidy, which
                                                          puts pressure o n operators to reduce costs.

lata generated by expanded                         M      Bank agreement to investments inMVECS to be
:nvironmental monitoring system is not                    linked to use o f this data and regular reporting.
ised by municipal leaders to make more
nformed decisions on mitigation measures

?rainedstaff do not stay in respective             S      Use o f appropriate criteria inthe selection o f
n i t s for at least the life o f the project             appropriate staff for training.

Zonsultant services do not transfer                M      Discussion with implementing agencies to agree
nowledge andtechnology, and facilitate                    on the technical areas where such transfer is
he adoption o f intemational best practice                most useful, coupled with rigorous application



                                                 - 27 -

                                                                    )fconsultantselection andmonitoring of
                                                                    :onsultant performance
From Components to Outputs
Prior to commencing civil works, required               S           ipproval o f civil works contracts only given
land acquisition, resettlement andservice                           vhen these activities are completed
diversions are not planned, budgeted and
implementedcausing project delays.

Additional schemes are not selected by
WMGusingWUTS

WPSB leadership and cooperation                         S           zreation o f a formal coordination group headed
between the various stakeholders o f the                            )y senior WMG leaders.
project on TM does not continue

The municipality does not implement the                 M           b u a l review o f the project and linkage o f
emission control strategy                                           nvestments inthe environment component to
                                                                    rogress inMVECS. The Government o f China
                                                                    s putting great emphasis on improving air
                                                                    iuality incities.

Cooperation between the various                         S           :reation o f a formal coordination group headed
stakeholders o f the project on the MVECS                           iy senior WMG leader
does not continue and leadership by
WEPB abates

Project Office has inadequate staff, skills             M           4greements to be reached at negotiations. Loan
and authority to manage the overall                                 :ovenant. Monitoring and remedial action by
project                                                             3ank supervision missions




Overall Risk Rating                                     M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri: , M (Modest Risk), FNegligibleor Low Risk)
M

3. PossibleControversialAspects:
None identified


G. Main Loan Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
Standard conditions o f effectiveness




                                                      - 28 -

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
2.1  AccountsIAudit

2.1.1 Wuhan shall have the records, accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in
      accordance with consistently applied auditing standardsacceptable to the Bank, by independent
      auditors acceptable to the Bank.
2.1.2 Wuhan shall hmishto the Banknot later than six months after the end o f each such year (A)
      certified copies of the audited financial statements and (B) an opinion on such statements by said
      auditors, inscope anddetail satisfactory to the Bank.

2.2   Monitoring, Review,and Reporting

2.2.1 Wuhan shall prepare reports each calendar semester, on the physical progress of implementation
      and the status o f procurement and hmishthemto the Bank within 30 days o f the endo f each
      semester, starting July 31, 2004.

2.2.2 Wuhan shall prepare annual reports by February 15 each year, starting on February 15,2005 on
      the progress achieved inthe preceding year andthe proposals for the next year.

2.2.3 The midterm review for the Project shall be not later thanMay 31, 2006.

2.3   Implementation.

2.3.1 Overall
      (i)       Wuhan shall maintain untilcompletion of the Project the Municipal Project Leading
                Group, with terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank, and responsible for the
                coordinationamong all municipal entities inregardto the implementationo f the Project.
      (ii)      Wuhan shall maintain throughout the life o f the project, a Project Office with units
                responsible for landacquisitionandresettlement, environmental management,
                procurement, financial management, construction management, project management and
                monitoring and reporting, to be adequately resourced with suitablyqualified staff.
      (iii)     Wuhanshall, not later than November 30 ineachyear, commencingNovember 30,2004,
                and untilcompletion o f the Project, prepare and hmishto the Bank for comments, a
                proposed annual work program and budget for the Project for the next Fiscal Year, and
                thereafter implementsuch work program as shall have beenagreedwith the Bank.
      (iv)      The Construction Supervision team employed to assist inthe supervision of the civil
                works construction shall remain inplace duringthe entire implementationperiod.

2.3.2 Road Network Development Component
      (i)       Wuhanshall not make any changes to the agreed programexcept if such change is
                compatible with the Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy and a full feasibility study,
                acceptable to the Bank, i s carried out.
      (ii)      Wuhan shall carry out the EMPs, RAPSand the RPF, in a manner satisfactory to the
                Bank, inparticular:
                (a)     Prior to commencing any work not included inthe RAP, prepare a RAP in
                        accordance with the RPF.


                                                    - 29 -

                  (b)      Prior to commencing any work not included inthe EMP, prepare an EMP
                           satisfactory to the Bank.

2.3.3 Road Maintenance Component
         Wuhan shall
         (i)      implement the road maintenance management system by December 31,2006.
         (ii)     review with the Bank the progress on the reform o f the road maintenance functions, by
                  March 31ineach year, commencing March 31,2005, anduntilcompletion o f the Project.
         (iii)    review with the Bank the maintenance performance and expenditures against the budget for
                  the previous year and the previsions for the forthcoming year, by March 31ineach year,
                  commencing March 31,2005, anduntilthe completion o f the Project.

2.3.4   Public Transport Component
         (i)      Wuhan shall review with the Bank the progress o fthe Wuhan public transport reform by
                  March 31 ineach year, commencing March 31,2005, anduntilcompletion o f the Project.
         (ii)     PT companies to fumish through the Wuhan Public Transport General Company, for
                  review a rolling five-year development plan by March 31ineach year, commencing March
                  31,2005, and untilcompletion o f the Project, and thento implement such plan.

2.3.5   Technical Assistance Component
         Wuhan shall
                  review with the Bank at least once a year, and untilcompletion o f the Project, any
                  developments inthe WuhanUrban Transport Strategy.
                  carry out the training in accordance with a training program acceptable to the Bank; and
                  review the training program with the Bank by March 31 in each year, commencing March
                  3 1,2005, and until completion o f the Project.
                  carry out the studies agreedwith the Bank inaccordance with terms o f reference and a
                  timetable acceptable to the Bank, fumish to the Bank the recommendations o f each o f the
                  studies promptly upon completion o f the relevant study, prepare an action plan for each o f
                  the studies to implement the recommendations, taking into account the comments ofthe
                  Bank, ifany; and thereafter promptly implement such action plan.
                  review with the Bank by March 31 in each year, commencing March 31,2006, and until
                  completion o f the Project, the progress inthe implementation o f the recommendations o f
                  the motor vehicle emission control strategy study.


H. Readiness for Implementation
   1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
         o f project implementation.
0 1.b)Notapplicable.

IxI2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the start of
      project implementation.
IxI3. The ProjectImplementationPlanhas beenappraisedandfoundto berealistic andofsatisfactory
      quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions (SectionG):




                                                      - 30 -

I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
0 2. ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval. Theprojectcomplieswith
      all other applicable Bank policies.




 EdwardDotson
 Team Leader                               Sector Dlrector




                                                  -31  -

                                    Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                                 CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project



                               Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:   from Goal to Bank Mission)
To support China's transition  Measures o f Municipal Urban 3overnment and municipality    inurbanizedindustrialized
from                           Transport Services               .eports                     iarket-oriented economy will
(i)arural,agricultural                                                                      pur more economic growth.
society to an urban, industrial                                                             h e benefits o f growth will
society, and                                                                               :ach the poor both directly
(ii)acentrallyplanned                                                                      interms ofmore
economy to a more globally                                                                  pportunitiesthat improve
integrated market-based                                                                     ieir quality o f life) and
economy                                                                                    idirectly (interms o f more
                                                                                           :sources to provide a social
                                                                                           afety net).



Project Development            Outcome I Impact                 'roject reports:           from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
To promote development o f
an integrated, efficient, and
sustainable transport system
for the rapid, safe and
convenient movement o f
people and goods in Wuhan

1. Support Investmentsin       1. Capacity and efficiency       4nnual progress reports      .1 There are no significant
transport infrastructureand    1.1 Reduction o f travel time    Mid-termreview              hanges in forecast rates o f
services that address          for motorized vehicle users on [mplementationCompletion     nigration or motorization.
current system efficiency,     the key external/cross town      Report
capacity, safety and           route from Automobile Town       4nnual municipal and State
sustainability issues, and     to Jianghan Roadfrom 49          -eports
address the mobilityneeds      minutes in2002 (baseline) to     4ccident Analysis Study
of users.                      43 minutes in 2008.              Reports

                               1.2 Reduction o f travel time
                               for motorized vehicle users on
                               the key cross river route from
                               Hankou Railway Station to
                               Hongshan Square from 37
                               minutes in2002 (baseline) to
                               32 minutes in2008.

                               1.3 Reduction o f travel time
                               For motorized vehicle users on
                               :hekey central arearoute
                               From Houhu to Wuhan Plaza
                               From 26 minutes in 2002
                               'baseline) to 22 minutes in
                               -008



                                                           - 32 -

1.4 Improvement inbus
service productivity, with an
increase in average daily
ridership from 259 million in
2002 (baseline) to 310 million
at endo f project (2008)

2. Mobility
2.1 Reduction o f travel times
for pedestrians on key routes
(i) KongRoadtoXan
   Hong
LiMenfrom 68 minutesin
2002 (baseline) to 59 minutes
in2008: (ii) Wulidunto
Zhongdian Dunfrom 30
minutes in 2002 (baseline) to
26 minutes in 2008

2.2 Reduction o f travel times
on for cyclists on key NMT
routes: (i) Tiangjiadun to
Riverside at Sanyang Road
from 30 minutesin 2002
(baseline) to 22 minutes in
2008: (ii) Street to
          Yunlin
Macao Roadfrom 20 minutes
in2002 (baseline) to 15
minutes in2008 (iii)
Riverside at Sanyang Roadto
Wuhan Guan from 20 minutes
in2002 (baseline) to 18
minutes in2008.

2.3 Reduction o ftravel times
for bus users on key routes (i)
Cross river from Hankou
Railway Station to Hongshan
Square from 48 minutes in
2002 (baseline) to 42 minutes
in2008. (ii) central area
             In
from Houhu to Wuhan Plaza
from 34 minutes in 2002
(baseline) to 29 minutes in
2008


3. Sustainability
3.1 Production and                   i.1 TheMunicipalitybases
implementation o f Annual            naintenance budgets on
road maintenance plans,              ieeds identified by RMMS
basedon application o f
RMMS, by 2008.




                           - 33 -

                               3.2 Formulation and adoption                                  3.2 The Municipality
                               o f an effective motor vehicle                                :ontinues to regardreduction
                               emissions control strategy to                                 Ifemissions as apriority.
                               reduce pollution due to motor
                               vehicles, including a new I/M
                               system by 2008.

!. Supportformulationofa       2.1 Further detailed studies                                  The Municipality continues to
ransport strategy to guide     recommended inthe WUTS                                        use the transport strategy as a
nvestment decisions            Report to be completed by mid                                 basis for decision making on
                               term review in 2005.                                          transport policies and
                               2.2 Transport Policy "White                                   investments.
                               Paper" to be preparedby
                               2008.
                               2.3 Investment program for
                               five year period starting in
                               2008 finalized by 2008.

L. Support for reformsto       Busroute tendering on a                                        The Municipality continues to
mproveperformance of bus competitive basis completed                                         support reform o f the public
iervice delivery.               across the bus system by 2008,                                transport system.



Iutput from each               Output Indicators:               Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
2omponent:
\. RoadNetwork.                                                 All components
:arty-sevenroad schemesto      All civil works contracts         1. Before and after          The Municipality continues to
a) provide alternatives for     delivered at acceptable quality performance indicator surveys maintain and manage the new
:xtemal or cross-town traffic  within time, budget, cost and    as work proceeds.             road space to make most
b) relieve cross river          safety constraints.             2. Annual progress reports    efficient use o f it.
:ongestion                                                      3. Mid-term review;
c) relieve congestion in                                        Implementation Completion
:entral down-town areas                                         Report
d) provide for orderly
:xpansion o f new growth
ireas
md
e) 17 footbridges and
iubways to provide safer
:onditions for pedestrians and
VMV

TM. Traffic Management

TM1. Pedestrianprogram          TM1
i)Sixty-threemid-block          (i)Mid-blocksignals                                            ;he Municipality continues to
iignalized pedestrian          installed and functioning                                      implementmeasures inface o
xossings                        (ii)Cycletimesatallsignals                                    any initial adverse public
ii)Pedestrianphasesin           at the 99 junctions revised                                   reaction.
raffic signals at 99 junctions. such that pedestrian phases
iii)Onepedestrianstreet        installed and functioning                                      The traffic police enforce the
                               (iii)Streetpedestrianized                                      measures, particularly inthe
                                                                                              period after initial


                                                            - 34 -

                                                                         implementation.


TM2. NMVprogram                    TM2
50 km of NMV routes with           V M V routes created with
:ither MVINMV segregation          Jartial or full segregation on
3r MV restrictions                 11160km of roadway

TM3. Buspriority                   I'M3                                  TM3BusOperatorstake steps
measures                           Priority measures                     to prevent operational issues
[i) 35km o f bus lanes on nine     implementedand functioning            such as bunching at bus stops
routes                             3n designated   35 kmnetwork          which reduce effectiveness o f
                                                                         bus lanes.

                                                                         WMG Policy continues to give
                                                                          priority inthe allocation o f
                                                                          road space to buses.

TM4. Junction                      TM4
channelizationand traffic          (i) All civil works contracts
facilities program                 delivered at acceptable quality
(i)274junction                     within time, budget, cost and
channelizations                    safety constraints.
-46 physical;                      (ii)Nowideningofjunctions
-228 with traffic facilities

TM5. Area Traffic Control          TM5.
(ATC) and traffic signal           (i)ATCsystemsandtraffic
upgrading program                  signals installed and
(i)ATCsystemsinstalledin           functional
Hanyang, East Lake Hi-Tech         (ii)Signalsin
zone, WuchanglQingshan             communication with central            I

(ii)Trafficsignalsinstalled        ATC and signal timing plans
 and upgraded                      integrated with existing
 (iii)Thirty-fiveCCTV              signals
real-time monitoring cameras       (iii)CCTVinstalledand
                                   functioning in appropriate
                                    sites.
                                    (iv) VMS installed and
                                    functional. Systems installed
                                   to provide VMS with
                                    appropriate updated
                                    information.


                                    TM6
 accident analysis program          (ii)Allcivilworkscontracts
 (i)Enhancementoftraffic            executed on time, within
 management information             budget and at acceptable
 system                             quality
 (ii)Accidentblackspot              (iii)Accidentinvestigation
 improvements: engineering          equipment procured
  and traffic facilities at sixteen (iv) Systems establishedto
 blackspots and on thirty-two       inform and collect fines from
  arterials


                                                                -35 -

                               .ed-light offenders inlegally
:iii)Trafficaccident           qalid and acceptable manner.
investigationequipment
:iv) Thirty red-light violation
:ameras

rM7. Roadusereducation         rM7.
[RUE) program                  :i)Allcivilworkscontracts
[i) Children's traffic Safety  ielivered at acceptable quality
Playground; nine associated     within time, budget, cost and
district education bases        safety constraints.
[ii) Public education           :ii)Allpublicationsand
billboards                      3erformances designed,
(iii) RUE Columns inlocal       zxecuted and disseminated on
newspapers                      schedule and inbudget
(iv) RUE Helpline and
website
(v) Traffic TV program
(vi) Traffic radio program
(vii) Traffic safety pamphlets
(viii) TM InformationMap

TM8. Roadmarking                TM8.
equipment                       All equipment procured
Four motorized and seven        competitively: installed and
hand-pulled vehicles.           functional
Selected TDM measures
implemented after the TDM
 Study

PT. PublicTransport:

PT1. Information                PT1. Computer systems                 'Tl.
 Management System              procuredcompetitively,                :he bus operators take
 Computerizing basic tasks      installed and functional.             .dvantage o f IT to reduce
 currently done manually.       Staff trained to use computer         taff, retrain staff retained,
                                systems.                              nanage more effectively and
                                                                      ncreaseproductivity

 PT2,PT3,PT4. Investments PT2, PT3, PT4
 inphysicalinfrastructure       All civil works contracts
 (i)Fourlong-distanceand        delivered at acceptable quality
 seven city centre              within time, budget, cost and
 interchanges.                  safety constraints.
 (ii)Reconstructionoftwelve
 termini
 (iii)Fourteenbus-bays




                                                            - 36 -

RM. Road Maintenance:

RM1. Reconstruction of ten RM1. All civil works
existing roads              contracts delivered at
                            acceptable quality within
                            time, budget, cost and safety
                            constraints.

RM2. Road maintenance
equipment                   RM2. All equipment
                            procured competitively,
                            installed and functional. Staff
                            trained to use.
RM3. Road maintenance
management information      RM3. All computer systems
system                      procured competitively:
                            installed and functional. Staff
                            trained to use. Data on road
                            conditions collected and
                            entered into system.

EN. Environment.

EN1. Vehicle emission and   EN1. All computer systems            2N1.
traffic noise monitoring    and equipmentprocured                lata generatedis usedby
systems                     competitively: installed and         nunicipal leaders to make
(i) air quality monitoring  functional. Staff trained to         nore informed decisions on
systems increased from five use.                                 nitigationmeasures.
to fifteen;
(ii) two vehicle emission
monitoring sub-stations,
automatic computerization;
monitoring equipment
(iii) 7 noise monitoring
sub-stations; and
(iv) IT equipment

EN2. Motor vehicle          EN2. Motor vehicle emission
emission control strategy   control strategy (MVECS)
(MVECS)                     developed and adopted for
                            implementation.

EN3. Noise mitigation       EN3. Noise mitigation
                            measures implemented

EN4. Environmental eng      EN4. EMP implemented.
design and management       Construction supervision and
                            designs judged
                            environmentally sustainable

EN5 Environmental
monitoring



                                                       - 37 -

rA. Capacity building

TAl, TA2. International      TA1, TA 2. Study tours             TA1, TA2 Trained staff stay
and domestic training        planned and executed on            in respective units for at least
                             schedule and in-budget             the life of the project.

rA3. Consultant services.    TA3. All studies tendered          TA3 Consultant services
3.1 Civil works supervision  competitively and complete         transfer knowledge and
3.2 High strength bituminous on time and within budget,         technology, and facilitate the
2oncrete pavement study      accomplishing scope o f work       adoption o f intemational best
3.3 Roadsafety audit                                            practice
3.4 Support for public
transport reform
3.5 Other public transport
related studies
3.6 Traffic management
related studies
3.7 Studies related to
environmental management
3.8 Road bridge and drainage
management system
3.9 Wuhan Urban Transport
Strategy (WUTS)
3.10 Financial management
system analysis
3.11 Travel needs o f the low
income and vulnerable groups

TA4. Officeequipment




                                                        -38-

DrojectComponents I      nputs: (budget for each     'roject reports:            [from Components to
Sub-components:          :omponent)                                              Outputs)
iN. RoadNetwork          161.3                       ?orall components:          Required land acquisition,
                                                     Legular project management  resettlement and service
                                                     eports, including:          diversions are planned,
                                                     i)quarterly andannual       budgeted and implemented.
                                                     lrogress reports
                                                     ii)auditreport              Additional schemes, if any,
                                                     iii)midtermreviewreports    x e selected using WUTS
                                                     iv) study reports
                                                     v) Bank supervision mission
                                                     eports


TM. Traffic Management   13.4                                                    Continuedeffective
                                                                                 cooperation between the
                                                                                 various stakeholders of the
                                                                                 project and continued
                                                                                 program leadership by WPSB.




IT. Public Transport     14.2                                                    The municipality provides
                                                                                 continued support for
                                                                                 improvementsto public
                                                                                 transport.


iM. RoadMaintenance      17.5                                                    The municipality continues
                                                                                 with announcedreform o f
                                                                                 roadmaintenance
                                                                                 management and operations.


3N. Environmental        i.5                                                     The municipality implements
aanagement                                                                       the emission control strategy,
                                                                                 once the study is completed.
                                                                                 Continued effective
                                                                                 cooperation between the
                                                                                 various stakeholders o fthe
                                                                                 project and continued
                                                                                 leadership by WEPB.


TA. Capacity Buildingand '.9                                                     Continued WMG ownership
rechnical Assistance




                                                -39 -

illcomponents    579.8              Project Office has adequate
                                    staff, skills and authority to
                                    manage the overall project
                                    effectively.
                                    Project Office produces good
                                    quality timely reports.
                                    Project design i s adjusted in
                                    response to changing
                                    circumstances as required to
                                    meet the project objective.




                          - 40 -

                                  Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                                 CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project

The implementation of this project includes components for road network development, public transport,
traffic management, road maintenance, environment protection and technical assistance. The costs for
land acquisition and resettlement and recurrent costs such as preparation, design and administration are
indicated in each component.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$461.30 million
                       -
Road NetworkDevelopment
The key problems and deficiencies inthe existing roadnetwork withinWuhan were identified inthe Wuhan
Urban Transport Strategy (WUTS). These may be summarized as:


0        lack o f suitable routes for external or cross-town traffic
0        insufficient capacity for cross-river traffic and poor distribution o f traffic between existing
         crossings
0        congestion inthe central areas o f the three towns, especially Hankou
0        inadequate road networks for the orderly expansion o f the city into new growth areas
0        poor conditions for pedestrians with resultant safety concerns.

This component addresses the two immediate needs o f improving the operation o fthe roadnetwork within
the city, and expanding the bicycle and pedestrian networks. The proposed road network investment
strategy is also derived from the WUTS. It is the result o f extensive testing o f altemative road and public
transport networks, and altemative investment options to address the key problems noted above. A total of
forty-seven schemes, covered infive programs, are proposed for implementation over a five-year period.
The primary objective and number o f projects ineach program is shown inthe table below. Many projects
serve a secondary objective as well. Where appropriate these secondary objectives have been identified.

                                                                       Primary          Secondary
                                                                       Objective         Objective
(a) Provide suitable routesfor through or cross-town traf$c                14               3
(b) Improve utilization of existing cross-river bridges                     3                6
(c) Relieve congestion in central down-town areas                           8                2
(d) Provide adequate road networks in development areas                    10                3
(e) Provide safe conditionsfor pedestrians                                 17                1

ITotal                                                              I      52        I      l5     I
The civil works for these five programs include the construction o f new roads, upgradinglwidening o f
existing roads, construction of interchanges and construction o f pedestrian overbridges or underpasses.
The works are spread across the primary roadnetwork (middle and inner ringroads, and selected radial
roads), the arterial road network and local roads.




                                                       - 4 1 -

RN1 Provide suitable routes for external or cross-town traffic

A number of schemes are situated on the primary road network, including the construction o f 18.6kmof
the Middle RingRoad (North), 7.2 km o f the Middle RingRoad (South), and seven associated
interchanges. Sections o f two radial roads will also be upgraded and one new radial road (13km) will be
constructed. Three keyjunctions on radial routes will be improved. Additionally, sections of seven urban
arterial and local roads will be constructed or upgraded.

Middle Ring Road (MRR) & Interchanges: Three sections o f the MRR are proposed for inclusion inthe
Bankproject: a 15 kmsection inthe north(including four interchanges) will be constructed between 2003
and 2005 and the remaining section inthe north (3.6km), plus a 7.2 km section inthe south, (including
three interchanges) are scheduled for 2006-2007.

RDl.I Middle Ring Road (North) (Etouwan-Sanjintan) 15.0km: This component is designed to provide
relief to the central areas o f Hankou and to provide a through route for traffic wishing to by-pass the urban
area inan east-west direction. The road will be constructed as an urbanexpressway (dual 3-lanes) and will
be located adjacent to an existing flood protection bund, following a natural break inthe urban
development. The roadwill connect inthe west with the existingwestem section o f the MRR and National
Highway 107, and inthe east with the Dai Huang Highway (Huangpu Lu).Grade-separated interchanges
will be provided at the crossing points with the existing four radial routes to the north. Traffic volumes in
excess o f 80,000 vpd are forecast in 2007, increasing to above 100,000 vpd by 2020.

RD1.2Middle Ring Road (North) (Sanjintan-Hun Shi) 3.6km: This section connects from the Sanjintan
Interchange (above) to the existing Han Shi Highway on a temporary (Le. non-Master Plan) alignment. The
final alignment connects directly to the approach to the proposed Yangtse No. 4 Road-and-Rail Bridge.

RD1.3 Middle Ring Road (South) (Qingling-Luoshi Nan Lu) 7.2km: This section o f the MRRwould
complete the southem section o f the route and provide a connection (via an 8km section o f route presently
under construction and funded by WMG) between the existing expressway eastwards to Huang Shi (70km)
and the completed Yangtse No. 3 Bridge and the westem section of the MRR.The component could thus
provide a by-pass for traffic from the east (which would otherwise pass through the center o f Wuchang and
use the No. 1 Bridge) and enhance the usage o f the Yangtse No. 3 Bridge. It is also claimed that this
section of road would assist inthe development o f the adjacent areas, proposed for both hi-tech industrial
and education uses. However, the traffic projected on this section o f the road was low and the degree to
which this project substantively contributes to the overall objectives o f the Bank project, is not clear. It
was agreed that though the project would be included inthe road network component, it would not be
included for funding unless a substantially stronger case for its construction were made.

Radial Roads & Key Junctions:.

RD1.4 Qinghua Lu (Phase I, 4.48km; Phase 11,8.52km): This is a new radial route providing access to a
proposed new development area inthe east o f the city, on land adjacent to the Wugang Iron & Steel Works.
Itwill additionallyprovide a new route for extemal and truck traffic from the industrial area avoiding the    '


center o f Qingshan. The alignment proposed initially for the middle section o f this road would have had
severe environmental impacts inand around the East Lake, and has therefore been dropped. This roadhas
been included inthe overall pool for the project with the understandingthat an altemative northem
alignment for the middle section will be examined. Ifno suitable alignment is found, then the entire
Qinghau Roadproject will be dropped and an altemative road further north (Luo Jia Zui to Dang Hu
Gang), which fulfills the same traffic function, will be examined.


                                                     - 42 -

RD1.5 Huangpu Lu: Improvement of 4.61 kmof the section of the Dai Huang Highwaybetweenthe
central area andthe MRR(N).The existing road is congestedand its widening will provide additional
capacity to serve the newly expanding residential areas inthe north-east of the city.

RDI.6 OldHansha Highway: The project involvesthe removal ofabottleneck (1.25 km)onthe existing
highway to provide a consistent 22m roadway (plusN M T lanes).

RD2.3 Qiaokou Lu Interchange: It is proposed to improve the junction betweenJiefang Dadao and the
northem approach to the Han River No. 4 Bridge. The improvement (a simple east-westflyover is
proposed, with an alternative 3-level solution also considered) will ease traffic circulation on the mainroad
network and improve access to the (presentlyunder-utilized) Han River No. 4 Bridge.

RD2.4 Shanlankou Interchange (cost includes Jinshui LuImprovement (RD1.23)): This is an improvement
to a keyjunction inthe inner area of Wuchang at the intersection o f HubeiLuand WuXian Highway. The
improvement involves the construction of an underpass and a looped ramp to connect the highway to Hubei
Lu,whichis already atalow levelwhere itpassesbeneaththe mainN-Srailline. The scheme also includes
the construction of a short (320m) section of Jinshui Lu.The interchange will improve traffic access and
circulation inthe area.

InadditionRD2.5 GuocikouInterchange (see below) will improve operation oftheroadnetwork, whilst
providing better access to the Han River No. 2 Bridge.

Urban Arterial & Local Roads::

RD1.13 Nanniwan Flyover (1.37km): The project involves the construction of a 4-lane flyover across two
mainrail lines and will provide improved access between the central business areas o f Hankouand the
Qiaokou Economic Development Zone, and adjoining residential areas. PedestriansandNMTwill be
providedwith a subway.

RD1.16 JiangXiEr Lu (2.66km): A section of new arterial road to provide improvedaccess to and within
the Qiaokou Economic Development Zone.

RDI.17 YanHeDadai (4.74km): Constructiodupgrading ofroute along northbank of HanRiverto
provide improved access andradial movement.

RD1.23 JinShui Lu (330m):-Short lengtho f connecting road, to be constructed inconjunction with the
Shanlankou Interchange (RD2.4).

RD1.30 Maying Lu (1.96km): A local link to improve network connectivity and local access.

RD1.32 Hanxi Lu: A short (430m) local missingconnection.

Additionally, RD1.28 Meizi Lu (see below) will provide a significant new cross rail linkage.




                                                     - 43 -

RN2 Improveutilization of existing cross-river bridges

Three projects are specifically designed to improve the utilization o f the existing bridges across the Yangtse
and HanRivers.

RD2.1 Ramps to YangtseNo. 2 Bridge: The provision o f two new loopedramps is proposed linking the
No. 2 Bridge directly with the northern riverside road. These ramps will allow a greater use o f the bridge
and provide better distribution o f traffic onto the local road network.

RD2.5 Guocikou Interchange: The improvement involves the construction of a looped linkroad beneath
the southern approach to the Han River No. 2 Bridge to connect with, and provide access to, a new route
builtalong the south side of the river. The interchange will provide improvedaccess to the bridge andwill
relieve other roads andjunction inthe area.

RD1.28 Meizi Lu (640m): The construction o f a short link passing beneaththe main through rail line and
providing improved access to the presently under-utilizedHanRiver No. 4 Bridge.

Additional six projects will provide some degree o f improved access to the existingbridges: the Middle
RingRoad(North-East section (RD1.2) and Southern Section (RD1,3)), Qiaokou LuInterchange (RD2.3),
and YouYi Lu(RD1.12). Xianggang Lu(RD1.8) and Xianggang LuInterchange (RD2.7) will improve
access to the proposed Qingdao Tunnel beneath the Yangtse.

RN3 Reliefof congestion incentralareas

A total of eight projects are designedto relieve congestion, mostly inthe Hankouarea. These projects
include the construction of three interchanges at key locations to ease traffic flow and enhance usage o f the
inner ringroad. The construction o f the MRR(N),which provides an altemative high-capacity route for
east-west traffic, will greatly ease traffic congestion inthe center o f Hankou.

Inner Ring Road: Threejunction improvements are proposed onthe Inner RingRoad (IRR). Redesign and
reconstruction o f the Jiefang Dadao section (5.7 km) is proposed under the road maintenance component.

RD2.6Xunlimen Underpass: A 4-lane vehicular underpass is proposed along Jiefang Dadao. The
objectives o f the scheme are to allow improved access for pedestrians across the IRR at ground level (the
route to the south provides a direct connection to the pedestrianised walking street), and to make improved
provisionfor public transport.

RD2.7 Xianggang Lu Interchange (Hong Kong Lu Interchange): This location will become a key
intersection between the IRR and the main northern approach route to the proposed Qingdao Tunnel
beneath the Yangtse River linking the center of Hankou with Wuchang. The first phase of the
improvement, involving a flyover along Jiefang Dadao, will be financed under the project. The scheme will
allow for the improved operation o f the IRR and will permit local traffic and pedestrians to remain at
ground level. Subsequent phases of the interchange (not funded under the project) will add a second
flyover (at level +2) andprovide access to the proposed cross-river tunnel, and support development o f the
long term central area network.

RD2.1 Ramps to YangtseNo. 2 Bridge, which form part o f the IRR, are described under the river crossing
section above.



                                                       - 44 -

UrbanArterial Roads:

RDl.8Xianggang Lu (Jianshe Dadao-Xinhuaxia Lu, 1.98km): Widening o f north-south route within
Hankou will provide access to the proposed Yangtse River Tunnel. The project will improve traffic
circulation within the down-town area o f Hankou and ease access to the proposed tunnel: it is
complementary to the proposed Xianggang LuInterchange (RD2.7) at the junction with the IRR.

RD1.12 YouYi Lu (1.06km): Widening o f a section of an urban arterial within the central area o f Hankou
will remove a bottleneck andprovide a consistent cross-section. It will also improve access to the
under-utilized HanRiver No. 3 Bridge.

RD1.15 Zhongshan Dadao (495m): Improvement o f a short linkbetween the IRR (Jiefang Dadao) and the
Riverside Road will ease access to the proposed bus interchange at the LRT terminal station.

RD1.20/21 Zhongshan BeiLu (2.30km): Construction andor upgrading o f two sections of an urban arterial
inthe central area ofWuchang will improve circulationandaccess to new development sites.

Local Roads: Two schemes are proposed for the improvement o f local roads inthe inner areas o f Hankou
District.

RD1.31 TaibeiYi Lu (1.50km): Completion o f missingsections o f a local road serving residential areas in
central Hankou.

RD1.33 Luguoqiao Lu (825m): Widening o f a local route providingaccess to a proposed bus terminal at
LRT station.

FW 4 Provideadequate roadnetworks to support growth indevelopment areas

RDl.10 & RDl.11: Jianshe Dadao (3.15km): A two-phase extension o f Jianshe Dadao into the proposed
development area inthe north-east o f the city, including the construction o f a new link across the mainrail
line. Two 12mwide subway boxes have already been built beneath the railway. The scheme will improve
cross-rail capacity and provide access to the development area inthe north-east.

RD1.14HouHu Lu (5.1O h ) : The road is proposed as the major development spine to the expanding
residential areas inthe north-east o f the city. The scheme connects to Jianshe Dadao (RD1.11) and
Huangpu Luimprovement (RD1.5).

RD1.18 GongYeDaDao (2.63km): A development road inthe eastern area o f Wuchang, connecting with
Qinghua Lu(RD1.4) will provide a core network o f strategic roads. Since this road links with Qinghua
Road, its inclusion for funding would depend on the outcome o f the planned supplementary analysis for
Qinghua Road (RD1.4).

RD1.19 LuoShiNan Lu (2.48km): Comprises a southerly extension o f LuoShiBei Lu, which is developing
as a major link serving the South Lake residential development area. The proposed road will connect with
the proposed Southern Section o f the MRR (RD1.3).

RD1.22 Qinyuan Lu (3.01km): A n e w link withinthe IRRinWuchang will provide access to an area close
to the central area with significant potential for redevelopment.



                                                      - 45 -

RD1.25, RD1.26 & RD1.27 Shipailing Lu/Jisan Lu (4.93km): Two schemes that will provide improved
and rationalized access to a recently developing residential area on the no longer used civil airport in
Wuchang.

RD1.29 Sixin Dadao (5.41km): A major new avenuehoulevardproposed to stimulate residential
development inHanyang inthe area south o f MoShui Lake.

Additionally, three other projects, notably MRR(S) and Qinghua Lu, will significantly support the growth
and expansion o f the proposed development areas.

RN5 Provide safe conditionsfor pedestrians
A total o f seventeen pedestrian footbridges or underpasses are proposed - nine inHankou, six inWuchang
and two inHanyang at a total cost o f U S $11 million. The proposed vehicular underpass at Xunlimen on
the IRRwill provide improved facilities for pedestrians (and buses) at ground level.

Capacity Buildingand TechnicalAssistance (TA). The following Technical Assistance related to road
network development will be provided as part o f the capacity building component 6:
(i) Constructionsupervision
(ii)     Highstrength bituminous concrete pavement study
(iii)    Road Safety Audit o f New Roads

Project Component 2 US$33.40 million
                       -
Traffic Management and RoadSafety Component

This component addresses the WUTS problems o f congestion inthe central area, inadequate cross-river
capacity and pedestrian safety. It also aims to increase the safety and productivity o f the roadnetwork by
utilizing modern traffic management techniques. Coordinated programs o f comprehensive traffic
management measures will be implemented to complement the works inthe road network and public
transport components.

T M 1PedestrianProgram. Investments made under this component inHankou, Hanyang, Wuchang,
Hongshan and Qingshan are complemented by investments inpedestrian facilities made as part o f the road
infrastructure component.
i)      Mid-block signalizedpedestrian crossings at sixty-three locations. The design and location o f
        these crossings would maximize pedestrian safety and convenience. All new crossings would be
         signalized with central safety islands for protection and storage; existing non-signalized zebra
         crossings would be replaced with signalized crossings inthe A T C system. (The costs o f the signal
        works are included inTM5-ATC and the cost o f the central safety islands inTM4).
ii)      Traffic signals at ninety-nine junctions inthe ATC system would includepedestrian phases to
         cross all arms o f the junction wherever possible. The pedestrian phase should not conflict with any
        vehicle tumingmovements, especially right-tum-on red. (The costs o f the signal works are included
        inTM 5-ATC. The cost of central safety islands is included inTM4).
iii) Onepedestrianstreet

T M 2. Non-MotorizedVehicle Program
Non Motor Vehicle (nMV)Routes - 60 kmo fNMV priority routes with either MViNMV segregation or
MV restrictions inHankou, Hanyang, Wuchang, and Qingshan.




                                                      - 46 -

T M3 BusPriorityMeasuresProgram
Provision is made for traffic facilities to implement 35km of bus lanes on nine routes. These compliment
facilities to be provided inthe public transport component.
(Technical Assistance to assist with the further development and designo f bus priority measures and to
assist with identification o f the potential for a bus rapid transit corridor is discussed under Component 6).

T M4 JunctionChannelizationand TrafficFacilities Program
Junction channelization and traffic facilities (signs, lines andbarriers) will be implemented at the 274
traffic signalized sites (including mid-block pedestrian crossings) inthe A T C system to be provided under
the project. Junction channelization will focus on tightening upjunctions, channelizing vehicles indirect
and clear paths and bringingstoplines forward to minimize clearance times and increase efficiency.
Junction channelization does not meanjunction widening. This program consists of:


0         46 channelization schemes involving physical civil works
0         228 channelization schemes using hatched markings, roadlining, signs and barriers

Road marking equipment (to paint and remove thermoplastic lines) directly concerned with these traffic
facilities is included inTM8.

TM 5 Area Traffic Control(ATC) and Traffic SignalUpgradingProgram.
ATC systems will be implementedinHanyang, WuchangIQingshan and East Lake Hi-Tech Zone. Traffic
signals operating under isolated control will be implemented in outlying areas. This program includes a
total o f 274 locations, 18 o f which are isolated vehicle-actuated (VA) junctions, and 63 o f which are
mid-block signalized pedestrian crossings. There will be 185 new signals and 91 upgraded signals,
communication equipment, and equipment for two control sub-centers, one inWuchang and one in
Hanyang. Details are given inthe Table below:

  District                   Existing         New signals      Total     Of which are mid-block    Area
                           signalsto be     to be installed                pedestriancrossings
                            upgraded
WuchanglQingshan                66               104            170                 (33)            125k
                                                                                                     m2
Hanyang                          11                45           56                  (14)            20km2
EastLake Hi-Tech                 14                34           48                  (16)            12km2
Zone
  TOTAL                         91                183           274                 63




This component includes the installation (at the same time as the ATC) o f thirty-five CCTV real-time
monitoringtraffic cameras, and six Variable Message Signs (VMS) to facilitate better distribution o f
traffic between the existing river crossings.

Technical Assistance will be provided inthe design o f the A T C system andjunction channelization
covering the construction phase, including detailed design and implementation management and testing.
This is includedinComponent 6.




                                                        - 47 -

T M 6 Road Safety and AccidentAnalysis Program
This programwill improve road safety and accident analysis procedures and consists of:
(i)     Enhancement o f the Trafic Management and Comprehensive Information System, including
        upgrading o f the satellite based positioning system.
(ii)    Accident Blackspot Improvements        - Physical traffic engineering works or markings,road lining,
        signs andbarriers to improve sixteen accident blackspot sites and thirty-two arterial roads with
        accident problems (mainly in suburban areas)
(iii)   Trafic Accident Investigation Equipment equipment and special vehicles to improve accident
                                                      -
        response and on-site investigation.
(iv)    Electronic Police Camera Enforcement - red-light violation cameras at thirtyjunctions

Inaddition, anAccident Analysis Study usingTechnical Assistance is includedinComponent 6.

T M 7 RoadUser Education(RUE) Program
The RUEprogram, using a more pro-active approach, will focus on children. The program consists o f :

        Children Trafic Safety Playground and associated district education bases at nine sites
        Public Education Billboards large and small public advertisement billboards
                                        -
        RUE Columns in Local Newspapers equipment to improve the RUE columns inlocal
                                                 -
        newspapers, and to improve images and electronic communication between the Traffic Police and
        the media
        RUE Helpline and Website - development o f a website and associated telephone helpline for all
        roadusers
        Trafic TVProgram equipment to make a TV program to be broadcast daily
                              -
        Trafic Radio Program development o f a traffic information radio broadcast station
                                  -
        Trafic Safety Knowledge - designing and printingo f pamphlets for free distribution to children
        T MInformation Map development o f the Wuhan Traffic Management Map and funding o f the
                               -
        inaugural edition

T M 8 Roadmarkingequipment. Four motorized and seven hand-pulledroad-marking vehicles to paint
and remove thermoplastic lines, directly concerned with traffic facilities inTM4.

TM 9 Design/Administration. The cost offeasibility study, traffic engineering design, its implementation,
and administration will be financed by the municipality.

Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (TA). The following TechnicalAssistance relatedto traffic
management and road safety will be provided as part o f the capacity buildingcomponent 6:

i)      Buspriority planning and design
ii)     Design of the ATC System and associatedjunction channelization.
iii) Accidentanalysisstudy
iv)     Parking study
v)      Travel Demand Management (TDM) Study to develop potential measures such as a route guidance
        system using Variable Messaging Systems (VMS), managing vehicles by category and by time,
        andcongestion charging. After the study, selected TDMmeasures could be implementedunder the
        project, subject to availability o f funding at the time.




                                                      - 48 -

Project Component 3 US$ 34.20 million
                        -
Public Transport
The objective o f this component is to increase the efficiency, effectiveness and attractiveness o f bus
services inthe city. The content o f this component includes (i)   introduction o f a computerized management
information system to increase the efficiency o f operators inroutine administrative and technical tasks, and
o n street management o f bus operations (ii) improvement o f passenger facilities and service through
construction or upgrading o f interchanges, termini and bus stops, and (iii)  provision for a pilot BRT
scheme, should studies (to be financed under the project) indicate its viability. Technical assistance to
support reform, for the design of the CMIS, and for BRT studies i s included incomponent 6.

PT1Computerized ManagementInformationSystem (CMIS)

Currently, most o f the administrative and technical tasks in the bus companies are carried out manually
with very little use being made of computers.            Many repetitive tasks, which are ideally suited to
computerization, are done by teams o f workers and as a result staffing ratios are high. In an attempt to
improve efficiency and quality o f work, it was decided that the project should encourage computerization
for all organizations involved with public transport inWuhan.

Inthis subcomponent, a number o fmanually performed tasks will be computerized. Initialproposals inthe
computerization phase include management o f company records, staff records, salary calculations,
passenger and revenue reporting, bus maintenance system, spare parts inventory, vehicle scheduling and
driver rostering.

PT 2 Introductionof computerizedsatellite basedvehicle locationand control system

A computerized satellite based vehicle location system, with an operations center to control up to 600 buses
o n twenty routes, will be developed as a demonstration project. The objective o f this system i s to achieve
more regular dispatching o f buses, to improve schedule reliability (reduce bunching o f buses) on the road
(thereby reducing bus requirements) and eventually to provide waiting passengers with real time
information on bus amvals. The data gathered from the system can be used to improve vehicle scheduling.
When competitive franchising of routes becomes operational under reform, the system can also be usedby
W T C to monitor the performance o f the operators.

PT 3 Interchanges

A total o f eleven interchanges are proposed. Ofthese, four (Wujiashan, Yongantang, Guanshanyi Road,
Qingling) are associated with the removal o f long distance bus stations from the town center to outlying
areas and which will also serve as termini for local routes. Of the remaining seven interchanges (Zhonghua
Road, Taipingyang, Lijibei Road, Sanyang Road, Yongqingjie, Guqintai and Yuejiazui), four will be
situated at LRT stations and are intended, inpart, to serve passengers interchanging betweenbus and rail.
The remaining three are intended to act as major bus to bus interchanges for intra-Wuhan bus passengers.

The aim o f these facilities is to shorten long routes that have loading imbalances, and to reduce the number
o f duplicating routes on major roads. The interchanges will also allow better facilities for passengers and
should greatly reduce the walking distances required for transferring passengers.




                                                      - 49 -

PT 4 Termini

Most o f the twelve proposed termini are located inthe outer areas o f Wuhan and are intended to help the
bus operators remove terminus points from their present on-street locations, and to improve operational
control o f the services. They will also provide additional overnight and off peak parkingcapacity, and
routine maintenance facilities inappropriate locations. The proposed sites for the termini are Qilixincu,
Baibuting, Erqiaoxicu, Nanhuhuayang, Chenjiadun, Jianganxizhan, Gusaoshu, Houhu, Xiangyangcun,
Xudong Road, Guanshan, and Tiejicun.

The above facilities (interchanges and termini) will require a total land area o f 160,700-sq. m.

PT 5 BusBays and Stops

Excessive channelization at bus stops together with overloaded stops, highbus volumes and poor on-street
discipline results inlong delays to buses. Under this sub-component, a total o f fourteen bus stops will be
reconstructed, which will not only increase the number o f individual stops but will also remove the
restrictive channelization. Insome cases this involves lengthening the bus bays, inothers it involves
providing two parallelbays, while insome cases it simply involves lengthening the kerb distance available
for bus stops. Some guidelines were developed to help inthe design process, the key parameter being that
the individual stops should not be forecast to operate at more than 85 percent o f theoretical capacity.
Under this scheme the fourteen existing stops to be reconstructed are: Wusheng Road, Baofeng Road,
Zhongshangongyuan, Xunlimen, Xinhua road, Qiouchangjie, Yongqingjie, Zhingnan Road, Dingziqiao,
Fujiapo, Yuemachang, Hongshan, Guqintai and Wuqingsan Primary Road.

PT6       Implementationof Bus RapidTransit
Provision is made for the implementationo f a pilot BRT scheme, should the studies o f PT Networks to
be undertaken as part o f further work on the Wuhan urban transport strategy, (TA 3.7.1) and the
associated BRT Study (TA 3.3.4) demonstrate a need. Designwork would be undertaken under
TA 3.3.5.

PT 7 DesigdAdministration The cost ofengineering survey and design, implementation, and
                                      -
administration will be financed by the municipality.

CapacityBuildingand TechnicalAssistance (These are included inthe capacity buildingcomponent 6)
include:
0        PT Management Information System Studies for user specification and definition o f the
         subsystems to be implemented inthe sub-component PT 1CMIS
0        PT Business development plan (like a 5-Year Plan)     - supportto operators to prepare these plans
         including a route network development plan
0        Support for Reform
0        Buspriority and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) study
0        BRT Design Studies




                                                     - 50 -

Project Component 4 US$37.50 million
                       -
RoadMaintenance(RM)
This component aims to assist the government's intentionto reform the current roadmaintenance
management system so as to increase the efficiency and effectiveness o f maintenance works, andthe
amount o f roadmaintained ingood condition. WMG intends to introduce competitive tendering for routine
works, but to retain in-house capability for emergency needs. The project provides for (i)  the design(in
component 6) and implementation o f a road maintenance management information system (inthis
component), (ii) purchase o f advanced road maintenance equipment to improve the efficiency and
                   the
effectiveness o f in-house emergency maintenance, and (iii)reconstruction o f ten o f the most damaged road
sections inWuhan.

RM1RoadMaintenanceCivilWork.This sub-component involves the reconstruction o fthe existing
roadpavement along ten o f the most heavily damaged roads inthe city. The road cross-section will remain
unchanged. The reconstruction will include the main carriageway, footpaths and NMVlanes. Traffic
management or public transport improvement, if any, on these roads is described inthe respective
component.

RM 1.1, 1.2and 1.3Jiefang Avenue (Gutiansi to Hangkong to Huangpu to Chama - 15.1km). This road
was constructed in 1955. Other than some portions that were repaved in 1992, the road section has not
been repaired so far.
R M 1.4            WushengRoad (1.9km). This road was constructed in 1956. The flyover was repaved in
1992. The remaining road sections o f the roadhave not beenrepaired so far.
RM 1.5 Jianghanyiqiao road (32.2km). This roadwas constructed in 1956. The bridge was the first bridge
constructed cross the Yangtze river. No major maintenance has taken place since.
RM 1.6Jiefangnan road (1.lkm). This roadwas constructed in 1980. Noroutine maintenance has taken
place since.
R M 1.7            Wangqinggong Road (13.1 km).
R M 1.8           Hanyang Avenue (5.5km). This road was constructed in 1956. Itwas reconstructed in
1986 and some re-paving was done in 1992.
R M 1.9           Heping Avenue (1.3km). This road was constructed in 1956. No major reconstruction has
taken place since.
RM1.10             Gutianzheng Road (1.735km). One carriageway was constructed in 1989 to provide
access to a World Bank financed wastewater treatment plant. The project will complete this road.
RMl.11Zhongshan Avenue (2.4km). This roadwas constructed before 1949. Although there has been
some repaving, the condition o f the road condition remains very poor.

R M 2 RoadMaintenanceWorks Equipment. While it is the intention o f the Government to introduce
competitive biddingfor maintenance works contracts, some emergency works will continue to remain
in-house. The equipment purchase includes routine roadmaintenance equipment, including: a pavement
mill, concrete breaker, bituminous seam repairer, and a pipe layer.

RM3 ComprehensiveMaintenanceManagementSystem.                 . The comprehensive system includes
road pavement, bridge anddrainage maintenance management sub-systems. The main objective o f
developing a comprehensive management system is to provide municipal decision makers with a tool for
the analysis of maintenance requirements, for the planning, programming, and budgeting o f maintenance
works, and the management o f the city road network database.



                                                    - 51 -

There are four activities inthis subcomponent:
(i)      System design study - described inthe technical assistance component (TA 3.6)
(ii) ITsystempurchase
(iii)    Initial data collection and system implementation
(iv)     Data collection equipment, including roadpavement test telecamera, conflict coefficient test
         vehicle, falling weight deflectometer, lightroad surface instrument, andbridge state test
         instrument.

The IT based management system will be procured after the completion o f the project-financed system
study.

R M 4    RoadMaintenancerecurrentcost includingpreparation, surveyand design, implementation, and
administration. This will be financed by the Wuhan Municipal Government.

Project Component 5 US$5.50 million
                       -
EnvironmentalProtection
This component includes measures to mitigate the short and longterm environmental impacts o f increased
travel, and the construction o f roads. It includes (i)noise barriers, landscaping and other mitigation
measures along new and widened roads, (ii)      provision for expansion o f the existingair quality and noise
monitoring system, and (iii)   provision for upgrading o f the vehicle inspection and maintenance (YM)
system. Design o f a Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy (MVECS) is included inTA component 6.

EN1 Vehicleemission andtraffic noisemonitoringsystems.
Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center, an institute under Wuhan Environmental ProtectionBureau
(EPB), is responsible for all environmental monitoring activities and environmental information
management inthe city. Consolidated and analyzed data from the Center to Wuhan EPB and the municipal
government supports the decision making process for environmental policies, regulations, local
environmental quality and discharge standards

The subcomponent will help Wuhan Environmental Monitoring Center to substantially expand its existing
air quality environmental monitoring system from five sub-stations to fifteen, and from limited parameters
for general air quality to more precise information for vehicle emission and traffic noise. This
subcomponent includes procurement and installation o f equipment for automatic computerized monitoring
for two vehicle emission monitoring sub-stations and seven traffic noise monitoring sub-stations, IT
hardware and software and associated automatic data collection and analyses. It will also include a vehicle
for remote and mobile air quality monitoring, and a vehicle for motor vehicle emission monitoring.

EN2      Motor Vehicle EmissionControl Strategy(MVECS)The project will finance, under the
Technical Assistance Component, a study to identify the most appropriate measures for the implementation
o f a vehicle emission control strategy inWuhan, withinthe framework o f the National Strategy. The study
will include analysis o f characteristics o f vehicle emission inWuhan, environmental impact from vehicle
development, and measures for vehicle emission control, including an upgraded inspection and maintenance
(I/M)system.

EN3      Noise Mitigation. The project will provide facilities for noise mitigation, including noise barriers
for use on interchanges, air conditioners, double-glazed windows and ventilation facilities for residential
buildings, andprotectionfor noise sensitive sites, e.g., hospitals and schools.



                                                       - 52 -

EN 4     EnvironmentalEngineeringDesignand Management.This component includes the costs of
environmental engineering design, local construction supervision, and the EMP implementation and
administration financed by Wuhan Municipal Government.

EN 5     EnvironmentalMonitoring.This is a locally financed component to conduct environmental
monitoring and supervision during the project construction and operation phases, and to ensure
implementation and realizationo f the EnvironmentalManagement Plan (EMP) endorsed by Wuhan
Municipality.

EN6      Greeninfload Landscaping.The project will provide greening along the right-of-way ofthe
roads to be built under the project, which are included inthe road network component.

EN7      Upgradingof Inspectionand Maintenance (I/M)system.This will include funding for nine sets
o f A S M testing equipment andtwo sets o f actual driving mode testing equipment.

Capacity Buildingand Technical assistance
Inadditionto the planned investment, the following analyses andstudies relatedto environmental protection
and management are proposed as part o f the capacity buildingcomponent 6:
i)       Training for environmental management staff
ii)      Preparation o f a Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) as a capacity buildingexercise for the
         Wuhan environmental agencies. The SEA process could then be used to assist decision making in
         future updates o f the Wuhan Transport Strategy.

Project Component 6 US$7.90 million
                       -
Capacity Building and TechnicalAssistance (TA)

This component will provide
0        domestic and intemational training for officials from project implementing agencies, to strengthen
their technical andmanagement skills
0        consultant services to assist inproject implementation, and to undertake studies for further
investigation and policy development o f issues and topics discussed during project preparation
0        office equipment to enhance the productivity o f the implementing agencies

TA1      InternationalTraining
This subcomponent will include a number o f intemationaltraining tours and courses for staff from the
concemed agencies. The proposed destinations for the tours include North America, Europe, Brazil, Japan,
Singapore and Hong Kong.. Final details of each study tour will be decided over the course o f the project.

TA2      DomesticTraining
This subcomponent will include a number o f domestic training tours and courses for staff from the
concemed agencies. The proposed destinations for the tours include Shanghai, Beijing, Guangzhou,
Kunming, Shenzhen, Dalian, Urumqi,Hangzhou and Shijiazhuang. Final details o feach studytour will be
decided over the course o f the project.

TA3      Internationaland Domestic Consultant Services
These services are listed under the component to which they relate.




                                                     - 53 -

TA3.1 ConstructionSupervision
TA3.1.1           Civil WorkSupervision. These consultant services are to assist the implementating agency
for the road network development component inthe supervision o f the civil works construction during the
entire implementationperiod.

TA3.2 RoadInfrastructure

TA3.2.1           High Strength Bituminous Concrete Pavement Study. This study will be managed by the
RoadNetwork Development Component Agency inorder to find the most suitablepavement material for
the city o f Wuhan.

TA3.2.2           Road Safety Audit of New Roads. This will introduce the concept o f Road Safety Audits,
describe and illustrate the principles and procedures o f Road Safety Audits, carry out a Road Safety Audit
o f the roads proposed under the Road Infrastructure Component at three stages: preliminary design,
detailed design and pre-opening.

TA3.3 Traffic Managementand Safety.

TA3.3.1           Parking Study -will provide assistance to the WPSB and other agencies to develop
appropriate parking policies and strategies for both motor vehicles and non-motor vehicles.
TA3.3.2           Design of theATC System and associatedjunction channelization. Consultant services
covering the construction phase, including detailed design, implementation, management and testing o f the
goods and works insubcomponents TM 4 & 5.
TA3.3.3           Accident Analysis Study. Assistance to enhance the capacity o f WPSB Traffic Police
Detachment inaccident analysis, and to establish an accident analysis system inWuhan to complement the
existing national TAIS.
TA3.3.4           Travel Demand Management (TDM) Study. Assistance to WPSB to develop specific
TDM measures appropriate for Wuhan inthe context o f the WUTS, and taking account of ATC and the
results o f the parking study.
TA3.3.1           Bus Priority Assistance to Wuhan Public Security Bureau and other local design institutes
with the further development, design, implementationand operation o fbus priority measures to be
implementedin subcomponent TM 3 o f the project. Includes advice on international experience.

TA3.4 PublicTransport

TA 3.4.1 Design ofPTManagement Information System. The objective o f this TA is to design the CMIS
to be procuredunder subcomponent PT1. The key tasks will include:
(i) Identificationofthekeyactivitiestobecomputerized
(ii) Userspecificationoftherequirementsoftheapplications
(iii) Assessmentofexistingsoftwarethatwouldbesuitabletomeetuserrequirements, with
customization
The client for the Computerization o f Basic Tasks would be the Wuhan Group Public Transport
Corporation (WGPTC).




                                                    -54   -

TA 3.4.2 Design of a satellite based Automatic Bus Location System. The objective of this TA is to
designthe satellitebasedAutomatic Bus Locationsystemto beprocuredunder subcomponentPT 2. WTC
andWGPTC will bejoint clients. WGPTC and individualoperatorswill needthe systemfor operationof
the services, while WTC will needthe systemfor monitoringofservicedelivery. WTC andWGPTC
wouldbejoint clients for designofthis AVL System. WGPTC andindividualoperatorswill needthe
systemfor operationofthe services, while WTC will needthe systemfor monitoringof service delivery.


TA 3.4.3 PT Business DevelopmentPlanning. The objective of this subcomponentis to improvethe
planningprocess for bus servicesinWuhanbyprovidingadvice andon-the-jobtrainingto those involvedin
preparationofthe Five-YearBusinessPlansat eachofthe operatingcompaniesandother involved
agencies. WGPTC will therefore be the primaryclient. The Plan(s) will bepreparedby operatorsandthe
role ofthe consultantwill be to guide, assistandprovideon-the-jobtrainingas requiredto those
responsiblefor planpreparation. Assistance will also be giveninsettingup statistical information systems
to providethe informationrequiredmonthlyby the WuhanTransport CommissiononPTusage and
performance.


Preparation of a Five-Year Plan The Planwill consist of the followingelements:

(i)     Planningoverview includingpopulationprojections,new developmentareas and any new transport
infrastructure
(ii)     Standards andguidelinesto be adoptedinplanningfor bus services
(iii)   Five-yearbusroute networkdevelopmentprogram
(iv)    Estimateofnewbus purchaseandbus scrapping
(v)      Estimateof depot andparkingrequirements
(vi)    Ridership andrevenueprojections
(vii)    Capital investmentprogram
(viii)   Operatingcost forecasts
(ix)     Overallfinancial positionincludingall financial supportrequiredfrom WMG andany fares
increase requirement


Training in Survey Techniques. Inadditionto advice onthe preparationof Five-YearBusiness
DevelopmentPlans,trainingwill also be given inconductingbus passenger surveys, publictransport trip
demandsurveys, andbus priority studies. Operatorswill be assistedto identifylocations throughout
Wuhanwhere buses are excessivelydelayed, either currently or likely to be inthe coming five years. Data
wouldthenbepassedonto the WPSB to plan, designandoperate buspriority measures (see TA 3.4.6 &
3.4.7).


TA 3.4.4 PT InstitutionalReform. The objective o f this TA wouldbe to support the implementation
(startedinFebruary2003) ofthe reformprogramofWMG throughthe provisionof advisory servicesto
WuhanTransport Commission(WTC). Specific support is expectedto include the following:

(i) AssistingWTCindevelopingworkableandeffectivetenderingandfranchisingproceduresby
ensuringthat all regulationsnecessaryfor the reformedstructureare prepared; determiningstatistics to be
reportedmonthlyonpublictransport performance; andestablishingproceduresandpenalties to ensure
timely and accurate reporting
(ii)    Undertakinga fare settingandprofit determinationstudy, andto help establisha process for
        regularreviewandadjustment of bus fares.



                                                  -55 -

(iii)   Advising on the steps inmoving operators from SOE towards the creation o f shareholder owned
        companies, with particular regard to minimizing the impact on staff.
(iiv)   Assisting WMGto formulate more rational PT policy andregulation, andto refine the revised
         organization structure so as to achieve increased efficiency o f service
(v)      Periodic assessmento f the effectiveness o f the reforms interms o f achieving their stated objectives


TA 3.4.5 PT Route Network Planning. These studies would be designed to assist in

(i)      Undertaking o f on bus passenger surveys and residents public transport trip demand surveys,
(ii)     Restructuring o f the bus route network, including routes and schedules
(iii)    Identification o f possible additional locations for bus priority
(iv)     Identificationo f possible corridors for busways

TA3.4.6 Buspriority and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Study. This is a major study to be undertaken for the
Wuhan Planning Bureau inconjunction with further work on the Wuhan Urban Transport Strategy (see TA
3.7) by the Wuhan Planning Bureau. The timing and content of this study shouldcoordinate with studies
carried out on strategy and general bus priority. The main objectives o f this study are to:
(i)      Further review the need for bus priority inthe bus network, taking into account delays to buses,
corridor bus and passenger flows, and potential network redesign
(ii)     Assess the potential for BRT inthe PT network (including normal bus, BRT, and metro), taking
         account o f corridor flows, availability o f road space to insert BRT, or the ability to widen roads to
         insert BRT

(iii)    Develop and evaluate BRT proposals on a line by line and network basis

(iv)     Identify main system design parameters, including bus types, stations, and ticketing system for the
         implementation o f BRT and bus priority

(v)      Prepare initial concept cost estimates and implementationschedules


TA 3.4.7 BRT Design Provision o f consultant services for the preliminary design o f BRT schemes
resulting from the study under TA 3.4.5 above. The work would be undertaken for the Wuhan Transport
Commission.


TA 3.5 Road,Bridge andDrainageMaintenanceManagementSystem. Assistance inthe design and
implementation o f a comprehensive system for the analysis o f maintenance requirements, and the planning,
programming, and budgeting o f maintenance works.

TA 3.6 Environmentalmanagement. The subcomponents of this TA are :

TA3.5.1.          MVECSPlanning and implementation. Assistance with the planning, design and
implementation o f measures proposed inthe Wuhan MVECS, including the upgrading o f the I/Mprogram
insub-component EN7.
TA3.5.2.          Capacity Buildingfor Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA). Training for WEPB
and local design institutes inthe techniques o f SEA, and assistance to undertake an initial SEA for Wuhan
relatedto further work on the WUTS.




                                                       - 56 -

TA 3.7.Wuhan UrbanTransport Strategy(WUTS)

This will include
(i)      Capacity building o f the Wuhan Planning Institute and Wuhan PlanningBureau, particularly in
         transport planning, policy formulation and investment programming.
(ii)     International and local training for staff
(iii)    Consultant services for the enhancement o f the transport model
(iv)     Assistance with further studies, including, more indepth analysis of (a) cross river travel demand
         (b) PTmodes andnetworks (including the potentialfor BRT) (c) management ofcentral city travel
         demand (d) 2007   - 2012  investment needs and (e) financial capacity
(v)      Integration o f WUTS with the overall transport strategy for the entire municipality
(vi)     Support for production o f a "White Paper" urban transport policy statement and a 2007-2012
investment program based on the results of further studies.
(vii)    Development of a Wuhan transport planning database.

TA 3.8 Travel needs ofthe disadvantagedandvulnerable. Follow upto the survey undertaken during
project preparation.

TA 3.9 FinancialManagementSystem. The objective o fthis TA is to strengthen financial and
operational management, and computer based FM systems, including systematic training. The key tasks
are the establishment and improvement o f a computer based financial management system, developing a
financial model to assist the municipality to rationalize infrastructure capital investment, operations and
maintenance, anda training program. This is a large TA with a very broad TOR, which includes aspects
that relate to WUTS.

TA 4. Office Equipment
This subcomponent will fundpurchase o f office equipment to enhance productivity at the offices o fthe
implementing agencies.




                                                     -57 -

                                             Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                     CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project




Traffic Management and Road Safety                                                                     13.20                  18.60                    31.80
Public Transport                                                                                       23.70                   7.70                    31.40
Road Maintenance                                                                                       24.10                  12.10                    36.20
Environment Management                                                                                  2.60                   2.70                      5.30
Technical Assistance                                                                                    1.50                   6.00                      7.50
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                  442.70                 120.70                  563.40
Physical Contingencies                                                                                  9.20                   3.60                    12.80
Price Contingencies                                                                                     0.90                   2.70                      3.60
                                          Total Project Costs1                                        452.80                127.00                  579.80
                                                Interest during construction                    I1                            16.40                    16.40
                                                                    Front-end fee                                               2.00                     2.00
                                  Total Financing Required                                            452.80                 145.40                  598.20




Goods                                                                                                      6.40                    26.20                    32.60
Works                                                                                                   217.00                     94.80                  311.80
Services                                                                                                   1.50                     6.00                     7.50
None Bank Finance                                                                                       227.90                      0.00                  227.90
                                                              Total Project Cost:                       452.80                   127.00                   579.80
                                                     Interest during construction                                                  16.40                    16.40
                                                                          Front-end fee                                             2.00                     2.00
                                                    Total Financing Required                            452.80                   145.40                   598.20

  1
   Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 ( U S h ) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 598.2 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 33.43%)of
  total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                         - 58 -

                                Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
                                 CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project

Background

Economic analysis for the project was conducted as part o f the urban transport development strategic
planning exercise. Prior to the preparation o f this project, Wuhan did not have adequate capacity inthe
areas o f strategic transport planning, traffic modeling, and project economic analysis. Through the
preparation o f this project, Wuhan now has a comprehensive transport development strategy and an
investment program up to 2007, which have provided a foundation for the definition o f the current project.
Moreover, a network-based urban transport planning(UTP) model has been developed for Wuhan. This is
an important planning tool for strategic planning and evaluation o f investment programs. The model was
built using a software package, EMMEl2, and was calibrated with data from household and citywide
vehicle travel origin-destination surveys, and traffic counts at various locations. The model was then used
to simulate network traffic performance under different scenarios -with and without the project. The
simulation results, mainly inthe form o f travel distance, time, and speeds for each personal or vehicular
trip, were usedto estimate the transport user benefits, Le. savings inpersonal travel time and vehicle
operating costs.

The Formulationof DevelopmentStrategy andInvestment Program

The strategic planningexercise included a detailed evaluation o f altemative strategies. Four altemative
transport networks for year 2007 were tested using the newly calibrated UTP model. These alternatives
included: (i)  do-minimum; (ii) management strategy; (iii)
                                 traffic                           maximum transit; and (iv) maximum
highways. On the basis o f a comparison interms of traffic performance and investment costs, a year 2007
preferred network was formulated, on which a budget-constrained investment program for the period
2003-07 was identified. The World Bank funded project was then defined from the investment program.




                                                      -59 -

         [For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]




 maintenancecosts
 Net Benefits:                     $706 m

 IRR:                                 23 Yo



1Ifthe difference betweenthe presentvalue offinancial andeconomic flows is large and cannotbe explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation o f the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value o f financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because o f controls on electricity tariffs."

Summaryof BenefitsandCosts:
The components designed to improve traffic performance include the following: (a) road network
development; (b) traffic management and road safety; (c) public transport service improvement; and (d)
roadmaintenance. The transport network traffic benefits were computed for normal traffic and generated
traffic, and the benefits for diverted traffic (redistribution o f traffic resulting from traffic diverted from
alternate routes and modes because o f changes inrelative trip costs) were implicitly accounted for through
the network model.

The quantified benefits include both savings inpersonal travel time costs and vehicle operating costs, which
represent the major share o f the total project benefits. Other project benefits, such as improvedtraffic
safety, reduced auto emission, and intra-city freight transport time savings were considered, but not in
monetary terms due to lack o f reliable data. The ERR and NPV were estimated on the basis of savings in
personal travel time and vehicle operating costs against the total project costs including investment,
operations andmaintenance costs. As other benefits were not included inthe calculation, the ERRand
NPVpresentedinthis Annex can be considered to be conservative estimates.
The cost o f each component included costs for physical works, detailed engineering design, and
implementation supervision, andphysical contingencies. Annualized operations and maintenance costs
were also includedinthe evaluation.




                                                          - 60 -

   Bicvcles                                                                     16%
   Passenger cars                                                               26%
   Taxicabs                                                                     26%
   Buses                                                                        19%
   Goods vehicles                                                               11%
   Total                                                                       100%


MainAssumptions:
Traffic growth rates were based on future population and income growth projected inWuhan's economic
planning (see Table below). Total person trips are expected to grow with population. Motor vehicle
ownership is expected to grow at the similar rate as GDP growth, and this forecast is consistent with
Wuhan's historical data for the last 20 years.
                              2000                   2005                  2010                2020
 PoDulation (million) I       7.49                   7.97                  8.45                 9.70
 GDP (billion Yuan)           120.7                 220.0                 338.5                666.0
 GDP growth rate              12%                    12%                   9%                    7yo
 Per capita GDP              $2,014                 $3,450                $5,007              $8,582
kUS$)                 I                     I                    I                      I                   I

The discount rate or economic cost o f capital used inthe analysis was 12%.
A standard conversion factor o f 0.9, which is the latest World Bank estimate for China, was used to
convert financial costs to economic costs. For physical components, annual operations and maintenance
cost was assumed to be 2.2 percent o f capital cost. The assumed project life for the purpose o f economic
analysis was 20 years with 50 percent assumed salvage value for capital investments.
Unitvehicle operating costs (VOC) byvehicle type andpassenger travel time costs bymodewere based on
locally provided basic cost data. VOC for mode iwas calculated usingthe following formula:
                 VOCi = Ai + Bi (Us) [l 0.2 (V/C)] [l+ 0.2 (V/C)],
                                          +
where Ai and Bi are empirical parameters for mode i,s is vehicle travel speed on the link, V is link vehicle
volume, and C is link capacity.
Following the guidelines suggested inthe World Bank Infrastructure Note No. OT-5, "The Value o f Time
inEconomic Evaluation ofTransport Projects," the following values o ftravel time were assumed.

                 Trip Purpose                                                  Value
1 Commuting trips                                       30 percent o f household hourly wage, based on
                                                       international empirical evidence
  Business trips                                        130percent o f household hourly wage, considering
                                                        cost to emdovers
I Other non-commuting and school trim                  115 Dercent o fhousehold hourlv income               I




                                                     -61  -

Sensitivity analysis I Switching values of critical items:
The sensitivity analysis tested the project viability under a number o f scenarios. The major sources o f
down-side risks were identified to be: (i)   traffic growth lower than what was expected; (ii) savings
                                                                                               VOC
lower than expected; (iii)  value o f travel time lower than expected; (iv) project cost overrun; and (v) a
combination o f cost overrun and benefit reduction. The results o f the analysis, shown inTable below,
suggested that the project was robust to traffic, cost, and benefit variations.
I                Scenario              I                ERR                 I    N P V at 12% discount rate  I
   (a) Base case                                       23.0%                            $706 million
   (b) Traffic growth rate reduced by                  22.0%                            $630 million
20%
II (d) Cost overrun bv 20%
   (c'l Benefit reduction bv 20%       II              19.8%                            $415 million
                                                       20.4%                II          $541 million         II


A detailed technical document onthe economic analysis, prepared by Wuhan City Comprehensive
Transport Planning and Research Institute, is included inthe project file.




                                                        - 62 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
                              CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project
                                          Years Ending

                            IIYear1   I Year2   I   IMPLEMENTATIONPERIOD
                                                  Year3    I Year4  I Year5  I Year6  I Year 7
 Total Financing
 Required
  Project Costs
    InvestmentCosts             78.4      227.1      144.1      81.4     34.8      5.7      0.0
   RecurrentCosts                3.7        1.8        1.1       0.9      0.8      0.0      0.0
 Total Project Costs             82.1     228.9      145.2      82.3     35.6      5.7      0.0
              Interestduring     2.2        1.8        2.6       3.2      3.2      3.5      0.0
                construction
               Front-endfee      2.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
]Total Financing                 86.3     230.7      147.8      85.5     38.8      9.2      0.0
1 Financing
     IBRDIIDA                     0.0     106.6        58.6     23.4      5.7     5.7       0.0
     Government                  71.7     138.7        89.2     62.0     33.1     3.5       0.0
        Central                   0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
         Provincial               0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
     Co-financiers                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
  User FeeslBeneficiaries         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
  Other                           0.0       0.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
  Total Project Financing        71.7     245.3      147.8      85.4     38.8     9.2       0.0




  Total Financing
  Required
  Project Costs
     InvestmentCosts            78.4     227.1       144.1     81.4      34.8     5.7       0.0
     RecurrentCosts              3.7        1.8        1.1      0.9       0.8     0.0       0.0
 Total Project Costs            82.1     228.9       145.2     82.3      35.6     5.7       0.0
              Interestduring     2.2        1.8        2.6      3.1       3.2     3.5       0.0
                construction
               Front-endfee      2.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
  Total Financing               86.3     230.7       147.8     85.4      38.8     9.2       0.0

  Financing
     IBRDIIDA                    0.0      106.6       58.6     23.4       5.7     5.7       0.0
     Government                 71.7      138.7       89.2     62.0      33.1     3.5       0.0
         Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0
        Provincial               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
     Co-financiers               0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0
  User FeeslBeneficiaries        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0


                                               - 63 -

Other                     0.0       0.0            0.0            0.0     0.0   0.0   0.0
Total Project Financing  71.7     245.3         147.8             85.4   38.8   9.2   0.0


Main assumptions:


                                   Table 1 Wuhan Municipal Finance
                                       @MBbillion, current terms)




                             Table 2     Wuhan Public Transport Basic Data




                                          - 64 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                             CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project

Procurement
ProcurementCapacityAssessmentReport Summaryof Findings
                                                 -

 1.     Wuhan Municipal Govemment (WMG) is responsible for all project-related procurement
 activities. WMG has established a Project Office (WUTPO) under the Wuhan Urban Construction
 FundManagement Office (WUCFMO) to conduct the day-to-day management o fthe proposed project,
 and to coordinate with four sub-project offices: a sub-WUTPO inWuhan Bridge Construction Company
 for the civil work o f the road network development and roadmaintenance components; a sub-WUTPO in
 the traffic management bureau o f the WuhanPublic Security Bureau for the traffic management
 component; a s u b - W T P O inthe Wuhan Transport Commission for the public transport component; a
 sub-component inthe Wuhan UrbanManagement Bureau for roadmaintenance institutional
 strengthening part o froad maintenance component, and a sub-WUTPO inthe environment monitoring
 station for the environment monitoring component. Most procurement activities before contract award
 will be carried out by WUTPO andthe activities after contract awardwill be implementedby the four
 sub-WUTPOs.

 2.     As govemment institutions, WUTPO andthe four sub-WUTPOs have beenfully authorized and
 staffed to implement the project. WUTPO has accumulated experience on Bank procurement policies
 and procedures through project preparation and procurement for PHRD contracts. A training course on
 the Bank guidelines was conducted duringproject preparation. WUTPO is able to fulfill its procurement
 function with the support o f the municipal govemment, consultants and a procurement agent.

 3.     WUTPO has selected the China Intemational Tendering Company (CITC) as procurement agent
 for the project. Wuhan Municipal EngineeringDesign & Research Institution Company Ltd.
 (WMEDRIC) is the designer o f the project responsible for preparation o f the specifications and
 drawings o f the biddingdocuments. CITC was the procurement agent for other Bank financed urban
 transport projects. They are competent and experienced in Bank-financed procurement.

 4.      The Bank team assessmentidentified some shortcomings inthe general procurement framework in
 China, including some aspects o f the BiddingLaw for construction projects that became effective
 January 1,2000 and Government Procurement Law that became effective January 1,2003. The
 shortcomings include:


         0        requirement for the purchaser to confirm inthe biddingdocuments that he possess or
                  secure sources o f funding for procurement before bidding.
         0        a broader range o f channels to announce the bidinvitation including newspapers,
                  information networks, etc.
         0        minimumtime for bidpreparation and submission of 20 days.
         0        requirement for re-bidding iffewer than three bids are received.
         0        requirement to rejectbids lower than cost, but without stipulating the method to determine
                  the cost.
         0        evaluation by scoring allowed.

 5.      One o f the concems identified during the assessment is the length o f GOC intemal review process
 for I C B goods procurement, both before the draft biddingdocuments are submitted to the Bank and


                                                     - 65 -

before the bid evaluation reports are submitted to the Bank for review. The Mechanical and Electrical
Product Import and Export Department (MEPIED) o f the Ministryo f Foreign Trade and Economic
Cooperation (MOFTEC, which becomes Ministryo f Commerce after March 2003 by merging with State
Economy and Trade Commission) is authorized to conduct such reviews. The review period can be
lengthy when disagreements arise among the government agencies involved inthe review process. To
mitigate this risk, procurement planning will need to incorporate additional time for the review processes.

6.     These are country-wide issues which were addressed inthe OPR for China. Provisions will be
incorporated into the Procurement Schedule o f the Loan Agreement to confirm exemptions for Bank
financed procurement from the BiddingLaw and Government Procurement Law o f China incase o f
discrepancies between the Bank Guidelines and the Laws. Wuhan Municipal Government and WUTPO
are committed to following the Bank's guidelines. Wuhan Municipal Government will sign a
supplementary letter (See Appendix 5 o f the assessmentreport for details) to the loan agreement, to this
effect or incorporate it directly into the legal documents.

7.     WUTPO has agreed to implement the recommendations inthe action plan o f the procurement
assessment (discussed duringproject preparation) to strengthen the capacity o f implementing agencies,
including the preparation and distribution o f a procurement manual to all procurement staff, on-the-job
training, and occasional procurement seminars and workshops. The Bank will monitor procurement
closely through its prior review procedures, seminars/workshops, supervision missions, and procurement
post-review missions.

8.     The risks inthe procurement process are considered to be average relative to other operations. An
action planto further strengthen procurement management capacity was prepared by WUTPO and
discussed duringpre-appraisal mission. Following action plan was incorporated into the PIP.

                              Pronosed Action Plan                                           Due Date
  Procurement staff shall be o n board inall Droiect imdementation agencies               II       2003
 Biddingdocuments for retroactive contracts shall be submitted to the bank for review     I March.
                                                                                            March-October,
 ASAP                                                                                       2003
  The procurement manual describing all the procurement procedures to be followed           April ,2003
 inBank-financed procurement andresponsibility o feach organization handling
 procurement shall be distributed to all procurement staff including staff for the easy
 reference. The procurement manual will be a part o f overall quality control system
  The WMCC, WUTPO would organize periodically, ,or send staff out, for                      From time to
  procurement training seminars, study tours and workshops for procurement staff and        time
  other staff in implementing agencies, particularly for staff insub-WUTPO. On the
 job training shall be conducted for all staff from time to time to strengthen the
  agency's capacity to implement the procurement for the project.



       ProcurementArrangements

9.     Procurement Plan. A procurement plan has been prepared using Microsoft Project and is included
inthe Project ImplementationPlan(PIP). The procurement packagingplanhas beenpreparedtakinginto
consideration the prospective capabilities o f the contractors and suppliers (both Chinese and
intemational), as well as capabilities o f the employers project management. The procurement plan will be
adjusted and updated annually to reflect the latest changes inthe project implementation schedule.


                                                    - 66 -

10.   Procurement procedures. The following Bank guidelines will govem all Bank-financed
procurement under the project:


      0        For goods and works. Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits (dated January
               1995 and revisedinJanuary and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).


      0        For the selection of consultants. Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
               Bank Borrowers (dated January 1997 and revised September 1997, January 1999 and
               May 2002).

      Formatof the Documentation. The following formats will apply:

11. Evaluationreports.The Bank's StandardBidEvaluationForm, Procurement ofGoods or Works
(dated April 1996, translated into Chinese by MOF May 1997), and Sample Form o f Evaluation Report
for Selection o f Consultants (dated October 1999).

12.   ModelBiddingDocuments.The Bank-approved Chinese Model BiddingDocuments (MBD)
(dated May 1997), preparedby MOF basedon the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBDs) will be
adopted for all ICB and NCB activities for goods and works.

13.   Revisionsto ModelBiddingDocuments.The amendmentsincludedinthe Bank's updated
Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for Procurement of Goods (dated January 1995 and revisedMarch
2000 and January 2001, March 2003) and Works (dated May 2000 andrevisedMarch 2002, March
2003), which have not yet beenincludedinthe MBD, dated May 1997, will be incorporated into the
biddingdocuments usedfor ICB goods and works contracts. WhenBank's new SBD for ICB Goods and
Works based on Master Procurement Documents prepared by Multilateral Development Bank and
Intemational Financing Institutions are issued, Chinese MBD (except NCB Goods and Works) will no
longer to be used.

14.   SBD for Supply and Installation of Plant and Equipment, November 1997, revisedJanuary 1999,
March 2003 will be usedfor procurement o f the area traffic control system.

15.   PrequalificationDocuments for Procurement o f Works and User's Guide datedNovember 2002
basedon Master Procurement Documents prepared by Multilateral Development Bank and Intemational
Financing Institutions, Standard Requestfor Proposals, etc. will be usedfor large civil works ICB
contracts above US$ 15 million.

16.   DomesticPreference. For goods contracts, qualified domestic bidderswill be eligible for a
preference equal to 15 percent of the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) price, or the sum of the customs
duties and importtax payable by anonexempt importer, whichever is less. For works, there will be no
preference for domestic contractors as China GDIhas exceededthe Bank determinedthreshold.

17.   Advertisement. The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was publishedinthe UnitedNations
Development Business (UNDB), Issue No. 596 o f December 16,2002. Specific Procurement Notices
(SPNs) for all ICB andNCB procurement activities will be publishedinat least one newspaper with a
national circulation inaddition to UNDB and dgmarket.com for all ICB contracts. The ICB bidders will
be allowed at least 6 weeks for bidpreparation (8 weeks for contracts above US$15 million). Similarly,



                                                  - 67 -

invitations for expressions o f interest for consulting contracts expected to cost more than US$200,000
equivalent will also be advertised inthe UNDB at least 14 days before the preparation o f the short list.

18.    The specific procurement notice for N C B civil works above US$2 million, NCB goods above
US$200,000 and all consulting services under QCBS/QBS procedures shall be published in a national
newspaper. The specific procurement notice for N C B civil works below US$2 million, and NCB goods
below US$200,000 may be published ina provincial or municipal newspaper.

       ProcurementMethods(Table A)

19.   A total ofUS$334.5 million o fworks and goods is expectedto be financed under the project, using
the following procedures:

      Works :(US314 million,includingcontingencies)

20.    ICB. About US$54.1 milliono fworks will be procured usingICB procedures. This represents 17
percent o f total works procurement. The bidders for these larger works contracts will be prequalified.

21.    NCB.About US259.8 milliono f other civil works estimatedto cost below US$15 million will be
procured using N C B procedures. Such contracts will not be o f interest to foreign contractors and bidders
will be post qualified.

22.    The contract packaging was determined taking into consideration construction time, availability o f
detailed designs and counterpart funds, the need to accommodate existing heavy traffic and traffic
management during the construction period, resettlement, andrelocation o f underground utilities. The
contracts will be bid on a slice-and-package basis; qualified f m s will be allowed to bid for more than
one contract. Each ICB contract for works will provide for a dispute review board or dispute review
expert inthe standard biddingdocuments (referred to inparagraph 2.42 o f Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits)

23.    Itwas agreed that special attention would be paidto the design of specialist works such as railway
flyovers or underpasses, traffic signs, road markings, power supply and street lighting, noise barriers,
landscaping and greening, and relocation o f under street services lines (for power, telecommunication,
gas, CCTV, water, or wastewater). These works will be included inthe civil work contracts to the extent
possible. However, ifthe prime contractor does not have the experience or the necessary qualifications,
the works shall be carried out by specialist sub-contractors and experience and qualification o f specialist
sub-contractors shall be stated inthe bids submitted by prime contractors.

      Goods:(US$30.5million, includingcontingencies)

24.    ICB. About US$27 millionworth o fequipment estimated to cost US$500,000 or more per
contract will be procured using I C B procedures. This represents about 88 percent o f total procurement
o f goods, some o f which will be combined with installationservices.

25.    NCB. About U S 2 . 9 millionworth o f equipment estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more but less
thanUS$500,000 per contract will be procuredusingNCB procedures. These contracts will not be o f
interest to foreign suppliers.




                                                     - 68 -

   26.    Shopping.Other minor items (US$600,000) which are readily available off-the-shelf and
   estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, will be procured following Shopping procedures on
   the basis o f a comparison o f at least three quotations at competitive prices and may be usedwhere the
   desired goods are ordinarily available from mor6 than one source, as stated inArticles 3.5 and 3.6 o f the
   guidelines.

          Consultants(US $7.5 million,includingtraininghtudy toudseminars):

   27.    This component includes consultant services and overseas traininghtudy tours for an estimated
   US$7.1million. (There are 2 type overseas traininghtudy tours inthe Procurement Plan: one is the
   overseas traininghtudy tours as a part o f consultant services contracts for research and management etc;
   the other is the stand along overseas traininghtudy tours organized by agents through selection
   procedures o f QCBS. So the cost o f all overseas traininghtudy tours i s included inthe consultant
   contracts. However, the overseas trainindstudy tours may be conducted inthe same way as for domestic
   traininghtudy tour during the implementation.) As for the domestic seminars, training and study tours,
   there will be no contracts signed. The cost o f domestic trainindstudy toursheminars will be reimbursed
   against receipts for an estimated US$400,000. Consultants financed by the Bank and required for
   research, construction supervision, overseas training and study tours will be selected and employed under
   QCBS/QBSLCS/CQ/SSS/IC (Individual Consultants) procedures.

   28.    QCBS/QBS/LCS: Consulting services from f m s with an estimated contract value of
   US$lOO,OOO or more to a total value o f US$6.1 millionwill be procured through Quality- and
   Cost-Based Selection (QCBS - about US$ 5.3 million) or Quality-Based Selection (QBS-about US$
   400,000) or Least Cost Selection (LCS-about US$400,000 for contracts less than $200,000 each).

   29.    CQ/SSS/IC: Consultant services from firms with an estimated contract o f less than US$lOO,OOO
   to a total value of US$600,000 will be selected through Consultant's Qualification selection (CQ). Some
   services with an estimated contract o f less than US$lOO,OOO up to a total value o f US$200,000 in
   amount may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procuredby Single-Source Selection (SSS) in
   accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Services o f
   individual Consultants (IC) with an estimated contract o f about US$200,000, will be procured in
   accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

   30.    Local Training and StudyTours: About US$400,000 will be spent on local training and study
   tours.

   3 1.   Local consultants from various independent universities and institutes will be usedto the extent
   possible ensuring that eligibility requirements stated inthe Guidelines are met and their participationis
   consistent with Bank requirements on hiringuniversities and institutes. The threshold for shortlist o f only
   national consultants will be $300,000 or less.

          Advance Contracting

   32.    WUTPO has requested advance contracting and retroactive financing for the first year construction
   after June 16,2003. Expenses to be incurred inadvance by the implementing agency are estimated at
   less than US$15 million. These expenses include eleven N C B works contracts, one N C B goods contract,
   and seven Shopping contracts, and consultant services and traininghtudy tours o f nine contracts. All
'  these contracts are eligible for retroactive financing by the Bank. Bank procurement guidelines have been
   strictly followed as innormal operations for all advance contracting activities.


                                                        - 69 -

 Procurement methods (Table A)

   33.    Table 1 lists major contracts, their estimated value, scheduled start, andprocurement method;
   Table A lists costs and financing by procurement method; Table A1 list consultant selection
   arrangements.

                            Table A: Project Costs by ProcurementArrangements
                                             (US$ million equivalent)




                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Interest during                            0.00                  0.00              0.00             16.40         16.40
construction
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (0.00)           .(O.OO)       (0.00)
7. Front-end fee                              0.00                  0.00              2.00              0.00          2.00
                                             (0.00)                (0.00)            (2.00)            (0.00)       (2.00)
   Total                                     81.10                262.70              10.10           244.30        598.20
                                            (52.10)               (138.50)           (9.30)            (0.00)      (199.90)

 liFigures inparenthcses are thc amounts to be financcd by the Bank Loan. All costs includc contingencies
   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
   contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating
   costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                    re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         - 70 -

                      Table A I : Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)




IIncluding contingencies

         Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
                QBS = Quality-based Selection
                SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
                LCS = Least-Cost Selection
                CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
                Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
                Commercial Practices, Single Source Selection, Domestic Training and Study Tours etc.
                N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
                Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.




                                                  -71  -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Reviewsrequired by the Bank:

 1.     Prior review procedures will be usedfor civil works contracts with an estimated cost o f US$4
 million or more, goods contracts with an estimated cost o f US$400,000 or more and consulting services
 with an estimated contract cost o f US$200,000 or more for firms and US$50,000 or more for
 individuals. This will apply to 82 percent o f the total contract values o f works, 90 percent o f the total
 contract values o f goods and 72 percent o f the total contract values o f services financed by the Bank.
 Single-source selections, regardless o f the value of the contract, will be subject to the Bank'sprior
 review. The first contract o f any type including the first contract for NCB, Shopping, QCBS/QBS/LCS,
 CQ/SSS and individual consultants will also be submitted to the Bank for prior review.

 All other contracts for works, goods andservices will be subject to ex post review. About 33% of such
 contracts will be sampled for ex post review.




                                                    - 72 -

  Iftheprocurementundertheproject follows the Bank's procurement policyduringthe 18months
  implementation period (Jan. 1,2004 to June 30,2005), and subject to the Bank'sreview and final
  agreement, the prior reviewthresholds couldbe increased to $5 million for works, $500K for goods,
  $350K for consultant firm and $100K for individual consultants after July 1, 2005.

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




1.Works                                  >15,000                         ICB                All contracts ($54 million),
Prior review threshold                   < 15,000                       NCB                   All contracts above $4
>US$4 million                                                                                      million. ($208)
2. Goods                                  L 500                          ICB                All contracts ($27 million)
Prior review threshold                    <500                          NCB                     All contracts above
>US$400thousands                                                                                      $400,000
                                                                     Shopping                       ($430.000)
3. ServicesPrior review                   ><loo
                                            100                   QCBS/QBS/LCS                  All contracts above
threshold:                                                                                            $200,000
>US$200 thousands for
firm                                                                     CQ                        ($4.6 million )
>US$50 thousands for                      < 100                     Single source           All contracts ($0.2 million)
individualconsultant                                           Individual Consultants           All contracts above
                                                                                                       $50,000
                                                                                                   ($0.2 million )




                 Total value of contracts subject to prior review:         US$282 million
                           Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            Average
     Frequency of procurementsupervision missionsproposed: One every 6 months
                                                                           (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                           for post-review/audits)
  Most of the procurement prior review will be handledby procurement specialists of the Bank's Beijing
  office (WBOB), while post reviewmay be out sourced to independent consultants by WBOB.
1\Thresholds generally differ by country andproject. Consult 'Rssessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                     -73-

            Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements
                              CHINA: Wuhan UrbanTransport Project

FinancialManaPement
1. Summaryof the FinancialManagementAssessment
   The task team conducted an assessmento fthe adequacy o f the project financial management system of
   the Wuhan Urban Transport Project (WUTP) (complete FM assessment report i s available inproject
   file). The assessment, based on guidelines issued by the Financial Management Sector Board on June
   30, 2001, concluded that the project meets minimumBank financial management requirements, as
   stipulated inBP/OP 10.02. Inthe team opinion, the project will have inplace an adequate project
   financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
   information on the status o f the project inthe reporting format agreed with the project and as required
   bythe Bank.

   Fundingsources for the project include the Bank loan and counterpart funds. The Bank loan
   agreement will be signed between the Bank and the People's Republic o f China through its Ministryo f
   Finance (MOF), and on-lend agreement will be entered between MOF and the Government o f Hubei
   province through its Hubei Provincial Finance Bureau (HPFB), HPFB and Wuhan Municipal Finance
   Bureau (WMFB) and Wuhan Urban Construction Utilizationo f Foreign Investment Project
   Management Office (WUCUFIPMO). The Bank loan proceeds will flow from the Bank to HPFB
   (where the special account for the project will be set up), to WMFB, to WUCUFIPMO and/or to
   contractors or suppliers via bank accounts with major commercial banks acceptable to the Bank.
   Disbursement will be based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not be using
   PMR-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement betweenthe Bank and MOF. The
   counterpart funds will be contributed directly to WUTP, mainly by the government o f Wuhan
   Municipality.

   N o outstanding audits or audit issues exist with any o f the implementing agencies involved inthe
   proposed project. The task team however will continue to be attentive to financial management matters
   and audit covenants during project supervisions.

   Country Issues
   To date, no CFAA has beenperformed for China, though dialogue with the Government o f China in
   respect to the CFAA exercise has been initiated and is underway. The planned approach to CFAA is to
   buildon the Asian Development Bank study of FinancialManagement and Governance Issues inChina
   in2000, analyze areas that have changed significantly inthe past few years or that deserve further
   scrutiny, and over time cover all major areas usually assessedas part o f a full C F A A exercise.
   Currently, for reference purpose, the Bank relies on the study conducted by the Asian Development
   Bank.

   Nevertheless, based o n observations o f developments inthe areas o f public expenditures, accounting
   and auditing, and Bank experience with China projects for the past few years, we note that substantial
   achievement inthe aforementioned areas has beenmade and further improvement is expected inthe
   next few years. As the economic reform program further unfolds, the Government o f China has come
   to realize the importance o f establishing and maintaining an efficient and effective market mechanism
   to ensure transparency and accountability, and minimize potential fraud or corruption.




                                                    - 74 -

Due to a rather unique arrangement by the Government o f China, funding (inparticular Bank loans) o f
Bankprojects is controlledand monitoredbyMOFand its extensions, i.e. finance bureaus at
provincial, municipaVprefecture and county level. However, project activities are usually carried out
by implementing agencies o f a specific industry or sector due to the nature of the technical expertise
involved. The above arrangement usually requires closer coordination on the project, otherwise, the
multi-level management o f the funding and implementation mechanism sometimes work to the
detriment o f smooth project implementation. As such, this assessment focuses on Hubei Provincial
Finance Bureau, which will handle Special Account activity for the project, and the Wuhan Project
Management Office, which will be responsible for implementing various components o f the project.

Strengths
HPFB and WMFB have had prior Bank project experience and are expected to play a major role inthe
project financial management aspect, and are familiar with Bank policies, procedures and requirements.
    Weaknesses: (1) WUCUFIPMO has no prior management experience with Bank projects; close
monitoring and training will be provided by WBOB, HPFB and WMFB (2) Change o f current project
organization structure is expected; the WUCUFIPMO agrees to inform the Bank o f such change by
appraisal.

Implementing Entity
Provincial Project Leading Group (PPLG). The PPLG is chaired by the Vice Govemor o f Hubei
province. The purpose o f the PPLG is to coordinate between differentprovincial governmental
agencies, including Hubei Provincial Development and Planning Commission, Hubei Provincial
Construction Commission, HPFB and Hubei Provincial Environment Protection Bureau.

Municipal Project Leadinggroup (MPLG). The MPLGis chaired by the Mayor o fWuhan
municipality. Purpose o f M P L G is to coordinate between different municipal governmental agencies,
including Wuhan Municipal Development and Planning Commission, Wuhan Provincial Construction
Commission, WMFB and Wuhan Provincial Environment Protection Bureau.

Project Manugement Ofice. WUCUFIPMO will work as the Project Management Office (PMO) for
the project, assuming direct implementation and coordinationresponsibility. Though WUCUFIPMO is
expected to be merged into another organization inthe near future. However, it is expected that it will
remain as the executing agency for the entire project implementation.

HPFBis expected to play a major role inproject implementation, including overall monitoring,
financing arrangement, procurement, and financial management. HPFB will also be responsible for
maintaining, monitoring and reconciling project special account, which will be set up inand kept by
HPFB. HPFB and WMFB will be responsible for reviewing, verifying and approving withdrawal
applications prepared by WUCUFIPMO before HPFB submits them to the Bank for disbursement
processing. HPFB and WMFB have had prior experience with the Bank projects and are familiar with
Bankdisbursement procedures.

Funds Flow
a) Bank funds will flow from the Bank to the special accounts to be set up for the project, and/or
contractors or suppliers. The special account will be set up in andmanaged by HPFB. On-lending
agreements will be signed between MOF and HPFB, between HPFB andWMFB, and between WMFB
and WUCUFIPMO.




                                               - 75 -

 Thc                1IPFB                  WMFB
World    +
Bank




b) Counterpart funds will be contributedby WMFB directly to WUCUFIPMO.

Staffing
Adequate project financial and accounting staff with educational backgroundand work experience
commensurate withthe work they are expected to perform is one o f the factors critical to successful
implementation o fproject financial management. Based on discussions, observation and review o f
educational backgroundandwork experience o f the staff identified for financial and accounting
positions, the task team noted that they are appropriate for the work they are expected to assume.
However, considering that most financial staff do not have the accounting related education
background, more training and guidance will be required. The task team has advised WUCUFIPMO
that adequate and qualified project financial and accounting staff should be identified prior to Board
presentation and inplace before effectiveness.

Accounting staff inWUCUFIPMO has no prior experience with projects financed by the Bank. To
strengthen financial management capacity and achieve consistent quality o f accounting work, the task
term has suggested that a well defined and focused training inproject financial management should be
provided by WUCUFIPMO, HPFB and WMFB prior to effectiveness to all key financial and
accounting staff to ensure good understanding o f the Bank policies and procedures.

Inaddition, inorder to provide easy andreadily available reference, WUCUFIPMO has submitted to
the task team a draft project financial management manual (FMManual), which provides detailed
guidelines on financial management, intemal controls, accounting procedures, fund and asset
management and withdrawal application procedures. After review, the manual has been accepted by
the Bank. The task team recommendedthat the manual be distributed to all the financial staff as soon
as possible.

Accounting Policies and Procedures
The administration, accounting and reporting o f the project will be set up inaccordance with the
following regulationdcirculars issued by MOF:

a) Inline with other Bank financed projects in China, the project will use the "Temporary Regulations
o n Financial and Accounting Management for Projects Financed by the World Bank" (Circular #127
issued in 1993) by MOF as a basis for bookkeeping and preparation o f project financial statements and
management reports. Accrual accounting and double entry bookkeepingbasis will be adopted by the
Project.




                                                - 76 -

b) Circular 12: "Regulation for the Submission o fWithdrawal Applications" issued in
December 1996 by MOF - includes detailed procedures for preparing and submittingwithdrawal
applications and retention o f supporting documentation.

c) Circular #13: "Accounting Regulations for World Bank Financed Projects" issued inJanuary 2000
by MOF. The circular provides in-depthinstructions of accounting treatment ofproject activities and
covers the following: (i)  Chart o f account; (ii)
                                                 Detailed accounting instructions for each project
account; (iii)Standard set o f project financial statements; and (iv) Instructions on the preparation o f
project financial statements.

The standard set o f project financial statements mentioned above has been agreed to between the Bank
and MOF and applies to all Bank projects appraised after July 1, 1998 and includes the following: (i)
Balance sheet; (ii) Statement o f source and use o f fund; (iii)
                                                               Statement o f implementation o f loan
agreement; and (iv) Statement o f special account.

Both circular #127 and #13 are simplified versions o f the Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure Oriented Projects (the "Standards"), taking into consideration unique characteristics o f
Bank projects. The Standards are modeled after the principles o f Intemational Accounting Standards
and provides detailed guidelines appropriate to accounting for activities o f Bank projects.

WUCUFIPMO will be managing, monitoring and maintaining project accounting records. Original
supporting documents for project activities will also be retained by WUCUFIPMO. Inaddition,
WUCUFIPMO will prepare its financial statements, including statements o f the special account to be
prepared by HPFB, and send them to the Bank for review and comment on a regular basis.

internalAudit
There will be no intemal audit department or arrangement inthe WUCUFIPMO. However, HPFB and
WMFB will serve a similar function throughregular checking. The Bank task team will also conduct
regular supervision missions throughout the life o f the project.

Reporting and Monitoring and Format of Financial Statements
The format and content o f the following project financial statements represent the standard project
reporting package agreed to between the Bank and MOF. They have been discussed and agreed with
all parties concemed. The project consolidated financial statements will be submitted as part o f the
Financial Monitoring Report to the Bank on a semi-annual basis (prior to August 15 and February 15
o f the subsequent year) and include the following four statements: (i)  Balance Sheet; (ii) Summary o f
Sources and Uses o f Fundsby Project Component; (iii)      Statement o f Implementation o f Loan
Agreement; and (iv) Statement o f Special Account.

information Systems
The accounting s o h a r e "Yongyoull, the most popular accounting software in China, has been selected
byWUCUFIPMO for project financial management. This choice is acceptable to the Bank.

Supervision Plan
Duringthe initial implementationphase, frequent FMsupervision missions (twice a year) should be
carried out to have better coverage and to ensure that procurement guidelines are followed and
expenditures incurred are eligible and well supported. More detailed reviews at the initial
implementation phase can also help ensure that financial management system is properly set up and
financial statements are prepared in line with stipulated format and content. The FMmission


                                                  - 77 -

   frequency can subsequently be reduced from midpoint to the normal level (once a year). Inorder to
   maximize effectiveness and efficiency, procurement and FMDisbursement specialists shouldjointly
   participate insupervision missions for procurement and SOEs reviews.

2. Audit Arrangements
   The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited inaccordance with standards acceptable
   to the Bank. Inline with other Bank financed projects inChina, the project will be audited in
   accordance with the Government Auditing Standards o f the People's Republic o f China (1997 edition).
   The Hubei Provincial Audit Bureau (HPAB) has been identified as the auditor for the project. Audit
   fieldwork will be carried out by Wuhan Municipal Audit Bureau (WMAB), further reviewedby
   HPAB, and the final audit report issued inthe name o f H P A B under the guidance and supervision o f
   the China National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by CNAO
   (or its local counterpart) for which CNAO is ultimately responsible.

   Audit reports on annual project consolidated financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6
   months o f the end o f each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement o f Expenditures and
   Special Account.
   The Bank requires that project financial statements be audited inaccordance with standards acceptable
   to the Bank. Inline with other Bank financed projects inChina, the project will be audited in
   accordance with the Government Auditing Standards o f the People's Republic o f China (1997 edition).
   The Hubei Provincial Audit Bureau (HPAB) has been identified as the auditor for the project. Audit
   fieldwork will be carried out by Wuhan Municipal Audit Bureau (WMAB), hrtherreviewedby
   HPAB, and the final audit report issued inthe name o f H P A B under the guidance and supervision o f
   the China National Audit Office (CNAO). The Bank currently accepts audit reports issued by C N A O
   (or its local counterpart) for which CNAO is ultimately responsible.

   Audit reports on annual project consolidated financial statements will be due to the Bank within 6
   months o f the end o f each calendar year, with a separate opinion on Statement o f Expenditures and
   Special Account.

3. Disbursement Arrangements
   The project disbursement will be based on the traditional disbursement techniques and will not use
   Project Management Report (PMR) based disbursements, inaccordance with the agreement between
   the Bank and MOF. The planned disbursement categories are expected to be as follows: (i)Civil
   Works; (ii) (iii)
                Goods;      Consultancy Services and Training; and (iv) Unallocated. However, the amount
   and disbursement percentages are not decided yet. WUCUFIPMO is expected to provide detailed
   information on these aspects before appraisal.




                                                   - 78 -

Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)

                                   Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds

          Expenditure Category                  Amount in US$million               Financing Percentage
Civil Works                                             157.40                               52%
Goods                                                   28.20              100%of foreign expenditures, 100%of
                                                                           local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
                                                                           75% o f local expenditures for other items
                                                                                       procured locally
Consultants' Services and Training                       6.60                                91%
Unallocated                                    I         5.80

Total Project Costs with Bank                  I        198.00           II
Financing
             Interest during construction                0.00
                               Front-end fee             2.00

Total                                          I        200.00           I

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

   Disbursementmethods, such as replenishment,direct payment and special commitment, will be
   available for the project. The SOE limitswill be set up inline with procurement post-review threshold
   as follows: (i)  all contract for goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f $400,000; (ii)
                                                                                                       all
   contract for civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f $4,000,000 (iii)  consultant contract
   estimated to cost less than $200,000 for firms and less than $50,000 for individuals.

Special account:
   One Special Account (SA) will be set up inand managedby HPFB for the project. HPFB will be
   directly responsible for the management, monitoring, maintenance and reconciliation of the SA
   activities o f the project. Supporting documents requiredfor Bank disbursementswill be prepared and
   submittedby WUCUFIPMO to WMFB and onto LPFB for verification, consolidationand approval.
   HPFB will be responsible for sendingwithdrawal applications to the Bank for disbursement
   processing. The SA authorizedallocation is set at $12,000,000, corresponding (on average) to about
   four months expenditures of the project. The flow o f withdrawal application is as follows:


     WUCUFIPMO                       WMFB                         HPBF                    World
                                                                                           Bank




                                                     -79 -

                                Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                              CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)     1                             I                     I
IFirst Bank mission (identification)                     07110/2000                   07/10/2000
IAppraisal mission departure                    II       03/24/2003           II                    II
~~~~     ~

    Negotiations                                         05/12/2003
    Planned Date of Effectiveness


 Prepared by:
Wuhan Municipal Government

Project Executive Office


  Preparation assistance:
 Japanese PHRD Grant

  Bank staff who worked on the proiect included:
                                  . .
            Name                                         Speciality
    EdwardDotson, EASTR                  Task Team LeadermrbanTransport
    ZongYan, WBOB                        Urban Transport
    Shomik Mehndiratta, EASTR            Urban Transport
    Richard Scurfield, TUDTR             Former Task Leader, Sector Leader, Transport
    Maria Luisa Juico, EASTR             Program Assistant
    Dong Wenyan, WBOB                    Program Assistant
    Daniel Gibson, WBOB                  Social Scientist
    Ani1 Somani, EASES                   Environment
    Yang Dawei, WBOB                     Procurement
    Sun Chongwu, WBOB                    Environment
    LiuZhefu, WBOB                       Social Development
    LiNinghui, WBOB                      Financial Management
    LiuZhi, SASE1                        Transport Economics
    KarinNoordlander                     Lawyer
    Gladys Frame                         Traffic Management
    GordonNeilson                        Public Transport
    Rod Stickland                        Transport Planning




                                                  - 80 -

                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                              CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project


A. Project Implementation Plan
Project ImplementationPlan: The first Chinese versionwas draftedinDecember, 2002. The final English
and Chinese versions will be completedby the Appraisal (End of March, 2003)

B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide-Memoires from the following Bankmissions: March 2001, July 2001 Identification Mission, October
2001, January 2002, March2002, June 2002, September 2002, October 2002, December2002
Pre-AppraisalMission, February 2003, March 2003 Appraisal Mission.


C. Other


1.       Documents for assessment:

EnvironmentalImpactAssessment Report       *                                      February 2003
Resettlement Action Plan    *                                                     November 2002
Procurement Assessment Report                                                     March2003
Financial Management Report                                                       March 2003

2.       ProjectPreparation Documents inboth Chinese and English:

Wuhan transport forecastingmodel (2001.7, 2002.6,2002.11)
Wuhan UrbanTransport Strategy Study (2001.7,2002.6, 2002.11)
Feasibility study for roadinfrastructurecomponent (2001.7,2002.6, 2002.11)
Feasibility study for traffic management development (2001.7,2002.6,2002.11)
Feasibility study for public transportproject component(2001.7)
Feasibility study for roadmaintenance component(2001.7,2002.6,2002.11)
Wuhan urbantransportproject preparationplan (2001.7)
Wuhan municipal finance and counterpartfunding in Chinese only (2002.3,2002.11)
First year civil work preliminary design under the infrastructure component (2002.6)
Projectpreparationplan    - inChinese only (2002.11)

*Including electronic files




                                                    - 81 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                              CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project
                                                            03-Feb-2004
                                                                                                                     Difference between expected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
 Project ID   FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                   GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO65463      2004 CN Jiangxi Integrated Agric. Modern.
                      -                                        100.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   100.00        0.75      0.00
PO65035      2004 CN-Gansu 8 Xinjiang Pastoral Development      66.27      0.00                  0.00    0.00    65.61        3.88      0.00
PO66955      2004 CN-Zhejiang Urban Envmt                      133.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   133.00        0.00      0.00
PO73002      2004 CN-Basic Education in Western Areas          100.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   100.00        0.00      0.00
PO77615      2004 CN-GEF-Gansu 8 Xinjiang Pastoral Develop       0.00      0.00                 10.50    0.00    10.50        0.70      0.00
PO67337      2003 CN-2nd GEF Energy Conservation                 0.00      0.00                 26.00    0.00    15.00       15.98      0.00
PO40599      2003 CN-TIANJIN URB DEV II                        150.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   150.00        0.00      0.00
PO58847      2003 CN-3rd Xinjiang Hwy Project                  150.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   106.13        6.55      0.00
PO68058      2003 CN-Yixing Pumped Storage Project             145.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   140.95        1.47      0.00
PO76714      2003 CN-Anhui Hwy 2                               250.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   250.00       13.42      0.00
PO70441      2003 CN-Hubei Xiaogan Xiangfan Hwy                250.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   178.66       -3.01      0.00
PO70191      2003 CN-SHANGHAI URB ENVMT APLI                   200.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00   200.00        0.00      0.00
PO64729      2002 CN-SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY DEV. PROJECT          93.90      0.00                  0.00    0.00    80.48        3.65      0.00
PO58846      2002 CN-Natl Railway Project                      160.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    37.23       -2.35      0.00
PO71147      2002 CN-Tuberculosis Control Project              104.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    92.67      .11.33      0.00
P060029      2002 CN-Sustain. Forestry Dev(Natura1Forest)        0.00      0.00                 16.00    0.00    17.68        2.60      0.00
PO70459      2002 CN-Inner Mongolia Hwy Project                100.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    88.82        5.15      0.00
P068049      2002 CN-Hubei Hydropower Dev in Poor Areas        105.00      0.00                  0.00    0.00    87.89       10.72      0.00
P058845      2001 Jiangxi II Hwy                               200.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   133.42       5.08      0.00
PO56199      2001 CN-3rd Inland Waterways                      100.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   84.12        7.62      0.00
PO56516      2001 CN WATER CONSERVATION                         74.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   41.42        8.46      0.00
                      ~



PO56596      2001 CN-Shijiazhuang Urban Transport              100.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   88.58       53.81      0.00
PO47345      2001 CN-HUAi RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL              105.50      0.00                  0.00     0.00   90.68      -14.82      0.00
PO51859      2001 CN-LIAO RIVER BASIN                          100.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   80.23       35.23      0.00
PO45915      2001 CN-Urumqi Urban Transport                    100.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   52.54       46.04      0.00
PO45910      2000 CN-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                   150.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   123.53      48.03      0.00
PO49436      2000 CN-CHONGQING URBAN ENVMT                     200.00      0.00                  0.00     3.70   161.67      64.70      0.00
PO56424      2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STORA                         320.00      0.00                  0.00   100.00   164.64      97.81      0.00
PO45264      2000 CN-SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                       93.50      0.00                  0.00     0.00    14.62       8.34      0.00
PO42109      2000 CN-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT iI                    349.00      0.00                 25.00     0.00   294.22     183.70      0.00
PO58844      2000 3rd Henan Prov Hwy                           150.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00    67.17      29.51      0.00
PO58843      2000 Guangxi Highway                              200.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   105.76      46.76      0.00
PO64924      2000 CH-GEF-BEIJINGENVMT iI                         0.00      0.00                 25.00     0.00    26.26       18.43     2.20
PO64730      2000 CN Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project
                      -                                        210.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00   114.03      94.03      0.00
PO50036      1999 Anhui Provincial Hwy                         200.00      0.00                  0.00     9.60    43.79      40.39      0.00
PO51705      1999 Fujian Ii Highway                            200.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00    65.86      62.53      0.00
PO51856      1999 ACCOUNTING REFORM 8 DEVELOPMENT               27.40      5.60                  0.00     0.00    19.24       19.16     0.00
PO41268      1999 CN-Nat HwyUHubei-Hunan                       350.00      0.00                  0.00     0.00    59.72      34.72       0.00
PO57352      1999 CN-RURAL WATER IV                             16.00      30.00                 0.00     0.00    21.84       15.42      7.68
PO58308      1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                          0.00       5.00                 0.00     0.00     1.77       1.75       0.00
PO56216      1999 CN LOESS PLATEAU II
                      -                                        100.00      50.00                 0.00     0.00    29.24      31.38       0.00
PO60270      1999 CN-ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                        0.00       5.00                 0.00     0.00     2.71       4.29       4.07
PO38121      1999 CN-GEF-RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT            0.00       0.00                35.00     0.00    28.58      26.50       7.57
PO51888      1999 CN GUANZHONG IRRiGATiON
                     -                                          80.00     20.00                  0.00     0.00    38.11       30.52      0.00
PO49665      1999 CN-ANNINGVALLEY AG.DEV                        90.00      30.00                 0.00     0.00    21.33       11.52      0.00
PO46051      1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                        20.00      50.00                 0.00     0.00     5.70       7.31       0.00
PO43933      1999 CN-SICHUAN URBAN ENVMT                       150.00      2.00                  0.00     0.00    93.14      77.33      23.93
P042299      1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                            10.00      35.00                 0.00     0.00    36.14     -10.18       0.00
PO41890      1999 CN-Liaoning Urban Transport                  150.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    36.96       36.96      0.00
P036953      1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                  10.00      50.00                 0.00     0.00    37.49      22.26       0.00
PO03653      1999 CN-Container Transport                        71.OO       0.00                 0.00    18.61     3.62      22.19       0.66
PO46829      1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                 100.00       0.00                 0.00     0.00    12.87       99.87      6.07
PO46564      1999 CN Gansu 8 Inner Mongolia Poverty Red.
                     -                                          60.00     100.00                 0.00    13.30    49.81       38.19     -3.54




                                                                -  82

                                                                                                                          Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                   and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements'
 Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD           IDA                    GEF  Cancel. Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
PO03614      1998 CN-Guangzhou City Transport                       200.00        0.00                 0.00   20.00  100.31      120.31     100.31
PO03606      1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                                63.00        0.00                22.00    0.00   36.22       18.22        0.00
PO35698      1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                              300.00        0.00                 0.00  145.00   31.45      172.70      -22.46
P049700      1998 CN- IAIL-2                                        300.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00    4.52        4.52        0.60
PO37859      1998 CN-GEF Energy Conservation                          0.00        0.00                22.00    0.00    0.44       22.06        0.00
PO03619      1998 CN-2nd Inland Waterways                            123.00       0.00                 0.00   17.00   39.18       54.12        4.29
PO40185      1998 CN-SHANDONG ENVIRONMENT                            95.00        0.00                 0.00    1.40   20.07       21.47       -0.79
PO03566      1998 CN-BASIC HEALTH (HLTH8)                             0.00       85.00                 0.00    0.00   39.66       23.29        0.00
P046563      1998 CN  - TARIM  BASIN II                              90.00       60.00                 0.00    2.67   14.78       16.58        0.00
P045788      1998 Tri-Provincial Hwy                                230.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   19.81       15.98        0.00
PO03539      1998 CN SUSTAINABLE COASTAL RESOURCES DE
                      .                                             100.00        0.00                 0.00    2.06   47.54       45.44       33.72
PO51736      1998 E. CHINNJIANGSU PWR                               250.00        0.00                 0.00   86.00   51.14      137.14       11.55
PO46952      1998 CN FOREST. DEV. POOR AR
                      .                                             100.00      100.00                 0.00    0.00   40.02      -61.48       17.91
P036949      1998 CN-Nat Hwy3-Hubei                                 250.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   21.15       21.15        0.00
PO36414      1998 CN-GUANGXI URBAN ENVMT                             72.00       20.00                 0.00    0.00   71.56       65.25       23.72
PO03637      1997 CN-NATL RURAL WATER 3                               0.00       70.00                 0.00    0.00    0.00        3.20        2.78
PO03590      1997 CN QlNBA MOUNTAINS POVERTY REDUCTIO
                      -                                              30.00      150.00                 0.00    0.00   13.16       16.34       -3.28
PO35693      1997 FUEL EFFICIENTIND.                                  0.00        0.00                32.80    0.00    7.62       32.81        0.00
PO03654      1997 Nat HwyZiHunan-Guangdong                          400.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   48.52       48.52       16.70
PO03650      1997 TUOKETUO POWERilNNER                              400.00        0.00                 0.00  102.50   37.37      139.87       25.18
PO38988      1997 CN HEILONGJIANG ADP
                      -                                              120.00       0.00                 0.00    0.00    7.85        7.85        3.84
PO44485      1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOQIAO                               400.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   85.11       55.33       39.65
PO36405      1997 CN WANJlAZHAl WATER TRA
                      ~                                             400.00        0.00                 0.00   75.00   22.58       97.58        5.00
PO03602      1996 CN-HUBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                         125.00      25.00                 0.00   28.32   39.72       70.08       29.74
PO03599      1996 CN-YUNNAN ENVMT                                    125.00      25.00                 0.00   19.48   40.68       61.92        8.06
PO40513      1996 2nd Henan Prov Hwy                                210.00        0.00                 0.00   19.00   16.69       35.69       22.69
PO03594      1996 CN GANSU HEXI CORRIDOR
                      .                                               60.00      90.00                 0.00    0.00   73.92       58.83        0.00
PO03589      1996 CN-DISEASE PREVENTION (HLTH7)                        0.00     100.00                 0.00    0.00    3.08        12.18       0.00
PO34618      1996 CN-LABOR MARKET DEV.                                10.00      20.00                 0.00    0.00    5.60        7.77        0.00
P003648      1996 CN-SHANGHAI SEWERAGE II                           250.00        0.00                 0.00    0.00   39.94       39.94       -0.19
PO03571      1995 CN-7th Railways                                   400.00        0.00                 0.00  119.00   13.10      132.10       23.10
PO03639      1995 CN-SOUTHWEST POVERTY REDUCTIONPROJE                47.50      200.00                 0.00    0.01    1.21       25.36       25.36
PO03647      1995 China Economic Law Reform -LEGEA                     0.00      10.00                 0.00    0.00    0.61        0.93        0.00
PO03603      1995 CN-ENT HOUSING 8 SSR                              275.00       75.00                 0.00   57.46   38.95       94.26        1.23
P003596      1995 CN-Yangtze Basin Water Resources Project           100.00     110.00                 0.00    1.92    0.34        4.75        4.75
PO03540      1994 CN-LOESS PLATEAU                                     0.00     150.00                 0.00    0.00    1.12         0.50       0.00
PO03632      1993 CN-ENVIRONMENT TECH ASS                              0.00      50.00                 0.00    0.00    1.11         1.73       1.41

                                                          Total:  11719 07     1722 60              21430    842.02  5141 55    2977.32     42352




                                                                      - 83 -

                                             CHINA
                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        June 30  - 2003
                                      InMillions US Dollars

                                                       Committed                   Disbursed
                                                     IFC                         IFC
FY Approval    Company                         Loan   Equity Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
2001           Peak Pacific                     0.00    0.00  25.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
0              Rabobank SHFC                    0.45    0.00  0.00   0.45   0.45   0.00    0.00   0.45
2000           SSIF                             0.00    6.00  0.00   0.00   0.00   0.89    0.00   0.00
1998           Shanghai Krupp                  28.92    0.00   0.00 65.63  28.92   0.00    0.00  65.63
1999           Shanghai Midway                  0.00   16.02  0.00   0.00   0.00   16.02   0.00   0.00
1999           Shanxi                          16.75    0.00  0.00   0.00  14.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1993           Shenzhen PCCP                    3.76    0.00   0.00  0.00   3.76   0.00    0.00   0.00
               Sino Gold                        0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002           Sino-Forest                     25.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  20.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001           SuzhouPVC                        0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995197        WIT                              5.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Wanjie Hospital                 15.00    0.00   0.00  0.00  15.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2000           Weihai Weidongri                 1.03    0.00   0.00  0.00   1.03    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996           XACB                             0.00   19.93   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Yantai Cement                    6.33    1.95   0.00  0.00   6.33    1.95   0.00   0.00
1993           Zhen Jing                        0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
0              Zhengye-ADC                     15.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   2.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Advantage                        0.00    0.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.50   0.00   0.00
2002103        BCIB                             0.00    0.00  11.60  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003           Bank of Shanghai                 0.00   24.67   0.00  0.00   0.00   24.67   0.00   0.00
1999100102     CDH China Fund                   0.00   16.36   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.38   0.00   0.00
2002           CIG HoldingsPLC                  0.00    3.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    3.00   0.00   0.00
1998100        CSMC                             0.00   12.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    7.20   0.00   0.00
2003           ChengduHuarong                   6.73    3.20   0.00  7.82   6.73    3.20   0.00   7.82
1998           Chengxin-IBCA                    0.00    0.36   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.36   0.00   0.00
1998           China Bicycles                   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1987192194     China Walden Mgt                 0.00    0.01   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.01   0.00   0.00
1994           China Walden Ven                 0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1994           Dalian Glass                     0.00    2.40   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.40   0.00   0.00
1994           Dupont Suzhou                    9.35    4.15   0.00  0.00   9.35    4.15   0.00   0.00
1995           Dynamic Fund                     0.00    8.76   0.00  0.00   0.00    7.10   0.00   0.00
1994           Great Infotech                   0.00    3.50   0.00  0.00   0.00    2.10   0.00   0.00
2003           Hansom                           0.00    0.08   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.08   0.00   0.00
1999           Huarong AMC                     23.74    3.00   0.00  0.00   14.74   0.01   0.00   0.00
2002           IEC                             20.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2002           LeshanScana                      5.36    1.35   0.00  0.00   3.76    1.35   0.00   0.00
1998           MaanshanCarbon                   9.00    2.00   0.00  0.00   9.00    2.00   0.00   0.00
2001           MinshengBank                     0.00   23.50   0.00  0.00   0.00   23.50   0.00   0.00
2001           NCCB                             0.00   26.58   0.00  0.00   0.00   26.46   0.00   0.00
2001           NanjingKumho                     3.89    3.81   0.00  11.07  3.89    3.81   0.00  11.07
1996           New China Life                   0.00   30.70   0.00  0.00   0.00   23.32   0.00   0.00
2001           NewbridgeInv.                    0.00    1.95   0.00  0.00   0.00    1.95   0.00   0.00
1995           Orient Finance                   0.00    0.00   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997198        PSAM                             0.00    1.93   0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
2003
                     Total Portfolio:         195.31  217.74  36.60  84.97 139.16  158.44   0.00  84.97




                                              -84 -

                                            Approvals PendingCommitment     '

FYApproval   Company                      Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2002         ASIMCO                        0.00       0.01     0.00     0.00
2003         Anjia                         0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2004         CCB-MS NPL                    0.03       0.00     0.00     0.00
2004         CUNA RCCI                     0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2003         Cellon                        0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2002         Darong                        0.01       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002         Huarong AMC                   0.02       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002         IEC                           0.00       0.01     0.00     0.00
2002         KHIT                          0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2003         Peak Pacific 2                0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2003         SAIC                          0.01       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002         SML                           0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002         Sino Mining                   0.01       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002         Zhong Chen                    0.03       0.00     0.00     0.03

             Total PendingCommitment:      0.10       0.02     0.05     0.05




                                       - 85 -

                                              Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                                      CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project
                                                                   East  Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                Asia B  middle-
                                                         China  Pacific  income       Developmentdiamond*
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                          1,281.O   1,838    2,411                        Life expectancy
GNi percapita (Atlas method, US$)                          950      950    1,390
GNi (Atias method, US$ billions)                        1,219.1   1,740    3,352                               T

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population (%)                                              0.8     1.o      1.0
Laborforce I%)                                              0.9     1.2      1.2      GNI                                       Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                                 per                                      primary
                                                                                      capita                                enrollment
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)              5
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                      38       38       49
Life expectancyat birth (years)                             71       69       69                               .L
Infantmortality (per 1,000live births)                      30       33       30
Child malnutrition (% ofchildren under5)                    10       15       11            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          75       76       81
Illiteracy (% ofpopulationage 15+)                          14       13       13
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)        106      106      111         A  3r**iChina
    Male                                                   105      105      111                 Lower-middle-incomegroup
    Female                                                 108      106      110

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1982    1992     2001     2002      Economicratios"
GDP (US$ billions)                                221.5   454.6  1,167.1  1,232.7
Gross domestic investmentiGDP                      33.2    36.2    38.5     41.O
Exportsof goods andserviceslGDP                     8.9    19.5    25.5     29.5                             Trade

GrossdomesticsavingslGDP                           34.8    37.7    40.9     44.0
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                          35.1    38.0    40.0     43.8                               T
Currentaccount baiancelGDP                          2.4     1.9      1.5     2.9      Domestic                    ??
                                                                                                      ~~




interest paymentslGDP                               0.2     0.6     0.5      0.5      savings              I                investment
TotaldebffGDP                                       3.8    15.9     14.6     12.6
Totaldebt servicelexports                           8.0     8.6     7.7      6.1                                1.
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                            14.1
Presentvalue of debtiexports                                       51.8                                   indebtedness
                                       1982.92  1992-02   2001     2002  2002-06
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                        9.7      9.0     7.5     8.0       7.5         * *--China

GDP Der caDita                             8.1      8.0     6.7     7.2      6.6           _____   Lower-middlemcomegroup             I
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                        333     21.8     158      145      2o

Industry                                           450     439      50.1     51 7     l5

   Manufacturing                                   373     33 1    342      445       lo

                                                                                     1
Services                                           21 7    343     341       337
Private consumption                                50.7    49.2    45.7     42.5      "        97        98      i 9   00     a1   d2 I
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       145     13.1     134      13.5
Importsof goodsand services                                                                       I*** n..jl&GDI     +GDP



(average annualgrowfhj                          1982.92 1992-02    2o01
Agriculture                                         4 6     3.7      2 8
Industry                                           11 6    11.3      8 4
   Manufacturing                                   112     104       9 0      8 1
Services                                           117      8 4      8 4      7 3
Privateconsumption                                 114      8 1      2 8      1 9
General government consumption                      9 9     8 4     10.5
Gross domesticinvestment                            9.5     9.7     13.9     14.9                e* * L X Exports    +Imports
imports of goodsand services                        9.7    128      10.8     27 5                                                     I


                                                               - 86 -

                                                                                                                          China

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                              Inflation ("A)                                     c
(% change)
Consumer prices                             6.0      6.4     0.7    -0.8     'OK
Implicit GDP deflator                      -0.2      7.9     1.2    -2.6      5t
Government finance                                                             I
                                                                          104-
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                           22.9      14.7    17.1    17.9
Current budget balance                        .I     2.0     1.1     0.0    1
Overall surplusldeficit                    -0.3     -1.0    -4.7    -3.0              y*-  1GDP deflator    - 0 I C P I         I

TRADE
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.)               I
Total exports (fob)                      22,321  84,940  266,155 325,565
 Food                                    2,908    8,309   12,780  14,623     400'000 T
 Fuel                                    5,314    4,693   8,420   8,372      300 000
 Manufactures                            12,271  67,936  239,802 297,085
Total imports (cif)                      19,285  80,585  243,610 295,203     200 000

 Food                                    4,201    3,146   4,980   5,237
 Fueland energy                             183   3,570   17,495  19,285     100 000
                                                                            i
 Capital goods                           3,204   31,312  107,040 137,030           0

Export price index (1995-100)                41      85       83      78              96    97    98    99     00      01

Import price index (1995=100)                71      95       91      86                   0 Exports           Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    58      89       91      90

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                               Current account balance to GDP (X)
Exportsof goods and services             24,906  94,198  299,409 365,395
imports of goods and services            20,555  86,752  271,325 328,013     5 T
Resource balance                         4,350    7,446   28,084  37,383
Net income                                  376      249 -19,174 -14,945
Net current transfers                      486     1,155   8,492  12,984
Current account balance                   5,212   8,850   17,401  35,422
Financing items (net)                     -995   -10,952  30,046  40,085
Changes in net reserves                  -4,217   2,102  -47.447 -75,507    I      96    97   98     99     00        01    02
Memo:
Reservesincluding gold (US$ millions)         .. 24,842  220,051 297,721
Conversion rate (DEC, iocal/US$)            2.4      5.9     8.3     8.3

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1982     1992    2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      8,358   72,428 170,110 155,678
  IBRD                                        0   3,752   11,550  12,051
  IDA                                         1   4,287    8,654   8,729                               A 12,051
                                                                                                                      729
Total debt service                        2,125   8,618   24,297  23,688           G 43,

  IBRD                                        0      460   1,550   1,631                                               6,987
  iDA                                         0       30     151     175
Composition of net resourceflows                                                                                        E 21,888
  Officialgrants                             47      327     240
  Official creditors                        657   2,343    2,156    -839
  Private creditors                       -122    8,949   4,017  -13,593                   \                    /
  Foreign direct investment                430    11,156  44,241  49,308                    u
  Portfoiio equity                            0    1,243   3,015   2,286                       F: 62.103
World Bank program
  Commitments                               330    1,865     782     563      4 IBRD
                                                                               -                                  E Bilateral
  Disbursements                               1    1,331   1,791   1,733      B IDA       D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                      F Private
  Principal repayments                        0      197     904   1,157      Z .-IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                   ---
  Net flows                                   1    1,134     887     576
  Interestpayments                            0      293     797     649
  Nettransfers                                1      841      90     -73
vevelopmenr--trlzvlvj



                                                        -87   -

Additional Annex 11: EnvironmentalAssessment and Environmental Management Plan
                                                 Summary
                             CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project

1.Background

The Environmental Assessment (EA) report was conducted for the project based on relevant regulations
andguidelines o fthe Chinese government and the World Bank. The objective was to identify at an early
stage the potential environmental consequences o f the project, propose measures to avoid, mitigate or
otherwise compensate negative environmental impacts duringconstruction and operation, and allow
incorporation o f appropriate measures inthe design to reduce negative impacts to a minimumand
acceptable level.

The EA was prepared by No. Four Survey & Design Institute o f China Railways Ministryand Wuhan
ResearchAcademy o f Environmental Sciences inaccordance with Bank's OP 4.01. The project is
classified Category A since it involves involuntary resettlement, major road construction, partly on new
alignments, and increased air and noise pollution. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was
prepared by No. Four Survey & Design Institute o f China Railways Ministry. The Wuhan Project Office
(PO) provided detail budget estimation o f EMP implementation and on behalf o f Wuhan Government,
WuhanPO endorses full implementation ofthe EMP.


2. Project Components

The proposed Wuhan Urban Transport Project consists o f six components:
(1)      roadnetwork development. This component aims to address the most immediate needs o f
         improvingthe operation o f the road network withinthe city, and expanding the bicycle and
         pedestrian networks.
(2)      traffic management and road safety. The aim o f this component is to buildupon the strengths o f
         the existing transport network management to better utilize existing assets andresources.
(3)      public transport. The objective o f this component is to facilitate an increase inthe efficiency and
         effectiveness o f bus services inthe city.
(4)      road maintenance. The component aims to increase the adequacy o f road maintenance through
         increased funding and improvements to the institutional and procurement arrangements for road
         maintenance.
(5)      environmental management. The component aims to mitigate the impacts caused by road
         construction, minimize the vehicle emission, and to increase the positive environmental impacts o f
         the project. The detailed content includes: establishing a vehicle emission and traffic noise
         monitoring system, and facilitating implementationo f a motor vehicle emission control strategy.
(6)      capacity building. This component will strengthen the technical and management skills o f the
         municipal staff,

3. BaselineEnvironmentalDescription

Wuhan is locatedinthe middle and lower alluvial plains o f the Changjiang (Yangtze) River. As the capital
city o f Hubei Province, Wuhan is the economic, political, financial and cultural center o f the Province. It
has eleven urbanandtwo suburban districts with an urban population o f 4.5 million. Wuhan is rich in
water resources, and has a network o f rivers and lakes. Changjiang River and Hanjing River flow through



                                                    - 88 -

the city proper. There are lakes around the middlering road, inthe area where the proposed roads are
located.

Wuhangets an annual average sunshine of 2058 hours, with 46 percent sunshine.Summer heat can be
stifling.

The proposed project is spread over eight urban districts. A detailed survey o f the area revealed that a total
o f 126 environment sensitive receptors would be affected by the roads included inthe project. These
receptors include schools, hospitals, kindergartens and residential buildings along both sides of the
proposed project roads.

3.1 Air quality.Basedonthe resultsprovided byWuhan EnvironmentalMonitoring Station, the existing
air quality inWuhan meets the requirement o f National Class I1standards inthe levels o f Sulphur Dioxide
(S02), Nitric Oxide compounds (NOx), and Carbon Monoxide (CO). However, the Total Suspended
Particulates (TSP) exceeded the standards, mainly due to coal combustion, construction activities and
increase intraffic.

3.2 Noise. Continuous noise monitoring was conducted 2-5 meters away from the existing road shoulders
and 1meter infront o fthe sensitive sites to determine the existing noise level along the proposed project
roads. The results along typical road sections showed a 100 percent increase inthe level o f noise, exceeding
the noise standards for day as well as night.

3.3 Vibration. Roadvibration caused by traffic is irregular. The vibration levelwas observed to increase
with traffic volume and speed, assuming roadcondition and fleet composition remainthe same.

3.4 Sunshine to buildings located near the proposed interchanges could be blocked once the multi-layer
structures are completed. Of the eleven elevated interchanges, five have no sensitive receptors located
within the shaded areas o f the finished structures. There are residential buildings, schools and a
kindergarten surrounding the remaining six interchange sites. The baseline sunshine investigation shows
that on the winter solstice day, which is the shortest day o f the year, all buildingson the north side will
receive 10 hours of sunshine at the first floor window level.

3.5 DrainageSystem and SurfaceWater. Wuhan's urbanareas are divided into twenty-two drainage
systems with a total catchment area o f 198 km2. The sewer system inthe old city area i s primarily a
combined storm and sanitary sewer system, while inthe newly developed areas, there are separate sewer
systems for storm water and sewage. Project components are proposed inboth old and newly developed
areas.

The latest annual report on environmental quality inWuhan (2002), indicates that the surface water in
virtually all water bodies inthe city has been contaminated, as shown by the standard compliance status.
The mainpollutants are organic substances, coliform, nitrogen and phosphorus, indicating that domestic
sewage i s the main source o f water contamination.

3.6 Ecosystem.East Lake is listed inthe 1998 Asian Wetland Directory. It is also a national level scenic
site, urban recreation area, popular resort and health rehabilitation area. Basedon a 1986 site ecological
study, the latest available report of its kind, there were 76 species ofphytoplankton, 203 species o f
zooplankton, and 67 species o f fish found inthe lake at the time. The climate and the abundant food
sources inthe shallow water bodies attract many species o f migrating birds to Wuhan during winter.



                                                       -89 -

However, water pollutionand extensive human activities in and around the East Lake, are bringing changes
inthe biomass, species andaquatic ecosystem ofthe area. The level ofbiodiversity has decreasedinrecent
years. But the East Lake continues to be an important naturalhabitat inthe Changjiang River area and a
rare natural wetland within a large city.

Other components inthe urban ecosystem consist mainly o f plantedtrees, woodland, and green areas
throughout the city area including all project sites. There are about 106 species o f trees inWuhan.

3.7 Culturalproperty and religion. A survey o f all project roads and other project facilities such as bus
terminals on both recommended and altemative sites, was conducted during EA preparation. Two
provincial level historic sites were identified within the project impacted area: (1) WuhanOffice o f the New
FourthArmy, which is located at the Lugouqiao Road inthe Hankou section; and (2) Xinhai Revolution
Gate, located about 150 mfrom a project road      - Jinshui Road. The N e w Fourth Army was one o f the most
influential army groups inthe modem Chinese revolutionary history and their former headquarter currently
serves as a memorial andrevolutionary museum.Xinhai revolution is a significant milestone inthe Chinese
modem history and its success ended the five thousand years o f the feudal society inChina and marked the
beginning o f the modem Chinese history. The present revolutionary gate was rebuilt in 1981.

4. PotentialImpact & MitigationMeasures

The major potential environmental impacts associated with the proposed project and the mitigation
measures are outlined inboth the EA Report and inthe EMP. The EA Report concluded that the proposed
project would address emerging and projected traffic congestion inthe city center, improve the quality o f
urban life and stimulate economic development, resulting inboth social and economic benefits. The report
also indicated that there would be both positive and negative impacts on the environment. The EMP
simulates how the environmental protectionmeasures identified inthe EA Report will be incorporated into
the design, and implementedduring the design, construction and operation phases o f the project and what
institutional arrangements have been made to ensure their effective implementation. The key elements o f the
EMP are summarized below:

4.1 Designphase.Currently Wuhan has a limited motor vehicle inspectionprogram, which carries out
roadside inspections o f about 10-15 percent o f city's motor vehicle fleets each year. The city government
also plans to introduce and enforce Euro3 by 2010 and Euro4 by 2020 inthe city. This EA proposes to
include the development o f a motor vehicle inspection andmaintenance (I/M)program as a major
mitigation measure. More specifically, this component may include (1) an assessment o f the legislative and
policy framework ,emissions monitoring and vehicle emissions program (Wuhan already has its
shortcomings); (2) policy suggestions to improve aggregate motor vehicle emissions, and measures to
ensure more efficient functioning o f various agencies involved with motor vehicle emission control; (3) a
study for development and implementationplan of anI/Msystem; (4) procurement o f I/Mequipment to
upgrade the current inspection capability inaccordance with the I/Mimplementation plan; and (5) other
necessary facilities such as buildingsfor inspection stations and/or laboratoryhest center facilities. In
addition, as part o f the overall transport strategy for Wuhan, the project road design will be given full
consideration to optimize the transport network.

The analysis o f alternatives was conducted during the EA process inthe following aspects: different road
alignments, different design configurations, and with and without project. For instance, comparison o f
alignments was undertaken for four roads intwo districts by the project and the EA teams. A number o f
criteria were considered inthe evaluation o f each section including length, road condition, planning width,


                                                       - 90 -

as well as technical, socioeconomic, resettlement, implementation and environmental factors and
engineering costs. Duringthis process a variety o f potential environmental effects were avoided or
minimized.

A number o ffeatures to minimize noise effects have been incorporated into the design. These measures
include limitingconstruction o f elevated viaduct to locations where roadwidening is not possible.
Construction materials for road surface structure with effective sound absorption will be applied incertain
areas to reduce traffic noise. Some residential buildings and sensitive receptors adjacent to the roadwill be
protected with the use o f sound barriers. Double-glazed windows and air conditioners will be utilized at
special sensitive receptors, e.g., schools, hospitals, seniors' homes and kindergartens, affected by the traffic
noise. Comprehensive sound insulation will be installed for the housing o f the first row o f residential
buildings affected by traffic noise, e.g., double-glazed windows incombination with cooling systems.

 Structure and materials effective for vibration mitigation will be put intojoints between pre-fabricated
structures and bridge piers. Application o f flexible supports, such as rubbers and bowl shaped supports for
viaduct and interchanges will buffer vibration o f structure and reduce noise. Road surface quality also has
a direct impact on vibration. The use o f highquality materials for surface smoothness and regular
maintenance and repairs will be required.

East Lake, a national level scenic site and an important part o f Jianghan lake wetland area, will be exposed
to the construction and operation o f Qinghua Road. Given the limited time and available information at
present, it is likely that the adverse impacts and consequences to the local ecosystem, particularly to the
migrating birds and their habitats, have not been evaluated, although the road itself legally complies with
relevant city plans and regulations. As Qinghua Road is not scheduled for construction inyear 2006 inthe
current project implementationplan, the EA recommends further study and impact assessment o f the
proposed construction. A further study will allow the Wuhan PO, design team, as well as EA team more
time to explore the feasibility o f a different alignment or other options, which do not traverse the scenic
area and the lake. There would be the alternative o f not buildingQinghua Road ifthe network capacity i s
proven sufficient to serve this area without Qinghua Road.

A total number o f2351 trees along roadsideswill be affected indifferent degrees by the proposed project.
Inaddition to the implementation of "planting two trees for every one cut" policy andmeasures for
protection o f existing green areas and transplanting trees, trees will be planted as part o f the Environmental
Improvement Component o f the project.

4.2 Constructionphase. Dust will be generated as a result o f demolition and large-scale excavation.
Full-time environmental management staff inthe construction team and the contractors will inspect sites
and implement dust control measures such as the use o f water or the enclosure o f construction sites.
Asphalt plants and concrete-mixing stations will be located indesignated areas only to minimize impacts.
Vehicles transporting buildingmaterials (e.g. cement, earth and stone) will be covered with tarpaulin. At
construction sites where dust is easily created by mixing, loading and unloading o f buildingmaterials,
effective measures such as watering will be taken to prevent or mitigate dust. The rubbishand trash
accumulated by workers will be stored in a closed site and disposed o f fregularly.

The use o f noisy machinery, such as percussion hammers, pneumatic drills and rock drills duringthe night
(1O:OO pm- 6:OO am) will be strictly prohibited. Machinery with low noise and noise shielding andor
sound absorption materials will be used as much as possible, e.g. on-site generator with mufflers or
silencer. Contractors will rationalize work timetable, keep noisy operations away from sensitive points,
carry out regular maintenance andrepairs, and enforce strict implementation o f operation procedures.


                                                       -91  -

Where sites are seriously affected during construction, temporary enclosure with noise shielding andfor
sound absorption will be set up. Stream and diesel pile drivers are prohibited for use inareas where
sensitive receptors are within 50 m o f construction sites. The construction components for viaducts and
interchanges will be prefabricated and transported to the construction sites. Ifon-site monitoring results
exceed standards, environmental inspectors or local environmental monitoring unit will report this to the
project management office, which will stop the construction for rectification. Contractors must abide by the
provisions for construction noise (vibration) prevention and control inWuhan. It is prohibited to use steam
anddiesel pile drivers as well as monkey driver at the project site. Low-level vibration machinery will be
used as much as possible, a system o f regular maintenance andrepairs is to be employed.

Feasible measures for traffic management will be determined prior to construction in consultation with the
traffic police. Project supervisors will cooperate to avoid traffic congestion due to construction. The public
will be notified inadvance. When carrying out construction infront o f schools, the contractor will appoint
specific persons to guide the pupils safely through the construction site. Overhead safety shelters will be
installed when the construction is inresidential andfor commercial areas. Separate roadside construction
will be adopted for road widening inorder to provide safety to bothpedestrians and vehicles.

4.3 Operationalphase. The proposed project will cause degradation o f air quality within 200-300 mo f the
alignments, but will make a positive contribution to the overall air quality inthe urban area, particularly in
the city center. An auto monitoring station network for air quality and noise, and a Motor Vehicle Emission
Control Strategy have been incorporated into the project. The objective is to build o n existing initiatives,
policies and programs being undertaken inWuhan, and to develop strategies and provide a strong
foundation for a program to address the problem o f increasing air pollutionfrom mobile sources. The
program will integrate a number o f initiatives including the ban on leaded fuel; an enhancement o f existing
vehicle inspection and maintenance (UM) system; increaseduse o f alternate fuels; improvement o f laws and
regulations related to vehicle emissions and their more rigorous enforcement; accelerated retirement o f older
vehicles; further development o f public transit and traffic management and the expansion o f automated
monitoring network to monitor air pollutionand quality.

5. Environmentalmonitoring

The EMP identifies requirements related to the environmental inspection and monitoring program.
Environmental management staff will be assigned by each contractor to respond to unanticipated
environmental concems and will ensure the implementation o f the mitigation measures and compliance with
established standards (e.g., noise and dust). Environmental monitoring will be contracted with Wuhan
Environmental Monitoring Center (needs to be confirmed) during both the construction and operational
phases to ensure the effectiveness o f mitigation measures and to determine the accuracy o f impact
predictions. Parameters to be monitored include air quality, dust, noise and vibration.

The project includes an environmental training component for contractors andinspectors. The staffingand
training is presentedinthe EMP.

6. Public Consultationand participation

Three rounds o f public consultation have been conducted during the EA process: the first round at the
preparation o f EA terms o f reference (TOR) between September 4-7,2002; the second round at draft EA
report between December 26-29,2002, and the thirdround at review stage o f draft EA reports between
March 26 and April 10,2003. A variety o f techniques were utilized inpublic consultation including: site
visits; public opinion surveys (e.g., distribution o f questionnaires, letters, interviews); experts consultation;


                                                       -92 -

public meetings at neighborhood committees inthe project areas; stakeholders meetings and interviews with
project affected groups, organizations and individuals. The distribution o f pamphlets gave an overview o f
the project and indicatedthe availability o f the draft EA Outline & Summary, for review; and the
announcement o f the second public meeting. Advertisements were also provided inlocal newspapers.

InRoundthree o fpublic consultation, over 500people attended public and stakeholders meetings. A total
o f 4200 copies o f the public questionnaire were distributed inthe three rounds o f public consultation and
4059 copies o f completed questionnaires returned. The public expressed their support to the project in
general and also their concerns and suggestions on specific environmental issues including noise
(construction and traffic), air borne dust, air emission from motor vehicle, traffic planning, landscaping,
etc.

The EA team has responded to the public concerns and suggestions by incorporatingthe following: a series
o f dust control measures during construction; noise insulation and double-glazed windows at sensitive
receptors, which are expected to experience significant incremental increase innoise levels after the project;
and a large scale landscaping program with more new trees planted than those cut during the project, etc.

Public consultation activities and information disclosure for this project is summarized infollowing tables:


       Stage              Form        By whom and for          Time            Location          WB Policy
                                            whom
                                       ByPMO & EA          Sept 4,2002        Conference          OP 4.01
      round              meeting        team for local                       room, Wuhan
                                           people's                            Municipal
                                        representative                      Design Institute
                                         and Youth
                                         Volunteers
                     Public meeting    By PMO & EA Sept 6-7,2003              Changqing,          OP 4.01
                                      team for project  I                   Qingshan Park,
                                      iffected residents                     and Beibuting
                     Public opinion   ByPMO & EA Sept 13-20,200:              Project road        OP 4.01
                         survey            team for                              areas
                                          randomly
                                           selected
 I                                    individuals inthe
                                         project area
 Draft EA report     Public meeting   ByPMO & EA           Dec 28,2002          xuping            OP 4.01
                                      team for project                        Department
                                      iffectedresidents                     Store; Xibeihu
                                                                                 Plaza
                                      ByPMO & EA Dec 26,2002 to               Project road        OP 4.01
                         survey           team for         Jan 3,2003            areas
                                          randomly
                                           selected
                                         individuals
                                      ByPMO & EA March 17,2003                 East Lake          OP 4.01
      review            meeting       eam for agencies                        Scenery Site


                                                     - 93 -

                                  md organizations                    Management
                                   related to East                    Commission
                                        Lake                             Office
                                    management
                   Public opinion  By PMO & EA        March 28 to     Project road        OP 4.01
                       survey         team for       April 6,2003        areas
                                     randomly
                                      selected
                                    individual of
                                    proiect areas



       Information                 Date                LocatiodMedia               WE3 policy
Notice to the public about      Sept 5,2002          Wuhan EveningNews,              OP 4.01;
  the public meetings,          Sept 5,2002            Changjiang Daily       Policy on Disclosure of
 locations, and contents                                                           Information
Project summary and key         Sept 9,2002        Wuhan Communications                 I 1

    EAinformation                                            Radio
Notice to the public on         Dec 28,2002           Wuhan TV stations                 I1

 secondround o f public         Dec 29,2002          WuhanEveningNews
 consultation including
 locations and contents
Advertisement on draft          Feb 19,2003          WuhanEvening News                  I1

        ,EAreport
Draft EA report and EMP      Since Feb 18,2003        Wuhan public library              I 1

                                                     No. 4 Railway Design
                                                           Institute
                                                      WuhanAcademy of
                                                    Environmental Sciences
Final EA report and EMP    From March 30, 2003        Wuhan public library              I1
                                                     No. 4 Railway Design
                                                            Institute
                                                      WuhanAcademy of
                                                    Environmental Sciences




                                                - 94 -

 AdditionalAnnex 12: Resettlement Impacts and ResettlementAction Plan Summary
                             CHINA: Wuhan Urban Transport Project

Introduction

This annex reviews the adverse impacts o flandacquisition andstructural demolition engendered bythe
Wuhan UrbanTransport Project, and the arrangements proposed inthe Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) to
mitigate them. Consistent withWorld Bank Policy OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, the objectives o f
resettlement planning are to avoid or minimize adverse impacts, and to ensure that incomes and living
standards are improved (or at least restored) for all persons displaced by the project. Special care has been
taken inresettlement planning to ensure that relocation or rehabilitationmeasures are sufficient inareas
where low-income families are particularly prevalent.

Both the road network improvement component and the public transport component o f the project are likely
to involve landacquisition and resettlement. The RAP includes detailed coverage regarding the road
network improvement component, based on census and survey data collected specifically for project
purposes. Because the precise nature o f impacts associated with the public transport component will not be
known untilthe final designs are prepared during the implementation phase o f the project, the RAP includes
only preliminary estimates o f expected adverse impacts, which are expected to be relatively minor. The
Wuhan Municipal Government will prepare a separate resettlement implementation plan, consistent with
the principles and standards established inthe project RAP, for Bank review and acceptance at least six
months before the commencement o f civil works inthe transport component.

StructureDemolitionand Resettlement-RelatedImpacts

Based on project designs, a total o f 28,756 persons would be affected, to varying degrees, by land
acquisition or structural demolition. The road network improvement component includes activities scattered
throughout both urban and suburban areas o f Wuhan. Inurban areas, resettlement activities will involve
62 residential neighborhood committees; insuburban areas, 48 villages will be affected by loss of land or
structural demolition. Additionally, 273 shops, enterprises, or public institutions would be affected. The
total number o f persons required to relocate their residence would be 9,072 (2,478 households). A total o f
19,693 employees may be temporarily affected by transitional closing o f shops or enterprises. No one will
lose employment permanently because o f the project.

The road network improvement component will require permanent acquisition o f 176 hectares o f
collectively owned land insuburban areas. Of this amount, about 125 hectares are under some form o f
cultivation (including approximately 97 hectares o f fishponds). The remainder is used for rural house plots
or other local purposes, or is unutilized wasteland.

Relatively minor designchanges are likely to continue untilimplementationbegins. Typically, final designs
result inmarginal decreases inland acquisition and structural demolition, as well as changes inproportion
among categories o f affected land and structures.




                                                     - 95 -

Legal and PolicyFramework

The legal basis for structural demolition, land acquisition and resettlement planningincludes national,
provincial and local laws and regulations. Relevant national laws or regulations include the Urban
Structure Demolition Management Regulation (2001) and the LandAdministration Law (1999).

InChina, all landofficially designated as urbanlandis ownedbythe State while village collectives ownall
cultivated rural land. Hence there are two types o f land acquisition involved inthis project. One is to
acquire State-owned landwithout payment andthe second is to acquire collectively owned rural land with
replacement compensation and other forms o f assistance provided to the collectives that stand to lose the
land permanently.

When collectively owned farmland is acquired, the future land user pays compensation for land, loss o f
crops and attached properties, and a resettlement subsidy for the rehabilitation o f affected persons.
According to the Land Administration Law (as revisedin 1999), the land compensation will be 6 to 10
times the average annual output value per mu for the three years before land acquisition. The resettlement
subsidy, determined according to the number of agricultural population to be resettled, is up to 15 times the
average annual output per mu.

Crop compensation and compensation for affected structures or other fixed assets are paid directly to
individuals. The land compensation and resettlement subsidy is to be paid directly to the village-based
collectives losing the land. This compensation is to be used for.production development, non-farm
employment and income-generating activities for the displaced people. With the prior approval o f village
members and the county resettlement office, the compensation can also be used for improving community
facilities or services. By law, separate accounts on resettlement compensation are to be kept at each
affected village, with financial reports provided annually to the next higher level o f government.

The State Urban Structure DemolitionManagement Regulation is more detailed and comprehensive than
the land law. Please refer to RAP for detailed information.

CompensationStandardsand RehabilitationMeasures

Compensation rates are based on replacement cost for various categories o f affected assets, such as the
actual structure and the zonal valuations reflecting the varyingvalue o f urban land. Land compensation i s
based o n the highest average annual output value per mu among the same landinthe affected municipal
districts. Ineach case, compensation rates meet or exceed legal requirements, and meet or exceed
replacement cost valuation.

The land compensation rates vary inthe seven affected municipal districts. The average landcompensation
rate including resettlement subsidy is 1,077,780 RMB (about US$71,852) per hectare. The average paddy
land rate excluding resettlement subsidy is Yuan 718,520 (about US$87,624) per hectare, which is ten
times the average agricultural output. The amount o f resettlement subsidy for loss o f paddy landis Yuan
1,077,780 (about US$131,436) per hectare, which is fifteen times the average agricultural output.
Compensation rates for each locality are listed in Chapter 7 o f the RAP.




                                                     -96  -

Nominal compensation rates for residential structures ranges fiom Yuan 290 (about US$35) to Yuan 800
(US$lOO) per square meter. Illegal structures requiring demolition will be compensated at full replacement
cost for the structure itself, but without supplemental payment for zonal valuation. Inmany cases, local
authorities may increase compensation rates for demolished structures inresponse to localvariations in
property valuation or to meet other local contingencies. Inall cases, however, compensation will meet or
exceed standards established inthe RAP.

The project will also affect public infrastructure. Compensation at replacement cost will be paid to the
relevant government agencies or local governments to restore affected infrastructure and services. The
replacement cost will be reported to the municipal government for review.

The proposed road improvements will pass primarily through suburban areas. The population densities are
comparatively high, with an average of 0.5 mu (or about .03 hectares) o f land per person. Resettlement
planning has includedreview o f impacts on incomes invillages that will be affected. Typically, villages
contract farmland to farmers yearly and agricultural income generally constitutes less than 10% o f village
residents' income. Crop compensation will be allocated to each individual by cash and villages will take the
responsibility o f livelihood restoration.

According to the state land law, the calculation o f number o f displaced surplus laborers caused by land
acquisition is based on the registered rural laborers, regardless o f whether they rely o n agricultural income
or are employed inenterprises or private business. Therefore, the level o f actual displacement is less than
the statistical level o f surplus laborers. The RAP sampled four villages' rehabilitation plans to review the
potential effectiveness o f alternatives for livelihood restoration. Most, but not all, villages are expected to
redistribute remaining collective land after land acquisition so that all villagers retain a share o f land. In
such cases, the land compensation and resettlement subsidy will be used to invest inproductive activities or
to improve local living standards.

Insome villages, landwill notberedistributed ifthe remaining sharesbecome too small for practical use,
or ifvillagers do not rely on agricultural income. Insuch cases, village consultation meetings will identify
the villagers to be considered displaced surplus laborers. Rehabilitation arrangements ineach village also
are subject to village consultation (requiring a two-thirds approval). Insome cases, individuals may choose
to receive a cash resettlement subsidy (at minimum, an amount equal to the total resettlement subsidy
received by the village divided by the number o f displaced surplus laborers). These individuals can then
engage inself-employment or find their own employment opportunities. Inother cases, those identified as
displaced surplus laborers will be offered employment invillage or township enterprises, with a minimum
salary o f 500 RMB per month. Those to be provided employment will receive 500 RMB per month in
transitional support untilthey are actually employed.

The rehabilitation plan for house replacement is divided into two phases based on the two designed schemes
- Year 1, and Year 2-to-5 schemes. Inthe Year 1 scheme, 60 percent o f households will be offered cash
compensation, 20 percent o f low income households will be allocated highly subsidized apartments, and
20% o f the households will have the option to purchase second-hand houses inan urban area. Inthe Year
2-to-5 scheme, most of the affected households will be offered apartments for purchase at a discounted
price. Rural residents have been offered two options. They can either get a fully prepared replacement plot
to reconstruct housing intheir village, or they can elect to receive 150 percent o f replacement cost in
compensation for their demolished structure to purchase replacement housing outside o f their village. As in
urban areas, rural low-income households will be eligible for other forms o f assistance, including eligibility
for subsidized rental apartments or discounted apartments for purchase.



                                                      -  97 -

The loss o f benefits to enterprises andprivate businesses during the construction period will be negotiated
through extensive consultation. Shops and enterprises will receive payment for loss o f profits andwages,
and affected employees will receive support for the transitional period untilnormal operations can resume.
The enterprises involved are owned by the municipal government and local district collectives. Impact
surveys indicate that, inmost cases, the enterprises will be affected partially by the extension o f the road
improvement and that the main structures or workshops will not be demolished. Therefore, productionwill
not be affected seriously and the enterprises do not need to be relocated to other places. Ifthe enterprises
prefer to restore production by themselves, the project implementing agency will provide them with cash
compensation and negotiated transitional cash assistance. For private businesses, the project implementing
agency will pay compensation at replacement cost for lost structures and improvements required therein,
will provide assistance to offset temporary business losses and to provide temporary wage support for
employees, and will pay for moving expenses. Additionally, the project will provide information relatingto
available alternative business locations andrental costs, and insome cases will assist businesses in
relocating into specialized markets or into newly constructed housing areas.

The project management office has conducted a detailed household survey. Low-income families,
single-mother families, andvulnerable groups o f people have been identified. Municipal government will
offer preferential policies, during implementation o f the project, to 20 percent o f the economically and
socially disadvantaged families affected by the project components.

InstitutionalArrangements

InChina, the project management office has no authority to acquire landinrural area throughregulatory
means, or to directly implement any resettlement-relatedmeasures. Landacquisition authority, and
resettlement-relatedresponsibilities, lie insteadwith the municipal districts involved. Under such
circumstances, close coordination between the project management office and the relevant land
administration bureaus is essential for effective resettlement. For State owned land inurban area, the land
to be used will be transferred from landadministration bureaus to the project management office.

Buildingonpast Bank experience withprojects inHubei Province and inWuhan, the municipal
government and municipal districts have established a "leading group" to address any issues that may arise
duringimplementation. The project management office has also established an intemal resettlement
rehabilitation office and relevant divisions to work with district-level authorities on routine matters.

Moreover, the project management office will reduce the process o f resettlement fund cash flow inorder to
avoid the fund deduction, which may incur during the disbursement o f the fund. The project management
office will also strengthen the capacity o f district-level and resettlement fund management. A computer
software-based resettlement management network will be set up for all affected districts. A Resettlement
monitoring institute will establish monitoring stations inall involved districts for dynamic and systematic
monitoring. The monitoring stations will invite resettlement representatives to participate inmonitoring
resettlement work.

Community Participationand PublicDisclosure

Potentially affected communities were consulted during both project design and preparation o f the RAP.
Additional formal and informal consultations were undertaken at both the district level and the residential
committee level.




                                                        - 98 -

For RAP preparation, the consultation process was initiated during the process o f conducting a census and
socioeconomic surveys, which began inMarch 2001. Potentially displaced persons were involved in
identifying project-related impacts and inmeasuring potential losses of land, structures and other assets.
Residential committees and village-level consultations also took place inearly 2002 to review proposed
compensation rates and other aspects o f the RAP. The consultation process will continue throughout the
implementation phase, inconjunction with resettlement monitoring activities.

Information regarding the project and the resettlement program has been publicly disclosed as requiredby
Bank policy. The draft RAP is available for public review at the provincial andmunicipal libraries, with
notification published inWuhan Daily on February 19,2003. Additionally, the draft RAP was placed in
the Bank Informationshop inFebruary 2003. Inaddition to formal RAP disclosure, separate campaigns
have been, or will be, undertaken to ensure that affected persons are informed about resettlement aspects o f
direct relevance to them. This information, published inbooklets for distribution to households or in
posters for residential committee or village display, includes the projected timetable, compensation
standards, rehabilitation measures, and information regarding whom to contact and procedures to be
followed for those with complaints.

ResettlementCost andImplementationSchedule

The cost o f implementing resettlement measures is estimated at RMB 1,585.63 million (about US$193.4
million), including payment o f associated fees, monitoring costs and contingency allowances. Estimated
resettlement costs are included inthe project budget.

MonitoringofResettlementImplementation

Resettlement implementationwill be subject to external project monitoring, to be conducted by a team
functioning independently o f the project owner andprovincial resettlement implementing agencies. The
monitoring institute is requested to set up monitoring stations in all involved municipal districts andto
supervise resettlement implementation dynamically and systematically. Independent monitoring reports will
be submitted to the project management office and the Bank twice a year. The reports will review whether
implementationis in compliance with RAP terms and will evaluate the effectiveness of resettlement
measures inimproving or restoring incomes and living standards.




                                                     - 99 -

                     Additional Annex 13: Wuhan PublicTransport System:
                           Current Situation, Improvementsand Reform
                             CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project

Introductionand Background

1.       This Annex summarizes Wuhan Municipal Government's current plans for improvements to public
transport services and the reform o f Wuhan's public transport sector. It also outlines the possible role that
the Bank project could play insupporting this reform. Past Bank experience (since SMTP Iin 1991)
suggests that the Bank cannot lead reform but only support measures beingproposed by municipalities and
encourage decision makers. The Bank's role thus far has been limitedto providing `knowledge' input when
requested.

2.       Wuhan municipality has been formulating and implementing proposals for public transport reform
since August 2001. A Wuhan team including senior staff from several agencies visited six other Chinese
cities that have undertaken PT reform, and analyzed their experiences. A draft Wuhan Public Transport
(PT) Reformprogram-wasprepared, reviewed by a wide range o f staff, and submitted to the government
for approval. The government has agreed to the proposal inprinciple. Implementation o f the reform
program began in February 2003.

3.       The core o f the reform is to gradually strengthen the institutions, management and operations o f
the Wuhan PT sector by
(i)      separating the government and enterprise functions o f the PT sector,
(ii)     providing clearly defined regulatory arrangements,
(iii)    rationalizing the bus route management and competition,
(iv)     gradually increasing the financial independence o f the operating andmaintenance companies,
(v)      attracting other (non government) resources into the sector, and
(vi)     transforming gradually the operating companies into limited liability companies.

Wuhan is working intensively on the agenda and its implementation.

Current Situation

4.       OrganizationalArrangements. Before August 2001, PT sector management and operations were
the responsibility o f the Wuhan Public Facilities Management Bureau. PT sector management is now the
responsibility o f four government departments: Wuhan State-Owned Property Management Commission,
WuhanTransport Commission (WTC), WuhanProperty Price ManagementBureau, and Wuhan Finance
Bureau. The roles andresponsibilities o f these departments are outlined below.

4.1      WuhanState-Owned Property Management Commission representing the Wuhan Municipal
                                                                         -
Government, the Commission authorizes the state-owned PT enterprises to function as investors in
state-owned property. It also cooperates with the concemed government departments to appoint and
monitor the performance o f managers o f the state-owned P T enterprises. Inaddition the Commission is
responsible for
    0    checking and approving changes inproperty rights' or major asset transactions o f the state-owned
         PT enterprises.
    0    checking and evaluating the operational achievements o f the state-owned PT enterprises, and giving
         performance related awards or penalties.


                                                     -100-

     0  supervising the state-owned PT enterprises financial and capital activities.

4.2      Wuhan Transport Commission i s responsiblefor
     0  checking the qualifications o f PT enterprises inWuhan as well as the supervision and overall
        management o f the operations o f these enterprises,
     0  working out the PT development plan for Wuhan as well as specifying the PT level o f service, PT
        routes and the location o f PT stops and interchanges,
     0  management o f the operating rights o f PT routes, and
     0  collecting urban PT statistics
The commission also cooperates with the Property Price Management Bureau to monitor PT fares, assists
the relevant departments o f the govemment to work out the prices for PT tickets and the monthly-pass, and
then implements fare revisions once approved.

4.3      WuhanProperty Price Management Bureau is responsiblefor
     0  supervising and checking the implementation o f the price regulated for the PT tickets and the
        monthly-pass, and
     0  checking and approving the price adjustment to PT ticket and monthly-pass according to the
        change inprice indices and PT development.

4.4      Wuhan Finance Bureau is responsible for carrying out an annual review o f the financial position
o f PT enterprises, and based on this review, for working out the financial subsidy policy and the related
subsidyplan for the following year.

5.      PublicTransport Companies. Wuhan currently has two public transport enterprises -the
Wuhan Public Transport General Company (WPTGC) and the Wuhan Tongheng Corporation Limited.
WPTGC consists o f eight operating companies: seven branch companies (six bus companies and the
trolleybus company), and a sub company - the ferry company which is an independent legal entity. The
Tonghen Corporation i s ajoint venture between the General Bus Company and a Hong Kong Company.

5.1     Employees.        The enterprises collectively employ 27,868 active employees (of the total
employees about 10 percent are employed inmaintenance, 37 percent are drivers, and 7 percent are
conductors) andare also responsible for 5,296 retirees (a total o f 34,164 employees). Overall, the
enterprises have five employees per bus, which by international standards is acceptable for buses operated
with conductors.

5.2     PT enterprises'fmed assets. The initialvalue (inNovember, 2003), of the original asset o f
WPTGC was 1492.36 million yuan, and the net value (after allowing for depreciation) was 896.02 million
yuan. The original fixed assets o f the enterprises that are not independent legal entities was 1167.45
million yuan, and the corresponding net value is 665.99 millionyuan. The original fixed assets o f the
independent legal entity subsidiary companies was 196.14 million yuan, and the corresponding net value
was 101.26 million yuan. The value o f the landassigned to PTGC was 128.77 million yuan. The fixed
asset are categorized as: a) operational Buses, b) other Vehicles, c) buildings (depots, parking areas, etc.),
d) equipment (for maintenance, re-fueling, etc.), ande) other assets (office equipment, living quarters,
etc.). The value o f these assets is shown inthe table below.




                                                     -101 -

         Other vehicles                                      706                         375                    33 1
         Buildings                                        5,132                       2,866                  2,266
         Equipment                                        2,226                        1,246                    980
         Other                                            3,436                        1,266                 2,170
         Sub-total                                       19,614                        9,488                 10,126
         Land                                            12,877                                              12,877
I             Total                    I                149.236     I                 59.634  I              89.602 I


6.       PublicTransport Operations

6.1      PTRoute Distribution. Wuhan PT systemcomprises 248 routes, among which there are 89
monthly-pass bus routes (including 7 trolleybus routes) and 159nonmonthly-pass bus routes. The total
route lengthis 4391.1KM, and the route network lengthis 735.5KM. The route network density is
2.98KMKM2. The network also consists o f 8 passenger ferry lines, 2 vehicle ferry lines and 21 mini-bus
routes.

6.2      PT Buses and Boats. Wuhan PT systemaltogether comprises 5640 buses and trolleybuses,
among which 1277 are assignedto monthly-pass routes, 4363 to non monthly-pass routes (including 843
air-condition buses, 236 trolleybuses, 120 double-deck buses). The system also consists of 15 passenger
ferry boats, 7 vehicle ferry boats (with a total capacity o f 127 vehicles)., and 464 mini-buses. There are
16.3 buses/10,000 people. Inaddition, 1,290 taxis operate inWuhan.

6.3      PT Passenger Volumes. The total PT daily passengervolume is 2.75 million persontrips
(non-including taxi ridership). The mode share of urban PT is 21.74% (of all trips including walking and
cycling).

6.4      PT Facilities There are 68 sites designated for PT use inWuhan (including public land). The
total area is 810,000M2, and the built up area is 230,982M2. Wuhan PT system consists o f 1,200 stops,
and 111 other facilities, including 4 interchanges, and 37 termini. There are eleven depots with a parking
capacity o f 3950 standardbuses, and an annual maintenance capacity for 3560 standard buses.

6.5     Financial Situation. In2002, overall operating costs were 1081million yuan, and revenues 1042
million yuan, a cost recovery o f 96 percent, requiringan operating subsidy o fjust 39 million yuan. The
average fare was 1.1 yuan.



                                                    - 102-

7.      PT fare settingprocedure. The current procedure for fare setting and adjustment is as follows.
        (i)      PT enterprises submit an application for fare adjustment to the Wuhan Property Price
                 Management Bureau and the Wuhan Transport Commission.
        (ii)     Wuhan Property Price Management Bureaureviews P T enterprises' operating costs.
        (iii)    Based on the results o f this review, Wuhan Property Price Management Bureau decide
                 whether to institute the fare adjustment procedure,.
        (iv)     After approval is given to institute the adjustment procedure, the PT enterprises submit an
                 application to an information gathering meeting.
        (v)      After the information gathering meeting,, Wuhan Property Price Management Bureau
                 submits the applicationto the Wuhan Municipal Government and the Provincial Property
                 Price Management Bureaux.
        (vi)     The Provincial Property Price Management Bureau makes a decision, based on the
                 information supplied, whether to grant a fare increase.
InOctober, 2003, inorder to maintainPT fares at areasonable level, which is beneficial to the enterprises'
development and also acceptable to the public, Wuhan PTGC has submitted an application for fare
adjustment to Wuhan Transport Commission and Wuhan Property Price Management Bureau. A fare
adjustment is anticipated inthe first half o f 2004.

8.      PT routes-Managementof OperatingRights. Inorder to standardize the management o f PT-
operating rights and to improve service quality, Wuhan Transport Commission issued and has gradually
implemented, startinginJuly,2003, the "Wuhan Bus and Trolleybus Operational ManagementRegulation".
The main contents o f the Regulation are as follows:
        (i)      Authorization o f route operating rights. The regulation clearly specifies the procedures,
                 conditions andtime limits for the authorization o f these rights. The time limit is 2 to 6
                 years. The operators will be authorized for 2 years, 4 years or 6 years' based on the
                 opinions of the public.
        (ii)     Management o f route operating rights. The regulation clearly specifies the procedure o f
                 route operating rights' adjustment, change and cancellation. It especially regulates the
                 service assessment standard, assessmentmethod and penalties. The service assessment
                 standard includes the service level, safety o f operations, bus condition, settlement o f
                 complaints, and the publics' assessment. The assessment will be undertaken once a year.
                 Itwill take the opinions o fthe managing departments, social agencies and the public into
                 consideration. The result o f the assessmentwill determine whether the operator retains the
                 operating rights or inpenalized for poor performance.

InJuly,2003, Wuhan Transport Commission chose 43 PT routes, which hadgood service quality and
management for the initial award o f operating rights. Through this award, the management and monitoring
procedures have been strengthened, and service quality has improved. There was a favorable response from
the public. Basedonthis experience, Wuhan Transport Commission will increase in2004 the number o f
routes awarded. It is planned to strengthen this process extensively over the next 2 years.

9.      PT routenetworkoptimization Interms o f PT fleet size, route length and distribution,
operational efficiency and service quality, Wuhan's PT service occupies a leading place inChina,
especially inthe aspect o f convenience and accessibility. However, with the development o f Wuhan's
economy and inorder to achieve the innovative, customer orientated and practical service goals proposed
by the government, Wuhan PT mustdevelop to a higher level. Consequently, the Wuhan Transport
Commission and PTGC will use the opportunity provided by the World Bank loan to undertake the



                                                    -  103-

construction o f PT interchanges andtermini, and to push forward the customer responsive optimization o f
the route network.

9.1      WTC and WPTGC Objectivesfor PT route network optimization. Optimize the route network to
provide a more reasonable distribution o f interchanges; make full use o f P T resources to realize more
regional and professional operations; moderately reduce the operation capacity incentral town; relocate
some congested stops to reduce delay time as well as passengers' trip time; reduce route duplication as well
as route length; increase PT mode share.

9.2      Scope of PT route network optimization.
         (i)     Reduction of route duplication. PTGC has begunto combine the routes where 80% o f the
                 route length is duplicated
         (ii) Distancebasedfares. PTGChasimplementedadistance-basedfareon45routeswhich
                  are not easily adjusted.
         (iii) "ExpressBusRoutes". Introductionof "Express BusRoute"betweenlocationswhich
                 have large passenger volumes.
It is proposed to establish a network of "Three Layers and One central point" through all these
adjustments. The first layer connects with the long-distance transport services at the middle-ring road and
also serves the new residential areas. The second layer consists o f the PT termini and interchanges between
the middle-ring road and the inner-ring road, which not only benefit the passengers but also connect with
the railways. The thirdlayer consists o f several large interchanges on the inner-ring road, which connect
with the light railtransit.

9.3      Achievements of PT route network optimization
         (i)      Route duplication has been reduced and route network coverage has been expanded. The
                  route network is expanding to the middle-ring road and the boundary between the urban
                  and rural area.
         (ii)     Route network density has been increased. The transport demand o f the urban area is now
                  being met to a greater extent.
         (iii)    PT' level o f service has been strengthened.
         (iv)     PT route length has reached a reasonable level.
         (v)      PT stops are now more evenly distributed, which has solved the problem o f buses queuing
                  at stops and made trips faster and more convenient for passengers

Future Developments

10.      Establishmentof rapidPT corridors. Based onthe existing situation, and the requirements for
future development, the current ideas about establishing urban PT rapid transit corridors are set out below.

10.1     Simultaneouslyplan the BRT system network and implement PTpriority measures.
         (i)      Implement PT priority measures that are customer oriented. Extendthe existing bus only
                  lane from Wu Luo road to Luo Yu road.
         (ii)     Implement PT priority measures on the inner-ring road. It is planned to establish a high
                  standard rapid PT system between intersections along Zhongnan road, Zhongbei road,
                  Xudong road and Jiefang road.

10.2     Rapid PT system study. The Objectives o f this study are (i) formulate the Wuhan rapid PT
                                                                        to
system development strategy and (ii) specify the related implementationprocedures. The scope o f the
                                        to
study will include: a) rapid PT corridor study (PT only lanehoad), b) technical specifications and choice o f


                                                     - 104-

bus type, c) fare management methods, d) PT terminus and interchange study, e) PT priority and ITS, and
f ) passenger information and bus management systems

10.3     Rapid PT system design Based on Wuhan rapid PT system study as well as domestic and
international experience, it is plannedto work out a practical rapid PT system designprogram. The
objective is to design an advanced system that is feasible interms o f finance and operations. The scope o f
the design program will include: a) P T only lane or road design, b) Technical specifications and choice o f
bus type, c) fare management methods, d) PT terminus and interchange design, e) P T priority and ITS
techniques, f ) passenger information and bus management systems, and g) operational management
systems  .

PT Reform

11.      Wuhan Ideas aboutthe Next Steps

11.1 PT management institutional reform Inorder to strengthen the institutionalreform o fPT
management, to realize the goals o f (i)  separating government and enterprise functions; and (ii)separating
govemment and state-owned property, and to establish modem state-owned property management and PT
operating systems, Wuhan Communist Party Commission and Wuhan Municipal Government carried out
the PT management institutional reform program in April, 2003. The original General Bus Company,
Trolleybus Company, Ferry Company, Taxi Company, Vehicle Ferry Institute and Bus Manufacturer were
re-organized to form the new Wuhan PTGC. After its foundation, PTGC adjusted the PT operational
structure and PT resource allocation, which improved the efficiency o f usage o f state-owned property.
These measures increased the value o f state-owned property and laid a good basis for the future
development of urban PT

11.2      Sellpart of the state-ownedproperty and change the staffs employer
Method of institutional change: PTGC will sell its operating buses andpart o f the production equipment.
The income will be used to change the PT companies and to assist staff to change their employer. PTGC
will also invest part o fits property to formjoint-ventures with thirdparties. The newjoint-ventures will
runthe existingPTroutes.
Scope of institutional change: All seven operating companies belonging to WPTGC, and the ancillary
companies (theproperty company, station managing company, PT checking-line company, education
center, information center, advertisement company and I C card company) will be included inthis
institutional change.
Staffaffected by the institutional change: The total number o f registered staff affected by the institutional
change is 24,000, among whom 23,000 are employed by WPTGC, and another 1,000 by the ancillary
companies. After the institutionalchange, 86% o f the total staff will have changed their employer.
Assets concerned in the institutional change: The assets covered include: operating buses, productive
equipment and intangible assets (PT route goodwill)

11.3     Establishjoint-ventures. Investors will be invitedto purchase part of state-owned assets from
PTGC. The investor then uses these assets and his working capital as their investment inthe joint-venture.
Wuhan,PTGC invests part o f its remaining tangible and intangible assets inthe joint-venture.

11.4     Undertakings Required of Investors. Investors must be in good financial condition and have
sufficient resources to cover operating costs. They must have sufficient operational and management staff,
and technicians, and use scientific management methods. They must also be prepared to accept regulation
and supervision by government and the responsible govemment departments. The investors must also


                                                     -105-

accept to (a) hired employees according to the ratio o f four staff per bus, (b) sign a new contract with the
employees according to the national labor laws, (c) take responsibility for public welfare programs, such as
free tickets for the aged, and persons with disabilities, and the issuingo f monthly-passes, (d) implement the
fare andmonthly-pass prices, as regulated by Wuhan Property Price Management Bureau, and (e)
implement the route adjustment or route network optimization program, as regulated by Wuhan Transport
Commission.

11.5     Proposalsfor Current StafJ The total number o f PTGC and ancillary companies staff is 24,000.
The newjoint-ventures are expected to hire an estimated 20,000 employees o f the PTGC. Generally
speaking, all staff o f PTGC and its ancillary companies will be expected to apply for jobs inthe newjoint
ventures.

12.      Governmentpolicysupport. For manyyears, WulianCommunist Party Commissionand
WuhanMunicipalGovernment have shown great interest inthe development ofPT. Many
policies supporting PT have been implemented, which have assisted inthe continuous rapid
development o f PT and significant improvements is service quality. The these can b e

12.1     Policies givingpriority to the PT system
         (i)      Givepriority to efpcient operations. Give priority to buses on street so as to avoid the
                  interference from other traffic, and to create a good environment for bus operations.
         (ii)     Givepriority to land usefor PT. Give priority to land use for PT inthe planning stage,
                  andinclude PT land use plan into overall City Development Plan.
         (iii)    Assure capital investmentfor PT construction. Give priority to capital allocation for
                  construction o f P T depots and stops, which should assure the sustained development o f
                  urban PT.
         (iv)     Assure convenient transfers for passengers. Fully consider the connection betweenurban
                  PT and airlines, long-distance transport, railways, boats and light-rail.

12.2     On street PTpriority measures
         (i)      Provide bus only lanes. Provide bus only lanes on some main roads, with more than six
                  lanes. Provide bus only lanes on some roads, which have only four lanes but have many
                  PT routes. The latter bus only lanes shouldbe used at particular time periods.

    ,    (ii)     Permit PT buses to do left-tums at some intersections, where such tums are not permitted
                  for other traffic.
         (iii)    Permit P T buses runboth directions insome one way roads.
         (iv3     Move the stop line inthe bus only lane closer to the intersection, and give PT buses signal
                  priority to go first through the intersection.
         (v)      Use some secondary roads as bus only roads.
         (vi)     Provide temporary stopping places for taxis.

12.3     Welfare Subsidies. Wuhan Municipal Government gives PT enterprises subsidies every year for
their welfare activities, such as the monthly-pass, free fares for the old, the blind, persons with disabilities,
and the disabled soldiers, which assures the healthy development o f urban PT.

Bank Comments on Reform Proposals

13.      CurrentStatus ofReform. Mucho fthe focus thus far has been on clarifying roles and
responsibilities inPT with an emphasis on addressing the first two objectives i.e. separation o f government


                                                      - 106-

from operations and development o f a clear regulatory structure. Some progress has been made on the
thirdobjective busroute management. The Wuhan Public Transport Group Company (WPTGC) has
                 -
already been founded, but the six bus branch companies and one trolley-bus Branch Company o f WPTGC
are not independent legal entities at this stage. Wuhan Transport Commission is responsible for the PT
studies and the PT plan, authorized by the municipal government. Experts (including experts from Urban
Planning Department) will review the finished plan. After its approval, the plan will be implementedby
WTC and be introduced into the UrbanMaster Plan.

14.      Needfor a systematic and comprehensive fare policy. The process described inparagraph 6
should permit the operators to recover costs. However this needs to be accompanied by systematic
analyses by WTC on the need to increase bus fares. Muchremains to be done in developing an appropriate
fare policy, as the current proposals for route network optimization and P T priority appear to leave much
o f the decision making to WPTGC.
15.      PTNetworkoptimization. The proposals for route network optimization described inparagraph
8 needto be accompanied by a review o f route networks and service levels is requiredto address the
observed low operational productivity. The operating companies are spread too thin, and routes and
schedules need to be revised. WMG agencies have expressed concem at what they describe as the overlap
of routes - different routes operated by different companies runningalong a number o f main roads inthe
city center. Ifthe passenger demand exists for the capacity provided by all the routes the Task Team does
not see this as a particular problem. There are many examples from cities outside China o f multiple routes
sharing long sections o f road.

16.      Needfor an operationalreview. Other aspects o fbus operations also merit review. The current
staffbus ratio o f about five staff per bus could be reduced to around 3.5 per bus or below, given the recent
introduction o f one person operation (OPO). Passenger and driver behavior at bus stops also has the
potential for improvement. Problems were observed at barriered, single lane bus stops with the bus at the
head o f the queue holdingup the buses behind Since buses do not stop exactly at the bus stops, proper
passenger queues do not form and as a result boarding at busy stops is somewhat disorganized. The
introduction o f OPO will require passengers to board at the front door and this will encourage queuing and
will require drivers to better observe the stops. The schedule adherence is also reported to be poor. An
operational review will examine scheduling o fbuses andthe dispatching and monitoring o f buses inservice.
The current practice o f allocating spare buses on a route-by- route basis is inefficient and an operational
review would help the operators switch their operations to pool spare buses and become more depot or
district basedrather than route based. The reform proposals may also affect day to day operations. The
full implications o freformwould be considered inan operational review.

17.      Laborreform. Itis envisioned that WPTGC will carry out the labor andwage reform inthe
sub-companies and branch operating companies. While details o f the staffing reform are still being
finalized, As a guidingprinciple it has been established that
     0   Appropriate assistance will be provided to employees made redundant, such as early retirement,
         retraining, or assistance to start their own businesses.
     0   Wage reform will focus on incentive policies that would link wage increases to increases in
         employee productivity and efficiency.

The Bank's assistance toward the Wuhan PT reform

18.      The Bank's role thus far has been to serve as a knowledge bank, providing input to the Wuhan
team (when asked) on issues related to:



                                                     - 107-

         (i)     developing a more comprehensive understandingo f the current issues
         (ii)    developing clear objectives for reform and understanding local constraints to change
         (iii)   providing an overview o f the broader experience with public transport reform inChina and
                 elsewhere
         (iv)    developing a phased approach to reform.

19.      Itis currently envisioned that duringProject implementation, the Bank will continue to have further
dialogue with Wuhan PT reform team on all aspects o f the Wuhan PT reform. Inaddition, it i s envisaged
that the Bank project could finance:
                 Specific TA on competitive biddingo f routes, types o f contract and on the job training o f
                 W T C staff managing the biddingprocess
                 On-the-job training for other aspects o f W T C responsibilities (overall planning, service
                 monitoring etc)
                 Advice and on-the-job training to W T C on fare setting, different types o f fares and fare
                 media, revenue sharing
                 Advice and on-the-job training to the operating companies on network development,
                 patronage and revenue forecasting, cost forecasting and general business planning
                 Advice on setting reasonable profit levels with associated fare determination mechanisms
                 to help operating companies achieve these profit levels
                 Advice on developing five-year financial plans for the companies
                 Consultant services to study Wuhan P T planning and improvements to the P T bus route
                 network
                 Consultant services on Bus Rapid Transit Network development, design and
                 implementation




                                                   - 108-

             Additional Annex 14: [Developmentof Wuhan Transport Strategy]
                               CHINA:Wuhan Urban Transport Project

Introduction

A key element inthe preparation o fthe Project has beenthe formulation o fthe Wuhan UrbanTransport
Strategy. The strategy is important equally interms o f the inclusiveprocess that is generating it, and the
introduction offinancial constraints, as is the analyticalframework it is producing. The process involved
many WMG agencies working together to create within the overall vision for the development o f the city, a
coordinated and integrated strategy for the development o f the transport system under a number o f
development scenarios andidentified funding constraints.

Following the initial discussions with the Bank regarding the content o f the overall project, WMG
constituted a number o f Working Groups with highlevel representation. The Working Groups jointly
identified a series o f overall goals for the transport sector. These goals were defined inresponse to the key
sector issues that had been identified. A comprehensive transport study was then carried out by the Wuhan
Comprehensive Transport Planning andDesign Institute (WCCTPDI), with technical assistance from
domestic and international consultants.

This process helpedto fill the planningvacuum that previously existed. Although the city had an approved
Master Plan for 2020, there was little indication o f the phasing or priority o f individual components.
Infrastructure investments were being implemented on an ad-hoc basis with little coordination, and no
consideration for the overall vision for city development, or availability o f finance.

Vision
The transport strategy was formulated within this vision for Wuhan city, which can be characterized as:


      0    A city to reinforce its position as an important industrial and trade center, as well as a transport
           andcommunicationhubinthe country
      0    A "people-oriented" transport systemproviding highquality transport system and living
           environment to both residents andvisitors

Goals
The specific transport development goals established by WMG may b e summarized as:


      0    To provide convenient, speedy and comfortable public transport services
      0    To encourage the use ofpublic transport
       0   To minimize the adverse effects ofexternal andthroughtraffic
      0    To strengthen the linkages between the various districts inthe city
      0    To develop the individualareas inthe city with balanced landuses andadequate local
           street system
      0    To improve the efficiency ofthe transport system throughtraffic and demand
           management techniques




                                                       - 109-

Key TransportSector Issues

The key issues identified byWMG may be summarized as follows:

       .    cross-river trafic has increased significantly inrecent years: the original bridges are over-loaded
            and demand is unevenly spread on the newer crossings. Cross-river travel is a major concem in
            Wuhan as it affects the integration o f the three towns within the city.

       *    central area trafic congestion is increasing rapidly as major inner area developments are taking
            place, inparticular inthe central areas o f Hankou. The traffic inthe area, inparticular at
            intersections, has become very congested.

            external trafic is a perennial transport issue inWuhan as it is a major transport hub in central
            China. Several major national highways pass through the study area and two major intercity rail
            lines intersect inWuhan.


       9    the road network is inadequate to support the growth o f vehicle traffic and urban development in
            the outlying areas. The functional roadhierarchy o f the network is incomplete and ill-defined,
            resulting inmost traffic being confined onto a limited number o f major arterials: some key links
            inthe network are missing.

           public transport services are currently fairly good overall (compared with other cities in China):
            however, the route network is not well structured or responsive to changing demands. A
            substantial growth inpatronage, targeted inthe coming years, will need a significant expansion
            inthe services.

ThePlanning Process

At the outset, WMGproduced a long list o fpotential schemes (the initiallist consisted largely o froad
infrastructure schemes) for inclusion inthe Bank project or for implementation using local funding inthe
same period. This list represented the priorities o f the government, inaccordance with the established
Master Plan.

Itwas determined that the total cost o fthe WMGproposals significantly exceeded the likely available
funding at least over the initial five years to 2007. Whilst all the schemes conformedto the adopted and
approved Master Plan, there was little or no indication as to the relative needs or merits o f each individual
scheme to resolve the identified issues.

A detailed analysis of WMGfinancial resources and commitments was undertaken and a realistic
assessment made o f the capacity o f the city to take on additional projects inthe transport sector over and
above those proposed for WB funding. (The summary is presentedinAnnex 5). It was evident from this
analysis that the World Bank loan would constitute the major funding source for the transport sector over
the next five years. Local funding would be restricted to expenditure on minor schemes and the completion
o f current major commitments (4thYangtse Bridge and the extension o f LRT Line 1).

An objective o fthe strategy analysis was thus to prioritize the schemes identifiedand to select those
schemes which most closely responded to the key issues andproblems. WMG, inconjunction with the
Bank, reviewed and screened each o f the proposed projects interms o f traffic demand; resettlement;
environmental impact; conformity to the overall plan and strategy; and overall value for money. A shorter


                                                      - 110-

core list o f schemes for possible Bank funding was thus defined. These were then subjected to more
rigorous alternatives analysis and evaluation using the traffic model. Two alternative strategies were
developed. One focused on improvements to the highway network, the other on the public transport
system. The conclusions drawn from the model analysis were that:


       0       road network improvement, focusing on strengtheningthe road hierarchy will be crucial to
               relieve traffic congestion as well as to improve the efficiency o f bus operation.
       0       bus priority schemes, inthe near future, would be a more cost effective means to improve the
               transit system than buildingthe rail system.
       0       an additional cross-river link inthe core area (QingDao LuTunnel) is essential to relieve the
               traffic on the No. 1 and No. 2 Yantze Bridges.
       0       traffic condition inthe central area o f Hankou will deteriorate greatly inthe near future due to
               the expected growth inthat area and the lack o f well functioning local streets.
       0       the transport strategy, inthe near term (up to 2007), should focus on perfecting the road
               network hierarchy and enhancing system efficiency through bus priority and traffic
               management measures.
       0       the core list o f schemes inthe World Bankproject package would support the achievement o f
               the roadnetwork development goal in2007 given the transport investment constraint. There is
               strong traffic demand for the World Bank projects, except for southern part o f the Middle Ring
               Road, which may need further study.

Strategyfor 2007
Inadditionto the roadinvestments, traffic management andbus priority schemes inthe World Bank
project, the 2007 Strategy resulting from the analysis includes the No. 4 Yantze Bridge and the 2nd phase
o f the No.1 Rail Line (which are considered as committedprojects) and the following govemment funded
schemes:


       0       A north-south minor arterial inthe old airport to relieve traffic on parallel arterials
       0       Extension (upgrade) o f QinYuan Lufrom Wuqing Gan Dao to Heping Lu(Le., to extend the
               Qin YuanLu WB project)
       0       A missing link segment onZiyangDong Lu(from Zhong Shan Luto Saihu Lu,inWuchang)
               to primarily serve local traffic, bicycles and pedestrians.

Due to financial constraints, the Qing Dao LuTunnel, the additional river-crossing link inthe center city
area, was not considered inthe 2007 preferred development scheme. However, the analysis indicates that
the tunnel is crucial and should be built once the necessary construction funding is secured.

Strategyfor 2012
Based on the analysis, the mid-term transport strategy should focus on the following:


       0      Construction o f the Qing Dao LuTunnel
       0      Minor and local streets incentral area to relieve the traffic burden on major arterials.
       0     Local streets inthe new development areas.
       0     Implementationo f the first phase o f the Metro Line No. 2 line to relieve traffic on the radial
             corridor inHankou area.




                                                        -111 -

Long Term Strategy
Inthe longterm, the study suggested that the transport development strategy should cover the following:
      0     Implementation o f additional cross-river links to deal with the increasing congestion on the No.
            1, No. 2 and No. 3 Yantze Bridges, and the Qing Dao LuTunnel.
      0     Completion o f the roadway network with a balanced functional hierarchy, inparticular the
            enhancement o f the local streets system inthe center city area and new development area
      0     Implementation o f highcapacity transit system (BRT, LRT or subway) progressively on major
            transit corridors to relieve the traffic congestion o n arterials, and to improve the mobility o f
            people from andto new development areas.

Next Steps

The formulation o f the Strategy has ledto the development o f a continuous planning process that is
inclusive (of different interests and agencies) as well as responsive (not rigidbut flexible inresponse to
changing circumstances). This process helps WMG inassessing the value o f any transport policy or
investment, and notjust those included inthe Bank project.

Inparallelwiththe major investments identified over the next five years, WMGhas hireda team oflocal
and intemational consultants to prepare a long-term transport strategy for the entire municipal area
covering all modes.

The city is also to improve the overall efficiency and effectiveness o f the transport system through capacity
buildingo frelevant agencies, further refinement o f the strategy, and greater use of planning and
management techniques. Withinthe project, the Bank is to provide technical assistance to assist WMG
with these improvements, and specifically to support the following activities:

1.       Drafting o f a transport development white paper which outlines transport development policies and
         provides the guideline for transport development within the built up area.

2.       Drafting andupdating annually o f five-year transport strategy documents covering investments and
policies.

3.       Strengthening o f the transport planningfunction inthe city, through:
             i. institutionalstrengtheningofrelevantplanningagencies
             ii. enhancingthetechnicalcapabilityoftheplanningagencies
             iii. strengtheningtheworkingrelationshipwiththeplanninginstitute theagency   -
                    responsible for developing the Master Plan

4.       Conducting more detailed studies to address various specific issues, including:
             i. cross-rivertraveldemand
             ii. transitsystemdevelopmentstrategy
             iii. centercitytrafficdemandmanagement

5.       Enhancement o f the Transport Strategy, through:
             i. refinementofthemidandlong-termtransportstrategies
             ii. developmentofroadnetworkfunctionalhierarchy
             iii. greaterintegrationoflanduseandtransportdevelopment



                                                       -112-

MAP SECTION


