                              Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                                   Report No: AC716
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/16/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: CHINA                                                  Project ID: P069852
Project: Wuhan Urban Transport Project                          Task Team Leader: Edward Dotson
Authorized to Appraise Date: November 20, 2003                  IBRD Amount ($m): 200.00
Bank Approval: March 9, 2004                                    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: EASTR                                            Sector: General transportation sector (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)              Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P);
Status: Lending                                                 Other urban development (P); Municipal governance
                                                                and institution building (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The Wuhan Urban Transport Project will promote the development of an integrated, efficient, and
sustainable transport system for the movement of people (especially the poorer sections of society) and
goods in Wuhan. More specifically, the project aims to support:

(i)      Investments in transport infrastructure and services that address the needs of the existing system ­
         in particular, the issues related to capacity, safety and sustainability, and mobility of users,
         (particularly the most vulnerable sections of society) within a long-term framework provided by the
         approved Master Plan
(ii)     Formulation of a transport strategy to guide investment decisions
(iii)    Reforms to improve performance of bus service delivery.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
The proposed project has six components as described below:

Component 1: Road network development. This component addresses the immediate need to improve
the road network operations within the city, and to expand the bicycle and pedestrian networks. The five
programs, within the component, are designed to:
·    provide suitable routes for through or cross-town traffic
·    improve utilization of existing cross-river bridges
·    relieve congestion in central down-town areas
·    provide adequate road networks in development areas
·    provide safe conditions for pedestrians
The civil works for these five programs include the construction of new primary, arterial and local roads,
upgrading/widening of existing roads, construction of interchanges and construction of pedestrian
overbridges or underpasses.

Component 2: Traffic management and road safety. The aim of this component is to build upon the
strengths of the existing transport network management to better utilize existing assets and resources. The
detailed content includes
·    pedestrian and bicycle measures
·    bus priority measures

                                                         2
                                                                                                          ISDS


·    channelization of junctions
·    provision of traffic signals at junctions and an urban area traffic control (ATC) system
·    a road safety and accident analysis program
·    a road user education program
·    road marking equipment

Component 3: Public transport. The objective of this component is to facilitate an increase in the
efficiency and effectiveness of bus services in the city. A key element of the effort related to public
transport is support for the ongoing reform of public transport operations. The physical investments
related to this component include:
·    a Computerized Management Information System (CMIS) to increase the efficiency of operators in
     routine administrative and technical tasks, and a GPS based bus location system to improve the
     on-street management of bus operations
·    construction of passenger facilities, including bus interchange stations, bus terminals and bus stop bays
The component also includes studies of bus priority and bus rapid transit measures on selected corridors.
Provision is made for the implementation of a pilot Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) scheme, if considered viable.

Component 4: Road maintenance. This component aims to:
·    assist the government's intent to reform and improve the current road maintenance management through
     training and study for Road Maintenance Management Information System (RMMIS)
·    improve the current road maintenance facilities by purchasing advanced road maintenance equipment
     ·   reconstruct the most damaged road sections in Wuhan

Component 5: Environmental management. The aim of this component is to mitigate the adverse
impacts of road construction, minimize vehicle emission, and increase the positive environmental impacts
of the project. The detailed content includes:
·    constructing noise barriers and other facilities to mitigate noise from the new roads
·    planting along new roads
·    expanding the vehicle emission monitoring system and traffic noise monitoring system
·    facilitating implementation of a motor vehicle emission control strategy
·    upgrading the vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) system.

Component 6: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (TA). This component will strengthen the
technical and management skills of the municipal staff, and includes:
·    domestic and international training for officials from project implementing agencies
·    funding for consultant studies on issues and topics related to the other five components of the project
·    office equipment to enhance the productivity of the implementing agencies


I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Wuhan municipality is the capital of Hubei Province. It is located to the east of Jianghan Plain and at the
convergence of the Yangtze and Han Rivers. It is a similar distance (1000km) away from Beijing in the North,
Shanghai in the East, Guangzhou in the South, and Chengdu in the West. It consists of 13 districts, with a
total population in the year 2000 of over 7.5 million, of which 3.9 million in seven districts known as the City
of Wuhan are considered as urban residents. Topographically, the municipality is largely flat. Many parts that
at not built up are covered by shallow lakes. The Yangtze and Han Rivers have separated the city of Wuhan

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


into three parts, namely the towns of Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang. Historically, Wuchang was famous as
university town, as many universities have located there. Wuchang includes three districts and about 1.7
million population. The major industries in the town include education and research institutes, provincial
agencies, commerce and trade, high technology and steel industry. Hankou contains three districts and about
1.0 million population. It contains many municipal government agencies, as well as being the shopping,
commercial and trade center. Hanyang includes one district and about 0.4 million population. The main
industries are motor vehicles, pork processing, and tourism.


B. Check Environmental Classification: A (Full Assessment)

Comments: The likely scale of resettlement and the likely impacts on air quality and noise levels provide the
main rationale for a full assessment.


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on   for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                           Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                         Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                 Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                  Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                    Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                                Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                 Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                        Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                            Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                 Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                      Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
   The forecast increase in vehicles and motorised travel (with or without the project) will tend to increase
   local and global air pollution unless appropriate mitigation measures (not directly associated with the
   project) are introduced. Construction of new roads in the project will produce potentially significant
   environmental issues including noise, dust, waste management and disposal, water pollution and erosion
   during the construction phase. Air pollution, noise, traffic management and safety, will be of concerns
   during both construction and operation phases. The EA will determine these impacts. Road construction
   will also cause resettlement and possibly community severance. However, the proposed road network and
   traffic management components are also likely to have positive environmental impacts as they are designed
   to reduce idling time and overall traffic congestion, though air pollution may be increased in some localized
   areas. These effects will be analyzed with the use of an airshed model. The public transport component will
   also have a positive effect on the environment by slowing the growth of motorised travel by private cars,
   and hence the growth in local and global pollution.

                                                       4
                                                                                                           ISDS


II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Cumulative impacts will be due to the project triggering OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and OD 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement. Screening was included in the EA process to see if OP4.04 Natural Habitats and
OPN 11.03 will be triggered. There were no indications that suggest other safeguard policies will be triggered.


II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Global and to a lesser extent local air pollution are potential long term impacts, together with increased
ambient noise levels.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Alternative ways to meet forecast motorised travel demand were considered (to minimize air and noise
pollution) in the preparation of the transport development strategy for Wuhan. This was formulated as part of
project preparation tasks. Alternative alignments for new roads were considered to minimize resettlement and
avoid any sensitive areas identified in the EA process.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Sections E5 & E 6 of the PAD describe provisions made to ensure compliance with OP 4.01 and OP 4.12.
The draft EA and RAP were first disclosed in the Infoshop in Washington and in the Bank Beijing Office's
Public Information Center on February 18, 2003.



II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Project preparation includes extensive use of participatory techniques to solicit views of potentially affected
residential committees and persons as they relate to project objectives, design and implementation. All the
potentially affected households have been identified through the census and social assessment. Project
information have been provided to the affected households and villages through newspapers, posters and
public meetings. Focus group discussions and key informant interviews have been designed as part of the
consultation strategy to disseminate project information, collect people's concerns, needs and
recommendations, and consult the affected people about the resettlement and rehabilitation strategy so that
their concerns can be incorporated into the project design. Information dissemination and consultation have
been designed to continue during project implementation.

A resettlement information booklet, including the detailed entitlements of each household and compensation
and entitlement policies and grievance procedures will be distributed to the affected people before
resettlement implementation. The district government agencies will play a key role in finalizing and
implementing their livelihood restoration programs. Both internal and independent monitoring of the
resettlement will be designed in the Resettlement Action Plan for project implementation. The Resettlement
Action Plans has been placed in municipal library and district implementing agencies and their availability
was advertised in local newspapers and television.

                                                      5
                                                                                                           ISDS




E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                         Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               9/30/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                                             2/19/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                                              7/14/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive                           10/27/2003
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                        Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                               9/30/2002
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                                             2/19/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                                                              7/14/2003

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                             Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Pest Management Plan:                                                      Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                                Expected          Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

                                                  6
                                                                                  ISDS




Signed and submitted by           Name                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                 Edward Dotson                         03/03/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 1: Daniel R. Gibson/Person/World Bank    03/10/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 2: Chongwu Sun/Person/World Bank         03/03/2004
Project Safeguards Specialists 3: Zhefu Liu/Person/World Bank           03/10/2004

Approved by:                      Name                                  Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Glenn S. Morgan                        03/08/2004
Comments
Regional Safeguards Unit Director Maria Teresa Serra, 03/10/2004

Sector Director                   Jitendra N. Bajpai                    03/04/2004

