                                   Updated Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                    Report No: AB742

Project Name                      CHINA - Wuhan Urban Transport Project
Region                            East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                            General transportation sector (100%)
Theme                             Access to urban services for the poor (P); Other urban development (P);
                                  Municipal governance and institution building (S)
Project                           P069852
Borrower(s)                       PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency(ies)          MUNICIPALITY OF WUHAN
                                  Project Office
                                  Address: No. 130 Yanjiang Ave. Hankou Wuhan China
                                  Contact Person: Hui Shu Zhi, Vice Director
                                  Tel: 86-27-85886173          Fax: 86-27-82811498             Email:
                                  Whjtxmb@Public.Wh.Hb.Cn
Environment Category              A (Full Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                 March 4, 2004
Auth Appr/Negs Date               November 20, 2003
Bank Approval Date                March 9, 2004

1. Country and Sector Background
   Main Sector Issues.

   Rapid growth in urbanization and motorization.
   Both trends are actively encouraged by the central government and expected to grow further in the
   foreseeable future. The urban population in China is projected to increase from 30.2 percent (319
   million) in 1995 to 49.1 percent of the total population (711.7 million) in 2020. Car ownership, which
   has increased rapidly in the last decade, is projected to increase tenfold from a current average of 10 to
   100 per 1000 residents in 2020. Both trends are also true of Wuhan: the city's Master Plan projects an
   increase in the city's population from 3.9 million in 1998 to 4.5 million in 2020. Similarly,
   auto-ownership rates in the urban districts of Wuhan increased from 56 motor vehicles per 1,000
   residents in 1998 to 99 per 1,000 in 2001 and are projected to increase to 116 in 2010 and 167 in
   2020. Per-capita travel is expected to increase accordingly: from 1.98 trips/day in 1998 to 2.41 in
   2010 and 2.65 in 2020. Economic opportunities in growing Chinese cities like Wuhan are extensive,
   and if `hukou' related restrictions to urban migration are relaxed it is likely that growth in the city
   could be even greater.

   Accelerated investment in road capacity without adequate planning.
   Rapid increase in population and number of vehicles is overwhelming the urban transport
   infrastructure in Wuhan, which typifies the general experience of most Chinese cities. Its transport
   infrastructure is overburdened, and the last decade saw a decline in mobility for most classes of urban
   trips. City authorities in Wuhan are addressing these issues primarily with an ambitious road
   construction program. Significant local financing is available from domestic banks for investments in
   road expansion.

                                                    2
                                                                                                         PID


However, this `solution' creates as many problems as it solves. First and foremost, mobility on
non-motorized modes is further degraded. Secondly, the planning process is not systematic and
comprehensive, and does not assure that a well thought out, properly prioritized road-building program
emerges from what starts (as is the case elsewhere in the world) as a list of perceived priorities.
Perhaps the most important challenge in Wuhan (and in other similar Chinese cities) is to ensure
that the significant investments that will be made in urban infrastructure in the coming two decades,
will efficiently enhance the mobility and safety of all residents in a sustainable manner.

While the description that follows is particular to Wuhan, it is equally true of many other Chinese
cities.

About Wuhan

Wuhan, the capital of Hubei Province, is one of the foremost centers of economic growth outside the
coastal regions of China. The Yangtze and Han rivers divide the city of Wuhan into the three towns of
Wuchang, Hankou and Hanyang. In 1998, the GDP of this industrial, commercial and trade center
was RMB 101.5 billion. The average GDP growth from 1990 to 1998 was 15.3 percent higher than
the national average. The city's economy is expected to grow at 7 percent to 9 percent annually in the
near future.

Trends in mobility

Declining pedestrian and cyclist mobility.
Though still significant (37 percent pedestrian and 29 percent bicycle trips together accounted for
two-thirds of all trips in Wuhan in a 1998 survey), the mobility of pedestrians and cyclists is declining,
as motor vehicles progressively dominate the roads. NMT, traditionally the mainstay of urban
transport in Chinese cities and still the mainstay of the poorer sections of the society, currently suffers
from inadequate attention from city transport planners. This is particularly true from a safety
perspective: pedestrian crossings are limited, traffic management for cyclists is based mainly on control
and prohibition, there are no NMT networks, and cyclists are often forced to operate in dangerous
mixed traffic. The construction of new roads, built essentially to accommodate automobiles, is
aggravating these problems.

Traffic congestion resulting from inadequate capacity and poor management.
The road network remains inadequate and overburdened by the increase in the number of motor
vehicles. Though increasing in numbers, motor vehicles accounted for only 12 percent of all trips in
1998. The functional road hierarchy is incomplete and ill-defined resulting in most traffic being loaded
onto a few major arterials, key links in the network are missing, and traffic management (signals,
channelization) is limited and often inadequate (long cycle times, no red aspects at 20 percent of the
signaled junctions). Encroachment from businesses and parking further exacerbates this shortage. In
Wuhan, three specific forms of traffic significantly increase congestion: traffic associated with the
Hankou town centre, cross-river traffic in the city core that principally uses two Yangtse river
crossings, and some of the through and internal traffic that comes through the city center.

Inadequately maintained roads.
Maintenance budgets typically provide only 40 percent of what is, in fact, required. Much of this
provision goes towards staff salaries, leaving little for road maintenance. There is no systematic
maintenance or asset management system in place. Organizationally, government and operator

                                                    3
                                                                                                       PID


functions are combined in public maintenance units and a number of different government
organizations are responsible for road maintenance and reconstruction.

Public transport requires much-needed attention.
Though public transport is important and growing (buses accounted for a 22 percent share of trips in
1998 and this is forecast to grow significantly, both in share and volumes), the sector is beset by the
following problems/concerns/issues:
·    Limited network coverage - Despite a substantial number of bus services (in 2001 there were
seven bus companies, operating 5500 buses on 244 routes over 4300 kms), the overall coverage is
limited. The route network needs revision: most bus routes are in the city center while the extensive
new developments on the urban fringe are poorly served. Routes run primarily along arterial roads and
access often requires long walks.
·   Poor on-street management ­ Bus volumes are unusually high on primary routes (approaching
500 per hour on main corridors and the Yangtse river bridges), stops are congested, and on-street
management of buses is poor.
·   Shortage of depot and terminal facilities - More than other cities, Wuhan suffers from a shortage
of public transport depot and terminal facilities. Buses often have to be parked on the streets and
poorly planned terminals impede efficient transfers.
·   Unclear institutional roles - Institutional problems are similar to other Chinese cities. Though
plans for reform are being finalized, the roles and responsibilities between the municipality and the bus
companies need clarification. Buses do not operate within a competitive/market-based environment.
·   Low fares ­ Fares are low, though they cover more than 90 percent of the operating cost
(excluding capital costs), in the six state-owned bus companies (the seventh is a joint venture with a
Hong Kong company).
·   Lack of integrated network planning - The municipality has an ambitious plan for the construction
of a rail network of six metro lines. The initial elevated line is currently under construction. However
there appears to have been little integration of rail and bus service planning.

Institutional structure and Policymaking

Urban transport is largely the responsibility of the municipal government - the provincial and state
governments have a relatively minor role. The municipal government is responsible for planning,
financing, and implementing all infrastructure, and also for operations and policy.

Investments in transport infrastructure are directed by a 20-year Urban Transport Master Plan
developed by the municipal government. The Master Plan is a legal document that needs to be
approved by the State Council (in the case of cities with a population of over 1 million). In theory, this
structure is meant to ensure continuity in the planning process and bolster technical integrity over
political expediency. In practice, the task team's experience indicates that it is in fact short-term
political expediency that prevails. The Twenty-year Master Plan is a non-fiscally constrained
investment plan without any systematic processes for the planning, programming and budgeting of
investments. There are no requirements or incentives in the plan to formulate or implement integrated
and modally balanced transport policy. Further, once a plan is approved, local authorities retain
significant latitude to set priorities and timings for individual projects.

Most transport planning and policymaking occurs in an unsystematic ad-hoc manner. There is a
multiplicity of uncoordinated agencies, with little day-to-day contact, involved in aspects of urban
transport planning and operations. They include, the Urban Planning Bureau, the Municipal

                                                  4
                                                                                                       PID


Construction Bureau, (responsible for road construction and maintenance), the Wuhan Transport
Commission (responsible for public transport provision and regulation), the Traffic Police (responsible
for traffic management and enforcement) and the Environmental Protection Bureau (responsible for
vehicle emission controls).

These (and other) agencies are bound by few controls or requirements that would, otherwise, ensure
coordinated formulation and implementation of transport planning and policy. For example:
·    A dearth of stable financing sources, particularly for maintenance of existing infrastructure.
When funds for construction are needed, the city has considerable leeway to institute new special
purpose taxes but maintenance is often ignored.
·   Land-use planning and transport planning processes operate completely independently of each
other and are not integrated in any manner.
·   Tools exist but are not used optimally. Wuhan has relatively good data: Origin Destination
household survey data (1998), motor vehicle OD data (1999), bicycle and taxi use data (2001) and
data from surveys of major bus terminals. A travel demand model has been built to forecast travel
demand for 2010 and 2020, and assignments made to the Master Plan road network. A separate study
was undertaken to define the rail network. However these studies were not used to test the Master Plan
transport proposals or to define the investment plans for 2005 or 2010.

Road Safety

Modal shift towards a larger use of motor vehicles has heightened the road safety concerns in Wuhan.
The incidence and severity of accidents are high, even when compared with other cities of similar
population and motorization within China. Road accidents appear to be largely due to increased speeds
and volumes of vehicles, poor driver behavior and poor road sense of pedestrians. In 2001, the total
number of road accidents was 11,595 with 631 persons killed and 7,517 persons seriously injured.
Economic losses (excluding the costs of pain, grief and suffering and projected contribution to society)
were RMB 26 million. Since 1999, the number of road accidents has declined slightly while the number
of fatalities and casualties have remained stable. In Wuhan Municipality, 80 percent of accidents
occur in urban areas with 50 percent considered fatal. The fatality rate/million population in 2000 was
90, compared to 55 in Shanghai (1999).

Air and Noise Quality

Vehicular emissions are not a serious issue, except in areas close to main roads, where particulates are
a problem despite lead-free fuel used since 1998. The city government has a basic emissions control
strategy in place. National vehicle emission standards are enforced through an annual testing and
inspection system complemented (since 2000) with spot random checks. The city government has
started planning a modeling effort to quantify the contribution of different sources to air pollution.
Noise is also considered a severe problem in the urban center and the government is working on
strategies to lessen the noise impact of motor vehicles.

Government Strategy

Urban transport issues are largely the domain of the local Wuhan Municipal Government (WMG),
which is currently focusing on accelerating expansion of the road network. In the past, it was the
political leadership that made the decisions regarding new road construction, with technical analysis
playing a subservient role (if any). Though a new generation of planners equipped with adequate

                                                         5
                                                                                                              PID


     analytical tools exists in Wuhan, they lack the experience and influence to be effective.

     Apart from new road construction, the most significant urban transport initiative undertaken by WMG
     is the construction of a light-rail line. In terms of bus transport, WMG has been working on
     reorganizing the bus transport sector since 1999. In October 2001 the overall responsibility for system
     planning was moved to the newly created Wuhan Transport Commission (WTC). The WTC has
     outlined a program for reform, which was recently approved by WMG.

     The Government has also implemented a series of policy measures related to urban transport. New
     motorcycle registrations have been banned since mid-2002. In early 2003, the city banned `mamus'
     (motorized three-wheeled jitneys).

     The reason behind the government ban on motorcycles is unclear. Before the ban, motorcycles were a
     popular mode of transport (registrations grew at 27 percent over the 1991-2001 decade and by 2001
     accounted for over half of the 447,505 registered motor vehicles in the municipality). Though there are
     valid safety issues related to their use, motorcycles present a relatively cheap and efficient (in terms of
     energy and use of road space) alternative to autos that fulfills many of the same aspirations for
     personal mobility. Though no systematic analysis is available, it is unlikely that banning motorcycles
     outright without accompanying automobile related restraints would offer a sustainable solution to
     congestion problems.

2. Objectives
The Wuhan Urban Transport Project will promote the development of an integrated, efficient, and
sustainable transport system for the movement of people (especially the poorer sections of society) and
goods in Wuhan. More specifically, the project aims to support:

(i)      Investments in transport infrastructure and services that address the needs of the existing system ­
         in particular, the issues related to capacity, safety and sustainability, and mobility of users,
         (particularly the most vulnerable sections of society) within a long-term framework provided by the
         approved Master Plan
(ii)     Formulation of a transport strategy to guide investment decisions
(iii)    Reforms to improve performance of bus service delivery.

3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
In general, the Bank's value-added support in any urban transport project is that of promoting a
comprehensive approach to finding solutions based on the best practice experience in China and elsewhere.
This advice also reflects the Bank's recently completed review of Urban Transport. Moreover, the Bank
will demonstrate the benefits of participatory planning and budgeting processes, and the use of
methodologies for prioritization of policies, programs and investments. The project provided all concerned
agencies the opportunity to jointly find solutions to any issues. Bank involvement will improve the
institutional capacity, managerial and technical abilities in all concerned agencies, and further their
practical experience. This directly strengthens municipal management and improves service delivery.
Bank involvement also provides access to low-cost finance. It helps the government to provide more
support to lower income groups by developing surveys, which provide data on their needs. It also assists
the sectoral reform process, including the introduction of private sector participation in service delivery.


4. Description
The proposed project has six components as described below:

                                                        6
                                                                                                          PID




Component 1: Road network development. This component addresses the immediate need to improve
the road network operations within the city, and to expand the bicycle and pedestrian networks. The five
programs, within the component, are designed to:
·   provide suitable routes for through or cross-town traffic
·   improve utilization of existing cross-river bridges
·   relieve congestion in central down-town areas
·   provide adequate road networks in development areas
·   provide safe conditions for pedestrians
The civil works for these five programs include the construction of new primary, arterial and local roads,
upgrading/widening of existing roads, construction of interchanges and construction of pedestrian
overbridges or underpasses.

Component 2: Traffic management and road safety. The aim of this component is to build upon the
strengths of the existing transport network management to better utilize existing assets and resources. The
detailed content includes
·   pedestrian and bicycle measures
·   bus priority measures
·   channelization of junctions
·   provision of traffic signals at junctions and an urban area traffic control (ATC) system
·   a road safety and accident analysis program
·   a road user education program
·   road marking equipment

Component 3: Public transport. The objective of this component is to facilitate an increase in the
efficiency and effectiveness of bus services in the city. A key element of the effort related to public
transport is support for the ongoing reform of public transport operations. The physical investments
related to this component include:
·   a Computerized Management Information System (CMIS) to increase the efficiency of operators in
    routine administrative and technical tasks, and a GPS based bus location system to improve the
    on-street management of bus operations
·   construction of passenger facilities, including bus interchange stations, bus terminals and bus stop bays
The component also includes studies of bus priority and bus rapid transit measures on selected corridors.
Provision is made for the implementation of a pilot Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) scheme, if considered viable.

Component 4: Road maintenance. This component aims to:
·   assist the government's intent to reform and improve the current road maintenance management through
    training and study for Road Maintenance Management Information System (RMMIS)
·   improve the current road maintenance facilities by purchasing advanced road maintenance equipment
    ·    reconstruct the most damaged road sections in Wuhan

Component 5: Environmental management. The aim of this component is to mitigate the adverse
impacts of road construction, minimize vehicle emission, and increase the positive environmental impacts
of the project. The detailed content includes:
·   constructing noise barriers and other facilities to mitigate noise from the new roads
·   planting along new roads
·   expanding the vehicle emission and traffic noise monitoring system

                                                        7
                                                                                                          PID


·   facilitating implementation of a motor vehicle emission control strategy
·   upgrading the vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M) system.

Component 6: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (TA). This component will strengthen the
technical and management skills of the municipal staff, and includes:
·   domestic and international training for officials from project implementing agencies
·   funding for consultant studies on issues and topics related to the other five components of the project
·   office equipment to enhance the productivity of the implementing agencies

5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($398.20)
IBRD ($200.00)
Total Project Cost: $598.20

6. Implementation
    Executing Agency. The project will be executed by the Wuhan Municipal Government (WMG).
    WMG has established a project team, comprising of technical staff from the concerned government
    agencies, to oversee the preparation and implementation of the project. The Wuhan Municipal Capital
    Investment Management Office (WMCIMO) will have overall responsibility for the preparation and
    implementation of the project. The Wuhan Urban Transport Project Office (WUTPO), under
    WMCIMO, will be responsible for managing and coordinating the implementation of the project by the
    various implementing agencies.

    Project Guidance. At the municipal level the Wuhan Urban Transport Project Leading Group
    (WUTPLG) has been established to provide overall guidance to WUTPO in project preparation and
    implementation.

    Implementing Agencies. Responsibility for implementation of the individual components will be as
    follows:

           Component                                       Responsible Agency

           Road Infrastructure                     Wuhan Bridge Construction Company (WBCC) - a Unit
                                                   of WMCIMO.

           Public Transport                        Wuhan Transport Commission (with the participation of
                                                   Wuhan Group Public Transport Corporation (WGPTC)
                                                   for the CMIS)

           Traffic Management                      Public Security Bureau

           Road Maintenance                        WBCC for civil work

                                                   Wuhan Urban Management Bureau for RM Reform, RM
                                                   Management Information System, and Equipment
                                                   Procurement

           Environmental Management                Municipal Environment Bureau

           Institutional Development & TA          Individual implementing agencies will each manage their
                                                   own TA. The Project Office (WUTPO) will have

                                                        8
                                                                                                             PID


                                                     responsibility for procurement.

    Subproject offices have been established in each of the implementing agencies.

    Funds Flow. The Ministry of Finance (MOF) will on-lend World Bank loan funds to the Hubei
    Province Government (through the Provincial Financial Bureau). The Provincial Financial Bureau will
    in turn on-lend funds to WMG (through the Municipal Financial Bureau), which will in turn on-lend
    funds to WMCIMO. WMCIMO will act as the representative of the municipal government to manage
    the loan and ensure future repayment. The sources of counterpart funds and repayment are the
    municipal budget and extra budget sources, which have been analyzed and found to be more than
    adequate. Loan type will be LIBOR-based Variable-spread loan and use US dollar as single currency.

Project Management Activities

Procurement. The project office will be responsible for oversight and coordination of procurement
activities during the implementation of the project. A division has been established and the Bank team has
provided some basic training to the staff. The subproject offices for each component have also allocated
staff to assist in the procurement activities. The Bank will provide further training to staff in these offices.
A procurement plan has been developed as part of the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).

Financial management. The project office will be responsible for all activities of financial management.

Environment. Responsibilities for all environmental management activities are included in the
Environmental Management Plan (EMP).

Resettlement. Responsibilities for implementation of resettlement are documented in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP).

Construction supervision. The project will use Bank funds to hire civil work supervision teams to
undertake construction supervision and quality control of civil works. Since the Wuhan Bridge Company
(WBC) will be the implementing agency for civil works under the road network improvement and road
maintenance components, WBC will also have overall responsibility for construction supervision for all
components. WBC will act as the owner of the civil works during construction. WBC will select a
construction supervision consultant team to act as the chief engineer, responsible for quality and contract
management and hiring of site engineers. WBC will also hire a small international consultant team to act
as advisors to WBC, to provide training in FIDIC/Bank construction supervision responsibilities and
procedures, and to set up a client/engineer/contractor management procedure in the first year. A small team
of local consultants will supervise the initial civil works contracts during the first year of the project.
Construction supervision consultant services for all future years will be open to international and local
consultant companies.

Project Implementation Plan (PIP). Each implementing agency has prepared a PIP for its respective
component, based on which WUTPO has prepared a comprehensive PIP. The PIP will guide the
implementation of the project and will be updated as required by WUTPO with the help of each sub-project
office.

Progress Reporting and Planning. WUTPO will be responsible for preparing quarterly and annual
progress reports and annual implementation programs, based on inputs from the subproject offices. The
quarterly reports will focus on physical and financial progress, outline implementation problems for all

                                                        9
                                                                                                             PID


components, and suggest corrective actions. The Annual Progress Report will be used to review the
progress achieved in the preceding year, update the PIP, and set out the implementation program for the
following year. Half way through the implementation period (around May 2006), there will be a mid-term
review, which will consider if any major changes are required in the project structure.


7. Sustainability
Sustainability has environmental, social, financial and economic dimensions. Socially sustainable
development of the transport system in Wuhan requires a policy and institutional framework for effective
handling of resettlement. The project aims to leave behind the institutional capacity, and an efficient
delivery mechanism to address the adverse social impacts associated with urban infrastructure projects. It
also requires that policies be designed to benefit all transport users, particularly the socially disadvantaged
and not just those with access to motor vehicles. The surveys of the disadvantaged groups undertaken
during project preparation are being used in the design and refinement of service delivery. The project
places emphasis on providing for the continuation of these surveys as a means of determining the needs of
the disadvantaged. The environmental sustainability of the project is dependent on the extent to which the
overall level of local and global emissions due to increasing travel demand is monitored, contained or
reduced. A Motor Vehicle Emission Control Strategy is designed to do this.

The sustainability of the physical assets is feasible. However, adequate resources for operating the system,
for maintenance and replacement of assets, and for increasing capacity in response to user demands remain
the most important consideration. For the bus system, reform measures discussed to date are designed to
reduce costs, eliminate subsidies and introduce competition. If successful, they will ensure the long-term
sustainability of the system. If during the project these reform measures are found to be inadequate, other
regulatory and competition possibilities will be suggested. For the maintenance of roads and traffic
management, measures are required to improve management of existing funds, ensuring provisioning in the
budgets and possibly increases in user charges. These aspects will be reviewed in the continuing work on
the transport strategy.

The institutions responsible for construction of roads, and traffic management are already experienced and
fully effective. The staff of the agencies responsible for planning and programming of transport
investments, and bus service delivery are capable but need more hands-on experience, while the institutions
themselves in which they work require strengthening. These aspects will be addressed during the
implementation of the project.

There is a risk that some of the policy prescriptions underpinning sustainability will not be followed in the
medium to long term. The risks are being mitigated by very close cooperation and extensive discussions
between the Bank and the Municipality during preparation. This cooperation is coupled with the extensive
use of local staff and consultants, with a thorough knowledge of Chinese conditions, working in partnership
and adapting policy solutions that have been well tested around the world for the Chinese environment.



8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Useful lessons can be drawn from the experiences of two completed urban transport projects financed by
the Bank in Shanghai, and four ongoing projects in China - Guangzhou, Liaoning, Urumqi and
Shijiazhuang.

The need for an integrated multi-modal approach
Typically there was an over-reliance on roads with little systematic planning and appreciation for integrated

                                                        10
                                                                                                            PID


solutions consisting of traffic management, facilities for pedestrians and cyclists, public transport,
improved road maintenance and financing, and supporting institutional structure. The key challenge for the
Bank team was to work with municipal authorities to broaden the scope of client-identified investments to
include other dimensions that can address the traffic congestion problem that the Bank would consider
sustainable.

During the preparation phase the initial request for a set of road schemes has been transformed into a truly
integrated project with two process innovations for China: the development of strategy and the public
transport reform.

Participation of decision makers
The mayor and the directors of the major government agencies concerned have a very important decision
making role in any urban transport project. Therefore one of the main tasks for the Bank has been to gain
the support of municipal government, especially the key decision makers. In Wuhan, the Bank was able to
persuade WMG to appoint a Vice-Mayor to lead the transport strategy development effort. This has been
crucial in getting buy-in from the city on the planning process and its outputs.

Participation of agencies with a stake in urban transport
The key to developing a balanced and sustainable project is the active participation of all institutions
responsible for urban transport. The level of institutional participation in Wuhan was exemplary
throughout the project preparation phase. In fact, the degree of institutional involvement and commitment
was higher in Wuhan than in projects elsewhere.

Managerial and technical capacity building of municipal staff
There was a need to complement the high level of technical knowledge demonstrated by the local team in
Wuhan with practical experience. The Bank team facilitated the provision of hands-on advice and support
from seasoned professionals in the preparation stage to empower the local professionals. This effort has
been very successful and has resulted in the development and gradual acceptance of the transport strategy.

Focus on key process innovation outcomes
An integrated project with multi-components (in the case of WUTP components such as road development,
public transport, traffic management, road safety, road maintenance, environment, and institution building)
runs the risk of running into management difficulties during its implementation. The proposed project
would therefore focus on key issues of developing a viable transport strategy and promoting reforms in the
delivery of public transport in Wuhan.

Traffic management
The traffic police, responsible for traffic operations and enforcement, often have limited experience and
appreciation of comprehensive traffic management. The Bank's past experience with transport projects
indicates the need to integrate traffic management with project sponsored investments in Area Traffic
Control (ATC) systems in order to obtain the interest and buy-in of the traffic police. In this project, the
traffic police have demonstrated a good level of knowledge of traffic management, and hence the project
focuses more on building ownership and coordination during implementation. The project component
supporting ATC systems has the most substantive and detailed traffic management plans of any
Bank-funded urban transport project in China.

Unprecedented motorization rate
The current motorization rates in Chinese cities are higher than rates elsewhere in the world. Previous
projects have found their forecasts to be overly conservative. Similarly, earlier projects found that they

                                                         11
                                                                                                           PID


underestimated bicycle traffic volumes. Experience indicates that NMT increases with a city's growth. The
forecasts of traffic used for this project, reflect the overall trend in China.

Appreciation for rail over bus transport solutions
An interest in public transport often takes the form of investments in rail. The Bank, however, helps to
focus attention on bus system improvements, bus priority measures and busways. This project would aim
to demonstrate the benefit of considering both rail-based and bus-based mass transit solutions.

Ownership of reform agenda
Reform of municipal services remains an important issue on the government agenda. But the pace of
reform is governed by local agencies and national political conditions. The Bank can only encourage
reform measures that have worked elsewhere, while the client should be willing to seek Bank assistance for
its implementation. The Bank is encouraging the reform of public transport in Wuhan.



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues    : The project complies with the requirements of O.P.4.01. The project is classified as EA
Category 'A' since it involves involuntary resettlement, major road construction (partly on new alignments)
and increased air pollution and noise, particularly adjacent to new roads.

A comprehensive environmental assessment has been carried out jointly by Number Four Survey & Design
Institute of China Railways Ministry and Wuhan Research Academy of Environmental Sciences in
accordance with the policies and procedures of China and the Bank (see Annex 11).

The Bank reviewed and commented on the EA report and the EMP at various stages of preparation. The
revised reports meet the Bank's requirements.

The projected increase in vehicles and motorized travel (with or without the project) will tend to increase
local and global air pollution unless appropriate mitigation measures (not directly associated with the
project) are introduced. Air pollution, noise, traffic management and safety, will be of concern during both
the construction and operational phases. Construction of new roads in the project will also produce
environmental impacts including dust, waste management and disposal, water pollution and erosion during
the construction phase, which will need to be mitigated. Road construction will also cause resettlement.

However, the proposed road network and traffic management components are also expected to have
positive environmental impacts as they are designed to reduce traffic accidents, reduce personal time spent
traveling, vehicle idling time and overall traffic congestion, though air pollution may increase in some
localized areas. The public transport component will also have a positive effect on the environment by
slowing the growth of motorized private vehicle use. Environmental institutions will be strengthened
through environmental monitoring equipment upgrading, staff training, and formulation of a vehicle
emission control strategy.



10. List of factual technical documents:

                                                  12
                                                                                                 PID




11. Contact Point:


      Edward Dotson, Task Team Leader (TTL)
      The World Bank
      1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
      Telephone: +1 -202- 458 4038
      Fax: +1 - 202 - 522 3573
      Email: edotson@worldbank.org


Ms. Zong Yan, Alterante TTL Beijing Office
World Bank Office Beijing,
9th Floor, Building A, Fuhua Mansion,
No. 8, Chaoyangmen Beidajie,
Dongcheng District,
Beijing 100027
Telephone + 86-10-6554 3361
Fax +86 - 10 - 6554 1686
Email: YanZong@worldbank.org

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
         The InfoShop
         The World Bank
         1818 H Street, NW
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         Telephone: (202) 458-5454
         Fax:    (202) 522-1500
         Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop

Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included
in the final project.

