Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4727-CHA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Wuhan Urban Transport Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF WUHAN 
 
Dated May 12, 2004 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 4727-CHA 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 12, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF 
WUHAN (Wuhan). 
 
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People’s 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make a loan to 
the Borrower in the amount of two hundred million Dollars ($200,000,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Wuhan agrees 
to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Wuhan, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) Wuhan declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and economic practices, and social and 
environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Wuhan shall otherwise agree, Wuhan shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) Wuhan shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of 
goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Wuhan shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Bank and Wuhan, a plan for the future operation of 
the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Wuhan on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) Wuhan shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Wuhan shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Wuhan of its obligations under this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3
.
01.
(a) Wuhan shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to register 
separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(b) Wuhan 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph  (a) above for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in such scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon Wuhan’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 16 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, Wuhan shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by each said report, showing separately funds provided under the Loan, 
and explain variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds. 
(b) 
The first such financial monitoring report shall be furnished to the Bank 
not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar semester after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project 
through the end of such first calendar semester; thereafter, each financial monitoring 
report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar 
semester, and shall cover such calendar semester. 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Wuhan 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Wuhan thereof. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For Wuhan: 
 
Wuhan Urban Construction Utilization of Foreign Investment 
Project  
Management Office 
40, Chang Qing Road 
Wuhan, Hubei Province 
People’s Republic of China 
 
Facsimile: 
 
027-65655354  
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Wuhan may be 
taken or executed by the Mayor or a Vice Mayor of Wuhan or such other person or 
persons as such Mayor or a Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Wuhan shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/ Yukon Huang 
Authorized Representative 
 
MUNICIPALITY OF WUHAN 
 
By 
/s/ Wu Changjun 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) Grouping 
of 
contracts
(i) 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $15,000,000 equivalent or more 
each. 
 
(ii) 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in 
bid packages estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more 
each. 
 
(c) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(d) 
Dispute Review Board
Each contract for works estimated to cost $50,000,000 equivalent or more shall 
include the provisions for a dispute review board set forth in the standard bidding 
documents for works referred to in paragraph 2.12 of the Guidelines.  
 
(e) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$15,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Works estimated to cost less than $15,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated 
to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $3,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
 
(b) 
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under 
Part C.1 of this Section shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of 
the People's Republic of China promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the 
People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the following clarifications required 
for compliance with the Guidelines: 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a 
newspaper of national circulation in China and such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective 
bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and 
prepare and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of 
thirty (30) days shall be given to bidders between the date of 
advertisement in such newspaper and the deadline for 
submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding 
documents shall specify the deadline for such submission.  
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of 
evaluating the qualification of each bidder shall be specified in 
detail in the bidding documents. 
(iii) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount 
sufficient to protect the Borrower, in case of breach of contract 
Page  9
-
8
-
by the contractor, and the bidding documents shall specify the 
required form and amount of such security. 
(iv) 
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline 
for receipt of such bids. 
(v) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded 
an opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not 
be required to be present at the bid opening. 
(vi) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls 
outside any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of 
average bids established by the Borrower. 
(vii) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated 
responsive bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate 
standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been 
determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding 
documents and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost. The 
winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award, to 
undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the bidding 
documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
(viii) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall 
provide that the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, 
at its request, to inspect their accounts and records relating to the 
performance of the contract and to have said accounts and 
records audited by auditors appointed by the Bank. 
 
2. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first contract for works to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.1 (a) above, and each contract for works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $4,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.1 (a) above and each contract for goods 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $400,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to the first contract for goods to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in paragraph C.2 above, the following procedures shall 
apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under shopping procedures, Wuhan shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, Wuhan shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services under Part F of the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$300,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under Part F of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
4. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
5. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to the first contract for the employment of a consulting 
firm, and each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract for the employment of an individual 
consultant and each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications 
and experience of candidates, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. The provisions of 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such 
contracts. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
Wuhan shall: (a) maintain until completion of the Project the Municipal Project 
Leading Group, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, chaired by the Mayor or 
a
Vice Mayor, and including representatives of the municipal agencies implementing the 
Project, and responsible for the coordination among all municipal entities in regard to the 
implementation of the Project, and (b) ensure that, until completion of the Project, the 
Municipal Project Leading Group meets on a regular basis. 
 
2. 
Wuhan shall maintain until completion of the Project the Project Office: 
 
(a) 
with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
headed by a qualified and experienced manager who shall also have the 
rank of senior government official; and 
 
(c) 
with units responsible for the following activities, each such unit headed 
by a manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, and assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers: 
 
(i) 
land acquisition and resettlement, including 
implementation of the RAPs and application of the RPF; 
 
(ii) environmental management, including 
implementation of the EMPs; 
 
(iii) 
oversight and coordination of procurement by 
implementing agencies including ensuring compliance with 
Bank procurement procedures, and progress reporting on 
procurement plans; 
 
(iv) 
financial management, including coordination of 
application for disbursement, timely payment of contractors, 
suppliers and consultants, and financial reporting; 
 
(v) 
construction management, including the quality 
and continuity of construction supervision of civil works; 
 
(vi) 
implementation of the Project is in accordance 
with the Loan Agreement, this Agreement, and the Project 
Implementation Plan; and 
 
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
(vii) 
coordination of the monitoring and reporting on 
the physical and financial progress of the Project, and revision of 
the Project Implementation Plan as needed to meet the objectives 
of the Project. 
 
3. Wuhan 
shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the Project in accordance with the procedures set out in the 
Project Implementation Plan as such Plan may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
not later than November 30 in each year, commencing November 30, 
2004, and until completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments, 
a
proposed annual work program and budget for the Project for the next Fiscal Year, and 
thereafter implement such work program as shall have been agreed with the Bank. 
 
4. 
In carrying out the Project, Wuhan shall employ, until completion of the Project, 
a
team of construction supervision experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment shall be acceptable to the Bank. 
 
5. 
In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, Wuhan shall: 
 
(a) 
take, or cause to be taken, all necessary actions to minimize to the extent 
possible any involuntary loss by persons of shelter, productive assets or access to 
productive assets or of income or means of livelihood, temporarily or permanently;  
 
(b) 
carry out the EMPs, RAPs and the RPF, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank; and 
 
(c) 
furnish any proposed revision to the EMPs, RAPs or the RPF referred to 
in sub-paragraph (b) above to the Bank for its prior approval. 
 
6. 
In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, and without limitation to the 
provisions of paragraph 5 of this Schedule, Wuhan shall, prior to commencing work on 
any Project activity not included in the RAPs and which requires the acquisition of land, 
temporarily or permanently, prepare a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the Bank, in 
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth in the Resettlement Policy 
Framework, and furnish the same to the Bank for its approval.  
 
7. 
In carrying out Parts A and C of the Project, Wuhan shall, prior to commencing 
works on any Project activity not included in the EMPs, prepare an environmental impact 
assessment and management plan in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank and 
furnish the same to the Bank for its approval, and, thereafter, carry out such 
environmental management plan in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
8. 
In carrying out Part A of the Project, Wuhan shall not make any changes to the 
agreed activities except if such change is compatible with the Wuhan Urban Transport 
Strategy and a full feasibility study, acceptable to the Bank, is carried out. 
 
9. 
In carrying out Part C of the Project, Wuhan shall: 
 
(a) 
review with the Bank the progress of the Wuhan public transport reform 
by March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2005, and until completion of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
cause the Wuhan public transport companies to furnish to the Bank, 
through the Wuhan Public Transport Group Company for review a rolling five-year 
development plan by March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2005, and until 
completion of the Project, and thereafter cause them to implement such plan giving due 
consideration to the Bank’s views thereon. 
 
10. 
In carrying out Part D of the Project, Wuhan shall: 
 
(a) 
implement the road maintenance management system by December 31, 
2006; 
 
(b) 
review with the Bank the progress on the reform of the road maintenance 
functions, by March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2005, and until completion 
of the Project; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank the maintenance performance and expenditures 
against the budget for the previous year and the provisions for the forthcoming year, by 
March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2005, and until the completion of the 
Project. 
 
11. 
In carrying out Part F.1 of the Project, Wuhan shall review with the Bank at least 
once a year, and until completion of the Project, any developments in the Wuhan Urban 
Transport Strategy.  
 
12. 
In carrying out Parts F.2 and F.3 of the Project, Wuhan shall: 
 
(a) 
carry out the training in accordance with a training program acceptable to 
the Bank; and 
 
(b) 
review the training program with the Bank by March 31 in each year, 
commencing March 31, 2005, and until completion of the Project. 
 
13. 
In carrying out Part F.5 of the Project, Wuhan shall: 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(a) 
carry out the studies agreed with the Bank in accordance with terms of 
reference and a timetable acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank the recommendations of each of the studies promptly 
upon completion of the relevant study; 
 
(c) 
prepare an action plan for each of the studies to implement the 
recommendations, taking into account the comments of the Bank, if any; and 
 
(d) 
thereafter promptly implement such action plan. 
 
14. 
In carrying out Part F.5 of the Project, Wuhan shall review with the Bank by 
March 31 in each year, commencing March 31, 2006, and until completion of the Project, 
the progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the motor vehicle emission 
control strategy study. 
 
15. 
In carrying out the Project, Wuhan shall prepare, under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
a report covering each calendar semester, within 30 days of such 
semester, starting July 31, 2004, each such report to (A) set out physical progress in the 
implementation of the Project, both cumulatively, and in respect of the preceding 
semester, and explain variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; 
and (B) set forth the status of procurement under the Project as at the end of the period 
covered by said report; and 
 
(b) 
an annual report on February 15 of each year, starting February 15, 2005, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date. 
 
16. Wuhan 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about March 31, 2006, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date 
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
Page  18
-
17 - 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by May 31, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take 
all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
