                    PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                              CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                                  July 13, 2011

                                                                     Report No.: 64731

Operation Name                    Tonga Economic Recovery Operation
Region                            EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC
Country                           Tonga
Sector                            Central government administration (80%); General energy
                                  sector (20%)
Operation ID                      P126453
Lending Instrument                Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                       KINGDOM OF TONGA
Implementing Agency               Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Date PID Prepared                 June 10, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal       October 7, 2011
Estimated Date of Board           November 15, 2011
Approval
Corporate Review Decision         Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                  proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.    Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

      In recent years, Tonga has undertaken a number of important public sector and economic
      reforms. In conjunction with its accession to the World Trade Organisation in 2007, the
      Government of Tonga (GoT) thoroughly reformed its tax policy, and has subsequently
      implemented comprehensive reforms to its customs and revenue administration. It has
      taken steps to improve its business environment, which have been reflected in improved
      ratings on the relevant International Finance Corporation Doing Business indicators over
      the last five years. Tonga has also taken steps to move its public enterprises onto a more
      commercial footing, including making progress with corporatisation and privatisation.
      Reflecting its reform efforts, Tonga’s Country Policy and Institutional Assessment rating
      provided by the World Bank has increased from 2.9 to 3.5 over the last five years, putting
      Tonga’s policy and institutional performance above average for International
      Development Association countries.

      The GoT is in the process of undertaking public financial management reforms,
      strengthening its fiscal policy, undertaking structural reform – including in the key
      energy sector, and building social protection mechanisms. The Bank is providing support
      to the GoT with these important reform efforts.

II.   Proposed Objective(s)

      The proposed operation will assist the GoT to implement key aspects of its medium-term
      reform agenda, while providing a predictable flow of resources in a challenging fiscal
       environment. Over the last four years, Tonga’s economy has been hit hard by a series of
       crises, including the global food and fuel crisis, a large contraction in credit following a
       domestic credit bubble, the global economic crisis, and a succession of natural disasters.
       As a result of these crises, a significant fiscal gap has emerged in Tonga, the economy
       has contracted, and poverty has increased sharply. In this challenging economic context,
       Tonga has made the transition to a more democratic political system. Through the
       proposed operation, the Bank will support key public sector and economic reforms at a
       critical juncture in Tonga’s development process.

       The proposed operation will help to sustain the momentum of key public sector and
       economic reforms in Tonga, in support of the Tonga Strategic Development Framework,
       2011–2014 (TSDF). The public financial management reforms in the proposed operation
       will support the TSDF’s objective of good governance, particularly with respect to
       accountability and transparency, as well as the enabling theme on good fiscal
       management. The fiscal policy reforms will bolster two of the enabling themes of the
       TSDF, on good fiscal management and the efficiency and effectiveness of government.
       The structural reforms will support the infrastructure objective of the TSDF, as well as
       the enabling theme on public enterprises. And the social protection reforms will
       contribute to the TSDF’s first objective, of building strong, inclusive communities.

III.   Preliminary Description

       The policy areas that the proposed operation will support are: (i) strengthened public
       financial management; (ii) strengthened fiscal policy; (iii) structural reform; and (iv)
       social protection.

       On public financial management, the proposed reforms include strengthened budget
       execution and increased transparency in key budget processes. Under fiscal management,
       the proposed reforms include improved management of the civil service wage bill.
       Within the sphere of structural reform, the proposed reforms include energy sector reform
       and public enterprise reform. The proposed reforms also include the development of a
       community-based social protection mechanism.

       Overall, the proposed operation will support the GoT to pursue the objectives of the
       TSDF within an appropriate macroeconomic framework, helping to strengthen the overall
       performance of the economy and contribute to poverty alleviation.

IV.    Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects

Poverty and Social Impacts
       The proposed operation will help to alleviate the growing incidence of hardship facing
       households in Tonga. Basic needs poverty has risen over the last decade, particularly in
       rural areas and the outer islands. Between 2001 and 2009 the percentage of people living
       below the basic needs poverty line increased by more than 10 percentage points, from
       12.2 percent in 2001 to 22.5 percent in 2009. While the majority of the poor live on the
       main island, Tongatapu, the sharpest increase in poverty over the last decade has
       occurred on the other islands – with basic needs poverty rising from 11.8 percent of the
       population to 22.9 percent on the outer islands between 2001 and 2009.

       The community-based social protection mechanism supported by the proposed operation
       is expected to provide both short term relief of hardship and a longer term impact on
       poverty reduction. In the immediate term the scheme will help households to cope with
       the negative effects of the crises and prevent them from falling further into poverty. At
       the same time, the scheme will provide the resources necessary to improve or create an
       asset in the community. In the longer term the scheme will empower communities and
       strengthen their ability to organise, plan and tap into resources in times of need. With the
       development of the scheme, the GoT will gain a formal safety net mechanism enabling it
       to reach people quickly in times of crisis and transfer needed resources to prevent
       irreparable losses. The GoT will thereby have an enhanced ability to react quickly to
       similar shocks of similar magnitudes in future.

       Other aspects of the proposed operation will also support poverty alleviation in Tonga.
       One of the primary objectives of the review of the electricity tariff supported by the
       proposed operation is to design a new tariff that provides adequate protection to the
       poorest consumers. This will represent the introduction of the first social protection
       component of utility service provision in Tonga. The public financial management
       reforms, fiscal policy reforms and the other structural reforms under the proposed
       operation are not expected to have a detrimental impact on poverty alleviation in Tonga.

Environment Aspects
       The policy actions supported under the proposed operation would not have a negative
       effect on Tonga’s environment, natural resources or forests. The policy actions supported
       under the proposed operation aim to strengthen public financial management, strengthen
       fiscal policy, advance structural reform and improve social protection. They do not bear
       directly on environmental risks.

V.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                                               ($m.)
Borrower/Recipient                                                                       0
International Development Association (IDA)                                              5
                                                                       Total             5

VI.    Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Virginia Horscroft
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: 5740+6585 / +61-2-9235-6585
Fax: +61-2-9235-6593
Email: vhorscroft@worldbank.org
Location: Sydney, Australia (IBRD)
Borrower
Contact: Natalia Latu
Title: Director, Aid and Project Management Division
Ministry of Finance and National Planning
Tel: +676-24463
Email: nlatu@finance.gov.to

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
