Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 21074
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28780; PPFI-P9630; PPFI-P963 1; TF-20193)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR17.00 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FORA
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
December 29, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of March 1996)
Currency Unit = Yemeni Riyals
YR 1 = US$ 0.00725
US$ 1 = YR 138
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERC                 :      Emergency Recovery Project
PMU                 :      Project Management Unit
MIS                        Management Information System
NGO                 :      Non-Governmental Organization
CAS                 :      Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR                :      Country Portfolio Performance Review
PWP                 :      Public Works Project (the Project)
PWP-II              :      Second Public Works Project
SSR                 :      Staff Service Rule
MoP                 :      Manual of Procedures
SC                  :      Steering Conmnittee
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Manager & Acting Director:   Sonia Hammam
Team Leader:   Somin Mukheiji



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  7
6. Sustainability                                                                      9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    11
9. Partner Comments                                                                   12
10. Additional Information                                                           13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                 29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 37
MAP IBRD 27795
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Public Works Project (PWP) for which an
IDA Credit (2878-YEM) of SDR17.00 million (US$25.00 million equivalent.) to the Republic of Yemen
was approved by the Board on June 11, 1996 and became effective on December 30, 1996.
The PWP was completed as planned on June 30, 2000 and no major problems were encountered during the
four year implementation period. The Project substantially achieved its objectives including: the creation of
66,000 man-months of employment; infrastructure improvements that benefit approximately two million
people; and bringing about extensive community participation. Other important achievements included a
considerable strengthening of the local contracting and consulting industries, and increased procurement
and contracting capacity at the national level. During implementation, the Project Management Unit
evolved into a highly competent and efficient organization, at times disbursing over US$0.8 million per
month and managing several hundred community based projects simultaneously. The IDA Credit was fully
disbursed (US$23.18 million after exchange rate changes) and closed on schedule on June 30, 2000. In
addition, the Project's PMU has attracted US$28 million in funding from other donors to implement
sub-projects similar to those done under the IDA Project. Given the success of this Project, a follow-on
project was approved by IDA in early CYI 999 (Public Works II, Cr. 31680).
The ICR was prepared by Messrs./Mmes. Ali Khamis (Implementation Specialist), Somin Mukherji (Team
Leader), Alexander McPhail (Sr. Economist), Laveme L. Cook (Program Assistant), and Marie Ange Le
(Operations Analyst). The ICR was reviewed by Messrs./Mmes. Sonia Hammnam (Sector Manager), Tufan
Kolan (Portfolio Manager), Amir Al-Khafaji (Lead Operations Specialist), Josephine Masanque (Sr.
Financial Analyst/FMS), and Gianni Brizzi (Yemen Country Manager).
Preparation for the ICR began during the final supervision mission of June 2000 and it was completed in
December 2000. The report is based on documents in the project files, information collected in the field
and discussions with the Borrower, whose contribution to the ICR is attached as Appendix A of Annex 7.






Pro ect ID: P043109                                        Pro ect Name: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Team Leader: Somin Mukherji                                TL Unit: MNSID
ICR Type: Core ICR                                         Report Date: December 29, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-28780;
PPFI-P9630;
PPFI-P9631; TF-20193
CountrylDepartment. YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF                                    Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: EE - Education Adjustment; SE - Labor Markets &
Employment; UU - Urban Development Adjustment;
UY - Other Urban Development; WW - Water
Supply & Sanitation Adjustment
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  10/02/95                                 Effective:  12/30/96           12/30/96
Appraisal:  11/20/95                                   MTR: 01/01/99              05/15/98
Approval:  06/11/96                                 Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2000
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT/MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Other Partners: The Government of Netherlands
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                           Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:      Inder K. Sud                               Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:       Sonia Hammam                               Alastair J. McKechnie
Team Leader at ICR:   Somin Mukheri                              Lars Rasmusson
ICR Primary Author:   Ali Khamis
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. HL
Institutional Development Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: HS
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.1.1  According to the Staff Appraisal Report, the overall objective of the Project was to mitigate
potential adverse effects of economic adjustment. Specific objective was to generate an estimated
75,000-96,000 work-months of employment at a cost range of US$260 to US$350 per work-month. It was
also expected that the project would help deliver much needed infrastructure services, improve
environmental and sanitary conditions and enhance community participation in preparing and implementing
sub-projects for civil works.
3.1.2 The Gulf War of 1991 resulted in repatriation of a large Yemeni labor force from the neighboring
Gulf countries. This led to a significant reduction in remittance from abroad and major increase in
unemployment in the country. These in turn had a severe effect on the macro-economic stability of the
country which reached a critical level in 1995. In order to deal with the economic problems, the
government initiated a comprehensive program of economic stabilization and structural adjustment with
support from IDA and the IMF. In this context, the Project was clear in its objective to support the
government's efforts to mitigate the adverse effects of reform on the most vulnerable sections of society.
The Project objective was also consistent with the 1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) which focused
on implementing stabilization, structural refonrs and social protection measures, as well as improving
portfolio implementation and the sustainability of past and future investments.
3.1.3 Even if not overly complex, the Project was demanding on the PMU given the sheer number and
the dispersed locations of sub-projects (442 sub-projects, in every govemorate of Yemen). Given the
amount of information and analysis required for each sub-project (identification, screening, selection and
then implementation) the initial stages of Project implementation went slowly. However, when the
Management Information System (MIS) was installed and became familiar, these difficulties quickly
subsided allowing the PMU to complete the Project satisfactorily on time.
3.1.4 The risks identified at appraisal included: (i) maintaining a high labor content; (ii) maintaining
acceptable quality of works; and (iii) ensuring sustainability of completed sub-projects. The Project design
successfully mitigated these risks through a rigorous application of the sub-project selection criteria, a limit
on the size of any one sub-project, and involvement of the relevant communities and line ministries to
ensure both smooth hand over of projects upon completion, and budgetary support for operations.
3.2 Revised Objective:
3.2.1 The Project's overall objectives were not changed and its design was maintained throughout
implementation. During the Mid Term Review (MTR) of May 1998, the estimate of employment
generation in work-months was revised downward from 126,000 to 80,000. At the time of appraisal, one
work month was estimated at US$100, but by the time of MTR the actual labor cost was observed at
US$160 per work month. This implied an investment cost of about US$450 per work month (versus
$260-$350 per work month at appraisal) and resulted in a one-third reduction in work months to be
generated.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
3.3.1  To achieve its objective the Project was to finance:
(a) small scale civil work contracts (including new construction and rehabilitation) in areas where the
unemployment rate was above average in the following sectors: (i) waste management: wastewater
collection systems and storm water drains, cleaning of such systems, and solid waste collection and sanitary
landfills; (ii) urban development: water distribution systems, repairing and paving streets and footpaths,
storm water drainage, flood protection; (iii) rural development: road repairs, water supply systems,
cleaning and repairing of irrigation canals; (iv) soil conservation: terracing and drainage works, small
dams; and (v) health and education: health centers and school buildings.
(b) development of project management capability through a Steering Committee (SC) and a PMU to be
funded as the executive arm of the SC; and
(c) provision of technical assistance for: (i) establishment of the PMU: preparation of organizational and
staffing structures; framework agreements for project management, personnel, administration, and
operation; accounting and management information systems; (ii) investment program: programming,
monitoring and review; (iii) sub-project preparation and implementation: including preparation of
engineering design and tender documents, and construction supervision; (iv) training: support to local
consulting and construction companies, including preparation for and organization of workshops; and (v)
auditing.
3.3.2  Project components proved to be well suited to achieving the development objectives. Procurement
of simple, small scale and labor intensive civil work contracts (which accounted for about 90 percent of the
total project cost, or US$26.90 million), was successful in creating employment. By Project end, over
51,000 work months were created. An inter-ministerial Steering Committee was created as part of the
Project design to facilitate the government's handling of the Project, and this worked well as all major
issues that came up during implementation were successfully resolved. Project design also fostered the
development of the local contracting and engineering professions through the employment and training of
260 contractors and 147 consultants.
3.3.3  The Project design also included a PMU, taking into account lessons from other IDA Projects in
Yemen, and consistent with recommendations of the 1996 Country Portfolio Performance Review. The
PMU developed into a very efficient implementing agency-not only in sub-project selection, processing and
procurement, but also in the areas of financial management and administrative procedures and practices.
The latter included developing basic management tools, such as the Staff Service Rules (SSR), the Manual
of Procedures (MoP), and the Management Information System (MIS). The technical assistance
component of the Project also included a provision for hiring local consulting firms and individual
consultants that helped the PMU to improve its implementation capacity.
3.4 Revised Components:
3.4.1 The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended on May 19, 1998 to include a
Netherlands Grant for an aggregate amount equivalent to NLG4.00 million (US$1.96 million). The
Project's design and components did not change.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
The ICR rating for quality at entry is satisfactory. The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not examine
this Project for quality at entry. The following paragraphs highlights the supporting arguments for the ICR
rating:
3.5.1  The objective of the Project was consistent with the CAS of 1996 and the priorities of the
government to help mitigate the adverse effects of the economic reform programs. In this context, the
Project was designed to be flexible and responsive with regard to meeting people's needs and priorities. A
measure of this success is the outstanding requests for projects, which have consistently numbered over
3,000 since the second year of implementation.
3.5.2  The Project design was simple and straight forward and captured specific characteristics of the
local conditions, fitting in well with the government's desire to provide employment and basic infrastructure
during adjustment. Potential risks anticipated under the Project were adequately identified at design, and
measures to minimize them proved to be reasonable and adequate. Implementation and procurement
arrangements were also addressed up-front in sufficient detail, which contributed to smooth running of the
Project during its four-year implementation period.
3.5.3  In terms of complying with the Bank's safeguard policies, the SAR classified the Project as
category "B", stating at the same time that the overall environmental impact of the Project would be
positive.  During implementation, the Project design called for the PMU to assess the potential
environmental impact of each sub-project.  The PMU would prepare a Summary Environmental
Assessment and include this in its annual reviews. Finally, the PMU was obligated to appoint an
environmental specialist to coordinate and/or carry out this activity. No other safeguard issues were
anticipated at the Project design stage, and none were encountered during implementation.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The ICR rating for the outcome of the Project is satisfactory and this is based on the following reasons:
4.1.1  The Project met its developmental objectives. In terms of job creation, total employment created
by the Project was about 66,000 work months which is about 80% of the total work-months as originally
estimated during appraisal. The shortage of about 20 percent between the actual and projected was due to
the following factors: (i) a large number of work-months was not recorded at the beginning due to lack of
awareness by the site engineers; (ii) the percentage of labor content for schools and health units, which
constituted around 70 percent of investment made, was lower than the average labor content of other types
of sub-projects, and (iii) the investment costs required to generate a work month of employment was
underestimated at appraisal. At the time of Project closure, this cost was about US$500 for each work
month of employment generated. This was higher than both the appraisal estimates of between US$260
and US$350, and the MTR estimate of US$450. The underestimate at appraisal was likely due to a lack of
familiarity with actual small scale labor costs, while the underestimate at the May 1998 MTR was based
on the difficulty of timing the expected reduction in inflation, which took hold in the year 2000.
4.1.2  By the Closing Date, 46 small scale water projects had been completed, and 25 small wastewater
projects were finished. Spot checks on these sub-projects reported in annual reviews reveal a high degree
of satisfaction in these sub-projects by beneficiaries and are considered environmentally beneficial. With
- 4 -



very few exceptions, all sub-projects projects were either environmentally neutral or made substantial
improvement in the local environment-although this was not adequately monitored or reported under the
Project. The need for increased attention to environmental screening, monitoring and reporting procedures
were highlighted by a QAG supervision assessment (carried out in October 2000) and are now being
implemented under the follow-on Project, PWP II.
4.1.3   A beneficiary impact assessment was conducted in December 1998 by a local consultant and the
outcome of the study was positive. At the time the survey was conducted, 146,500 people benefited from
services rendered through the 46 sub-projects visited by the study team. At that time, this translates to an
average number of about 3,200 people being served by a sub-project. By the end of the Project, the PMU
estimated that over two million people are being served by the 422 sub-projects delivered under the Project;
a number that by far exceeded all expectations.
4.1.4   Community involvement in the various stages of the Project activities was also satisfactory.
Contribution by communities to sub-project costs were US$2.4 million, which is about 9 percent of the
civil works component of the Project. The impetus for most sub-projects came from the local level, who
were also likely to be involved in sub-project design and construction supervision. After project
completion, communities are normally responsible for operation and maintenance costs (except in the case
of schools and health centers). The degree of community participation (cash or in-kind), as well as
"expected sustainability," were both included as sub-project selection criteria.
4.1.5   The Project's successful implementation record allowed it to attract additional funding of about
US$10.20 million from the Governments of the Netherlands, Italy and USAID. The latter two continue to
be managed by the PMU under PWP-II. In addition, and under PWP-II, the OPEC Fund, the French
Government, and a second round of USAID contributions are expected (US$10.0, US$0.8, and US$10.5
million, respectively).
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1   Civil works. Goods. Equipment and Furiture: The output rating for this component is highly
satisfactory. The Project delivered 422 sub-projects spread all over the country at a total cost of US$27.66
million. By Credit Closing, except for the 16 health units, which are expected to be put into operation by
the end of December 2000, all sub-projects financed by the Project were operational. The Project also
financed the supply of classroom furniture for the schools and classrooms built under the Project. In total,
two contracts for supply of 11,856 student combined seats were procured through international competitive
bidding procedures. Table 1 below shows the distribution of investment made with the corresponding
number of sub-projects according to sectors.
Table 1: Investment made according to sectors
SectDor       1996          1997          1998          1999          Total          %
Education           8            96            85            34           223            53
Health              6            26            45             1            78            18
Water               4            14            24            4             46            11
Sanitation          5            16             3             1            25            6
Roads               3            21             7            9             40            9
Agrculture          3         .                 2             2             8            2
General             0             1             1            0              2
Social              0             0             0            0              0
TOTAL          29            175          167            51            422          100
-5 -



4.2.2 Project Management: For this component, the ICR rating is considered highly satisfactory. The
Steering Committee and its implementing body the PMU, are considered to be among the most efficient and
effective of all IDA projects in Yemen. The Steering Committee, established by Prime Ministerial decree,
is composed of 9 senior government officials (usually at the ministerial rank) and is chaired by the Minister
of Planning and Development. The Steering Conmmittee meets regularly to set policies, resolve issues and
oversee the operation of the PMU. The PMU is fully staffed with approximately 20 qualified professionals
and support staff, and it is adequately equipped. It has written staff service rules, manuals of procedures,
established a comprehensive management information system, demonstrated an ability to implement many
sub-projects simultaneously, established regional offices and put in place a PMR based financial system
under PWP II. During implementation, the PMU demonstrated an ability to disburse over US$1.0 million
per month and managed a US$3.0 million Special Account (increased to US$7.0 millon under PWP II).
4.2.3  Technical Assistance: The ICR rates this component as highly satisfactory. Local consultants
played a major role in providing support to the PMU, engineering and other related services. The services
provided were mainly related to supervision of construction works and a few were related to sub-project
designs, environmental assessment, or in doing social studies. Over 1,000 expressions of interest were
received by the PMU from local consulting finrs and individuals; of these 190 service contracts were
signed. Training of consultants was undertaken through a series of six training workshops organized under
the Project, and attended by about 280 consultants. The workshops discussed various topics such as
construction supervision, and community participation in sub-project preparation and execution.
4.2.4 Given the positive outcome of all components, the ICR concludes the Project design was
appropriate for achieving its stated objectives/outputs. Performance Indicators were detailed in Annex 6 of
the PAD, however, during the Bank's changeover to the PSR format they were not consistently reported. In
contrast, annual performance reports prepared by the PMU tracked these indicators. As was shown there,
and as summarized in Annex 1 to the ICR, these indicators were adequate to measure achievement of the
Project's development objectives.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.3.1  For most sub-projects, a cost-effectiveness methodology was used to screen and rank proposed
sub-projects from an economic perspective.  Because revenue or other benefit stream from these
sub-projects were not easily quantifiable, the least-cost option of accomplishing the Project objective was
adopted through the application of a set of selection criteria that helped ensure funding of only the most
cost-effective investments. Given the multi-sectoral and dispersed nature of the sub-projects, it was not
possible to carry out any NPV/EIRR analysis during appraisal. With 422 sub-projects completed in eight
sectors, and dispersed all over the country, the ICR did not attempt to carry out any NPV/EIRR analysis.
However, at an average cost of US$52,000 per sub-project and $10 per beneficiary, the outcome is
considered highly satisfactory.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.4.1  There was no FIRR analysis done at the time of appraisal and, given the nature of the Project, none
was attempted for the ICR.
-6 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.5.1  The Project had a major institutional development impact in two areas: (i) capacity building for the
local contractors and consulting industry; and (ii) decreasing civil works unit costs. Details of these are
highlighted below.
4.5.2 The overall institutional capacity of the local consulting firms and individual consultants was
strengthened under the Project by providing them with opportunities to work as full time consultants in
their fields of expertise. This helped them improve their level of professional competence, initiate a spirit
of competition and familiarize themselves with modem day trends in the consulting business through
various seminars/workshops organized by the PMU. There were over a 1,000 consulting firms that
expressed interest to work under the Project, out of which 190 were engaged. About 280 consulting firms
and individual engineers attended six training workshops organized by the Project in various subjects such
as construction supervision, preparation of sub-projects, IDA procurement guidelines and procedures.
4.5.3  On the whole, the capacity of local contractors (particularly small scale ones) irnproved
significantly during implementation of the Project. Informnal workshops were usually organized during bid
opening sessions wherein contractors were trained on the bidding process and procedures, guidance on
preparation of bids, issues related to submission of bid bonds and bid security, appreciation of Bank's
procurement guidelines, evaluation of bids and criteria, contract execution and delivery schedule, and
quality control. These training sessions had a positive impact in attracting more contractors, generated
competition, enhanced the knowledge of contractors and finally helped completion of sub-projects on time
and at competitive prices. Due to the strong interest shown, it has now become customary under the
PWP-II that contractors and/or their representatives are given short lectures at the beginning of each bid
opening session.
4.5.4 The PWP was very effective in lowering per unit construction costs across Yemen. For some
simple structures, such as six room school buildings, construction costs were halved over the
implementation period (dropping from US$100,000 initially to US$45-50,000 by Project end). Besides
transparency in procurement and simple contracting procedures, the Project achieved this reduction in unit
costs through: (i) an emphasis on fast payment (usually within 10 working days); (ii) encouraging
competition and the use of a wide range of finns (as many as 30 firms might bid on any single
sub-contract); and (iii) consistency over time in its treatment of contractors which built up confidence in the
industry for PWP contracts.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1.1  There were no factors outside the control of the government or implementing agency that affected
the Implementation and Outcome of the Project
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
5.2.1  Future operation and maintenance of many of the facilities built depend on support from the
government. Because of their involvement during selection/approval of individual sub-projects, subsequent
budgetary support sub-projects has generally been adequate. However, the government was slow in
responding to provide technical and financial support for 16 health units built under the Project and that
- 7-



remained unused for many months. An agreement (refer to Operational Plan, Attachment 8 [pg. 28]) was
reached between the PMU and the Ministry of Health to start operating these units before the end of 2000;
this will be monitored during supervision of the PWP-II. As a precautionary measures, construction of new
health units under PWP-I1 is strongly discouraged unless satisfactory arrangements for their operation and
maintenance are secured up front by the PMNU.
5.2.2  Contractors, consultants, and implementing agencies can face problems in processing payments or
other documents through the relevant government agencies. In Yemen, the payment and reimbursement
procedures under IDA projects are complicated, cumbersome and require a lot of time. Although this was
not a significant problem under PWP I, it has recently become more of a concem under PWP-II, and as a
result, payments to contractors and consultants are not as fast as they used to be.
5.2.3  Despite the comment above, government was overall very supportive of the Project and showed a
high degree of commitment. Key appointments were made well, counterpart funds were generally provided
adequately and on time, and government administrative procedures were established and implemented
effectively through the Steering Comnittee.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.3.1 There are three factors under control of the Steering Committee and the PMU that could have lead to
better implementation.
5.3.2  Sustainability of sub-projects: In cases where future operations of the sub-projects are totally
dependent upon govemment support (financial and technical), the PMU should ensure that such support is
confirmed prior to start of implementation. These confirmations need to involve the Govemor's office,
Ministry of Finance and the line ministry involved.
5.3.3  Quality of workmanship: Awarding contracts to established non-performing contractors and
consulting firms/individuals could be avoided by introducing necessary qualifying criteria during the
bidding process.
5.3.4  Environmental specialist:  The environmental aspects of sub-projects were not adequately
addressed because of the absence of an environmental specialist with the PMU. This issue has recently
been resolved and an environmental specialist was hired to take care of all the outstanding environmental
issues under PWP I and to implement the relevant procedures under PWP II.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
5.4.1  The only significant cost or financing change from appraisal was caused by a 7.5 percent decrease
in the US$/SDR exchange rate. This reduced the dollar amount available for financing the Project from
US$25.0 million at appraisal to US$23.18 at the Closing Date. Upon completion, the total Project cost
was US$30.44 million, of which IDA financed US$23.18 million, the Dutch Grant financed US$1.96
million, and domestic contribution totaled to US$5.30 million (including US$2.40 million from community
contribution).
5.4.2  Disbursements for the first 8 quarters of the Project lagged projections, but never by more than
US$2.5 million. After that, disbursements generally exceeded projections on a per quarter basis.
- 8-



6. Sustainabiity
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1.1  The overall sustainability rating is highly likely, particularly for the physical infrastructure built.
This is because the primary achievement generated through the Project (i.e. building of low cost and simple
infrastructure primary facilities) is expected to be maintained. In addition, sub-projects put forward for
selection were conmnunity demanded, and often included a community contribution of either cash or in
kind--thereby increasing stakeholder commitment to future operations. Selection of each sub-project has
the approval of the related line ministry (as a member of the Steering Committee), helping to ensure
adequate funds for operation and maintenance (if applicable, e.g., for schools and health centers).
6.1.2 In areas of institutional capacity building, sustainability is likely. The project contributed to the
capacity building of small contractors and the local consulting firms/individuals through
seminars/workshops organized by the PMU. The knowledge and experience gained will help in improving
the standard of the private contracting and consulting industry in the country. To the extent that these
people remain in business, the benefits of the Project will carry on.
6.1.3  Finally, all these activities are continuing under the follow-on PWP II Project. Govermnent
commitment to the second project remains high and the benefits and sustainability of the Project are being
expanded though increased funding, more projects and the establishment of regional PMU offices to better
serve remote areas.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.2.1  The Project is continuing under the follow-on PWP II Project and the implementation arrangements
have not changed.
6.2.2 IDA's Country Office in Yemen agreed in 1999 with the government on transitional guidelines and
requirements for all IDA Projects. These guidelines contain specific recommendations conceming the
closing of PMUs, the disposal of equipment and a business plan for the transition from project to normal
operations. The guidelines will come into effect if there is not an IDA project after PWP II.
6.2.3 Finally, and as mentioned in paragraph 5.2.1, the PMU agreed to follow up with the Ministry of
Health the issue of the remaining completed but non-operational (16) health units. IDA will continue
monitoring under the follow on PWP-II Project, the agreement reached in accordance with the Operational
Plan, as agreed during the Completion Mission of June 2000.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification. preparation and appraisal
7.1.1 The Bank response to the need of the government was positive and on the whole Bank's
performance at identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. First, the choice of public works
as an option/vehicle to help the country create temporary jobs was appropriate and relevant to the country's
-9-



need especially, during the prevailing labor market conditions. Second, the preparation process was fast, it
took only about nine months for the Bank team to process the Project for Board approval. Third,
considerable efforts were spent by the Bank and the government to arrange and ultimately put in place an
agency that played a key role in bringing the project into its successful completion.
7.1.2  Apart from the Project design, which was pragmatic, clear, and above all, responsive to the local
market condition, essential activities were completed on time such as the provision of PPF, setting up of the
PMU and the Steering Committee and the inclusion of the first and second batch of investment programs in
the SAR; this allowed the Project to start about six months before it was declared effective on December
30, 1996.
7.2 Supervision:
7.2.1 Bank's performance on supervision was satisfactory. The Project was supervised from the field
which helped in close monitoring and supervision. Necessary inputs and support from HQ were provided
to the field team whenever needed. Ten supervision missions including a Mid-Term Review were
conducted over the four-year implementation period. In accordance with the legal covenants, the PMU was
required to carry out necessary environment assessment and adopt appropriate rnitigation plans before
implementing any sub-project. This was not done, and was not enforced by IDA, but is now being pursued
under supervision of the follow-on PWP-II. In general, the supervision staff mnix was adequate and served
the purpose of providing appropriate guidance to the PMU. In October 2000, the quality of supervision
was assessed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The review rated Bank's supervision performance
as satisfactory and also indicated that a strong supervision had contributed significantly to the success of
the Project.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
7.3.1  Based on the above and the achievements attained by the Project, the overall performance of the
Bank was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1  The performance of the Borrower at the preparation phase was highly satisfactory.  The
government, represented by the Ministry of Planning and Development, showed strong commitment during
the preparation stage of the Project. This commitment was demonstrated clearly by the shorter preparation
period of nine months, which compared favorably with the usual 24 months preparation period required by
other projects during 1996. An appropriate Steering Committee (SC) was created quickly and staff
selection and the formation of the PMU at an earlier stage was made possible through the necessary
guidance of the SC and strong support from the Government.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.5.1 On the whole the government implementation performance is rated as satisfactory. Government
support and commnitment to the project has continued beyond the preparation period. Problems faced by
the project were resolved and addressed quickly. For example, the opening of special account at the
Central Bank of Yemen for the counterpart funds helped in reducing payment delays to civil work
contractors.
- 10 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.6.1  The performance rating of the PMU remained highly satisfactory throughout the project
implementation period.
7.6.2 All Project covenants were complied with, good use was made of targeted technical assistance
(e.g., the beneficiary assessment, establishment of the MIS system, and training for consultants and
contractors), and timely progress reports were submitted. Implementation delays existed only at the
inception of the Project. Staffing was adequate and management excellent.
7.6.3  The Project's DCA  requires the submission of audit reports on a quarterly basis and the annual
audit report within six months of year end. This financial covenant was always satisfactorily adhered to,
except for the 1999 audit report, which was agreed to be submitted within nine months instead of the usual
six months, due to a change in the system of appointing the auditor. All the audit reports were unqualified
and the private auditor has always expressed satisfaction on the competency of the accounting staff, the
financial, accounting and management information systems which are in place. The accounting system was
later computerized and this set the stage for the follow-on Project (PWP H) to adopt the PMR-based
disbursement system under the Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.7.1 In general, the rating of Borrower performance was highly satisfactory. However, some delays in
processing payments to contractors and consultants remained an issue which the Borrower needs to resolve.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1.1  Key lessons learned form the Project include:
3   Adoption of an appropriate project design supported by good implementation arrangements can
deliver substantial benefits. This would include detailed, adequate and up-front arrangements to
handle human relations (especially coordination procedures between govemment agencies and
ministries), as well as employing competent project staff and providing the right salary and
incentives.
* Requiring measurable local stakeholder participation helps to target results and ensure
sustainability, but it also requires appropriate skills and effort;
*   It is not necessary to create a bureaucracy to deliver substantial development benefits on a large
number of sites;
*   Good and transparent business procedures lower costs and build up institutional capacity and
development. This would include the recognition that small contracts require their own set of
simple and straight forward procedures and documents.
- I I -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Annex 7.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A.
- 12 -



10. Additional Information
FY00 Quality of Supervision Assessment as reviewed and reported by the Quality Assurance Group
FY00 QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire
Summary Assessment Sheet
PROJECT                   Ry-Public Works  COUNTRY            Yemen, Republic
SECTOR:                   Urban Development REGION:           MNA
TASK TEAM LEADER          Mukherji Somin   COUNTRY DIRECTOR I.Sud
PROJECT ID                P043109         SECTOR MANAGER   J.Villiard
LOAN/CREDIT AMOUNT        25             LOAN/CREDIT          28780
($MIL):                                  NUMBER
DATE APPROVED             06/11/96       DATE EFFECTIVE        12/30/96
FY00 SUPERVISION BUDGET $000
WPA: 55                          ACTUAL: 37
PERSON(s) INTERVIEWED:  Somin Mukheuji   Z TTL   OTHERS:   Ali Khamis
TTL WAS:                  Headquarters
AT RISK STATUS (as of 6/30/00):  Non-Risky
ENVIRONMENT CATEGORY B
A, B, C OR Fl
IZl FIRST STAGE REVIEW    O SECOND STAGE REVIEW
FIRST STAGE REVIEW:
QAG MODERATOR             H. Wyss
PANEL LEADER              David Howarth    PANEL MEMBER(S)   Robert Panfil
SPECIALIZED REVIEWERS:
1. Environment            Juan Quintero
- 13-



2. Social Assessment           Bruce Harris
3. Financial Management        Ivonna Teresa Kratynski
4. Procurement                  Jorge A. Larrieu
OVERALL RATING  2                                 ASSESSMENT DATE  10/10/2000
- 14 -



FY00 QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMEN'r
Guidance Questionnaire
Summary Assessment Sheet
PROJECT:           Ry-Public Works              COUNTRY:           Yemen, Republic
Main points on which overall assessment was based
The supervision of the project, overall and in three of the four main assessment categories was rated as
satisfactory. The remaining category, ' Quality and Realism of Reporting', was rated as marginally
satisfactory.
1.    Supervision was strong in many aspects. Competent technical staff from the Bank's office in the
country have supervised the Project for a number of years and have contributed significantly to the success
of the Project. The Aide Memoires and letters and subsequent follow-up were very good. A social
assessment was undertaken and there was good follow-up on social development aspects. As part of
supervision, the Bank team has helped improve the contracting of small works and the quality of the
finish of civil works, the establishment of sound financial management procedures and audits related to
the implementation of a foreign assisted project. Particularly, noteworthy is that the follow-on project is
utilizing LACI disbursements procedures. Even though this project was graded as a "B" at appraisal, the
panel nonetheless remains concerned that there appears to have been virtually no supervision of
environmental aspects during implementation.
2.    The 'Quality of Realism of Reporting' was rated as marginal. There were inconsistencies with
respect to rating on the environment. Moreover, the development objective ratings were not explained
or justified adequately, and the key performance indicators have not evidently been monitored and
reported.
In light of this assessment, list two or three factors which will require particular attention to
improve the prospects for achieving the project s development objectives
The project is now closed. The following recommendations thus are addressed to the follow-up project:
* increased focus on the sustainability of sub-projects.
* following up on the environmental procedures that were specified in the first project.
* additional analysis to determine which type of sub-project maximizes labor employment.
* formalizing the minimum amount of local contribution in a sub-project.
- 15-



FY00 QUALITY OF SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT
Guidance Questionnaire
Summary Assessment Sheet
4 Un0satisfactory
SUPERVISION ASSESSMENT
1. Focus on Development Effectiveness                                2
2. Supervision of Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects                        2
3. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes                      2
4. Quality and Realism of Reporting                                  3
Overall Assessment                                                2
The overall assessment is not an average of the assessments of the constituent elements of supervision. Instead,
the reviewer should use his/her judgement in weighing the relative importance of each given the country and the
project context. In making the assessment, reviewers should consider the importance of each category, and within
each category, the various questions on supervision quality.
- 16 -



Completion Mission Aide-Memoire (June 2000)
Republic of Yemen
Public Works Project (Cr. 2878-YEM)
Completion Supervision Mision
May 15 - June 10. 2000
Introduction
1.    An IDA mission comprising Messrs./Mme. Ali Khamis (Operations Officer), Josephine Masanque
(Financial Management Specialist) and Somin Mukherji (Senior Financial Analyst) carried out the final
supervision of the project during the above period. The mission wishes to thank the officials and staff of the
Ministry of Planning and Development (MOPD) and the Public Works Project Management Unit (PMU)
for all the courtesies and assistance extended to the mission. This Aide-Memoire summarizes the mission's
findings and agreements reached with the MOPD regarding the project and is subject to IDA management's
review and concurrence. A list of people met during the mission is included in Attachment 1 and a list of
agreement reached is included in Attachment 2.
Background and Development Objective
2.    An IDA Credit of SDR17.0 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) was approved on June 11, 1996
and declared effective on December 30, 1996. The Credit Closing date is June 30, 2000. The overall
objective of the project is to mitigate the potential adverse effects of economic adjustment. The project
aims at alleviating poverty by generating employment through the initiation of small scale works contracts.
The project is also expected to deliver and improve infrastructure services, enhance environmental and
sanitary conditions, and mobilize community participation in the development process and ultimately
sustain the investments made.
3.    Amendment to DCA: Schedule 1 Category 1 of the DCA was amended on April 27, 1999 to
incorporate reallocation of funds; details of these are included in Attachment 3.
4.    Netherlands Grant: The Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended on May 19, 1998, to
include a Netherlands Grant Assistance for an aggregate amount equivalent to four rnillion Netherlands
Guilders (NLG 4,000,000). The grant allocation is intended to finance the construction of 13 girls schools
at different locations. Due to the delay encountered in processing of the legal document, the Development
Grant Agreement (DGA) was extended from May 31, 1999 until May 31, 2000.
5.    Amendment to DGA: In order to include financing of school furniture, Category 1 of Schedule 1
of the DGA was amended on June 6, 1999. Details on reallocation of the grant fund is included in
Attachment 3.
Status of Project Implementation
6.    The implementation of the project has been rated as highly satisfactory with no major obstacles
noted during the four years of its implementation. The project has met its developmental objectives. In
term of job creation, a total of about 43,000 work-months was created by the project. This figure
represents 80 percent of the MTR estimates (53,600) as included in the Performance Indicators table
(Attachment 4). In addition to jobs created, thousands of people are benefiting from the services provided
by the infrastructures built under the project Now that the project is about to close on June 30, 2000, the
-17 -



PMU confirmed to the mission that all the ongoing activities will be completed before current Credit
Closing date, June 30. 2000: no contracts are expected to spill over this date.
7.    IDA financed components: A total of 422 work contracts has been executed by the project for a
total of US$21.84 million. Of these, twelve contracts are still on-going and expected to be completed
before June 30, 2000. Table I below shows the distribution of the investment made under the Project to the
various sectors.
Table 1: Investment made according to sectors
Sector      1996    1997     1998      1999     Total      °          US$         %
Education         8       96        85      34       223       0.53       11.52       0.53
Health            6       26        45       1        78       0.18       2.84        0.13
Water             4       14        24       4        46       0.11       2.23        0.10
Sanitation        5       16         3       1        25       0.06        1.74       0.08
Raods             3       21        7        9        40       0.09       2.85        0.13
Agriculture       3        1        2        2         8       0.02       0.55        0.03
General           0        1         1       0         2       0.00       0.09        0.00
Social            0        0        0        0         0       0.00       0.00       0.00
TOTAL        29      175       167      51       422       1.00       21.63       1.00
Through ICB procedures, two supply contracts for 11,856 student combined seats have been contracted to
a local contractor for US$0.39 million. The distribution of the seats under both contracts to the respective
project sites has almost been completed. Attachment 5 sununarizes the overall procurement activties
carried out by the project.
9.     Netherlands Grant fianced coThe implementation of the girl schools contracted under
the Grant for US$2.02 million is complete now and all the thirteen contracts have been executed. Supply
of all the student combined seats (4088) have been completed and, except for the last two school sites,
delivery of all the combined seats to the respective schools have duly been completed; the PMU confirmed
that the delivery of seats to the remaining two schools will be completed by the end of June 2000.
10.    Site visits:  The mission visited several sites financed by the  project in the Hadramout
Govemorate. These included: (a) addition of six rooms for the Seiyun hospital; (b) a twelve classrooms
school at Al-Shihr; (c) extension of six classrooms to an existing school in Seiyun; (d) construction of a
200 cum water tank in Al-Ghorfah in Seiyun; (e) construction of two water tanks (200 cum and 50 cum
capacity) at Al-Ogibiah, Duw'an; and (f) construction of sewerage lime at Al-Shihr. The mission noted
that in general the quality of work was satisfactory at all the above sites. However, the wastewater system
out of the sewerage lines built at Al-Shihr needs immediate attention by the PWP. All the wastewater was
being discharged on the beach thereby causing severe health hazard for human lives using the beach
facilities and the near-by marine life. In view of this, the mission strongly recommend that the PMU take
up the matter immediately and arrange for necessary rectification so that the project is sustainable from an
environrmental aspect; the PMU agreed to inform IDA by June 30, 2000. on actions taken to resolve this
issue.
Accounts and Finance
11.    Audits: In accord with the DCA provisions, the PMU is required to submit to IDA within six
months of the end of each fiscal year, its audit reports of project accounts including expenditures made
through special accounts (SA) and statement of expenditures (SOE). The PMU has always submitted their
- 18 -



audit reports on time and the 1999 audit reports, due by June 2000, were submnitted in March 2000 and
thus the PMU continues to be in compliance with timely submnission of annual audit reports. In addition,
the PMU is also required to submit its interim quarterly audit reports, 30 days after the end of each quarter.
Since the appointment of auditor for FY2000 is under discussion/finalization, it is expected that the
quarterly audit reports for the first two quarters of 2000 will be made available by the end of July 2000.
12.   Disbursements: As of May 31, 2000, a total of US$22.4 million equivalent has been disbursed.
The balance of about 1.0 million is expected to be disbursed by August 31, 2000. In total, the amount of
US$23.3 million is short of the US$25.0 million as estimated during appraisal; the difference of US$1.7
million is mainly due the unfavorable exchange rate between the SDR and the US dollar. A table showing
a comparison of the actual disbursements to date with the appraisal projections is included in Attachment 6.
For the Dutch Grant, US$1.67 million (eq.) has been disbursed and the remaining balance of US$0.19
million (eq.) is expected to be disbursed before the end of July 2000.
13.   Special Accounts: As of May 10, 2000, the balance available in the special accounts (SA) at the
Central bank of Yemen was at US$0.08 million and US$0.02 for the Dutch Grant. The PMU agreed that
the undisbursed balance of both accounts will be transferred to IDA account by no later than May 30. 2000
for the Grant and June 30 for PWP-I.
14.   Compliance with covenants: A status of compliance with covenants is included in Attachment 7.
Technical Assistance and Training
15.   Training of PMU Staff: During imnplementation, ten PMU staff members attended various training
courses. Three of them went for overseas training and seven participated in the two courses organized
locally by the Bank. On the overseas training, one staff member went for the "Works Procurement
Management" training at the ILO training Center in Turin, and the other two went for the "Informnation
Technology Systems Development" training course held in Washington D.C. On the local training, four
PMU staff members attended the 1999 capacity building serninar on "Procurement, Disbursement, and
Financial Management" and three staff attended the March 2000 training workshop on "Project
Management."
16.   Support to local contractors, consultants and non-governmental organizations: During the entire
implementation period, training of contractors has been done on a regular basis and is usually carried out at
the beginning of each bid opening sessions. During these sessions, contractors were briefed about the
bidding process, bidding documents, pricing of bids, contract execution, evaluation methodology etc. This
practice started three years ago and will continue under the PWP-Il. Training of local consultants has
however not been done on such a regular basis. Under the project, only three training workshops were
organized for consultants and non-governmental organizations.
17.   Hiring of consultants: Local consultants have played a major role in the implementation of the
project During implementation, services of about 200 consulting firms and individual consultants were
utilized. The total amount spent on consulting services is US$1.64 million. Most of the assignments were
related to the supervision of construction sites and a few to the sub-project designs and other kinds of
consulting activities. A local consultant was also hired to conduct the Benefit Impact Assessment Study;
and, an intemational consultant was hired for conducting two Annual Performance Reviews (APR) and a
mid-term Review. The last APR was completed in May 15. 2000 and reports are expected to be submitted
by June 15. 2000.
- 19-



Operational Plan
18.   The project delivered a total of 422 sub-projects scattered all over the country. They are small in
size with an average cost of about US$ 50,000 per sub-project. These sub-projects are operational except
for 16 health units (out of 75 imits built under the project) remained unused since they were completed.
During mission, this issue was brought up again and discussed in details. The PMU informed the mission
of the agreement reached with the Ministry of Public Health in which the later agreed to equip, furnish, and
operate these 16 units within the next few months but by no later than December 2000. The mission
acknowledges the efforts expended by the PMU towards resolving this issue, which has been pending for
some time now. The PMU agreed to update IDA on the progress made in connection with the Operational
Plan as outlined in Attachment 8.
Implementation Completion Report
19.   In accord with IDA guidelines, after completion of each project, an Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) is required within six months of Project Closure. The mission discussed with the PMU the
information necessary to prepare IDA's part of the ICR and provided to the PMU with necessary advice
and support for the preparation of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR. It was agreed that the PMU
would submit to IDA the Borrower's contribution to the ICR by the end of Aurust 2000.
List of Attachments
Attachment 1  List of people met
Attachment 2  Agreements reached
Attachment 3  Amendments to the DCA and the Dutch Grant
Attachment 4  Performance Indicators
Attachment 5  Procurement Status
Attachment 6  Disbursement Forecast
Attachment 7  Covenant Compliance
Attachment 8  Operational Plan
Saeed Abdo Ahmed                               Anwar Al-Harazi
Project Director                               Deputy Minister
Public Works Project                           Ministry of Planning & Development
Somin Mukherji
Sr. Financial Analyst
- 20 -



Attachment 1
List of Peoiple Met
Mr. Anwar Al-Harazi, Deputy Minister
Ministry of Planning and Development
Mr. Saeed Abdo Ahmed
PMU Director
Public Works Project
Mr. Abdulsalaam Kasim
Area Manager I
Public Works Project
Mr. Hassan Alhubaishi
Area Manager II
Public Works Project
Ms. Nasra Daair
Investment Planner
Public Works Project
Mr. Jamal AbdulAziz
Procurement Specialist
Public Works Project
Mr. Gamil Hizam
MIS Specialist
Public Works Project
- 21 -



Attachment 2
Status of Aereements Reached duringz the last mission
Agreed Action                                 Completion Date                   Status
As of May 30, 2000
I. PMU to send details of contracts (and proposed mode of financing them) that are  June 30, 2000  PMU confirmed that all contracts will be
expected to spill over the Credit Closing Date.(para. 6)                                      completed by June 30, 2000.
2. PMU to pay special attention to implementation of contracts (under the Netherland
Grant Financing) that are lagging behind, IDA to be informed.               Jan 31, 2000      Completed
3. PMU to take corrective measures to ensure quality of work at the school near Dhamar.
PMU to provide IDA with a list of suppliers/contractors whose past performance were  Dec 31, 1999  Done
unsatisfactory and to provide safeguard policies to avoid recurrence of such in the future.
4. PMU to start recruitment process for the new finance manager and have the position    June 15, 2000  Started processing (see PWP-2
filled in.                                                                                    aide-memoire)
5. PMU to submit to IDA the AIP for 2000 together with the associated work program
and operating budget for necessary review and approval.                     Dec 31, 1999      Done
6. For the Annual Performance Review, PMU to provide necessary TOR for IDA's  Jan 15, 2000    Done
review and approval.
7. On the 35 non-operational health centers, PMU to provide with proposed actions.            PMU initiated some actions the reduced the
Jan 15, 2000      non-operational health centers to 16.
8. PMU to provide IDA with details of the seminar for the consultants/contractors.  Jan 15, 2000  Done
9. PMU to inform IDA on changes required in the CP selection criteria.      Jan 31, 2000      Done
10. On the sub-project mix, PMU to inform IDA of the SC's decision.        Feb 28, 2000       Done
I1. PMU will appoint the current auditor to compete audit of PWP-1 (para. 11).  June 6, 2000  PMU to submit the qtrly audit reports by July
31, 2000.
12. PMU to send follow-up letter to ASIF.                                  Dec 31, 1999       Done
Aareement Reached durin2 the May 2000 Mission
Agreed Action                                      Completion Date                   Status
1. PMU to complete all the ongoing activities, before May 30 for the Grant and June 30, May 30 and June 30,2000
2000 for PWP-I (para. 6).
2. PMU to take appropriate action to ensure the envirownent safety aspects of the  June 30, 2000
wastewater project built in Al-Shihr (paras 10).
3. PMU to submit qtrly audit reports for the first two quarters of 2000 (paras. 1)  July 31,2000
4. Undisbursed balance in both accounts to be transferred to IDA account (para. 13)  May 30 (IDA) June 30,2000
(Grant)
5. Submisssion of the last APR reports (paral7).                            June 15, 2000
6. PMU to update the Project Team at the WB-Country Office on the progress made in    August 30, 2000
connection with the Operational Plan (para 18)
7. PMU to arrange for sSubmission of the Borrower's contribution to the ICR (para 19).   August 30,2000
- 22 -



Attachment 3
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT (CR. 2878-YEM)
Development Credit Agreement
Amendment to Schedule 1
IDA Letter Dated April 27, 1999 (column 1)
IDA letter Dated June 7, 1999 (column 2)
(1)                        (2)
Amount Originally           Amended Amount             Amended Amount
Category               Allocated in Credit   Allocated in Credit Agreement    Of Grant Allocated
Agreement               (Expressed in SDR          (Expressed in NGL
(Expressed in SDR             Equivalent)                 Equivalent)
Equivalent)
(1) Civil Works - Part A of the   12,700,000                  14,550,000                   3.750,000
Project
(2) Goods and Equipment under
Part B of the Project                300,000                    216,000
(3) Furniture                        200,000                    200,000                      250,000
(4) Consultants' Services            900,000                    964,000
(5) Operating Costs                  700,000                    935,000
(6) Refunding of Project           1,000,000                     123,966
Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                    1,200,000                      11,034
TOTAL                             17,000,000                  17,000,000                   4,000,000
- 23 -



Attachment 4
YEMEN: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Performance Indicators
1996              1997                        1998                           1999                          2000
Quaters              3    4      1     2      3      4      1     2      3                1      2       3      4        1      2       3      4
Job  realion=                          =     =      =     =      =      =     =       ==                              =      =       ==                     =
(in work-mmtdh)
Prp*eted
Quarterty                        0  1953  5860  586   586C        5860   5860                       58         (           5860 50 8 5     58S(
Cummulative                      0 1953  7418 13679 19535 25395 31256 37116  429754                        6055   6641'  72279  7814   84000
Revised cmmumaKse ( MTR)             13a   5305  9290 13260 15880 21230 25200                        3712   4110   45100  49100  53600
Actual                          I__          ___
Quarterly                        0   159  1121  1966  4260  6108  4726  480                         1892   1787  1,346    590    973
Cummulative                      0  159  1280  3246  7506 13614 18340 23149                        34626  36417 37,758  38,348  41,300 __  _        _
Cost per woo== ont=
Proected                                                     To be "in USS 260 to 350
Actual                                805   444   482   415   450   605   434                         489    494    505    526       505 __
Dbursements-Civil Works
(in US$ miflion)
Projected (out of 25 milion)
Quarterly                        0     1     1    1.!   2.5   1.        2 1.                           2    125   1.75       1.5    1.    1.75    0.!    0.5
Cummulative                            1     2    3.       6    7.    9.      11      1             16.25    17.   1925   20.75   22.25      24   24.       25
Revised Projected (out of 22 million)
Quarterly                            0.88   0.88   1.32    2.2  1.32   1.76   1.32    1.             1.76     1.1   1.54    1.32    1.32    1.54   0.44   0.44
Cummulaaie_    0.81   1.76   3.08   5.28    6.6  8.36   9.8   11.4                                   14.    15.4  16.94   18.26   19.56   21.12  21.56      22
Actual                                                 I                                                          I
Quarterly                           0.128  0.498  0.947  1.766  2.749  Z82    1.2                   1.071    1.05   1.08    1.12     0. 
Cummulatve                          0.128  0.626  1.573  3.339  6.088  8.952  10.04  122           16.955   1.00  19.08    20.2   20.
Progress in Prject Compbeion
(% of pojed cost spent)             _        _                 Amourns spert on CMl Works                of 25 milo
Prjeced                           0    4      8    141   24   30    38    44           S                      7t      77      83      89      96     96    100
Actual                                 0.    2.8   7.;  15.2  2i 40.   45.    55.                      77.1   81.    86.7   91.8       95
- 24 -



Attachment 5
YEMEN: PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT
Procurement Status Report
D-orkn         PmrA_-  v d Doc  tMNC   Rmp*                  Bd    Bd       d    EAS   A_ad Clral          C7Au               O:n  IB
rrt    srb   Ct4dmkn     kim    b           E*   In,rmd          IN     D      Anna-      Cataj:es    a#id  Paed   Ald
Meh:d   ICA      Erd Do                               b _A     04d            (nMO)           N
1             2       3        4         5       6        7         8          9      10      11           12          13     14       15
S2rbd BdBZyDoc              3D.t3s7    Z7S97    =
TadrNa1l(6bt;d)                       _-2BE7S6   158SB  2210S36    4.11SB6                             0.35                    135      - 1 5 4S97
T-derN2 sbpqofs__                                         139R    7.1096    17.1196    21.119 =9       027                     3Q797           27.7S7
TaXWNo;3( 11bpq9_ _                                       1.10Q9   2610S6    17.11S   21.11S           0.54                    2&3S7           2.7S7
Tender Noa4(14w b    _         __                        11.11S6  a12-6    2Z297       26297            1.45                    1 6            104S
T___             _            ___                        24.129 2Q1S97    25397        313S71       _IE2           261S ._  __
TatIwNa6P%dWecI_ N                                        a4S7    8597      26697      3DS97  _         315                    105_918 _        1Q11S8
T-deNo7(9 p                   6_ 6797   14897                               16.697     299S7   _       439   _24.4SS9                   -      275
Teic erNo9(106abVqjeds)                                   1.1197   612S7    24.193     22S8             4.70                   27S3        -   a2co
T_dEr Nal        _ _3 ab_ |                               Z193    152S8     23S8%    303,.3  O_QC                              151SS91         29-
Ten _r_NallM            1_D                               M323S  65S8       24.693     7.793            2.55                           _ _2_A _
Tax__rN_ al2__bp*_ _     _                                13693   2798       1&89B     3DA98  _417t99                                         26a
Te-d%13__9&b_qqds)                                        4.1S9    9299      143S99    54SS             2)00                  192     .
Taxb_14(14a_____                                          3D7.9   23899      9&        14-CM            0_6 5_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _              _ _ _     ~   7    u ~  ?  i          2. 3      _   _  _  __            _     _  _ _
S____dd_es                 _  _                                                                         1.7
___________                           __-I_ =___  .Toawcamnwh                                         2363
I e       PqeC t                                   -I-                        -      _=__ _EB
-25 -



Attachment 6
YEMEN
Public Works Project (Cr. 2878-YEM)
Disbursement Forecast
Fiscal Year      Semester Ending     Cumulative Disbursement Cumulative Disbursement
as Per SAR          Actual and Forecast
US$M                    US$M
1996/1997    September 30, 1996                 0.00                     0.18
December 31, 1996                  1.50                    0.42
March 31, 1997                     2.50                    1.90
June 30, 1997                      4.00                    1.98
1997/1998    September 30, 1997                 6.50                     4.02
December 31, 1997                  8.00                    6.87
March 31, 1998                    10.00                    9.49
June30, 1998                      11.50                    11.88
1998/1999    September30, 1998                  13.50                    14.38
December31, 1998                  14.75                    16.40
March 31, 1999                    16.75                    18.00
June 30, 1999                     18.00                    19.11
1999/2000    September30, 1999                  19.75                    20.22
December31, 1999                  21.25                    21.25
March 31, 2000                    23.00                    22.28
June 30, 2000                     24.00                    23.00
2000/2001     September 30,2000                 24.50                    23.26
December 31, 2000                 25.00
-26 -



Attachment 7
YEMEN
Public Works Project
Covenant Compliance
Agreement Section Covenant Status  Original  Revised            Description of Covenant           Comments
Type            Fulfill   Fulfill
Date     Date
Credit   3.01 (c)   03,04    C                      Before November I of each year commencing
Nov. 1, 1996, the Borrower shall furnish to IDA,
for review and comments, an estimate of (i) the
operational costs of the PMU for subsequent year
and (ii) counterpart funding required to be
provided by t he Borrower for subprojects to be
carried out during the subsequent year.
Credit  3.01 (d)    04      C                       The Borrower shall ensure that adequate annual
budgetary allocations are made prior to February
I of each year to cover the counterpart funding
required for the operational costs of the PMU for
subprojects to be implemented during such year.
Credit  4.01 (a,)   01      C                       The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
4.01(b)                                   maintained records and accounts adequate to
(ii)                                     reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
and have these audited by independent auditors
accept-able to IDA; and to fumish to IDA no later
than six months after the end of each fiscal year,
a certified copy of the report.
Credit   4.01 (d)    01     CD                      Not later than one month after the effective date,
the Borrower shall appoint auditors acceptable to
the Association for a 4-year period in order to
carry the audits required.
Credit    Sch.4     05      C                       For the purpose of ensuring the proper
para2a                                     coordination and execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee,
with membership and TOR satisfactory to the
Association.
Credit   Sch..4    03       C                       The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU will
para3(b)                                   prepare quarterly Investment Programs consisting
(i)                                      of subprojects that have been appraised in
accordance with the Manual of Procedures,
Prepare sutnnary environmental assessments and
furnish to IDA the proposed Investment Program.
Credit   Sch.4pa    09      C                       The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU provide
ra 6 (b)                                   IDA quarterly progress reports and not later than
(i) (ii)                                  January 31 of each year, a report integrating the
results of the progress reports and review of
perfornance indicators including
recommendations.
Credit   Sch. 4     09      C                       The Borrower and IDA shall hold a mid-term
Para4(6)                                   exchange of views on the progress achieved.
(d)
Status:
C     - Complied with
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonable Short Time
CD   - Compliance After Delay
- 27 -



Attachment 8
Public Works Proiect-I
Operational Plan
Operational Issues             Strategy                 Performance Indicators          Timing
To expedite the     The PMU will closely monitor the    1. Completion of the supply,  1. October 2000
operation of 16 health progress of actions agreed with the   installation, commissioning of
units in various    Health Ministry through the      furniture and equipment to the
govemorates         consultant who succeeded to help the  respective sites.
PMU to reduce the number of      2. Staffing of the units      2. December 2000
non-operational units from 35 to 16
_units.
-28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
(a) job creation in work-months;         50,000-60,000                            43,365
(b) cost per work-month;                 US$ 260-- 350                            US$ 415-605
(c) disbursement under the civil works   US$ 21.30 million                        US$ 21.7 million
component:
(d) progress in project implementation as a  96%                                  99.29%
% of project costs spent;
(e) community paricipation in number of    0                                      40
subprojects without providing resources in
kind or money; and
(f) community participation in number of    0                                     284
subprojects with providing resources.
Output Indicators:
.________  _________                                                                      Ac*,, t''.,iSp ' u. 
End of project
-29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Sub-projects: Works                                 25.00          26.90         107.6
Sub-projects: Goods                                  0.70           0.76         108.6
Operating Cost                                       1.00           1.12          112
Technical Assistance                                 1.30           1.66         127.7
Total Baseline Cost                                 28.00          30.44
Total Project Costs            28.00           30.44  _
Total Financing Required             28.00          30.44
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     1.00         24.00        0.00         0.00        25.00
(0.90)      (21.10)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (22.00)
2. Goods                     0.00         0.00         0.70         0.00         0.70
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.70)       (0.00)       (0.70)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         1.00         0.00         1.00
(PMU Operating Costs)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (1.00)       (0.00)       (1.00)
4. Technical Assistance      0.00         0.00          1.30        0.00         1.30
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1.30)       (0.00)       (1.30)
Total                     1.00         24.00         3.00         0.00        28.00
(0.90)      (21.10)       (3.00)       (0.00)      (25.00)
- 30 -



Project Costs by Procurme  t Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalnt
Expendt C--     ory. I-w-                                                    NAY.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                          0.00            26.90           0.00            0.00          26.90
(0.00)         (19.64)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (19.64)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00           0.76            0.00           0.76
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.76)          (0.00)         (0.76)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00           0.00            1.12           1.12
(PMU Operating Costs)             (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.12)         (1.12)
4. Technical Assistance            0.00            0.00           0.00            1.66           1.66
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (1.66)         (1.66)
Total                          0.00            26.90           0.76            2.78          30.44
______ ___  (0.00)      (19.64)         (0.76           (2.78)        (23.18)
'/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivlent)
:~~~~~~_                        _               :_               _         -       :  j       i -0-- f|av k  4i    wt   L.  i iC OF .
Civil Works               22.00       3.00       0.00      19.64       5.30       1.96     89.3   176.7   0.0
Goods                      0.70       0.00       0.00       0.76       0.00       0.00    108.6   0.0    0.0
Operating Costs            1.00       0.00       0.00       1.12       0.00       0.00    112.0   0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance       1.30       0.00       0.00       1.66       0.00       0.00    127.7   0.0    0.0
- 31 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not Applicable as explained in paragraph 4.3.1
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Prqject Cycle             No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation      Development
Month/Year    Count       Specialty                       Progress         Objective
Identification/Preparation
8/1995                       5   Sanitation Eng./Fin.
Anal./Private Sector Spec./SME
Spec./Public Works Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/95                        3   San. Eng./Procurement
Spec./Public Works
Specialist
03/96                        4   San. Eng./Fin. Analyst/Lawyer/
Public Works Specialist
05/96                        1   Sanitation Engineer
Supervision
08/96                         3  San. Eng./Fin. Analyst/             HS                 S
Sector Director
11/96                         5  San. Eng./Financial Analyst         HS                 S
Impl. Spec./Operation Off./
Sector Director
03/1997                       4  San. Eng./Financial Analyst/        HS                 S
Operation Off./Public Works
Spec.
10/1997                       5  San. Eng./Financial Analyst/         S                 S
Operation Off./Public Works
Spec./Impl. Spec./Economist
03/1998                       4  San. Eng./Financial Analyst/         S                 S
Operation Off./Public Works
Spec./Impl. Spec./Economist
05/1998                       4  San. Eng./Financial Analyst/         S                 S
Operation Off./Public Works
Spec./Impl. Spec./Economist
12/1998                       2  Fin. Analyst/Operation Off.          S                 S
06/1999                       3  Fin. Analyst/Operation Off./         S                 S
Fin. Analyst
ICR
06/2000                      3   Fin. Analyst/ Impl. Spec./           S                 S
Fin. Management Specialist
- 33 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                             ActuaVlatest Estimate
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                 N .:  Staf f weeks                 U SS    (
Identification/Preparation                        23.8                               89.7
Appraisal/Negotiation                             25.4                               93.6
Supervision                                       64_4                              133.7
ICR                                                10.0                              30.0
Total                                            123 6                              347.0
-34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
i Macro policies                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Oi Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Physical                                * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Oi Financial                              O H  OSUOM   O N  * NA
L Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Gender                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)          O H  O SU O M  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS*S OU OHU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        *HS OS  O  U  O HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
OI Overall                                           *HS OS 0 U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
A.       Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
PUBLIC WORKn PROJECT                        Lj  sJLXtdl  1
PROJECT MANAGIEMENT UNIT                                                     3 3,.7$t _
'SANWA A                                                            ^t !
To   Somin MukherjI                                    Date: Nov 20.2000
Operations OIiaer                                      N. 6S/ 00
Ifrastruetore Sector Group
Resident Mission -The Wortd Bsank,
fromn: Mr. Saeed Abdo Ahmed,
Project DirectorPublic Works Projeet
Sub: Borrowee's Irmcntatiou Comrtiottoo
Dear Sir.
Phase fincl enclosed hereby thc Dorrower's contribution to the Ipupementition
Completion Report.
Sated Abdo Alm
-A                                     3
-37 -



BORROWER'S IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT:
ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN AND QUALITY AT
ENTRY
Original Objectives:
The overall objective of the Project was to mitigate the adverse effects of the Economic Reform
Program.
The specific objectives are:
i     creation of an estimated 75,000 - 96,000 work-months at a cost range of US$ 260 to US$
350 per work-month.
ii     help deliver much needed infra-structure.
iii    enhance community participation in preparing and implementing sub-projects for civil
works.
The project objectives were in line with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy of 1996 whose key
thrusts are Economic Reform and Poverty Alleviation. They also conform to the Governments
priorities of mitigating adverse Effect of the Economic Reform Program through creation of a
Social Safety Net, targeting those communities with the highest poverty levels.
The framework of the Project was also to play a catalytic role in attracting donor financing.
The specific design of the project was to implement small civil works sub-projects, technically very
simple but extremely complex in management and supervision, due to diverse geograghic
distribution and quantity.
Revised Objectives:
Although the objectives in themselevs were clear and realistic, assumptions for quantifying them
were unrealistic.
Labor cost were under-estimated at the time of Appraisal. During Mid-term review, the No. of
work months to be created were revised ( refer to MTR para 7.4 and annex 7 in PAD for PWP-II.)
At the time of Appraisal labor costs were estimated at US$ 100 per month, while actual data
established the rate at an average of US$ 160 per month for both skilled and unskilled labor.
Based on actual data collected it was established that for an investment of US$ 100,000 - 205 work
months could be created. Thus for an investment of US$ 25.0 million 51,250 work months should
be generated.
- 38 -



Cost of Work-month (Investment Cost)
In the SAR the Investment cost of creating one work-month was estimated at a range US$ 260-350.
Calculations were based on investing US$ 25.0 million and creating 75,000-96,000.
The revised cost assuming investment of US$ 25.0 million should be US$ 489.
Risks involved:
Maintaining a high labor content
Maintaining an acceptable quality of works
Ensuring sustainability of completed works
Project Components:
The Project has three components:
i.    Implementation of 250-300 multi-sectoral, labor intensive small scale public works aimed
at rehabilitating, extending or maintaining urban & rural infra-structure such as: water
supply, streets and roads, storm water drainage, flood protection, irrigation, soil
conservation, health and education facilities.
ii     establishment of a Steering Committee and a Project Management Unit for implementation.
iii    a technical assistance program for the PMU in investment programming, sub-project
preparation & implementation; support to local consulting and construction companies and
auditing.
Project Cost Estimates:
a.     According to the Credit Agreement:
Category                Original Credit      Re-allocated in    Actual Disbursed in SDR
Allocated in SDR          SDR
Civil Works                  12,700,000           14,550,000                14,069,542*
Goods & equipment              300,000              216,000                     207,511
Furniture                      200,000              200,000                     278,964
Consultants' services          900,000              964,000                  1,191,188*
Operating costs                700,000              935,000                     819,161
Refunding of PPA              1,000,000             123,966                     123,966
Unallocated                   1,200,000              11,034                          0
Total                        17,000,000           17,000,000                    943,127
* These figures will be finally closed before October 31, 2000.
- 39 -



b.     According to SAR:
In SAR                          Actual (latest estimates)
IDA Govt CP        Total     IDA   Govt  CP                 Total
Civil works      22.    3. 0        25.0    19.57   2.50   2.4                24.47
0     0
Goods, equip. &    0.7   0           0.7      0.76      0                      0.76
furniture                              _             __
Operating costs    1.0   0            1.0     1.11      0                      1.11
Technical         1.3    0            1.3     1.70      0                      1.69
assistance        ___                        _                 _
Total            25.    3. 0        28.0    23.14    2.5  2.4                 28.03
,0     0                                 .
Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the SDR V US$ since appraisal of project has led to reduction in total
value of the Credit from US 25.0 mnillion to US$ 23.14 million.
Exchange rate during signing of DCA was 1 SDR = US$ 1.47 (July 1996).
Accordingly amounts requested as Government contributions were also reduced as these are
related directly to values of contracts signed for civil works.
Exchange rate fluctuations were as follows (SDR V US$):
FY                    Jan           June           Dec
1997                  1.4335        1.4015         1.3492
1998                  1.3540        1.3339         1.4175
1999                  1.3901        1.3224         1.3720
2000                  1.3750         1.3207
Percentage of Civil Works to Total Project Cost:   87.3 %
Percentage of Operating Cost to Total Project Cost:  3.9 %
Pecentage of Consultant Services                     6.0 %
Percentage of Goods & Eqpt                           2.8 %
100 %
-40 -



ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND OUTPUTS BY COMPONENTS:
Achievement of Objectives:
The project substantially achieved its objectives as follows:
i.     No. of work-months generated for direct Labor:
Actual number of work-months generated by project for direct labor is 43,365 work-months.
This figure does not include labor generated by work done through communites.
Based on criteria established for revised objectives ( 205 work -months for every US$ 100,000 investment),
and with a total actual investment in civil works of US$ 22.1 million
(IDA + Govt), the total Number of work months that should be generated are 45,305 work-months.
-      The objective was achieved at 95.7%.
-      Actual Investment cost is US$ 509 per work month
-      Overall Labor Content Achieved is 31.1 %.
-      No. of Beneficiaries 2,359,553.
-      Investment cost per beneficiary is less than US$ 10. Investment of US$ 50 attained the
highest scoring in the selection Criteria.
ii.    Delivery of infrastructure:
The SAR estimated delivery of 250-300 sub-projects for an investment of US$ 25.0 million.
The Project in actual delivered 422 sub-projects at an investment of US$ 24.47 including
Community Contributions in Kind.
Communtiy Paritcipation in kind includes material provided e.g building stones, pipes, digging of
wells, water pumps; or work done upfront e.g built up to foundation or lintel levels.
Average cost of Sub-Project was US$ 58,000.
The PWP has afforded large opportunities for contractors to bid and implement works with
procedures that were not prevalent before its establishment, and has managed to reduce
construction costs to minimum yet deliver on time high quality services.
This fact was evident in gradual drop of prices in subsequent tenders. For exanple, the cost of a six
classroom school in the first four tenders ranged from US$ 90,000 to US$ 100,000 while
subsequent tenders, cost ranged from US$ 43,000 to US$ 55,000.
This fact can be attributed to various factors, primarily:
Efficiency and transparency of PMt that has established simple and effective procedures has
gained the trust and confidence of contractors,
Prompt payment procedures to contractors and consultants,
-41 -



The unemployment in the country and potential in the construction industry (number of contractors
bidding for one sub-project ranged from five to thirty).
iii.    Enhance Community Participation:
It has long been recognised that conmnunity participation is a corner stone for the success of
implementation and sustainability of sub-projects. The PWP-I was thus designed with the main
purpose of introducing the concept as an objective in IDA financed projects as well as spread
awareness of its importance within communities benefiting from services.
Thus the objective of enhancing community participation.
The project highly achieved this objective through direct contact with communities who were
initially indifferent to the concept but slowly and gradually within the four year period, came to
realise the imnportance of working in partnership with PWP.
This Partnership started with the identification of sub-project. All communities have expressed and
prioritised their needs directly through submission of requests or indirectly through members of
Parliament, NGO's and local governments.
In many sub-projects that are not of a typical nature such as water, sanitation, stone paving,
communities/NGO's are involved in preparation of designs especially preliminary designs through
coordination of concerned agencies such as NWSA and / or assignment of private engineers to
prepare designs.
All Communities have been involved informally in the supervision of sub-projects on site.
Most communites have been willing to contribute to the cost of the sub-projects in kind whereby
total contributions collected for PWP-1 amounted to US$ 2.4 million equivalent to 10.8 % of total
civil works investmnents.
Follow-up with relevant agencies for operation & maintenance was mainly the responsibility of the
communites.
Clear evidence of the positive response from communities led to imposing 5% minimum community
participation as a rejection criteria for the selection of sub-projects under PWP-II.
- 42 -



Output by Components:
Multi sector basic infrastructure:
Sector      No. of S.P Implemented Investment in US$ (million)  % by investment
Actual                Actual In SAR
Health                    78                    2.85                      12.810
Education                223                    11.5                      52.010
Water                     46                    2.33                      10.620
Sanitation                25                    1.84                      8.430
Roads                     40                    2.87                      13.015
Agriculture                8                    0.59                      2.815
Pubic Buildings            2                    0.09                       0.40
422                  22.07                     100100
Due to the nature of the project being very demand driven, distribution of investment sector-wise
could no be fulfilled according to estimates of the SAR. Almost seventy percent of all requests
subrnitted to the PWP are in the Education Sector. This matter was discussed and reviewed
various times with the Steering Committee and Supervision Missions and it was concluded that
education sector should be tentatively at 50 %. At this level communites priorities can be fulfilled
to a great extent.
The percentage for sanitation could not be achieved due to several reasons mainly being:
-  requests for these services were not many as they do not represent communities high priority
especially in the rural areas, where water for domestic purposes is extremely scarce;
- in semi-urban areas, disposal and or treatment could not be solved at a small scale sub-projects
thus could not meet criteria for environmental improvement;
-   Sanitation sub-projects were envisaged in the SAR to be co-financed with other agencies for
imported material like pipes, manhole covers, etc, which would otherwise create heavy burden to
communities;
- Sustainability of sanaitation sub-projects could be guaranteed only in some neighbourhoods of
urban centres where handing over was to NWSA; and
-  In urban centres large scale sanitation works are being undertaken by other implementing agencies.
Flood Protection was initially an important component and the PMU had initiated various
sub-projects in coordination with affected governorates and Min. of Agriculture. But since
Establishment of Cr. 2073 Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project, these activities were
transferred over.
The PWP did not indulge in to Soil Conservation sub-projects due to problems of ownership of
agricultural land and terraces, which are mainly privately owned and benefit very limited number of
families.
- 43 -



ii.    Establishment of Steering Committee and PMU:
From the onset of the Project a steering Committee was established throuh a Prime Minister's
Decree No. 3 of 1996, comprising of nine members and headed by the Minister of Planning and
Development.
The S.C role has been vey constructive. Meetings were held regularly where major issues were
presented and discussed and pracrtical decisions were reached that facilitated the efficient
functioning of the PMU.
The PMU was established with highly qualified staff who developed and established procedures
that facilitated efficient and transparent implementation. Various departments were established and
fully computerised.
Computerised Accounting Software was installed in the Finance department and all staff had access
to these systems thus enhancing their skills.
To facilitate monitoring and control of numerous small sub-projects scattered all over the country;
the PMU has developed a very comprehensive and sophisticated Management Information System,
that covers all activities of the PWP from registering to selection, all stages of procurement
activities, monitoring of implementation, reporting at all levels and data library for unit prices,
contractors and consultants.
Audit Reports:
Since its establishmnent the PWP has submitted timely audit reports. No significant discrepancies
have been reported by auditors in management and
accounting procedures, including internal controls, and all other aspects.
iii.    Technical Assistance:
The PWP has effectively used technical assistance in the form of local consultants for nunerous
activities such as conducting site visits, preparation of designs, supervision of sub-projects on site.
In order to facilitate operation & maintenance, the PWP adopted standard designs of the concened
agencies like Min. of Education, Min. of Health, NWSA prepared or approved designs for
sanitation & water schemes.
These designs have been subject to improvements by the PWP in order to adapt them to suit local
environment and landscape, such as in Hadhramut schools and Health facilites were initially built
with stone fa9ades while now they are being built of local material with local architecture.
Modifications to designs are an on-going process. Modifications to sizes of classrooms for rural
schools are currently being studied to suit remote and very remote areas.
Support to Local Contractors and consultants:
The PWP had contracted with 147 local consultants in the form of individual consultants and firms
whose performance has been satisfactory.
Similarly the PWP had contracted with 260 contractors. In most cases performance of contractors
- 44 -



has been satisfactory. Diligent supervision of implementation had resulted in satisfactory quality of
works.
A few cases of poor performance were encountered. These were dealt with either by terminating
contracts and or enhancing supervision until quality is improved.
By affording opportunity to large numbers of contractors and consultants to have access to deal
with institutionalised procedures and familiarising with World Bank Guidelines, the PWP has
significantly contributed to the development of local consultants and contractors industry.
In addition, before opening each tender contractors were explained on PWP procedures and W.B
guidelines, methods preparing bids, submission of effective bid bonds, good practise in
implementation of different stages of works, quality of material (specimen are normally
demonstrated) ensuring satisfactroy quality of finishings ... etc.
This led to significant improvement in the preparation & presentation of bids by the contractors.
Less arithmetical errors, random discounts and scribbling of figures were committed.
For supervision consultants, in addition to daily informal instructions, five workshops were held to
discuss various topics with emphasis on:
importance of presence of consultant / representative on site to ensure strict supervision and high
quality
records on site of every event occuring irrespective of its significance
authority for variation orders/ prior approval from the Govemorate Project Managers
importance of abiding to the bi-weekly reporting system on the standard format and its significance
to the Project's MIS monitoring.
recording of labor on site in the log book on a daily basis
relationship of consultant and sub-area managers, area managers and director.
Attracting Donor Financing:
Since 1998 the Project with support of the Minister of Planning & Development, Chairman of
Steering Committee and the IDA has managed to attract several potential donors and has increased
its portfolio from US$ 28.0 million in 1996 to apprximately US$ 118.3 million
Source of Funding             Status         Foreign       Govt.    Beneficiaries    Total
IDA CR. 2878                Completed         23.0*         2.5          2.4          27.9
IDA Cr. 3168                 On-going          50.0         6.0          4.0          60.0
Dutch Grant                 Completed          1.98        0.45           0           2.43
American Grant I             On-going          6.0           0           0.3          6.3
Italian Grant                On-going          0.6           0            0           0.6
OPEC                        Preparation       8.22          1.23         0.4          9.85
French Grant                In pipe-line       0.75          0          0.038         0.78
American Grant II           In pipe-line       10.0          0           0.5          10.5
Total                                        100.55        10.18        7.638        118.36
-45 -



C.   VIMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT:
In general there were no major factors that adversely affected implementation. The Project was
completed on time and Credit was closed as per schedule on June 30, 2000.
The PWP launched advertising tenders in July 1996 with a high momentum. By December 1996
five tenders were announced representing 13% of total number of sub-projects. Peak momentum
was reached during 1997 with the advertisement of an additional 60% of sub-projects, which were
substantially completed by end of 1998. 15% and 12% of sub-projects were advertised during 1998
and 1999 respectively.
Due to depletion of funds there was decline in impetus.
To ensure overlapping of activites and continuity in delivering services PWP-II was negotiated and
preparation activities were commenced under PWP- 1.
The project was substantially completed by end of 1999, but due to the following reasons, it was
decided that additional sub-projects should be implemented so as to fully utilise Credit funds:
fluctuations in exchange rate of the US$ against the SDR;
transfer of operating costs since July 1 1999, from PWP- 1 to PWP-2,
inability of implementing civil works component of water sub-projects that were planned to be
implemented in conjuction with the Emergency Flood Rehabilitation Project due to delays in
procurement of imported material,
Besides risks envisaged in the SAR, the PWP was exposed to numerous risks in various situations
Number of sub-projects being implemented simultaneously-posed a high risk in ensuring
satisfactory quality,
Geographic Distribution too dispersed and in extremely remote areas posed high safety risk
especially during selection of sites that in many cases caused disputes,
Dealing with numerous non-institutional contractors and having to impose strict regulations such
as forfieting of bid and perfonnance bonds, imposition of liquidated damages procedures that are
normally ignored.
Too competetive construction industry led to low prices that could undermine quality of works.
6th.   Sustainability:
To ensure sustainability, the PWP's main role was strict coordination with concerned agencies,
who would be handed-over completed works.
The PWP undertook various initiatives in this respect for example education sub-projects that
satisfied selection criteria were further subject to scrutiny and approval by the Min. of Education
(who later became member of the Steering Commnittee) to ensure operational budgets.
For health facilites an agreement was reached with the SDF to equip and MOPH to operate
completed facilities. But unfortunately, due to shortage of funds SDF could not fulfil this
comrnitment. The MOPH also shortage of operational funds and had ceased employment of new
staff.
Short-term sustainability in sub-projects was related to the sector. In Education, schools were
-46-



made operational by the Min. of Education immediately after completion, mainly because schools
were built to replace those existing under informal shelter. Parent's councils established through
schools participate in budgets for maintenance.
Operation of health facilities took a much longer time. By end of 1998, out of the 78 built 35 were
still non-operational.
An initiative through a consultant was undertaken by PWP to find experiences and alternative
operational schemes through local communities / NGO's I charitable organisations.
Conclusion of this initiative was health facilites can not be sustained without involvement of the
MOPH especially in providing health staff.
The positive outcome was that the PWP could reach to an agreement with the MOPH who
undertook to equip and operate all health facilities built by the project while the PWP undertook to
construct new facilities that satisfy the selection criteria and are within the operational budget of the
MOPH.
Since then 13 facilities in 10 govemorates are still non-operational which are planned to be
operationl before the end of year 2000.
The MOPH has since introduced legislation for conumunity participation program in health
services. This policy should ensure long-term sustainability.
Water & Sanitation that have been handed over to NWSA are highly sustainable as schemes
applicable to NWSA are also applied.
For rural water sub-projects that have not been handed to NWSA, short-term sustainability has
been operation and maintenance.
Stone Paving works have been handed over to the local branch of the MCHUP. Maintenance is
expected to be achieved through Local Councils and NGO's, who were mainly the initiators of
these sub-projects.
In view of the recent legilation for establishing Local Authorities, long-term sustainability of
all projects is expected to be more viable.
Environmental Assessment and compliance with schedule 4 Para 3 b (ii) of the DCA:
During implementation environmental assessment of sub-project that were environmental sensitive
was a procedure incorporated within the design. Sub-projects that were expected to have negative
impacts were dropped out from the beginning, being the main reason for not achieving percentage
distribution of investments in sectors as in SAR ( water & sanitation constituted only 19% of total
investments).
This intrinsic exercise seemed satisfactory and no major enviromental concerns were raised or issue
of non compliance with environemntal requirements of the DCA, during reviews and supervision
missions, mainly, due to nature of sub-projects implemented were of very small magnitude that
could not have significant environmental impact.
During the Mid-Term Review several sub-projects in all sectors were audited and the outcome as
-47 -



stated, was that environmental impact of sub-projects is rather insignificant as no major water and
irrigation schemes have been undertaken. Sewage networks and water distribution have a positive
sanitary improvement aspect so as do urban pavement. Out of the 422 sub-projects implemented
223 are school buildings out of which 199 are in rural / remote areas.
Inspite of conducting Annual Reviews that audited sub-projects in all aspects including
envirownental impacts, the PWP will conduct auditing of completed sub-projects with particular
attention to environmentally sensitive sectors, through an Environmental Specialist consultant who
will assess the impacts, and suggest mitigation measures for any negative impacts that may have
occurred during operation of sub-projects, which will be dealt with under PWP-2
This is planned for Feb-March of 2001.
Socio-Economic Impact is annexed.
7th.   IDA and Borrower's Performance:
IDA's performance was highly satisfactory during identification, appraisal and preparation. IDA
staff assisted the Government and PMU in establishment of the Project and initial launching.
Supervision missions were very supportive and played a positive role in problem solving of all
major issues of concem. They thoroughly scrutinized all aspects of project implementation.
Borrower's Performance:
Government Performance:
The borrower's performance has been highly satisfactory. The MOPD has played an effective role
in facilitating prompt payment procedure. Counterpart funds were made available on time within
the budget of the MOPD. Serious efforts were taken to facilitate successful implementation of the
Project. The Min. of Finance & CBY were cooperative.
Special arrangements were established in cooperation with Min. of Finance and CBY to reduce
lengthy procedures for payments under counterpart funds to take into account numerous small
payments to be made.
PMU Performance:
The PMU complied by all covenants in DCA and World Bank Guidelines. Audit reports of the
required standards have been submitted on time.
Staff performance has been highly satisfactory, with minimum numbers and minimum operating
costs.
The intrinsic nature of the Project entailed dealing with all government agencies at central and local
level in addition to local councils, NGO's , MP's and individuals.
Activites were undertaken in each district and govemorate of the Republic.
By building trust and confidence a lot of conflicts and that could have impeded progress were
resolved in mutual manner.
-48 -



Economy and efficiency have been the essence of performance.
Key Lessons Learned:
i.     Government agencies can be supportive and play a positive role of facilitiator to PMU's, having
proven efficiency, transparency, built trust and deliver tangible results.
ii     Procurement Procedures should be modified to suit small-scale civil works.
iii    Taxes imposed on contractors and consultants should be for new contracts not those on-going
iv.    Long-term sustainability can be achieved if community involvement in Operation & Maintenance
are sector policies and introduced in all projects being implemented irrespective of source of
finance.
v.     Effective implementation can be achieved through PMU's.
vi.    Non Institutional contractors can perform satisfactorily and abide to procedures given the right
set-up that can enforce these procedures.
-49 -



B.        Comments from Government
REPUBLIC OF YE~ I1'
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT                        {L2J I  JL itJ
MOJE,CT NMNAGENMET UNIT
SANeA'A 
To:   Soweini M&kherji                                    Date- Nov 26, 20)0W
Sr. irintnd.I Analyst                              No. 661 00
hIfrastracturt Sector G;roip
'rThe World Bank,
vtmen view Oftiec
Frsn-: Mr. S*cd Abdo At,adS,
Project Director-?ubilktWoris Project
Sub. 1mnlcmentation Contle6tun 1tenort
Dear Sir.
Wcl have received the Inple mentasion CZoinpktion Report for Public Works
Project (Cr.2879-SYAM)
Our review ondicattes ithaaI all rvisd objectives and facts and womrc Correctly
reptresencd
We would tike to thank IDA staff for rating the Protect as highly sati*'aciory, aed
we have: great -faith that othc ia:n workuwhich :binght this project to a sucscs3fill
complction will prevail.
Oest llpidd$ 
Saeed Abdo AbmedI
- 50-



MAP SECTION






IBRD 27795
51''~'1          42'               43               44'              45'4b'                             47                A8'              49'               50'               51'              52'        -                        545              55°
19,MG~0                                              REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                         S  A U D I  A R A B I A                          .--
PUBLIC WORKS PROJECT                                                                           -                       . -                                                          A
-  MAIN ROADS                       DISTRICT CENTERS                   _                _                                                                                                           1,'
SECONDARY ROADS                 PROV NCE CENTERS
4. SEA POSTS               - ' GOV'ERNORATE ROUNDAR ES                          /,                                               
18'       k                                                      WADIS                    -      INTERNAT     R     ES ONA,/ 1ARIES
MR 5hv~~         ".            'lOTE: No-peFicfori  h-o-ve,,e higlighe.d inc- th-eProlect has colry -de coverog.  S \                       T  I  |                                            " /  5  h r17
I?'  R                         'f '  SAAAH    y                                                                         )A '                        ,                    ALMAHARA                                     I o
<                  ,,7   1,     t              i        S ;   DAH                                                                                                                                                           :  iX )<  ,r ,o,, _X,   rkz-
Al M-,3vvAvyrlr
S ~ AAH "''P"sL' v           JA WF
16'                             ~~~~~~~ ~~                   ~~~HA  JAH    ~   ~   lE7 v:/Aows                                                  rbi
P    v     -/                                                                                '          14    0   h          HADRAMOUT                                 .
E~~~~~~~rh    l OP A  -,c''                                                                                                                                                     (3L    OFAE
"'  MvGycI
-AC                  v a         v                                              AL.9o
"y      ~~~~~~A- y                                                                 7OsI
DhC-          A- o,4"D                                                          -
ETHIOPIA  N                                                                                         eo,ie~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AaPE A,vf     0"                                                            F            D E  
Al Bei&~~~~~~~~~~~ i.-  'Y'h~~~$mlah                                                                                 Daw
/   '...~                                                                                                          '                                          AdD4Kuri''2           ~       (s4Potheb
41'  F                                                                        I                  1    ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~?'                                                        I ~~LI(Y-'
MAY 1996



