                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                   Report No.: 75068




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                     FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA

 AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS
                   AND RESPONSE PROJECT
                         (IDA-41600)


                                March 28, 2013




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                 ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
                              Currency Unit = Nigerian Naira (₦)

2006                     US$1.00                  128 ₦
2010                     US$1.00                  155 ₦


Abbreviations and Acronyms
BSL     Biosecurity Level
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization
GPAI    Global Program on Avian Influenza
HPAI    Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results report
IDA     International Development Association
IEG     Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS   IEG Public Sector Evaluation
ILRI    International Livestock Research Institute
LGA     Local Government Area
OIE     World Organization for Animal Health
PPAR    Project Performance Assessment Report
WHO     World Health Organization



Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                  :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Mr. Emmanuel Jimenez
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Ms. Martha Ainsworth (Acting)
Task Manager                                              :   Mr. Stephen Hutton
                                                                  iii


Contents
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
   Country Background ....................................................................................................... 1
   Disease and Project Context ........................................................................................... 2
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 4
   Objectives ....................................................................................................................... 4
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 5
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 6
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 8
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................. 10
   Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component ........................................................... 11
   Implementation Experience .......................................................................................... 11
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 15
   Minimize the threat posed to the poultry industry and humans by HPAI infection and
   other zoonoses ............................................................................................................... 15
   Prepare for, control, and respond to influenza pandemics and other infectious disease
   emergencies in humans ................................................................................................. 24
5. Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 27
6. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 29
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 29
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 30
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 31
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 33
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 34
7. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 35
References ......................................................................................................................... 37
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 39
Annex B: Additional Data ................................................................................................ 42
   Annex B1: Avian influenza .......................................................................................... 42
   Annex B2: International donors, the World Bank, and Avian Influenza...................... 43
   Annex B3: Human health influenza surveillance system in Nigeria ............................ 44
   Annex B4: Distribution of avian influenza cases in Nigeria ........................................ 45

This report was prepared by Stephen Hutton and Robert Epworth, who assessed the project in October-
November 2012. The report was peer reviewed by Charles Bevan and panel reviewed by Robert Mark
Lacey. Marie Charles provided administrative support.
                                                                 iv


   Annex B5: Photographic evidence................................................................................ 46
Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 49


Tables
Table 1: Major Recent World Bank Financed Projects in the Agriculture and Health
Sectors in Nigeria ................................................................................................................ 2
Table 2: Project Cost by Component (US$ million)......................................................... 11
Table 3: HPAI Outbreaks and Compensation by Farm Size, 2006-2008 ......................... 20


Figures
Figure 1: Number of HPAI Outbreaks and Project timeline............................................. 12


Boxes
Box 1: Biosecurity of Live Bird Markets ......................................................................... 22
                                                              v


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                            PPAR
Outcome                            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                          Moderate                         Significant
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Borrower                           Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGPS product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.




Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
Project                Task Manager/Leader                      Sector Director                    Country Director
Appraisal                     Simeon Ehui                  Joseph Baah-Dwomoh                       Hafez Ghanem
Completion             Lucas Kolawole Akapa              Karen McConnell Brooks                Marie Françoise Marie-
                                                                                                       Nelly
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                           vii


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Avian Influenza
Control and Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project for Nigeria (IDA-41600)
under the Global Program for Avian Influenza.

The project was approved on March 29, 2006 and became effective on July 22, 2006. A
total of $US 50 million was committed for the project, and additional financing was made
available from reallocations out of financing for the Fadama II project ($US 7.2 million)
and the Health System Development Project II ($US 5 million) for total commitments of
$62.20 million. At project closure, $US 49.9 million had been disbursed. The project
was extended twice, first to December 2010 and then to May 31 2011 when it closed,
almost 2 years behind schedule.

The report presents findings based on a review of the project’s Implementation
Completion and Results Report, appraisal report, legal documents, and other relevant
material. An IEG mission to Nigeria in October-November 2012 held discussions with
World Bank country office staff, government officials and agencies, project staff, partner
agencies, donors, beneficiaries, and others (see Annex C). The mission visited Asokoro
Hospital in Abuja, the Veterinary Teaching Hospital at the University of Ibadan, the
University College Hospital at the University of Ibadan, the Kuto live bird market in
Abeokuta, the Oja Oba live bird market in Lagos, and the border quarantine station at the
Seme border. The contributions of all stakeholders, including World Bank staff in Abuja,
are gratefully acknowledged. Administrative and logistical support from Deborah
Olumolu in the Abuja Country Office was greatly appreciated.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR were sent to relevant
Government officials and agencies for their review and comment, but no comments were
received.
                                            ix


Summary
Following outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in Vietnam in 2003, there has
been global concern about the risk of avian influenza because of its threat to poultry, the
risk of human infection, and fears that the virus could mutate to cause a strain that could
be transmitted between humans, triggering a potentially catastrophic pandemic. In
January 2006, outbreaks of avian influenza were identified in poultry farms in Nigeria.
The government of Nigeria moved rapidly to respond, and requested World Bank support
to assist with the unfolding emergency. Parallel technical and other financial support was
provided by a number of international agencies and donors, including the Food and
Agriculture Organization, the World Health Organization, the World Organization for
Animal Health, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United States Agency for
International Development, and the United States Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention.

The objectives of the $49.9 million Nigeria Avian Influenza Control and Human
Pandemic Preparedness Project (2006-2011) were to minimize the threat posed to the
poultry industry and humans by Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza infection and other
zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza pandemics and other
infectious disease emergencies in humans. These goals were highly relevant given the
unfolding emergency and the possible risks of a pandemic. The project design followed
the general template of the Global Program for Avian Influenza. The main elements of
the project included support for the creation of a network of avian influenza desk officers
at the state and local government level; provision of training, equipment, and other
support for containing the outbreak; creation and dissemination of a public awareness and
communication campaign; a compensation mechanism for birds culled during
containment operations; and support for upgrading diagnostic and surveillance systems
for animal and human health systems.

The project was generally successful in containing the avian influenza outbreaks. Three
hundred avian influenza outbreaks occurred in Nigeria from 2006-8, leading to the deaths
of 2 million birds through disease and culling and to one confirmed human fatality.
Containment efforts were successful in part due to high level governmental support for
these efforts and effective collaboration between the Ministries of Agriculture, Health,
and Information at both the federal and state level. Initial communication messages
were overly alarmist, potentially contributing to a drop in the demand for poultry and
economic losses to farmers. The communications strategy rapidly corrected this after
incorporating stakeholder concerns. Awareness levels of avian influenza were high at the
end of the project and stakeholders reported that they believed the campaign to be
effective, but shortcomings in monitoring and evaluation prevent an assessment of the
extent to which the communication campaign was responsible, and evidence is lacking on
changes in behavior.

Once the outbreaks were contained, the level of attention to the project declined.
Procurement of civil works and equipment was slow due to a lack of procurement
capacity. Significant improvements were made in surveillance and diagnostic capacity
for influenza in both poultry and humans, but geographic coverage was incomplete. Some
                                             x


facilities were not operational at project closure or at the time of the IEG assessment
mission, 18 months later. The project substantially improved the ability to contain avian
influenza outbreaks in poultry and the ability to detect influenza in humans, and it led to
some improvements in the ability to detect avian influenza in poultry (including an
increase in disease reporting rates and diagnostic speed), but did little to assist in the
ability to detect or respond to other zoonoses, and had only a modest impact on
preparedness for other human infectious disease emergencies.

Though the economic benefits of the project are likely to have been high and
coordination across ministries was reportedly good, there were a number of weaknesses
in the efficient implementation of the project, reflected in substantial delays and in
equipment or works that did not meet local requirements or were not being used. One
cause of these problems were weaknesses in communication between centralized
procurement officers and end users.

The overall project outcome is rated moderately satisfactory, reflecting highly relevant
objectives and substantial design relevance, substantial achievement of both the animal
and human health objectives, and modest efficiency – a moderate shortcoming.

While substantial capacity gains have been made, it is not clear if these will be sustained
because of a lack of funding. Surveillance and diagnostic systems need at least a
moderate level of activity to be maintained, so that systems continue functioning and
could be ramped up to a high level of activity if further outbreaks occurred. This would
require additional funding for active surveillance programs, laboratory consumables, and
refresher training courses. Consequently, the risk to development outcome is rated
Significant.

Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Project preparation was very rapid, and
supervision improved several aspects of the project at midterm review. However, there
were weaknesses in the design of the monitoring and evaluation framework and in some
implementation arrangements. Borrower performance is rated moderately satisfactory.
The level of Government commitment was generally high, and there was a high degree of
cooperation between government ministries, but inadequate procurement capacity in the
implementing agencies led to delays throughout the project; the planned biosecurity level
(BSL) 3 laboratory was not procured and some laboratories and live bird markets were
not operational as of the IEG mission. Monitoring and evaluation implementation and
utilization for project management was weak, in part because of fundamental challenges
posed by a disease risk reduction and pandemic preparedness project but also because of
weaknesses in design and implementation.

Building on the project experience this assessment identifies several lessons, including:

   •   Government and implementing agency prioritization and enthusiasm decline as
       perceived threats decline, inhibiting implementation of construction and works
       aimed at building long-term preparedness.
                                          xi


•   An epidemic communication strategy requires inputs from all stakeholders,
    including the private sector. An initial lack of stakeholder input contributed to
    errors in the initial message being communicated.
•   Pilots may have little impact in the absence of a rigorous assessment of the
    benefits and a clear plan for scale-up. In this case, the biosecurity and sanitation
    methods of live bird markets were not assessed and scale-up was not achieved.
•   Compensation systems can be made more transparent by publishing names and
    amounts of compensation awards in local newspapers, online and through other
    media.
•   Cross-ministry cooperation may be difficult in projects that involve multiple
    ministries if there is no single coordinator and if project staff for different
    components are housed in different locations.
•   Lack of experienced procurement staff in the project management unit at project
    inception can compromise the timely response to an emergency.



                                                              Caroline Heider
                                                              Director-General
                                                                 Evaluation
                                                1


1. Background and Context
Country Background
1.1     Nigeria is Africa’s most populous country, with roughly 162 million people. The
economy is dominated by oil production, which constitutes roughly 40 percent of GDP. The
livestock sector accounts for roughly 5.5 percent of GDP, and is a major source of
employment and livelihoods for the poor. The broader agriculture sector, including
livestock, accounts for roughly one third of GDP and 70 percent of employment.

1.2    The period since 1999 has been the longest period of civilian democratic rule in
Nigeria since independence in 1960. Nigeria operates under a federal system, with
government operating at the federal level, in 36 states plus the federal capital territory, and in
774 local government areas (LGA). The state governments control roughly 50 percent of
revenues, and have considerable autonomy. An IEG evaluation of the World Bank program
in Nigeria over 1998-2007 noted that progress prior to 2004 had been unsatisfactory, but that
outcomes had improved since 2004 (IEG 2010). The evaluation noted improvements in
macroeconomic performance and federal government performance, but with little
improvement at the state and local government level, and with moderately unsatisfactory
progress in creating a basis for sustainable non-oil growth, and in improving social service
delivery and community empowerment.

1.3    Though the World Bank has had significant involvement in both Agriculture and
Health sectors in Nigeria, these projects had little overlap with activities or agencies
supported by the Avian Influenza Control Project (Table 1). In agriculture and rural
development, the Second and Third Fadama projects (approved in 2003 and 2008) have
focused on increasing incomes for people in rural areas through rural infrastructure, capacity
building, advisory services, equipment purchases and other activities. But these activities
were focused primarily on agriculture rather than livestock, and did not emphasize veterinary
services or animal health. In the health sector, the Bank has supported institutional
improvement through health systems development projects, and specific disease
interventions for polio, HIV/AIDS and malaria. But there had been no prior interventions on
zoonotic diseases or pandemic or other health emergency preparedness. While other donors
have been active in supporting activities in both the health and agriculture sectors, most
donor support for avian influenza risk reduction in Nigeria was supported under the Avian
Influenza Control Project.

1.4    In recent years, Nigeria was seriously affected by the international economic crisis
and corresponding decline in oil prices (World Bank 2011). This shock led to dramatic
reductions in government revenue, currency depreciation, and banking sector difficulties.
Economic growth continued, driven in part by large federal government expenditure, and
coupled with double digit inflation and exhaustion of fiscal oil reserves in the Excess Crude
Account.

1.5    Governance issues remain a central challenge across a wide range of sectors.
                                               2


Table 1: Major Recent World Bank Financed Projects in the Agriculture and Health
Sectors in Nigeria
                                        Bank
                           Years      financing
Project Name               active:   amount ($m)               Activities supported

HIV/AIDS Program           2001-10       140       Reduce the risk of HIV/AIDS through
Development Project, and                           behavior change and improved access to
Additional Financing                               counseling, testing and care services.

Second Health Systems      2002-12       217       Strengthen state level health system
Development Project, and                           management, primary care delivery, and
Additional Financing                               federal health policy and sector performance
                                                   monitoring.

Second National Fadama     2003-09       100       Increase rural incomes through capacity
Development Project                                building, rural infrastructure/asset provision
                                                   and advisory services.

Partnership for Polio      2003-12       140       Eradication of polio through vaccination
Eradication Project, and                           campaigns.
Additional Financing

Malaria Control Booster    2006-13       280       Increasing health system capacity to improve
Project, and Additional                            delivery of malaria interventions.
Financing

Third National Fadama      2008-13       250       Increase rural incomes through capacity
Development Project                                building, rural infrastructure/asset provision,
                                                   advisory services and research.

Commercial Agriculture     2009-14       150       Strengthen agricultural production systems
Development                                        and facilitate market access for rice, oil palm,
                                                   cocoa, fruit trees, poultry production,
                                                   aquaculture, dairy, and maize in 5 states.

HIV/AIDS Program           2009-15       225       Reduce the risk of HIV/AIDS by scaling up
Development Project II                             prevention interventions and improving access
                                                   to counseling, testing and care, and support
                                                   services.



Disease and Project Context
1.6     The influenza A virus can cause influenza in birds and some mammals. A form of
the virus adapted to birds known as Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza A (H5N1), referred
to as HPAI or simply avian influenza, has led to high mortality in poultry and some deaths in
humans (Annex B1). Since 2003, there has been significant global concern about the risks
posed by avian influenza, and cases have been detected in 61 countries. Avian influenza is
primarily a disease of birds, but can potentially infect humans if they come into contact with
infected birds. The virus has killed tens of millions of birds, and at least 400 million birds
have been slaughtered to limit the spread of the virus (FAO 2012). As of August 2012, 608
cases had been confirmed among humans by the World Health Organization (WHO),
                                                       3


including 359 fatalities. 1 There is also the possibility that a mutated form of the virus could
be transmissible between humans, which could trigger a global pandemic.

1.7    The World Bank responded to this global emergency through two mechanisms, the
Global Program for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and
Response (GPAI) and the multi-donor Avian and Human Influenza Facility (Annex B2). The
GPAI set up a template for avian influenza control projects, which focused on supporting
capacity improvements for controlling and containing outbreaks, disease surveillance among
animals and humans, diagnostic capacity, treatment capacity, awareness raising and
behavioral change.

1.8       Nigeria faces four broad threats from avian influenza:

      •   Avian influenza outbreaks among poultry would lead to deaths among birds, and
          associated economic costs for poultry producers, transporters, traders, and consumers.
          This risk can be managed by improving biosecurity among birds, and by identifying
          and controlling outbreaks among birds.
      •   The disease could be transmitted to humans from infected birds in Nigeria, leading to
          human morbidity and mortality. This risk can be managed through the same steps
          that mitigate the risk among birds, and further through improving biosecurity and
          animal handling among humans, and by improving treatment capacity for humans.
      •   Outbreaks of avian influenza among birds in Nigeria could lead to a strain of
          influenza that is directly transmissible between humans, which could trigger a
          pandemic, with human mortality and morbidity throughout the world. The chance of
          this occurring is very low, but preventing it would offer enormous benefits for both
          Nigeria and the rest of the world. This risk can be reduced through the measures
          above that manage the risk among birds, as well as through improved biosecurity
          among humans; improved surveillance, diagnosis, isolation and treatment capacity
          among humans; and epidemic and pandemic preparedness.
      •   A strain of avian influenza transmissible between humans could emerge in another
          country, causing a pandemic that then spreads to Nigeria through movement of
          infected people. This could cause significant mortality and morbidity in Nigeria.
          This risk can be managed through improved surveillance, diagnosis, isolation and
          treatment capacity among humans; and by pandemic preparedness.

1.9     Avian influenza can be controlled most effectively at the source (FAO 2010, WHO
2009). Once outbreaks among poultry or humans have begun to spread, containment
becomes more difficult and the costs of the disease are much higher. Thus, identifying and
controlling outbreaks among birds contributes to addressing the most likely threat (losses to
the poultry sector) and to other more severe threats (infections among humans).

1.10 Nigeria also faced significant threats from other zoonotic diseases (diseases that can
be transmitted from animals to humans). Zoonotic diseases constitute at least 61 percent of
all human pathogens (Ehizbolo and others 2011). Zoonotic diseases pose a significant threat
1
  These figures should not be used to imply that the virus has a 59 percent fatality rate among humans, since
there are likely many more non-fatal human cases that have not been diagnosed.
                                             4


to livestock sectors and to humans. Effective control of zoonotic diseases would mean a
decreased disease burden, poverty reduction and increased food supply for large numbers of
the rural poor worldwide (WHO 2006).

1.11 Other than avian influenza, the World Organization for Animal Health identifies 8
diseases as being a priority for animal health: contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia,
rinderpest, brucellosis, tuberculosis, food and mouth disease, Newcastle disease, African
swine fever, and rabies (OIE 2010). Most of these diseases are primarily found in cattle,
with Newcastle disease affecting poultry and African swine fever affecting pigs. The
Organization recommended improving surveillance for these diseases, including active
surveillance programs for tuberculosis, brucellosis, and African swine fever, and mass
vaccination for contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia, rinderpest and Newcastle diseases.
Zoonotic diseases such as anthrax, brucellosis, bovine tuberculosis, rabies, lassa fever,
animal trypanosomosis and echinococcosi are neglected in Nigeria, with nearly non-existent
systems for control and an unknown impact on human health (Ehizbolo and others 2011).

1.12 In January 2006, outbreaks of highly pathogenic avian influenza in poultry were
detected in Kaduna, Kano and Plateau states in Nigeria. The Federal Government began to
respond, setting up a National Interministerial Steering Committee on Avian Influenza in
February 2006, jointly chaired by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development and the Federal Ministry of Health.

1.13 The World Bank responded rapidly to client requests for assistance, preparing the
Avian Influenza Control and Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project for Nigeria
(henceforth “the Project?), preparing a concept note on February 14, 2006, moving to project
approval by March 29, 2006, and obtaining project effectiveness on June 22, 2006.


2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
2.1     The project development objectives stated on page 12 of the Technical Annex to the
Financing Proposal (the equivalent of the Project Appraisal Document) were to “support the
efforts of [the Federal Government of Nigeria] to minimize the threat posed by H5N1 to
humans and the poultry industry, and prepare the necessary control measures to respond to a
possible influenza pandemic.?

2.2     However, project development objectives stated in the Financing Agreement (page 4)
were to “minimize the threat posed to the poultry industry and humans by HPAI infection
and other zoonoses and to prepare for, control, and respond to influenza pandemics and other
infectious disease emergencies in humans.?

2.3     This evaluation uses the statement in the Financing Agreement, which adds objectives
to incorporate zoonotic and other infectious diseases beyond avian influenza. The objectives
were not revised during implementation.
                                                 5


Relevance of Objectives
2.4      Nigeria faced particular risks from avian influenza because:

•     the country had extensive unpatrolled borders and was in the fly-paths of wild birds from
      Asia and the Middle East, resulting in a moderate to high chance of the disease entering
      the country;
•     there are large forested areas, high wild animal populations, and high human population
      density, which mean there is a high potential for virus reservoirs to develop and mutate;
•     traditionally, there was extensive movement of people and livestock throughout the
      country, meaning the spread would probably be rapid in the event of an outbreak.

As a result, the Federal Government determined that a contingency plan was needed to
combat the potential introduction of the disease, and a Comprehensive Contingency Plan was
prepared and in place by November 2005. As noted above, the livestock sector and poultry
industry also faced significant risks from other zoonoses.

2.5    Nigeria's capacity to control and contain an HPAI outbreak in poultry or humans was
weak, especially its capacity for veterinary and health service delivery, disease surveillance,
and diagnostics capabilities in both the animal and human health sectors.

2.6      The public sector managed a substantial share of animal health services, but those
services had suffered as a result of years of underfunding by the government (World Bank
2006). A start had been made to resurrect public veterinary services under the Pan African
Program for the Control of Epizootics initiative, but veterinary services were at that stage
still rudimentary. Front line services were therefore provided mainly by private veterinarians
(with variable levels of qualifications and service quality), who supplied and distributed
veterinary drugs, vaccines, equipment, and livestock feed. Routine clinical checks and
preventive care for livestock were far from universal, especially for smaller livestock owners.
Surveillance was weak. There was no system of active surveillance for zoonoses, and only
7.3 percent of veterinary clinics and 14.5 percent of farms reported animal health data to
contribute to passive surveillance. Responding to outbreaks would take 7-12 days after an
initial report. Diagnostic capacity was limited; only one laboratory had the capacity to
diagnose avian influenza in animals, and strain subtype identification and confirmation
required testing internationally, which would take up to a month.

2.7      In the human health sector, the referral system was weak and undeveloped, with few
links between the primary and secondary sub-sectors. Inadequate financial resources for the
health sector (US$ 2-3 per capita) caused drugs and medical supplies to become scarce and
facilities to deteriorate. Diagnostics and surveillance faced several challenges, including
incomplete and delayed reporting, poor logistical and communications support, and a lack of
case definition and management protocols at surveillance sites. Only one hospital had the
capacity to diagnose avian influenza among humans. Though a broad contingency plan
existed prior to the project, operational response plans did not exist at national or state levels.
                                                        6


2.8    In January 2006, just weeks before project preparation began in February, the first of
what would turn out to be 300 outbreaks of HPAI occurred in Nigeria. 2 The source of the
virus was never clearly determined, but it is thought to have arrived through illegal poultry
imports or through bird migration in the large wetland habitats in the north of the country.
This outbreak, the first in Africa, posed a serious threat to Nigeria and other West and
Central African countries, especially given the large cross-border trade in domestic poultry.

2.9     The project's objectives were, therefore, substantially relevant to the Government's
urgent need to control the unfolding crisis, to build capacity to identify and respond to
possible future outbreaks, and to build capacity to address other animal diseases threatening
the livestock sector. They were also consistent with Nigeria's 2010-2013 Country
Partnership Strategy with the World Bank Group, which was active at project closing. The
project supported the strategy’s Pillar II (Improved Environment and Services for Non-oil
Growth) by improving the delivery of veterinary services to prevent and control avian
influenza and other zoonoses in the livestock sector, an important source of agricultural
growth. It also supported Pillar I (Improved Service Delivery for Human Development) by
strengthening the Federal Ministry of Health's capacity to prevent and manage communicable
diseases. The Strategy specifically mentions this project as an example of the Bank's ability
to respond swiftly and flexibly to an emergency.

2.10     The relevance of objectives is rated High.

Design
COMPONENTS

2.11     The project had four components.

2.12 Animal Health (US$29.20 million at appraisal, US$26.78 million at closure). This
component supported:

•   Strengthening HPAI control and outbreak containment, including equipment and training
    for workers conducting stamping out operations, and vaccination of poultry.
•   Strengthening disease surveillance, diagnostic capacity, and applied research, through
    training and laboratory upgrades (upgrading one lab to biosecurity level (BSL) 3 and
    constructing five BSL 2 labs).
•   Strengthening veterinary quarantine services through training.
•   Strengthening applied veterinary research to conduct research and field studies.
•   Enhancing legal and regulatory frameworks for disease prevention and preparedness
    capacity by assessing national veterinary services, updating the National Emergency
    Contingency Plan for HPAI, and building human capacity.
•   Improving bio-security in poultry production and trade to facilitate a longer-term strategy
    for preventing and managing HPAI and other zoonoses through improved hygiene at live
    bird markets and bio-security regulations for commercial poultry farms.

2
  An outbreak of avian influenza is an identified incident in a particular geographic area, which may involve
thousands of cases among poultry.
                                               7


•   Compensation and economic recovery, by establishing a national compensation policy
    and fund; providing support to economically vulnerable groups; and providing alternative
    livelihoods for affected stakeholders based on demand-driven proposals.

2.13 Human Health (US$18.25 million at appraisal, US$18.17 million at closure). This
component supported:

•   Enhancing public health program planning, delivery, and coordination, including
    response coordination and management at the federal, state, and local government
    authority levels, through legislation, communication, and response plan development.
•   Strengthening public health surveillance systems to address HPAI, including diagnostic
    capacity improvements through laboratory upgrades (8 BSL 2 labs), and technical
    assistance.
•   Strengthening health system response capacity by improving clinical care capacity,
    conducting seasonal influenza vaccinations, and developing guidelines on phased social
    distancing measures.
2.14 Social Mobilization and Strategic Communication (US$4.08 million at appraisal,
US$4.00 million at closure). This component promoted public awareness, participation, and
coordination in executing the emergency contingency plans outlined under the national
influenza plan.

2.15 Implementation Support and Monitoring and Evaluation (US$6.89 million at
appraisal, US$0.95 million at closure), for support to project management. Most of the funds
for implementation support were used directly by the animal and human health components.

2.16 There were no changes to the components during implementation, but there were
reallocations. By late 2009, the perceived risk of further HPAI outbreaks had declined and
thus the expected demand for compensation funds was modest, so the project reallocated
$4.8 million of the $6.3 million of remaining compensation funds towards further biosecurity
measures and construction of 11 additional live bird markets.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.17 Several implementation agencies had been set up prior to the conceptualization and
appraisal of the Project. In anticipation of an eventual avian influenza outbreak, in late 2005
the Federal Government of Nigeria had inaugurated a Technical Committee of Experts for
the Prevention and Control of HPAI. The committee devised prevention strategies in the
country consistent with the GPAI. When the outbreak did occur in February 2006, the
government, under the direct leadership of the President, moved quickly to set up a National
Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee on Avian Influenza, co-chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture and Rural Development and the Minister of Health. In addition, a National
Technical Committee on Avian Influenza was established, chaired by both the Minister of
State for Agriculture and Rural Development and the Minister of State for Health. This
Technical Committee (on which the World Bank and other international agencies were
represented) was responsible for the coordination and implementation of the emergency
action plan and strategy proposed for the prevention and control of the outbreak.
                                                8


2.18 The Project was designed to be implemented jointly by staff from three Federal
Ministries: Agriculture and Rural Development, Health, and Information & Communications,
with each component led by its own Component Coordinator. This structure at the Federal
level was then to be replicated at the state level, with desk officers for each Ministry in every
State government. Additionally, a desk officer was to be appointed at every local
government area. The central Animal Health and Communications components were housed
together, while the Health component was based on a separate site. Funds for the
Communications component were channeled through the Animal Health component, which
contributed to some delays in implementation of communications activities.

MONITORING AND EVALUATION DESIGN

2.19 The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system design drew heavily on the Global
Program on Avian Influenza blueprint. Where possible, baselines were provided. The
responsibility for data collection was assigned to existing structures in the relevant ministries.

2.20 The nature of the project posed a number of inherent challenges for designing and
implementing an effective M&E system. The desired project outcomes (reduction in risk
from avian influenza outbreaks among poultry; level of preparedness for pandemics) were
largely unobservable. The project was complicated, with many different activities and
outputs. The emergency nature of the project meant that design needed to be very rapid, and
meant that assessing baselines prior to implementation was infeasible for some aspects of the
project (such as initial biosecurity levels or awareness levels).

2.21 Due in part to these challenges, the M&E system design contained a number of
weaknesses. Indicators were focused largely on tracking achievement of outputs, such as the
number of radio jingles produced, rather than outcomes, such as changes in knowledge or
behavior. The indicators did not measure all aspects of the project objectives. For example,
the indicators did not capture any aspects of risks or preparedness for diseases other than
avian influenza, despite the inclusion of “other zoonoses? and “other infectious diseases? in
the project objectives. Indicators were not designed to track the possibility of a decline in
capacity; for example, they tracked whether biosecurity measures were implemented on
farms, but not whether those systems remained in place over time. It tracked the number of
facilities that reported animal health data, but did not track whether these reports continued
regularly.

2.22 The project also included a pilot of improved live bird markets, which were to have
better biosecurity than traditional markets, and the number of bird markets to be built was
increased during project restructuring. But the M&E system did not include the kind of
rigorous assessment of the biosecurity and public health benefits of these markets that might
have contributed to scale-up of the markets if successful.

Relevance of Design
2.23 The project design was based on the Global Program for Avian Influenza and Human
Pandemic Preparedness and Response template, adapted to take account of conditions in
Nigeria. By the time the project was appraised, multiple outbreaks had commenced in the
                                                9


country and the veterinary and human health services were ill-equipped to respond. The
project design addressed weaknesses in livestock and human disease surveillance, outbreak
containment, in-country diagnostic capacity, and public awareness. The design supported
both emergency response activities to deal with the short-term risk, such as providing
training, biosafety equipment, and transportation to teams that would conduct culling
operations to contain outbreaks and setting up a compensation mechanism, and non-
emergency activities that would reduce the long-term risk.

2.24 The Results Framework presented a logical causal chain between the activities
financed by the project, the outputs these activities would produce, and the outcomes that
would measure the attainment of the objectives. For animal health, project activities were
expected to produce outputs such as a policy and legal framework meeting World
Organization for Animal Health standards; reduced time for reporting suspected infections; a
higher proportion of veterinary staff trained in awareness raising, monitoring, sampling,
safety and test procedures; and a higher percentage of veterinary facilities meeting World
Organization for Animal Health standards for diagnostic laboratories. These, reinforced by
the social mobilization and strategic communications strategies supported by the project,
were intended to lead to strengthened animal disease control and awareness, more effective
prevention policies and systems, improved disease information systems, availability of
essential equipment and reagents in diagnostic laboratories, and augmented bio-security
measures in farms and markets. If, despite all these efforts further disease outbreaks occurred
in the future, project outputs were expected to facilitate faster identification of, and response
to, such infections, and their control and geographic containment.

2.25 The project activities focused primarily on avian influenza (on the animal health side)
and influenza of various strains (on the human health side) rather than other zoonoses or
other infectious disease emergencies. Training programs, communication programs,
laboratory test kits and reagents, vaccination programs and antivirus stockpiles were only
designed to address influenza. But some activities would still have contributed to reducing
the risks from other diseases by improving mobility of veterinary services, providing
laboratory equipment that could be used to diagnose other diseases (if training and reagents
were provided), and by setting up surveillance systems and institutions that could be later
expanded to incorporate other diseases.

2.26 There was an inherent tension in the project design between the emergency nature of
the project and the need to build long-term capacity by supporting complicated laboratory
upgrades. The three-year time frame of the emergency instrument was unrealistic for
ensuring achievement of some longer-term capacity-building goals, given the technically
challenging nature of many procurement and civil works activities (particularly the BSL 3
laboratory). In hindsight, questions might be asked as to whether some highly technical
works and equipment procurement activities that would have been better funded through a
standard investment loan. However, no suitable project was in the Bank’s lending pipeline at
the time of appraisal, and these activities were an important part of a comprehensive response
to avian influenza. It was impossible to know for how long the wave of outbreaks would
continue at the time of design and appraisal, so including activities with a longer time
horizon was a reasonable component of the original project design.
                                                       10


2.27 An impact evaluation of the project by the International Livestock Research Institute
(ILRI) found that the project design did not include sufficient engagement with the private
poultry sector industry 3, and that it devoted insufficient financial support to producing
analytical epidemiological studies in the animal health sector 4 (ILRI 2011). Engaging with
the poultry sector might have increased reporting incentives (particularly for transporters and
traders who were excluded from the compensation mechanism), and increasing
epidemiological capacity might have improved the ability to identify and contain outbreaks.
Both of these could have contributed to minimizing the risk posed by avian influenza.

2.28     The relevance of design is rated Substantial.



3. Implementation
3.1     To respond rapidly to the Government’s urgent request for assistance, the project was
prepared under the Bank’s emergency guidelines (OP/BP 8.50). The project was appraised in
February 2006, approved in March 2006, and became effective in June 2006. It was
originally designed to close in June 2009, but following the Mid-Term Review in May 2008,
the closing date was extended by 18 months to December 31, 2010. Only two outbreaks had
occurred after 2007 (the last in August 2008), so these extensions were primarily to enable a
number of activities to be completed, in particular the setting up of medical and veterinary
diagnostic laboratories and piloting of four model live bird markets (later extended to 15
markets to use funds originally slated for compensation). However, these activities were still
not completed by the new closing date, and in December 2010, a further five-month
extension was granted until May 31, 2011.

3.2     The proposed project cost of US$ 62.2 million was to be financed by an IDA Credit
of US$50 million equivalent, plus an additional US$12.2 million reallocated from two
ongoing IDA-supported projects, the Second National Fadama Development Project
implemented by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and the Second
Health System Development Project, implemented by the Federal Ministry of Health. Of
these funds, $1.9 million were provided as quick-start funds that were disbursed before the
Project became effective. Bank staff reported that there were no adverse consequences for
the Fadama II or Health Systems Development II projects from these reallocations (as these
projects did not use their full allocations), and that Project activities supported by these funds
were consistent with the objectives of those projects.


3
  A lack of early engagement with poultry farmers contributed to initial compensation rates being set too low
(which may have inhibited disease reporting), and the project interacted mostly with farmers and did relatively
little to engage with the rest of the poultry value chain, and so may have missed an opportunity to reduce the
risk of disease spread through poultry transporters and traders.
4
  The project relied on the existing information management system for animal health rather than investing
further in these, which meant that animal health epidemiological capacity did not advance under the project.
This may have missed an opportunity to improve reporting of avian influenza and other zoonoses, which could
have contributed to risk reduction.
                                                        11


Planned vs. Actual Expenditure by Component
3.3     At project closure, total expenditure stood at US$49.90 million, about 20 percent less
than the appraised cost of US$62.20 million. As seen in the table below, the animal health
component cost US$2.5 million less than foreseen, largely because the planned BSL3
laboratory at Vom had not been procured by the time the project closed, and was
subsequently financed by Federal Government from its own resources. The human health and
communications components came out close to original estimates. Project management costs
were largely integrated into individual components rather than accounted for in a separate
component. Only $1.9 million of the US$12.2 million nominally reallocated from the
Fadama II and Health Systems II projects was used, whereas US$48 million of the US$ 50
million IDA Credit was utilized by the time the project closed.

Table 2: Project Cost by Component (US$ million)
                                            APPRAISAL
                                                                                                   PERCENTAGE OF
             COMPONENT                      ESTIMATE         ACTUAL EXPENDITURE (US$ M)
                                                                                                     APPRAISAL
                                             (US$ M)
                                                               NAICP        Other*      Total
Animal Health                                  29.20            26.08        0.70       26.78          91.71
Human Health                                   18.25            16.97        1.20       18.17          99.56
Social Mobilization and Strategic
                                                4.08            4.00                     4.00          98.04
Communications
Implementation Support and
                                                6.89            0.95                     0.95          13.79
M&E**
Total Baseline Cost                            58.42            48.00        1.90       49.90          85.42
Physical Contingencies                          0.95             0.00                    0.00            -
Price Contingencies                             2.83             0.00                    0.00            -
Total Project Costs                            62.20            48.00        1.90       49.90          80.22
Source: World Bank (2011), p. 21
*“Other? consists of US$ 0.7 million from Fadama II and US$ 1.2 million from HSDP II.
**Most of the US$ 6.89 million was reallocated to the Animal Health and Human Health Components.



Implementation Experience
3.4     Early implementation prior to formal effectiveness was assisted through use of the
established project management units for the Fadama II and Health Systems Development II
projects, and by having access to funds in their Special Accounts. By the time the project
became effective in June 2006, dozens of avian influenza outbreaks had occurred and disease
diagnosis and poultry culling had begun, with support from the project. The containment
program that followed was successful, with most outbreaks having been contained by April
2007, fifteen months after they started (Figure 1). The project played a major role in this
success, though support was also received from UN agencies such as FAO, UNICEF, and
WHO, and bilateral donors, particularly USAID and the United States Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention.
                                                       12


Figure 1: Number of HPAI Outbreaks and Project timeline
  70
            Project support for
            containment
  60                                      Midterm review              Original           Actual project
                                                                      project            closure
  50                                                                  closure


  40


  30


  20


  10


   0
        Jul-06




        Jul-07




        Jul-08




        Jul-09




        Jul-10



       Apr-11
       Apr-06




       Apr-07




       Apr-08




       Apr-09




       Apr-10



       Jan-11
       Jan-06




       Jan-07




       Jan-08




       Jan-09




       Jan-10
       Oct-06




       Oct-07




       Oct-08




       Oct-09




       Oct-10
Source: Project documentation.
Note: During the period between April 2006 and the mid-term review in October 2008, the project provided
support for culling operations, compensation, training, vehicles, communications, disinfection, and surveillance.
There was no domestic human HPAI diagnostic capability and animal health diagnostic capacity was limited to
one site at the National Veterinary Research Institute.

3.5     Following successful containment of the initial outbreaks, implementation slowed
after March 2007 as the project became a lower priority. Weaknesses in procurement
contributed to a lack of progress on civil works and equipment purchases for the BSL2
veterinary teaching hospital laboratories or the BSL 3 laboratory. The M&E system was not
adequately measuring progress, in part because of the lack of a designated M&E specialist.

3.6     At the Mid-Term Review in May 2008, considerable funds that had been budgeted for
the compensation and livelihoods support activity were unspent, and a decision was made to
reallocate these to other activities, rather than to have them remain unused. Some activities
were also further decentralized, as there had not been sufficient delegation to the state and
local levels.

3.7     To accommodate slow procurement and adjustments after the Mid-Term Review the
project was extended twice, through May 2011. Even with these extensions, procurement
                                               13


was slow. A decision was made to drop plans to upgrade an existing site for the BSL 3
laboratory, and instead to purchase a modular laboratory. Eighty days before project closure,
procurement had still not been completed for this modular lab. The Bank decided that the lab
could not be completed by project closure and declined to give clearance. By the time the
project closed in May 2011, the modular BSL3 laboratory had not been procured, and despite
procurement being well advanced, few of the fifteen live bird markets and none the upgraded
laboratories at the five veterinary teaching hospital laboratories were operational.

3.8     Some planned activities were not implemented. Though the compensation
mechanism worked well, no support for vulnerable groups or livelihood support was carried
out, except for traders who benefited from live bird markets. The poultry vaccination
campaign included in the design of the animal health component was not carried out; a
decision was made by the government that since the stamping out program was showing
success, vaccination would be an unnecessary expense and would make surveillance more
difficult, as vaccinated birds can trigger false positives in diagnostic tests. This decision had
widespread support from veterinarians and other experts within Nigeria.

IMPLEMENTATION OF MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.9     The Knowledge, Attitudes, and Practice surveys conducted under the project
successfully demonstrated a dramatic increase in awareness of avian influenza and plausibly
demonstrated the project’s role in this. But the surveys did not always ask questions about
the behavior of respondents, and so could not assess whether the communications campaign
had been successful in changing behavior (and thus reducing the risk of disease spread) for
all groups.

3.10 Early in the project, the M&E system performed poorly in collecting data and
reporting quantitative information. The system improved over time, particularly after the
Mid-Term Review, when a dedicated M&E specialist was appointed and 10 additional
indicators were added. But the avian influenza outbreaks were over by then, and much of the
remaining project activities focused on civil works, so the M&E system was of modest value
during the most important part of the project.

3.11 The system was effective in verifying that training activities had taken place,
improvements in sample diagnostic time had been realized, plans and studies had been
created, and other forms of output were tracked. But though designed to track whether
intermediate outcomes were being achieved (such as the ability of laboratories to perform
diagnostic tests), the claims of the system were not always accurate. For example, an
indicator reported that all six veterinary laboratories were capable of performing diagnostic
tests, when most of these laboratories were not operational as of project closure.

3.12 Though not part of the formal monitoring and evaluation system, the project
supported an intensive impact evaluation study by the International Livestock Research
Institute (ILRI 2011).
                                                14


SAFEGUARDS ISSUES

3.13 The project was assigned environmental safeguard category B, mainly due to the need
for safe disposal of carcasses from culling operations and for management of medical and
veterinary laboratory wastes. Because of the emergency nature of the project, environmental
plans were not prepared prior to project effectiveness, but plans were created and approved
prior to commencement of any civil works. A Medical Waste Management Plan covered
laboratories, clinics and hospitals and an Environmental Management Plan covered carcass
disposal at culling sites and waste disposal at live bird markets. The plans were revised and
upgraded based on experience gained during the outbreaks in 2006 and 2007. Livestock
officers and health workers received training on preparation and implementation of the plans.

3.14 While the management plans were followed broadly, evidence from IEG mission
interviews suggested that there were a few cases where the plans were not followed because
they were unrealistic given local conditions. Full body protective clothing could not always
be used by workers operating for many hours outdoors in hot temperatures. Digging pits for
carcasses was not feasible in areas where the water table was very high, so in some cases
carcasses were burned instead. And culling poultry by using gas in a contained bag was
sometimes infeasible given the large numbers of birds culled and the permeability of bags.
This suggests that the initial Environmental Management Plan was not sufficiently adapted to
the local context. An independent safeguard audit conducted by local consultants did not
raise any compliance issues.

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PROCUREMENT

3.15 No major issues with fiduciary performance were reported, and external audit reports
were delivered on time and were unqualified. The Animal Health and Human Health
components each maintained their own special account (the Animal Health component also
facilitating funds for the Communications component), and had adequate fund flow
arrangements.

3.16 The project suffered from significant procurement delays throughout implementation,
particularly for civil works and equipment for the medical and veterinary health laboratories.
While the project management unit was able to acquire some staff from the existing Fadama
II and Health Systems Development II projects, there was still insufficient familiarity by the
procurement unit with World Bank procedures. An inability to procure the BSL 3 laboratory
at the National Veterinary Research Institute in Vom even after two project extensions meant
that this activity ended up being financed from the Federal Government’s own resources after
the project closed, despite the fact that there were sufficient funds still available in the project
at closure.

3.17 Procurement was inherently complex, because of the highly technical nature of some
items to be procured, and because of the multi-state, multi-ministry, and multi-agency nature
of the project. Procurement functions were centralized in the animal health and human
health project management units. There did not appear to have been sufficient
communication between the central procurement in Abuja and the end users elsewhere in
Nigeria in terms of design and procurement supervision. The IEG mission found a number
                                              15


of examples where end users felt that their specific needs had not been met in terms of the
design of civil works or selection of equipment (sometimes leading to redundancies or gaps).
Some agencies reported that the centralized procurement function and their consultants
appeared to have paid suppliers in full without consulting the end users to check that
contractual obligations had been met, which was problematic in cases where works were sub-
standard or shipments were missing key equipment.


4. Achievement of the Objectives
Minimize the threat posed to the poultry industry and humans by HPAI
infection and other zoonoses
4.1      A number of preparedness planning steps had been carried out by the Nigerian
government before the project began. A contingency plan was in place by November 2005,
just before the first HPAI outbreaks occurred in January 2006. An Incident Response crisis
center in the President's office was established immediately following the initial outbreaks,
(and remained in force until 2007) and inter-ministerial committees formed with wide
stakeholder participation to manage the containment exercise and increase public awareness
to the risks of the disease. The World Bank was represented on these committees, as were
other development, health, and agriculture agencies. A communication strategy did not
feature prominently in the original 2005 HPAI Comprehensive Plan, but some
communication activities were started following outbreaks in early 2006.

4.2     Prior to the avian influenza outbreaks, there was only limited animal disease
surveillance operating in the country, through the National Animal Disease Information
System (NADIS). This was an initiative fostered under the Pan African Program for the
Control of Epizootics, which also established the Epidemiology Unit in the Federal Ministry
of Agriculture, which ultimately provided the basic structure for HPAI surveillance. A
limited number of surveillance officers monitored only potential hotspots such as markets,
abattoirs, airports, border crossings, and ports.

OUTPUTS

4.3     Preparedness planning and training. The Project supported a range of preparedness
planning and training activities. By January 2007, all 36 states and the Federal Capital
Territory had developed and adopted HPAI preparedness and response plans. By September
2009, more than two and a half years later, a total of 44 veterinary policy guidelines and
pieces of legislation meeting World Organization of Animal Health (OIE) standards had been
approved in all states and the Federal Capital Territory. These state policies were derived
from the Federal Animal Disease Control Act (1988), State Meat Hygiene Edicts (1969), and
the Veterinary Surgeons Act (1987). A total of 6,709 veterinarians and para-vets (against a
project target of 4,604) were trained in awareness raising, disease monitoring and
                                                        16


investigation, sampling techniques, and safety and testing procedures. 5 About 90 percent of
those trained were in the private sector, and about 80 percent were based in rural areas. In
addition, about 4,500 health workers and poultry farmers in at-risk situations were trained to
adopt preventive measures to protect them from the disease.

4.4     Response plans supported under the project were followed in conducting containment
of avian influenza outbreaks. Training was important in building capacity to respond to
outbreaks. The IEG mission was informed by a range of stakeholders that training programs
were of high quality, though there were no objective measures available of the quality of
instruction or the extent to which capacity was actually built.

4.5     Communication. The initial communication messages at the time of the first
outbreaks 6 were somewhat alarmist, implying that eating poultry meat and eggs should be
avoided. 7 This likely contributed to a collapse in demand for these products; industry
estimates were that demand fell by about 80 percent by mid 2006, and production did not
return to pre-outbreak levels until 2010. However, market prices were also affected by
broader public concerns about the avian influenza outbreaks, and it is not possible to
distinguish between these two factors.

4.6    Recognizing that the initial communication strategy was flawed, the government
responded quickly by forming (with project support) the National Pandemic Enlightenment
Committee, actively involving UNICEF, the International Organization for Migration, WHO,
FAO, Red Cross, the Ministry of Education, and the Poultry Association of Nigeria, along
with the Federal Ministries of Agriculture, Health, and Information. The involvement of all
stakeholders (including producers and consumers) in the development of a new strategy
ensured that future messages raised awareness of the risks of HPAI in a more balanced
fashion and explained more clearly what producers and consumers needed to do to protect
themselves and minimize disease spread, without causing unnecessary economic damage to
producers whose flocks were disease free.

4.7    The strategy was implemented by the Federal Ministry of Information and
Communications over 2006-11. Communications Desk officers were identified in all 774
Local Government Authorities, which were provided equipment such as projectors and
computers, given appropriate training, and issued with Standard Operational Procedures.

4.8    The project conducted workshops with mass media stakeholders from all states,
including radio and TV organizations and editors of newspapers. Over 5,000 media kits were
produced and a logo and website (www.AICPNIGERIA.org) were developed. Awareness
programs started on TV and radio, with regular briefings given from the Crisis Centre.

5
 The 6,709 veterinary staff trained represents 102% of the number of registered veterinary staff in Nigeria.
This result is possible because turnover and attrition in staff. In any case, nearly all veterinary staff were
covered by the training program.
6
  These messages occurred after project approval and during the period where the project was using funds from
the Fadama II and HSDP II projects, but before formal effectiveness of the Avian Influenza project.
7
 These messages were inaccurate, since there is no risk of transmission from consumption of properly cooked
poultry and eggs.
                                                        17


4.9     Communications programs were designed to increase awareness of HPAI, change
behavior (such as to improve handling of birds and carcasses), and encourage reporting of
disease outbreaks. The awareness program faced several challenges, including low access of
the poor to media, the need to communicate in 150 languages, customs and traditions (some
sprinkle blood of a chicken on the newborn child), a porous border with six countries, and
large semi-nomadic groups. To address these challenges, the strategy devised messages and
products targeted at particular audiences, which were delivered in local languages and
directed to those states and groups considered to face high risks, including poultry farmers
and sellers. Communications staff reported that radio jingles were the most effective at
raising awareness in terms of cost and rural audience coverage. The project supported
production and airing of 259 jingles in 24 languages/dialects, slightly below the target of 295
jingles in 31 languages/dialects, because production costs were higher than expected.
Television and radio documentaries were produced and aired. The project also produced
posters, t-shirts, magazines, aprons, and other materials. Over 2006-8, communication
messages were harmonized through workshops held every six months, involving all
stakeholders including producers, traders and consumers.

4.10 After the outbreaks ceased in mid-2008, the intensity of public awareness campaigns
decreased. From 2009, the project conducted annual forums 8 to discuss communication
strategy in each of the six geopolitical zones in the country. With less budget available,
increased targeting of radio and use of posters in schools, hospitals, and motor parks have
been used. Up to 2011, full time state communication desk officers were training the part-
time local government officers.

4.11     Disease surveillance and diagnosis. Following the outbreaks, the surveillance
manpower was increased dramatically, with 34 specific avian influenza desk officers
nominated at the state level and 774 desk officers at the LGA level. LGA desk officers
reported disease status information to state desk officers during active outbreak periods.
Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza was added to the National Animal Disease Information
and Surveillance system, which was expanded from 295 local government areas to cover all
774 areas. This passive surveillance 9 system provides monthly updates compiled by state
level surveillance officers based on reports from roughly 500 local area veterinary officers,
and still operated at the end of the project (and during the 2012 IEG mission).

4.12 All commercial and semi-commercial poultry farms (those with at least 200 birds)
were registered with the Ministries of Agriculture using GPS devices procured under the
project, and were required to report disease outbreaks through the desk officer system. The
project financed purchase of 52 pick-up trucks for state desk offices and veterinary teaching
hospitals, and 908 motorcycles for local government agency desk officers and quarantine
services, which increased capacity to conduct surveillance, communications, and outbreak
containment.


8
    Assisted by FAO, the International Organization for Migration (IOM), USAID, and the CDC.
9
 Passive surveillance is routine reporting of disease cases reaching health care facilities (for human or animal
health), and does not involve any special efforts to find unsuspected disease cases, and so reservoirs of disease
may remain undiscovered.
                                                       18


4.13 The project financed a range of surveillance studies, including a World Organization
for Animal Health assessment of the performance of veterinary services (August 2007),
research in migratory and resident wild birds (January 2009), and a wetland duck study by
the University of Jos Biological Conservatory and A. P. Leventis Ornithological Research
Institute (May 2011). With technical support from the FAO, the project surveyed resident
wild birds in the vicinity of avian influenza-infected poultry farms in six states, 10 and
conducted a nationwide active surveillance survey in March 2007 11 and targeted disease
surveillance studies at live bird markets in all states over 2007-8. 12 Additional surveillance
surveys were carried out by the FAO without project support. But there was no active
surveillance of poultry after 2010 or any ongoing surveillance of wild bird populations.

4.14 Under the project, six laboratories (the laboratories at five veterinary teaching
hospitals and at the National Veterinary Research Institute in Vom) were to be renovated and
equipped to diagnose HPAI. The IEG mission found that while civil works were carried out
and equipment and reagents procured, the project-supported upgrades at two of the five
veterinary teaching hospital laboratories (in Abeokuta and Maiduguri) were not operational
as of November 2012 due to missing equipment and some poor quality civil works. 13 The
upgrades at the other three (in Nsukka, Zaria, and Sokoto) were not operational as of project
closure and were reported by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to be “partially operational?
by June 2012. 14 Thus, the investments in Veterinary Teaching Hospital laboratories had no
impact during the outbreaks, because of the difficulties in making the laboratories
operational.

4.15 The project supplied training, equipment, and reagent purchases for the National
Veterinary Research Institute in Vom. The Institute was the only laboratory capable of
diagnosing HPAI in animal samples throughout the period of the outbreaks, and was
effective in doing so. 15 With FAO assistance, a system to expedite the transfer of samples
from the field to the Vom laboratory was developed, with cooperation of truckers organized
through their Transport Association, including a telephone hotline from the truck park to the
lab to facilitate sample pick-ups. But plans to upgrade the Institute’s laboratory to BSL 3

10
  The survey collected 587 samples from 44 species in Borno, Kaduna, Kano, Ogun, Plateau, and Yobe States
and analyzed them at the National Veterinary Research Institute.
11
  Active surveillance involves a program where samples are taken from animals or humans that do not display
symptoms or have not reported to a health facility, and so can potentially discover disease among the general
population.
12
  The Federal Capital Territory and all 25 states where outbreaks occurred were surveyed in November 2007,
and the remaining 11 states were surveyed in June 2008.
13
  Some specialized refrigeration equipment was procured centrally but was never delivered to the laboratories,
and the remaining equipment was not installed because of defective benchwork.
14
  In contrast, the Bank’s completion report claimed that the veterinary hospital laboratories had been
commissioned in May 2011 (World Bank 2011, page 24). In March 2013 the World Bank reported that all five
laboratory upgrades were fully operational, but this has not been independently confirmed by IEG.
15
   The Institute accurately diagnosed all outbreaks that occurred in Nigeria. The laboratory was certified by the
World Organization for Animal Health as capable of carrying out 13 of 13 diagnostic activities for highly
pathogenic avian influenza.
                                                      19


were dropped due to difficulties with procurement. 16

4.16 Stamping out and Compensation. The project supported “stamping out? operations
to contain outbreaks through creation of the network of desk officers, the provision of
training, and the supply of safety equipment, disinfectant, and vehicles. It facilitated strong
cooperation between the three implementing Ministries. Desk officers from each component
jointly supervised culling operations and conducted communication and outreach efforts with
nearby farmers and villagers, and conducted human health checks on farm workers.

4.17       Stamping out operations contain the spread of disease by killing birds that may
have been exposed and could be infectious. During the project, roughly 754,000 birds were
identified as having died from influenza, while roughly 1.26 million birds were culled during
stamping out operations, and 118,000 eggs were destroyed. Carcasses, feed and eggs were
buried in pits.

4.18 A mechanism was established to compensate poultry farmers for birds culled during
operations but not for birds that died from disease. This encouraged farmers to report
outbreaks promptly, before further birds died, but also reduced the effective compensation
rate since many birds died from avian influenza before culling operations began 17. In total,
3,037 poultry farmers (of whom 24 percent were women) across 384 farms were affected
directly by the culling and received in compensation at least Naira 577 million, equivalent to
approximately US$5 million. Of these payments, Naira 145 million in compensation
payments were financed by the Federal Government for outbreaks that occurred in early
2006 before project effectiveness, and Naira 430 million in payments were financed by the
project. Most affected farms were small commercial farms with 200-1,999 birds, but most
dead and culled birds were from medium scale commercial farms (Table 3). The project-
supported registration of commercial farms assisted in the verification and processing of
compensation claims. But only registered farmers were eligible for compensation; 18 traders
and transporters were excluded from the scheme. Potentially this could have discouraged
traders from reporting signs of sickness, which was a weakness in the system.

4.19 According to IEG mission interviews and other sources, the compensation process
was transparent. The names of recipients and the amount of compensation paid to each were
disclosed in newspaper advertisements and on the project website, as well as within the
communities. Initial compensation payments at flat rate of Naira 250 per bird were
considered insufficient by poultry farmers, but in consultation with the industry association
(the Poultry Association of Nigeria) and others, this was later increased to a higher variable

16
   After the project closed, the Federal Government provided funds to purchase a modular BSL 3 laboratory
(rather than upgrading existing facilities), and this became operational in mid 2012 The lab in theory can
prevent the need for international testing of samples and cutting the time needed for confirming diagnoses and
identifying influenza substrains. However, in the absence of the disease in Nigeria, it has not been used for
testing HPAI samples, but is being used for testing samples for swine fever and rift valley fever.
17
  For 61% of affected farms the number of bird deaths from avian influenza (and so not eligible for
compensation) exceeded the number of birds culled.
18
  Very small backyard farms with less than 200 birds were not registered and so were also excluded from the
scheme.
                                                        20


rate considered satisfactory by farmers based on the type/species of bird and their production
stage. On average, by the time the stamping out operation had ended, the average
compensation paid was approximately Naira 500 per bird, double the original rate. 19 The
Bank required verification of losses by independent financial consultants and approval by
Bank financial management processes before compensation was paid out. While this may
have helped to ensure good governance and transparency, it also contributed to significant
delays between outbreak notification and payment processing. 20 However, there was no
evidence that these delays reduced reporting of outbreaks by farmers.

Table 3: HPAI Outbreaks and Compensation by Farm Size, 2006-2008
                                                      Poultry            Poultry
                                       Farms        Deaths from        Deaths from    Compensation
          Farm size                   affected         HPAI              culling        paid (₦)
 Large scale commercial
 (20,000+ birds)                          10           672,923           325,968       190,206,430
 Medium scale commercial
 (2,000 - 19,999)                        104           490,849           489,560       293,785,170
 Small scale and backyard
 (200-1,999)                             273           119,039           155,503        93,004,800
 Total:                                  387          1,282,811          971,031       576,996,400
Source: Nigeria Avian Influenza Control Project.
Note: The table includes some outbreaks that occurred before the project was operational.


4.20 The avian influenza outbreaks and the collapse in poultry and egg prices (by as much
as 80%) caused significant economic losses and hardship for poor farmers. The appraisal
document for the project noted that the compensation and economic recovery subcomponent
would also include support to economically vulnerable groups and alternative livelihoods for
affected stakeholders. 21 However, no attempts were made to support these activities other
than through the live bird markets. It is unclear why these planned activities were not
undertaken, particularly given that not all funds allocated for compensation were needed for
that purpose.

4.21 Biosecurity on farms, at borders, and in markets. Before the HPAI outbreaks
began, farm biosecurity was limited except on the larger commercial farms. Under the

19
  The original rate of 250 Naira per bird was arbitrary. Rates under the variable system were aimed at having a
compensation rate that was roughly 70% of the market value of birds, so as to provide significant compensation
that could support restocking but without encouraging over-reporting.
20
     The IEG mission received mixed reports on the extent of delays.
21
   The Technical Annex appraisal document noted that the activity would provide “support to low income
groups…through…improving animal health services at the community level, and providing grants for
additional compensation. This includes the development of pro-poor exit strategies, including livelihood
diversification.? It would also “support smallholder poultry farmers in a bottom-up demand, driven and
equitable manner to resume poultry farming or undertake a different livelihood, based on demand-driven
proposals made by stakeholders. The Project will provide: a) advisory services that will support new
investment or restocking activities … and b) seed money, through a credit mechanism yet to be decided, to
eligible stakeholders…? Source: World Bank (2006), page 16-17.
                                                        21


project, roughly 8,000 commercial and semi-commercial poultry farmers (nearly all of the
8,238 farms registered by the project) received some training on basic safe animal handling
and other biosecurity measures, including restricting farm access to employees only,
installing disinfecting sheds, removing ducks from chicken farms, and installing foot and
wheel dips at farm gates. 22 The project financed purchase and use of disinfectant at major
bird markets, and at border control posts for vehicle spraying. While there is no quantitative
data on adoption of these measures, there were reports that adoption was widespread during
the 2006-8 outbreaks. The Bank's project completion report claims that all 8,283 farms
registered by the project are biosecure, but this was impossible to verify. 23

4.22 The project also provided motorcycles, boats, building renovations, and training to
four quarantine stations. However, importation of poultry was already illegal in Nigeria prior
to the project, so any bird imports were not legally passing through quarantine checkpoints.
The large porous borders of Nigeria and the limited capacity of the quarantine service make
it infeasible to interdict illegal imports. So the modest support provided to the quarantine
services by the project likely had negligible impact on the transport of birds and thus on the
risks posed by avian influenza. There was no communication component that sensitized
border communities to the risks of poultry importation and encouraged them to refuse access.
Quarantine stations were left to do this work on their own, but had few resources with which
to accomplish this.

4.23 At the Mid-Term Review in May 2008 the project added pilot activities to construct
four live bird markets. Based on early successes, the targeted number was later increased to
15, and 14 markets were constructed during the project, of which 8 were operational by
November 2012. 24 These markets improved poultry trader incomes at selected sites and may
have had some impact on biosecurity at those sites, but had little aggregate impact on
biosecurity in Nigeria (Box 1).

OUTCOMES

4.24 Three hundred outbreaks of HPAI in poultry were identified and contained in Nigeria
between January 2006 and August 2008, of which 270 occurred after project effectiveness in
June 2006. 25 The outbreaks led to the death of roughly 2 million birds, of which about
754,000 died from disease and 1.26 million were culled. There was a single confirmed
human fatality. A 2010 Gap Analysis Report by the World Organization for Animal Health
(OIE 2010) found that HPAI was under control in Nigeria. Nigeria appears to be on track to
receive certification of HPAI-free status.


22
     Very small or backyard poultry farmers were not trained under the project.
23
  No criteria are given for being biosecure, and no evidence was collected on actual implementation of
biosecurity measures.
24
  The World Bank reports that 12 of 14 markets were operational as of March 2013. This has not been
independently confirmed by IEG.
25
  The Project was still able to make some emergency purchases to assist in outbreak control prior to project
effectiveness, because of the use of funds from the Fadama II and Health Systems Development II projects.
                                                       22


Box 1: Biosecurity of Live Bird Markets
Based on promising results from the Bank-financed Avian Influenza Project in Vietnam, the Nigeria
Avian Influenza Control Project supported construction of upgraded live bird markets with improved
biosecurity. In typical markets, birds of all ages and ducks are kept in cramped cages, there is no
facility to wash down or disinfect the areas, and the slaughter areas and system of waste disposal are
unsanitary. The new markets had better biosecurity than the traditional markets because there were
dedicated areas that could be hosed off and disinfected, allowed only one-way flow of buyers through
the building, had more cage space that allowed segregation of birds by age, had clean slaughtering for
dressing poultry, and had a better system for waste disposal. Traders at these live bird markets also
had access to new plastic transport cages that were more easily disinfected.

Local traders who operate these markets, organized in local Fowl Sellers Associations, were
enthusiastic about the markets, and agreed to contribute 15 percent of the construction cost from their
own resources. They were granted full ownership of the markets upon completion. While 14 of the
15 planned markets were constructed,a only eight of the markets were fully operational as of
November 2012. Two more were partially functioning, one was expected to become functional, and
three had been built but had issues that may not be resolved in the short term (security, community
problems etc.). Biosecurity was improved and trader incomes increased at the operational live bird
markets constructed under the project as sales increased significantly at the more spacious and clean
locations. An analysis of the market at Kaduna estimated a rate of return of 34 percent based on
dramatic increases in sales (ILRI 2011).b The markets also led to an increase in the proportion of live
birds slaughtered and dressed at the market, rather than being taken home to be slaughtered, which
reduced the risk of disease spread from markets to household poultry.

But a lack of replication and scale up meant that the overall impact on market biosecurity was
negligible at the national level. Roughly 80-85 percent of poultry sales occur at farms, rather than at
live bird markets. The 14 markets established under the project cover an insignificant proportion of
national live bird market throughputs. Though the number of markets nationwide was not available,
the two markets visited by IEG represented one of seven markets in Abeokuta and one of 207 markets
in Lagos.

Traders, consumers and state governments are all very enthusiastic about the new markets, but despite
this support and public, high profile commissioning of all the markets, no additional markets have
been built outside those funded by the Project and two financed by the Federal Ministry of
Agriculture during the project period. The high cost of the markets (about US$140,000 each) is
beyond the means of fowl sellers’ associations to finance, and so scaling up of this initiative will not
occur without external funding, such as through a project or from state governments.

a. Construction of one market did not proceed because of issues in securing the land.
b. This large return is driven in part by customers switching from other markets nearby to the upgraded market,
and does not necessarily imply that high returns could be obtained from investing in large numbers of markets
in the same area. But the return estimate comes solely from financial benefits to traders, ignoring benefits from
improved biosecurity and public health, and so understates potential benefits.


4.25 An independent impact evaluation conducted by the International Livestock Research
Institute noted that insufficient direct evidence was available to assess the degree to which
the project was responsible for reducing the spread of avian influenza, minimizing the threats
of avian influenza to humans, or eradicating the disease from Nigeria (ILRI 2011). Given the
difficulties in establishing a counterfactual, it is hard to see how such evidence could have
                                                       23


been generated. However, evidence on intermediate outcomes stemming from the project’s
investments suggests areas in which it plausibly could have made a significant contribution.
It is also reasonable to attribute observed gains to the project, since the majority of avian
influenza control measures being supported in Nigeria were taken under the auspices of the
project.

4.26 As the activities supported by the project were focused on avian influenza, which was
the source of the emergency, the project did relatively little specifically to minimize the risk
from other zoonoses. However, improvements in disease surveillance systems, mobility for
veterinary services officers, and diagnostic capacity have likely provided some benefits to
detection and response of other zoonoses.

4.27 Awareness and behavior. Communications activities carried out by the project were
reported to be effective in raising awareness of avian influenza, but there is limited formal
evidence for these claims. Knowledge, Attitude and Practice (KAP) surveys supported by
UNICEF surveyed 3,450 adults across 12 states (Firstfruit Consulting, 2011). The surveys
found high levels of awareness of avian influenza and basic preventative measures: 87
percent of respondents had heard of avian influenza, 85 percent were aware of avian
influenza symptoms in birds, and 71 percent thought that transporting birds and humans in
the same vehicle would increase the risk of disease exposure. The surveys also suggested
high levels of awareness of communications material supported by the project: 91 percent
had heard about avian influenza by radio, 86 percent by television, 84 percent by print media,
and 72 percent by live bird and other markets.

4.28 But it is difficult to assess project impact from this survey. No baseline level could
be established prior to project implementation given the rapid preparation. A baseline survey
was not published until December 2007 (Environquest 2007), and it noted that 40.2 percent
of respondents first heard of avian influenza in 2005 while 46.1 percent heard of it in 2006,
and that high awareness levels were likely due to information dissemination. 26 The baseline
survey and final survey asked different sets of questions and so were difficult to compare.
The surveys also focused on awareness rather than on behaviors, so do not allow direct
assessment of behavioral change. The KAP survey included focus group discussions with
325 people which did ask about behavioral practices, and found that a majority of discussants
claimed that they followed advice contained in messages received on avian influenza, but
there was no baseline to compare this to. Thirty detailed interviews were also conducted; in
16 of them respondents reported having heard contradictory messages, particularly on
whether or not it was safe to consume chicken.

4.29 Surveillance, diagnostic capacity, and containment of outbreaks. Disease
reporting from private veterinary clinics and commercial farms increased significantly;
during the outbreaks, periodic reports on animal health were being submitted by 80 percent
of all veterinary clinics and 100 percent of farms in at-risk areas (up from 7.3 percent and
14.5 percent at the start of the project, respectively).



26
     Neither the KAP survey nor the baseline survey make clear when their surveys were conducted.
                                              24


4.30      Streamlining of the diagnostic procedure at the National Veterinary Research
Institute laboratory and the expedited transport system for delivery of samples from farm to
laboratory led to a reduction in the time between outbreak reporting and initial diagnosis
from 7-12 days in December 2007, to one to two days in July 2008. Decentralization of
surveillance teams to operate under the State level authorities may also have contributed to
the improved diagnostic turnaround (ILRI 2011). Equipment upgrades at the National
Veterinary Research Institute laboratory also increased the capacity to diagnose African
swine fever and Rift Valley fever.

4.31 An ILRI impact evaluation found that though there were improvements in animal and
human health surveillance systems, the surveillance systems pick up only a very small
proportion of suspect cases (ILRI 2011). The assessment also notes that much of the credit
for increased animal health diagnostic capacity is due to independent initiatives conducted by
the National Veterinary Research Institute.

4.32 The stamping out operations conducted under the project almost certainly played a
major role in preventing spread of HPAI and in reducing the economic damage from the
project. A total of 3,037 poultry farmers (of whom 24 percent were women) were affected
directly by the culling and received in compensation Naira 631 million, equivalent to
approximately US$5.4 million. The outbreaks occurred in 25 of the country's 36 states, but
were confined to 97 of 774 LGAs in the country (Annex B4). This could indicate that once
an outbreak was reported and confirmed in the laboratory, the stamping out operation was
fairly effective in containing the spread of disease to neighboring LGAs.

4.33 Biosecurity on farms, at borders and in markets. While no quantitative evidence
exists on the value of biosecurity improvements, it is plausible that improvements on farms
had some impact on reducing the risk of disease spread. Upgrades of quarantine posts and 8
functional live bird markets have not had a significant effect on biosecurity.

4.34 Overall, the efficacy of the project in contributing to achievement of this objective is
rated Substantial.

Prepare for, control, and respond to influenza pandemics and other
infectious disease emergencies in humans
4.35 Prior to the project, surveillance for influenza in Nigeria was very limited, and no
pandemic preparedness plans existed at the strategic or operational level until the
comprehensive avian influenza plan was established in November 2005. An integrated
disease surveillance and response plan existed for several infectious diseases, but did not
include avian influenza. A Nigeria Center for Disease Control was established in August
2011. Though this agency will oversee the diagnostic and surveillance systems upgraded by
the project, the establishment of the agency was undertaken through the Ministry of Health
and was not directly supported by the Project.
                                                      25


OUTPUTS

4.36 Planning and training. Broad avian influenza response plans detailing
administrative responsibilities for animal and human health aspects were developed and
adopted at the national and state level by May 2007. A detailed operational influenza
pandemic preparedness and response plan was developed, though it had not been finalized
and formally adopted as of November 2012. This operational plan describes specific
measures to be undertaken to address a serious pandemic should it occur. The plan
recognizes that antiviral medicines and a strain-specific vaccine for humans are unlikely to
be widely available, and that a pandemic response would largely rest on physical distancing
measures. The draft operational plan has been regularly revised and updated. The integrated
disease surveillance and response plan was updated to include avian influenza. A reference
hospital and quarantine facilities were designated for each state.

4.37 A total of 2,436 field surveillance personnel and health workers were trained in case
management and use of protective equipment. Eight federal response teams were set up to
conduct active surveillance in states where HPAI outbreaks had been detected in poultry.
HPAI case management guidelines were developed, including plans for use of quarantine and
other social distancing measures. Training programs were reportedly effective in improving
capacity to identify and respond to influenza outbreaks, but did not address other diseases.
Rapid response teams and preparedness plans could be used for other infectious disease
emergencies.

4.38 Diagnosis and surveillance. The project provided training, equipment, reagents, and
civil works to upgrade BSL2 virology laboratories at 8 hospitals, mostly attached to
university hospitals. Over 2006-8, a total of 2,500 samples were tested in these laboratories;
one tested positive for HPAI. Sixty laboratory personnel were trained to diagnose HPAI.
The IEG mission found that in at least one of the university hospitals, civil works financed by
the project that were completed in 2010 were not being used as of November 2012, because
staff felt they did not meet local requirements. 27

4.39 The National Influenza Reference Laboratory in Abuja and 7 regional and zonal
laboratories were trained and equipped to conduct reverse transcription polymerase chain
reaction tests to diagnose HPAI, and can identify subtyping of the influenza virus.
Previously, this capacity existed only at the National Influenza Center in Ibadan (which
gained the ability to test a larger number of samples). None of the human health laboratories
was upgraded to BSL 3, and so cannot carry out cell cultures. The laboratories were not
equipped to carry out diagnosis of other diseases under the Project, but since project closure
are being strengthened to carry out diagnosis of other viral diseases such as lassa fever,
yellow fever, and West Nile virus using equipment and facilities that were supplied under the
project.

27
  A new laboratory building at the Department of Virology, University College Hospital, University of Ibadan
was completed in August 2010 but was not in use as of November 2012 because it was constructed with open
plan rooms, rather than a partitioned environment that could be set up to operate the single-direction workflow
system needed for biosecurity when handling virological agents. The department hopes to upgrade the building
to use as a special pathogen laboratory, but did not have sufficient funds for the upgrade.
                                                      26


4.40 The project supported creation of active and passive surveillance systems for
influenza. The National laboratory in Abuja is the focal point for an active surveillance
program that draws samples from four sentinel sites, one in each of four of the six regions in
Nigeria. Two regions are not covered. The regional and zonal laboratories are not connected
to active surveillance programs, but conduct passive surveillance on an ad hoc basis on
samples taken from the hospitals they are attached to and other nearby hospitals. The
surveillance systems feed into weekly Integrated Disease System Reports, managed by the
Nigeria Center for Disease Control. (See Annex B3 for further details on the surveillance
system.)

4.41 Outbreak response in humans. During the 2009-10 H1N1 influenza pandemic, the
project supported communication strategy was adjusted to focus on steps to reduce influenza
transmission between humans, rather than on messages that focused on the risk of
transmission from birds of avian influenza. This included messages on how to avoid being
infected or infecting others through simple behaviors such as hand washing.

4.42 The project procured a stockpile of 100,000 doses of oseltamivir (also known as
Tamiflu), an anti-viral known to be effective in reducing influenza susceptibility and
infectiousness. These doses were distributed to targeted hospitals and other health facilities.
No health facility was out of stock for more than a week – in part because very few doses
were used. Protective equipment was purchased for use by health workers in the event of an
infectious disease emergency.

4.43 Roughly 5,000 of 100,000 doses of antivirus were used during the 2009-10 H1N1
pandemic, both for treating infected individuals and prophylactically for vulnerable health
workers. The doses of antivirus would likely have been effective in reducing infection rates
among health workers and other highly infectious groups had a more serious pandemic arisen
during the course of the project. But the bulk of the stockpile expired in 2012, and no plans
exist for further purchase, so the long term impact is minimal.28 Rather than procuring a
stockpile in a single batch, the project might have been more effective if it had established a
system of phased purchase of antivirus, where some doses were delivered each year and
where systems were put in place for expiring doses to be removed from shelves and replaced
by new doses. While equipment was provided to increase hospital diagnostic capacity, little
was done to increase treatment capacity. For example, project funds were not sufficient to
cover respiratory intensive care unit equipment in addition to laboratory upgrades.

OUTCOMES

4.44 While a pandemic of HPAI among humans did not materialize, evidence of the extent
of preparedness for controlling and responding to influenza pandemics and other infectious
disease emergencies in humans comes from intermediate outcomes of project investments,
and evidence from the response to the H1N1 influenza pandemic in 2009-10.


28
   Rather than procuring a stockpile in a single batch, the project might have been more effective if it had
established a system of phased purchase of antivirus, where some doses were delivered each year and where
systems were put in place for expiring doses to be removed from shelves and replaced by new doses.
                                               27


4.45 The feasibility of implementing the HPAI pandemic preparedness plan was verified
through a tabletop simulation exercise conducted in October 2011 in partnership with
USAID, the National Emergency Management Agency, the United States military Africa
Command, the Federal Ministries of Defense and Health, and other Nigerian government
agencies.

4.46 During the 2009-10 H1N1 influenza pandemic, some elements of the preparedness
plan were used (a small portion of the antivirus stockpile was used), but no major steps were
taken (physical distancing measures were not implemented).

4.47 Diagnostic upgrades supported by the project at the National Influenza Reference
Laboratory were successful: the laboratory scored 100 percent proficiency in a WHO Global
Influenza Surveillance Network quality assurance test (World Bank 2011). Other human
health laboratories were not assessed, but were reported as operational.

4.48 Improvements to the surveillance system were demonstrated during the H1N1
pandemic. The human health surveillance system collected 2,803 samples from the four
sentinel surveillance sites between April 2009 and August 2010, and these were tested at the
National Influenza Reference Laboratory (Dalhatu and others 2012). Of the 2,803 samples, ,
396 tested positive for any strain of influenza, and 100 tested positive for the pandemic strain
of H1N1(Dalhatu and others 2012). The first samples of the pandemic H1N1 strain were
detected in October 2009, and the number of identified samples from this strain peaked in
February 2010 and subsided by May 2010, tracking the likely course of the pandemic in
Nigeria. Given that estimates of the global infection rate were between 11 and 21 percent
(Kelly and others 2011), the system covered only a small proportion of the likely millions of
cases, but successfully performed its function in acting as an early warning system, and could
probably have been used to trigger pandemic response actions, had the pandemic been more
severe. An ILRI assessment (2011) noted, however, that some of the credit for increasing
human health diagnostic capacity was due to support from the United States CDC and the
WHO undertaken outside the project.

4.49 The effects of the communications campaign on the H1N1 pandemic were not
assessed. The use of antivirus may have had a small impact on protecting frontline health
workers during the pandemic.

4.50   Overall, the project made a substantial contribution to this objective.

5. Efficiency
5.1     It is extremely difficult to estimate the economic benefits of a project such as this.
Prospectively, it is hard to estimate the actual chance of outbreaks occurring or their severity.
Retrospectively, it is hard to put forward a credible counterfactual. The economic analysis at
appraisal identified major sources of potential benefits in reduced poultry losses, human lives
saved, and hospitalizations avoided under three scenarios, all of which assumed a severe
epidemic (30 percent of unprotected humans would be infected) and very high protective
efficacy from the project (33 percent to 100 percent protection rates).
                                               28


5.2     The economic analysis at closure cites estimates by the Poultry Association of
Nigeria indicating that losses from foregone poultry sales and uncompensated mortality
totaled about 15.2 billion naira (roughly US$100 million equivalent) during the year ending
February 28, 2007. Fasina, Sirdar, and Bisschop (2008) also estimated the hypothetical
financial cost to the poultry industry of uncontrolled HPAI outbreaks at between $245-700
million.

5.3     While these estimates involve assumptions that are impossible to verify, it is likely
that the project provided substantial economic benefits. The cost of the avian influenza
outbreaks was high, but costs likely would have been significantly higher without the
containment efforts supported by the project, and there may have been additional human
mortality and morbidity. As it turned out, the poultry industry did not regain pre-HPAI
(2005) levels of production and sales until 2010 (World Bank 2011, page 31).

5.4     In terms of the efficient use of project resources in implementation, it was reported
that activities were well coordinated with other international agencies operating in the field
and that Ministries collaborated effectively at a technical level with a number of international
agencies. Coordination between the three Ministries was also reportedly significant. For
example, staff from the three ministries travelled and worked together during outbreak
control operations. Significant reductions in sample transport time were made at minimal
cost outlay by setting up relationships with transporters such that drivers were confident they
would be paid immediately upon sample delivery and were transparently informed of
biohazard risks.

5.5      However, initially, key activities, such as surveillance, compensation payments, and
communications, were not delegated effectively at the State and local government authority
levels. There were significant procurement-related delays throughout implementation. The
BSL3 laboratory planned for the National Veterinary Research Institute was not procured
until after project closing, using the Government’s own funds. Although civil works were
complete and equipment was procured, none of the upgraded facilities at the five veterinary
teaching hospital diagnostic laboratories were fully operational at project closing (and were
still not as of November 2012) due in part to some equipment not being delivered and/or
defective works. Even among the laboratories that are now operational, many are largely idle
because they are equipped only to test for avian influenza, are not linked to avian influenza
surveillance systems, and/or lack sufficient consumable supplies to operate.

5.6      Civil works and equipment purchases were not always efficient: some laboratories
received equipment that duplicated what they already had, while equipment they needed was
not supplied. A newly constructed laboratory building at the University of Ibadan was still
not in use 2 years after construction as staff felt that its design did not met the needs of the
institution. Though 14 live bird markets were constructed, 6 were not operational or were
partially operational as of November 2012. The markets faced difficulties such as poor
quality construction, demarcation issues and drainage problems, and traders were reluctant to
shift to a new site until these problems were addressed. The communication campaign
initially had overly alarmist messages, which may have contributed to a collapse in poultry
prices and increased the economic costs of the pandemic.
                                              29


5.7     The Animal Health component suffered from high staff turnover. Coordination was
moderately hindered by the decision to locate the Federal Ministry of Health project team in
a different location from that of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
and Federal Ministry of Information and Communications teams. The need for a single
Project Coordinator to support the three Component Coordinators was not recognized until
the midterm review in 2008. Earlier action on this might have helped address the issues with
procurement and reduced the need for project extensions.

5.8    Overall, the efficiency of the project is rated Modest.


6. Ratings
Outcome
6.1       The Relevance of Objectives was High because the project directly addressed the
unfolding crisis of an outbreak of HPAI in Nigeria’s poultry flocks, which posed severe
economic and public health risks. The inclusion of other zoonoses and other infectious
diseases was relevant in improving the long-term relevance of the project. The project
design followed the general outline of the Global Program on Avian Influenza, addressing
the need for assistance in containing outbreaks but also building long term capacity, but did
little to address other zoonoses, even once it became clear that avian influenza was contained
and the threat of HPAI might be less serious than originally feared. The Relevance of Design
was Substantial.

6.2      The project made significant contributions to containing avian influenza outbreaks
among poultry and improving avian influenza diagnostic and surveillance capacity among
animals, but did little to increase capacity to deal with other zoonoses. Achievement of
minimizing the threat posed to the poultry industry from avian influenza and other zoonoses
was Substantial. The project improved preparedness for major infectious disease outbreaks,
and improved human health diagnostic and surveillance capacity for avian influenza, but had
little impact on the outcomes of the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic. Achievement on
preparing for and responding do influenza pandemics and other infectious disease
emergencies was Substantial.

6.3     While the project is likely to have had significant economic benefits, economic rate of
return estimates are highly speculative because of the inherent difficulty in identifying a
counterfactual. Procurement and other delays significantly slowed implementation, some
civil works were not completed by the project even after two extensions, and some laboratory
upgrades and live bird markets remain unutilized even 18 months after the project closed.
Consequently, the Efficiency of the project was Modest.

6.4   Together, these lead to an overall Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory, due to
moderate shortcomings in efficiency.
                                                    30


Risk to Development Outcome
6.5     While the project improved capacity in a number of areas, it is important to maintain
this capacity with at least a moderate level of activity, so that systems continue functioning
and could be ramped up to a high level of activity if further outbreaks occurred.

6.6      The National Veterinary Research Institute in Vom, the National Influenza Reference
Laboratory in Abuja and the National Influenza Center in Ibadan are well functioning
institutions and appear highly likely to be sustained. 29 But the sustainability of diagnostic
capacity in veterinary teaching hospitals (and to a lesser extent at the human regional/zonal
laboratories) is at risk. Sustaining this capacity requires a steady work program of sample
testing, but this requires an ongoing program of surveillance and sample collection.
Laboratories received a number of reagents and other consumable supplies under the project,
but lack ongoing funding streams for additional purchases and face difficulties in receiving
supplies because of weaknesses in the importation and distribution system. Some veterinary
teaching hospital laboratories attached to universities have developed business plans whereby
they hope to combine sample testing with their graduate student training programs, but these
plans are optimistic in the absence of active surveillance programs that would result in state
Ministries of agriculture paying for laboratory services. Sustaining human health
laboratories may also be difficult for university budgets to sustain. Universities, hospitals
and government agencies will be more likely to be willing to commit the resources needed to
maintain laboratories if they were able to test for diseases other than influenza, which would
require additional training and equipment.

6.7     There is a risk that human capacity gains achieved will not be sustained, as staff
trained under the project change jobs through natural attrition. Desk officer assignments
remain in place, but the officers have many responsibilities and spend relatively little time on
avian influenza. Funding for training and retraining is limited in the absence of an external
project. Public awareness of avian influenza is likely to decline over time without an
ongoing communication program. Avian influenza communication activities ended at
project closure when funding ceased. After the project closed in 2011, there are no funds for
continued training of communication desk officers (apart from very limited externally funded
training by organizations such as the UK Royal Institute of Public Administration) or for
conducting awareness campaigns.

6.8     The federal government committed funds for two years following project closure to
ensure that project activities could be consolidated and mainstreamed into federal and state
ministry activities. But most of the first year funding was consumed by the need to procure
the BSL 3 laboratory at the National Veterinary Research Institute, which was not completed
under the project. The federal health and agriculture ministries have demonstrated
willingness to sustain, complete, mainstream and expand project achievements through
budget submissions to support continued training, active surveillance programs, additional
live bird markets, consolidation of human health laboratories under the Nigeria Center for
Disease Control, partially merging the animal and human health surveillance reporting

29
  The National Influenza Reference Laboratory has funding from the USA Center for Disease Control until
2016, but there is no funding guarantee beyond 2016.
                                             31


systems, and other efforts. But as of November 2012, funds for these activities had not yet
been confirmed. Many facilities are heavily reliant on donor funds for reagents and other
operational needs.

6.9     The National Council on Health passed a resolution in May 2011 to sustain project
structures at the State level. The State governments are expected to provide funds to maintain
the network of desk officers. But while salaries are paid, there are some reports that budgets
are insufficient to cover operational needs to conduct continued training, surveillance,
communication and outreach activities. And as time passes without an outbreak or threat of
an outbreak, there is a significant risk that budgeted resources might be diverted to other
areas of perceived priority.

6.10 It is likely that some biosecurity improvements at larger farms have been retained,
and that temporary measures instituted during the outbreaks have subsided, but that
biosecurity measures could be reinstituted should outbreaks reoccur.

6.11 The Fowl Sellers Associations have undertaken to maintain the live bird markets. The
associations benefited significantly from the markets’ improved bio-security and food safety
measures, which increased sales and economic returns.

6.12   Overall, therefore, the risk to development outcome is Significant.

Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

6.13 Given the urgency of the situation in Nigeria, with an HPAI outbreak underway, the
Bank responded quickly to the borrower’s request for financial assistance, using the flexible
emergency procedures under Operational Policy 8.50. Moving from concept review to
approval took only 6 weeks. The project design incorporated key lessons derived from HPAI
projects implemented in Vietnam and the Kyrgyz. These included the need to: ensure high-
level political commitment and leadership; adopt a comprehensive, multi-sectoral approach;
ensure buy-in from key stakeholders at all levels (particularly in the poultry market chain);
develop strong fiduciary arrangements for financial management and procurement.

6.14 Critical risks were identified and appropriate mitigation measures outlined in the
Technical Annex. The overall risk rating was substantial, but three risks were rated as high –
lack of continuing government commitment to addressing HPAI as a national priority, lack of
laboratory capacity for prompt diagnosis, and rivalry between professionals in public
institutions. However, the design of M&E systems contained several weaknesses (see page
8).

6.15 There were some weaknesses in project implementation arrangements. The
arrangements worked well over 2006-7 while outbreaks were occurring and avian influenza
was under scrutiny by the highest levels of government. But problems arose later, when the
outbreaks subsided, the poultry culling stopped, and the more mundane tasks of building
infrastructure and sustaining surveillance programs were underway. At this stage
                                                      32


implementation slowed considerably, and it was not until a single Project Coordinator was
appointed (after the midterm review in October 2008) to coordinate the roles of the three
Component Coordinators that implementation progress improved. This raises the question as
to whether this need for tighter coordination should have been recognized from the start, and
whether this might have precluded the need to grant two project extensions and ensured that
all proposed infrastructure was completed and functioning before the project finally closed.

6.16 Notwithstanding the above, given the speed at this project was prepared, appraised
and approved, the quality-at-entry is rated as Satisfactory.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

6.17 Given the emergency nature of the operation, seed funding was used from ongoing
IDA-supported projects in related sectors to kick-start expenditure on priority activities prior
to Credit effectiveness. The procurement capacity installed in these two projects was also
used to facilitate the start-up. These were effective means of facilitating early operations, but
the project could presumably have used retroactive financing to cover urgent needs.

6.18 Eleven supervision missions were conducted in the five-and-a-half years between
effectiveness and closure. In addition, the Task Team Leader and much of the task team was
based in the Country Office in Abuja, and provided day-to-day support for implementation
throughout the life of the project. The team was adequately staffed, with every mission
including both human and animal health experts.

6.19 The team responded proactively to difficulties that had arisen during the first year of
implementation. By March 2007, progress had slowed because key activities, such as
surveillance, compensation payments, and communications, were not delegated effectively at
the State and local government authority levels. The M&E system was not measuring
progress adequately, and coordination among the three project components was insufficient.
Steps taken during the Mid-Term Review, in May 2008, to address these issues included
appointment of a Project coordinator, reallocation of funds among expenditure categories to
decentralize activities further, including the piloting of participatory disease surveillance at
the community level, and the mainstreaming of project activities into State government
institutions. The supervision team strengthened the M&E system and identified baseline
values for most indicators, but did not fully compensate for weaknesses in M&E design. 30
Ten new indicators were added to the results framework to monitor new activities, but the
effectiveness of the new live bird markets were not assessed. Following the Mid-Term
Review, implementation accelerated at the State and local government authority levels.

6.20 Also at the Mid-Term Review, the decision was taken to pilot four model live bird
markets (a good practice from the Bank-supported HPAI project in Vietnam), and the
number of model markets was subsequently expanded to 14. However, there was not


30
   For example, most indicators still tracked the completion of outputs, not the performance of intermediate
outcomes over time, such as awareness or behaivor. There was no rigorous evaluation of the live bird market
pilot.
                                              33


sufficient time in the project to ensure that these could be completed; most of these markets
were not operational at project closure (and 6 were still not operational 18 months later).

6.21 The team demonstrated flexibility in the face of changing circumstances. For
instance, when HPAI outbreaks declined significantly, resources were reallocated from
compensation to other project activities, as were savings from project management activities.
Project activities were well coordinated with other international agencies operating in the
field, including UNICEF, WHO, the World Organization for Animal Health, the
International Organization for Migration, and USAID.

6.22 A weakness in project supervision was in insufficient early support for procurement
and implementation of laboratory upgrades. As a result of procurement and design delays,
the BSL 3 lab was not procured and other laboratory upgrades and bird markets were
procured late, which meant that they were not operational by the time of project closure.
While a major factor in procurement delays were shortcomings in the capacity of
implementing agency procurement staff, the Bank could have been more proactive in
working with the Borrower to rectify this situation as a condition of granting project
extensions.

6.23 On balance, quality of supervision is rated as Satisfactory. Together, these lead to an
overall rating of Bank Performance of Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

6.24 The Government exhibited a high level of ownership and commitment to the project
objectives from the start. Inter-ministerial coordination bodies were rapidly established at
both the policy level and the implementation level. A crisis response unit was established in
the President’s office, and the first meeting of the policy steering committee was chaired by
the President, which sent a strong signal that avian influenza control was a priority issue.

6.25 The Credit was processed rapidly and the Government complied with its obligation to
finance compensation fund from its own resources in the period before the project became
effective and Credit funds became available for this purpose.

6.26 Though government attention waned from 2008 onwards as no further avian
influenza outbreaks occurred, the government demonstrated continued support for the project
after closure by maintaining the system of desk officers, by using its own resources to
finance purchase of the BSL 3 animal health laboratory, and by promising further resources
with the stated goal of supporting the completion of project activities and mainstreaming
project gains into regular government activities.

6.27   Overall, the Government performance is rated Satisfactory.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE
                                              34


6.28 The implementing agencies were the three directly concerned Federal Ministries –
Agriculture and Rural Development, Health, and Information and Communications. Though
there were some reports of inter-agency rivalry between health and agriculture early on, the
ministries were generally successful in collaborating. The level of inter-ministerial
cooperation was unusual for Nigeria, and was cited by all stakeholders as one of the success
stories of the project. Cooperation was particularly effective during the period of the
outbreaks, where local and state desk officers collaborated effectively in combining stamping
out operations with human health screening and communications activities.

6.29 The Ministries worked effectively with technical partner agencies. The Ministry of
Agriculture worked closely with FAO, OIE, ILRI, and the International Food Policy
Research Institute in surveillance and various studies. The Ministry of Health collaborated
effectively with the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World
Health Organization in promoting disease surveillance, strengthening diagnostic capacity,
undertaking epidemiological surveys, and studies. The Ministry of Information coordinated
communications activities and Knowledge, Awareness and Practice surveys with several
agencies, particularly UNICEF.

6.30 While initially there was insufficient collaboration with stakeholders in devising the
communications strategy, this error was corrected, and overall the implementing agencies
worked effectively with poultry farmers, fowl sellers, veterinarians, and other stakeholders.

6.31 There were, however, significant procurement-related delays throughout
implementation. Despite the emergency nature of the project and the need for rapid
procurement, early in the project there too few procurement staff available who were
experienced with Bank procedures. Although some improvement took place over time as the
Human Health Component benefited from high level support for removing bottlenecks in the
Health Ministry’s procurement procedures, procurement for the Animal Health Component
remained problematic throughout and suffered from staff turnover and the absence of a
procurement officer for about five months in mid-2010. This led to delays that contributed to
the lack of completion of the veterinary health laboratories and live bird markets.
Weaknesses in communication between the centralized procurement office and end users
also meant that some equipment and works were not well suited to meet local needs.
Monitoring and evaluation systems were sometimes ineffective, and in some cases did not
accurately record the situation on the ground.

6.32 Implementing agencies performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. This leads to
overall Borrower Performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
6.33 Design. As noted in the Monitoring and Evaluation Design section above, the M&E
design was based on the Global Program on Avian Influenza blueprint. The Design had
several weaknesses, including a focus on outputs rather than outcomes, a lack of inclusion of
indicators for zoonoses or infectious diseases other than avian influenza, and an inability to
assess whether capacity improvements were sustained over time.
                                               35


6.34 Implementation. As noted in the section above on Implementation of Monitoring
and Evaluation, the M&E system performed poorly in collecting data and reporting
quantitative information. M&E system reports were also unreliable, and did not identify that
laboratories and live bird markets were not operational.

6.35 Utilization. There was little evidence of M&E utilization; information was collected
and shared with Bank supervision missions, but it is unclear if this was used to improve
project management.

6.36   Overall, the quality of M&E is rated Modest.



7. Lessons
7.1     The project offers a range of lessons, both for similar health/animal health projects
and for broader operations. These include:

7.2      Government and implementing agency prioritization and enthusiasm will wane
as perceived threats decline, with consequences for implementation. If longer term
capacity building activities are not commenced while enthusiasm is high (rather than being
left to be worked on once the crisis has passed) then implementation of these activities may
be slow. In this project, the fact that procurement of civil works and longer term capacity
improvements did not begin during the early project stages contributed to implementation
delays and to the lack of completion of laboratory upgrades by project closure.

7.3    Pilots may have little impact in the absence of a rigorous assessment of the
benefits and a clear plan for scale-up. The model live bird markets may be a potentially
valuable innovation if widely adopted (though the biosecurity benefits were not assessed),
but project-supported markets had little impact because the project include a clear
mechanism of demonstration that might lead to replication and scale up.

7.4    An epidemic communication strategy requires inputs from all stakeholders,
including the private sector. This can make it more likely that harmful or inaccurate
messages are avoided. Alarmist messages can backfire by harming the private sector and
may trigger a hostile response from affected industries. Even once messages are adjusted,
the change in message can confuse audiences.

7.5    Including communications professionals can improve the quality of
communications strategies. Communication experts can devise an effectively targeted
campaign for projects where public awareness is important. But communications with
farmers may be more effective when done through agriculture agencies, which will likely
have existing relationships and trust with farmers.

7.6     Compensation systems can support disease reporting if compensation rates are
at a level high enough to allow farmers to restock. In this project, compensation rates of
roughly 70 percent of market value supported sufficient reporting to allow for disease
                                               36


control. Compensation systems can track market values more effectively if they allow
payment rates to vary based on key determinants of value such as type and age of animal.

7.7    Compensation systems can be made more transparent by publishing names and
amounts of compensation awards in local newspapers, online and through other media,
as was done in this project. This can increase confidence in the mechanism, assist in
encouraging other eligible groups to apply for compensation, and instill a degree of self-
policing.

7.8     Centralized procurement systems can lead to inefficiencies if they do not consult
end-users. While procurement centralization may reduce governance risks and reduce costs,
insufficient consultation with end-users (such as checking that equipment is functional and
works are satisfactory before processing and completing payments) can lead to gaps in
capacity, redundant capacity, or buildings that are not used.

7.9    Reducing diagnostic response times relies on rapid sample transportation
systems. Effective transportation systems can be achieved by engaging transporters, setting
up contracts beforehand so they have confidence they will be paid immediately on delivery,
and discussing biohazard risks openly and providing advice on appropriate safety measures.
Reducing sample transport times may be cheaper and easier than reducing diagnostic testing
times.

7.10     In projects involving multiple ministries, cooperation across ministries may be
difficult in the absence of a single coordinator and if project management unit staff for
different components are housed in different locations. These can assist in increasing the
degree of cooperation between ministries, and in speeding project implementation.
Implementation of this operation initially suffered from the lack of a single coordinator,
which was later rectified.

7.11 Lack of experienced procurement staff in the project management unit at
project inception can compromise the timely response to an emergency. In this project,
a lack of procurement staff led to significant delays.

7.12 There were some additional secondary lessons. Radio ads and programs can be an
effective way of reaching rural populations. Decentralizing outbreak response to state and
local government levels can allow rapid response to containment operations. Laboratory
systems need to be clearly tied into ongoing surveillance programs to ensure that capacity is
maintained. Housing surveillance and diagnostic laboratories in universities, where they can
be part of training programs, can increase the likelihood that capacity will be sustained in the
long term. UN agencies can provide technical expertise that the World Bank lacks. Border
control is unlikely to be effective in countries with highly porous borders.
                                            37


References
Burns Andrew, Dominique van der Mensbrugghe, Hans Timmer. 2006. Evaluating the
       Economic Consequences of Avian Influenza Global Development Finance,
       Washington DC: World Bank.
Environquest Consulting, 2007. Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
       Preparedness and Response Project: National Baseline Survey, Final.
Dalhatu, I.T., A. Medina-Marino, S.J. Olsen, I.Hwang, A.B. Gubio, E.E. Ekanem, E.B.A.
       Coker, H. Akpan, and A.A. Adedeji 2012. “Inﬂuenza Viruses in Nigeria, 2009 –2010:
       Results From the First 17 Months of a National Inﬂuenza Sentinel Surveillance
       System,? The Journal of Infectious Diseases 206(S1):S121–8.
Ehizibolo, D.O., P.O. Ehizibolo, E.E. Ehizibolo, M.Y. Sugun, and S.E. Idachaba. 2011. “The
       Control of Neglected Zoonotic Diseases in Nigeria through Animal Intervention,?
       African Journal of Biomedical Research, 14 (May 2011); 81 -88
Fasina, F.O., M.M. Sirdar, and S.P.R. Bisschop. 2008. “The Financial Cost Implications of
        the Highly Pathogenic Notifiable Avian Influenza H5N1 in Nigeria,? Onderstepoort
        Journal of Veterinary Research 75:39-46
Firstfruit Consulting, 2011. “Report on an Avian and Human Pandemic Influenza
        Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices (KAP) Study,? Communications Component,
        Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project,
        Abuja
FAO 2006. Strengthening Veterinary and Public Health Surveillance Systems Mission
      Report.
FAO, 2012. H5N1 HPAI Global Overview: April-June 2012, Rome: FAO,
      http://www.fao.org/docrep/016/ap387e/ap387e.pdf
FAO-OIE-WHO. 2010. Sharing responsibilities and coordinating global activities to address
     health risks at the animal-human-ecosystems interfaces: A Tripartite Concept Note.
IEG, 2010. The World Bank in Nigeria1998–2007, Nigeria Country Assistance Evaluation,
       Washington DC: World Bank
IFPRI 2008. Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza. Multi-Disciplinary and Collaborative
       Research to Minimize the Impacts on the Poor. DFID, IFPRI, FAO, ILRI, University
       of California Berkeley, Royal Veterinary College University of London.
ILRI, 2011. Independent Impact Assessment of the World Bank-funded Nigeria Avian
       Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project
Kelly, H., H.A. Peck, K.L. Laurie, and others. 2011. “The age-specific cumulative incidence
       of infection with pandemic influenza H1N1 2009 was similar in various countries
       prior to vaccination.? PLoS One 6(8).
Lazzari,Stefano, and Klaus Stohr. 2004. “Avian influenza and influenza pandemics
       editorials,? Bulletin of the World Health Organization 82 (4).
                                            38


OIE. 2010. Performance of Veterinary Services Gap Analysis Report: Nigeria, World
       Organization for Animal Health, Paris, September.
World Bank, 2006. “Technical Annex on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 34.9
      million (US$ 50 million equivalent) to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for an Avian
      Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response Project?, World
      Bank, Washington DC
World Bank, 2009. “Nigeria - Country partnership strategy for the period 2010-2013?.
      World Bank, Washington DC
World Bank, 2011. “Implementation Completion and Results Report (IDA-41600) On a
      Credit in the Amount of SDR 34.9 million (US$ 50 million equivalent) to the Federal
      Republic of Nigeria for an Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic
      Preparedness and Response Project?, World Bank, Washington DC
World Health Organization, 2006. The control of neglected zoonotic diseases: a route to
      poverty alleviation. Report of a joint WHO/DFID-AHP meeting with the participation
      of FAO and OIE, Geneva, 20 and 21 September 2005. Geneva: WHO
World Health Organization, 2009. Pandemic Influenza Preparedness and Response: A WHO
      Guidance Document. Geneva: World Health Organization.
                                                     39                                            ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
AVIAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND HUMAN PANDEMIC PREPAREDNESS AND
RESPONSE PROJECT FOR NIGERIA (IDA-41600)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                                    Appraisal            Actual or              Actual as % of
                                                    estimateb        current estimateb         appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                   62.20                    49.90                   80.2%
Credit amount                                         50.00                    48.27                   96.0%
                                       a
Financing from other IDA credits                      12.20                    1.90                    15.6%
Cofinancing                                               -                      -                       -
               c
Cancellation                                              -                    4.55                      -
a. $12.2 million of unused funds from the Fadama II and Health Systems Development II projects were made
available to be used for avian influenza control if needed in the period before the avian influenza control project
became effective. $1.9 million of these funds were disbursed.
b. $US equivalent for the credit’s Special Drawing Rights (XDR).
c. Includes cancellation only from the primary IDA credit, not for funds from Fadama II or HSDP II.
Source: Disbursement summary report accessed January 30 2013 for disbursement figures, PAD and ICR for
other figures.

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                               FY06         FY07          FY08           FY09          FY10     FY11         FY12
Appraisal estimate             13.01        35.78         46.5            50            50        50           50
(US$M)
Actual (US$M)                   0.00        20.96         31.85          43.66         46.48    46.48        48.27
Actual as % of
appraisal                        0           59               68          87            93        93           97
Date of final
disbursement:               10/6/2011
Note: Disbursement figures include only expenditure from the primary IDA credit, and not for spending from
the Fadama II and Health Systems Development II projects.

Project Dates
                                                              Original                           Actual
Concept review meeting                                        2/14/2006                        2/14/2006
Negotiations                                                  3/3/2006                          3/8/2006
Board approval                                                3/21/2006                        3/29/2006
Signing                                                                                         4/5/2006
Effectiveness                                                 4/15/2006                        6/22/2006
Closing date                                                  6/30/2009                        5/31/2011
ANNEX A                                          40


Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                               US$ 000s (including travel and
                                       Staff Weeks (number)
                                                                     consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                 18                          33
                              Total:                   18                          33
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                 32                         144
  FY08                                                 30                         131
  FY09                                                 54                         230
  FY10                                                 37                         222
  FY11                                                 18                         153

                              Total:                  171                         880



Task Team members

     Name                              Title (at time of appraisal     Unit      Responsibility/
                                       and closure, respectively)                Specialty
     Lending
     Simeon Kacou Ehui                 Lead Economist                  AFTS3     TTL, Lending
     Lucas Akapa                       Senior Operations Officer       AFTS3     Team Member
     Francois Le Gall                  Lead Livestock Specialist       AFTS3     Team Member
     Monique Vledder                   Human Development               AFTS3     Team Member
                                       Specialist
     Samuel Eremie                     Senior Agriculturalist          AFTS3     Team Member
     Eva Jarawan                       Lead Health Specialist          AFTS3     Team Member
     Africa Eshogba-Olojoba            Senior Environmental            AFTS3     Team Member
                                       Specialist
     Esther Walabai                    Senior Agriculturalist          AFTS3     Team Member
     Chukwudi Okafor                   Senior Social Development       AFTS3     Team Member
                                       Specialist
     Bayo Awosemusi                    Senior Procurement Specialist   AFTPC     Team Member
     Gert Van Der Linde                Lead Financial Management       AFTFM     Team Member
                                       Specialist
     Adenike Mustafa                   Senior Financial Management     AFTFM     Team Member
                                       Specialist
     Anne Olugbo-Fisher                Senior Operations Officer       AFTH3     Team Member
     Obadiah Tohomdet                  Communications Specialist       AFREX     Team Member
     Hisham Abdo Kahin                 Counsel                         LEGAF     Team Member
     Macmillan Anyanwu                 Operations Analyst              AFC12     Team Member
     Supervision/ICR
     Lucas Kolawole Akapa              Senior Operations Officer       AFTAR     TTL,
                                                                                 Supervision and
                                                                                 /ICR
     Azra Sultana Lodi                 Senior Program Assistant        AFTAR     Team Member
     Bayo Awosemusi                    Lead Procurement Specialist     AFTPC     Team Member
     Shobha Shetty                     Sector Leader                   AFTAR     Team Member
                                                           41                                 ANNEX A

 Chau-Ching Shen                             Senior Finance Officer            CTRFC   Team Member
 Olukemi Roseline Akinsola                   Team Assistant                    AFCW2   Team Member
 Mary Asanato-Adiwu                          Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC   Team Member
 Abimbola Adubi                              Senior Agricultural Specialist.   AFTAR   Team Member
 Adewunmi Adekoya                            Financial Management              AFTFM   Team Member
                                             Specialist
 Africa Eshogba Olojoba                      Senior Environmental              AFTEN   Team Member
                                             Specialist
 Simeon Kacou Ehui                           Sector Manager                    SASDA   Team Member
 Chita Azuanuka Oje                          Team Assistant                    AFCW2   Team Member
 Amos Abu                                    Senior Environmental              AFTEN   Team Member
                                             Specialist
 Azra Sultana Lodi                           Senior Program Assistant          AFTAR   Team Member
 Mohinder S. Mudahar                         Lead Consultant                   SASDA   Team Member
 Miki Terasawa                               Social Development Specialist     SASDS   Team Member
Source: Technical Annex (appraisal), ICR (closure)
ANNEX B                                     42


Annex B: Additional Data
Annex B1: Avian influenza
Avian Influenza (AI) is generally a disease of birds, but can also occur in humans if they
come in contact with infected birds. Usually this will not lead to widespread human
infections as the known existing AI virus types do not readily replicate and transmit between
humans. However, the AI viruses are not stable and have the potential to change to produce a
new strain that is able to replicate in humans and spread easily among them. If this happens a
pandemic could occur. On average, three influenza pandemics per century have been
documented since the 16th century, occurring at intervals of 10-50 years. In the 20th century
pandemics occurred in 1918, 1957 and 1968. The 1918 pandemic was particularly severe and
caused millions of deaths. In the 21st century another influenza virus (H1N1 type) emerged in
April 2009 and caused a pandemic that rapidly spread to over 120 countries within 6 weeks.
Fortunately, this time the disease was not severe in most cases.

Anticipating the actual timing of an AI pandemic and its severity is difficult because it
depends on whether and when a virus circulating among birds would mutate or re-assort and
become capable of spreading easily from human to human. The recent concern with the
disease has arisen because of the virulent nature of the H5N1 virus circulating in poultry and
the high death rate among those humans coming in contact with infected birds. One of the
biggest worries is that conditions for mutation and re-assortment of the genetic make-up of
the virus abound with birds living in close contact with humans particularly in “backyard?
poultry production systems that are common in developing countries, including in East and
South Asia and also Europe and Central Asia. In these poultry production systems farmers
rear several animals such as chickens, ducks, pigs, and cows in their backyards, and in close
proximity with human populations. Intensive agricultural practices, easy communication and
trade across the globe and natural reservoirs for the virus in migratory birds have also made it
easier for the virus to spread from wild birds to poultry and from infected poultry to humans.
Resistance in current virus strains to one of the two classes of available antiviral drugs as
demonstrated in vitro has added to anxiety about controlling a pandemic if it does occur.

Since 2003, 63 countries reported the highly pathogenic H5N1 form of AI in their domestic
poultry (FAO 2012). The first outbreak was recorded in Korea in December 2003 (World
Bank 2008). By 2004 the virus had spread to several East Asian countries and by 2006 had
reached several Asian, European and Middle Eastern and African countries. Unchecked trade
and movement of infected poultry was one of the main triggers behind the spread of the
lethal virus (FAO 2006). In the first three months of 2011, Bangladesh, Cambodia, Hong
Kong, India, Japan, Korea, Myanmar, and Vietnam reported outbreaks. The WHO reports a
confirmed total of 610 cases and 360 fatalities as of December 2012, but the reported human
instances of the disease from contact with infected birds understate the true number of
infected people. Although disease awareness has increased, cases of H5N1 are still likely to
be underreported.

Forecasting models envisage a major disease burden if a pandemic occurs, with 25-30
percent of the population falling ill and potentially enormous economic costs worldwide,
                                            43                                    ANNEX B


especially in the poorest countries, where resources for surveillance and health care are
limited and population health and nutritional status are poor (Lazzari and Stohr 2004). The
potential impact on GDP across countries and the human deaths arising from various forms
(mild, moderate and severe) of the disease would be severe (Burns and others 2006). WHO
estimates have suggested that, looking at the number of deaths from influenza pandemics in
the last century, a relatively conservative estimate of deaths from a H5N1 pandemic would
be between 2.0 and 7.4 million.

Annex B2: International donors, the World Bank, and Avian Influenza
The threat of a severe global human pandemic arising from mutation of the H5N1 virus has
been an issue of great concern to the international community. Billions of dollars have been
pledged and often diverted from other uses for efforts to control AI. Several international
institutions such as the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI), the International
Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) and the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and
universities such as University of California, Berkley and Royal Veterinary College,
University of London have been undertaking research associated with AI. There has been
considerable concern with control and prevention strategies that have significant costs
associated with them-including the direct costs of disease control measures such as
vaccination, eradication, bio-security and the indirect costs of building institutions and
mechanisms to support those measures (IFPRI 2008). The FAO, WHO and World
Organization for Animal Health (OIE) have committed to work together in this area (FAO-
OIE-WHO 2010). There is a realization in the international community of the importance of
building partnerships among international donors and governments.

The World Bank has provided assistance to more than 50 countries for dealing with AI. The
Bank has two main mechanisms to support client countries in this area: the Global Program
for Avian Influenza Control and Human Pandemic Preparedness and Response (GPAI) and
the multi-donor Avian and Human Influenza Facility (AHIF). The Bank's Board of Executive
Directors endorsed the GPAI in January 2006, and extended it in June 2009. The GPAI is a
global horizontal Adaptable Program Loan that allows for the use of up to US$ 1 billion
(extended from the original amount of US$500 million) under which individual countries can
obtain separate loans/credits/grants (depending on country case) to finance their own national
projects.

The GPAI adaptable loan program draws on an integrated approach developed in conjunction
with FAO, OIE, and WHO. Countries can access funding to strengthen their veterinary and
health services to deal with outbreaks among animals, minimize the threat to people, and
prepare for and respond to any potential human flu pandemic. GPAI operations are processed
using emergency procedures, which allow quick preparation and approval. A country
qualifies for support for an emergency project under the Program when it demonstrates its
commitment and readiness to implement early detection and rapid response measures
appropriate to the specific country conditions. The AHIF was created to assist developing
countries in meeting financing gaps in their integrated country programs to minimize the risk
and socioeconomic impact of avian and possible human pandemic influenza. In many cases,
the facility co-finances projects under GPAI.
ANNEX B                                      44


Annex B3: Human health influenza surveillance system in Nigeria
The national influenza reference laboratory is the focal point for an active surveillance
system. Adults and children are screened at the four sentinel sites in Abuja, Lagos, Kano,
and Nnewi, representing four of the six regions in Nigeria. For those patients who have
symptoms of an influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory syndrome, samples are
taken, and these are sent within 48 hours to the national reference laboratory. Unusual cases
are sent immediately.
The samples go through an initial testing for influenza which can identify a presumptive
negative or positive result; results are usually available within roughly 48-72 hours from
sample collection. If the result is a presumptive positive, further testing is done to identify
whether the sample is of influenza type A or B. If the sample is type A, it is further
identified by subtype, and if of a serious strain would then be sent internationally to the
WHO to a BSL 3 laboratory for confirmation. Results from this process will take roughly 1
month from the initial sample identification.

The number of presumptive positive cases identified is then recorded each week in the
Integrated Disease Surveillance Response report that is assembled by the Federal Ministry of
Health's Epidemiology Division, under the Nigeria Center for Disease Control. Data from
this report feeds into the WHO global surveillance network.

The report also draws on a separate parallel passive surveillance system where routine health
information is passed from the health facility to the local government, then on to the state
government and the federal ministry of health. This system includes reports from the three
regional and four zonal laboratories supported under the Avian Influenza Control Project, but
also from other laboratories at health facilities throughout Nigeria. Though reporting is
weekly, any unusual cases would be reported immediately, and any unusual activity in the
number of daily cases of influenza-like illnesses would also be reported informally to the
Nigeria Center for Disease Control.
There are some preliminary plans facilitated by the Nigeria Academy of Science
to develop a real-time surveillance system that would partially merge animal and human
health data, but there is no budget to support these plans.
                                   45                        ANNEX B


Annex B4: Distribution of avian influenza cases in Nigeria




 Source: World Bank 2011
ANNEX B                                 46


Annex B5: Photographic evidence
Photo 1: Equipment supplied to the Veterinary Teaching Hospital Ibadan was unused




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012

Photo 2: Influenza laboratory at the Veterinary Teaching Hospital Ibadan is not
operational




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012
                                         47                                ANNEX B


Photo 3: Some equipment for diagnosing influenza was in use at University College
Hospital Department of Virology, Ibadan




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012

Photo 4: Roughly half of equipment supplied to University College Hospital
Department of Virology, Ibadan, was not in use (in part because it duplicated existing
equipment)




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012
ANNEX B                                 48


Photo 5: A new laboratory building at University College Hospital Department of
Virology, Ibadan did not meet local requirements and was not in use 2 years after
construction




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012

Photo 6: The upgraded Kuto Live Bird Market in Abeokuta was not yet in use




Source: IEG Field Mission, November 2012
                                           49                                  ANNEX C


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Federal Ministry of Finance
Dr. A.G. Ndayako-Mohammed, Assistant Director (Agriculture)
International Economic Relations Department

Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
Dr. Joseph Nyager, Director/Chief Veterinary Officer
Dr. I.C. Nwakonobi, Assistant Director Livestock
Dr. Dooshima Kwange - Head of Epidemiology Unit
Dr. Adamu El-oji - Data Management Officer
Dr. Columba Teru Vakuru - Wildlife Disease Officer

Federal Ministry of Health
Dr. Abdulsalami Nasidi, Director, Nigeria Centre for Disease Control
Dr. Shuaib Belgore, Deputy Director, Department of Special Projects
Dr. Adedeji Adebayo, Deputy Director

Federal Ministry of Information and Communications
Mr. Olabanji Akerodolu, Director
Mrs. Margret Umoh, Deputy Director – Information
Mrs Comfort Agiboye, Assistant Director – Information
Mr. Abiodun Obafemi, Principal Information Officer - Information

Other Government Agencies
Dr. Tony Joannis, National Veterinary Research Institute
Dr. Shamsideen O. Allison, Avian Influenza Desk Officer – Lagos State
Dr Dotun Sorunke, Avian Influenza Desk Officer – Ogun State
Dr. Dimeji Oluwayelu, Coordinator of Veterinary Services, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine,
University of Ibadan
Prof. David Olaleye, Department of Virology, University of Ibadan
Dr. Georgina Odaibo, Department of Virology, University of Ibadan
Dr. O.j. Awobiyi, Station Co-ordinator, Nigeria Agricultural Quarantines Service, Seme
Border
Mr. Ibrahim T. Sallah, Chief Agriculture Officer, Nigerian Agricultural Quarantine Services,
Seme Border

Donors and Partner Agencies
Dr. Ibrahim Dalhatu, Team Lead: Epidemiology and Surveillance, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, CDC Nigeria
Dr. Iheanacho Okike, Country Programme Manager Nigeria, International Livestock
Research Institute
Dr. Rabe Mani, Assistant FAO Representative in Nigeria, FAO, Abuja
ANNEX C                                  50


NGOs, Civil Society and Private Sector
Mrs. Oketokum, President, Nigeria Fowl Sellers’ Association
Mrs. Fatiemi, Secretary, Nigeria Fowl Sellers’ Association
Dr. Onallo S. Akpa, Director-General, Poultry Association of Nigeria
Dr. Gani Enahoro, President, Nigerian Veterinary Medical Association
Dr. Monday Ojeamiren, Secretary General, Nigerian Veterinary Medical Association
Ms. Virginia Ifeadiro, Initiative for Food Environment and Health Society, Abuja
Mr T.A. Ogunmolu, Secretary, Abeokuta Fowl Sellers’ Association
Mrs. Koleoso, Secretary, Treasurer, Abeokuta Fowl Sellers’ Association


World Bank
Mr. Bayo Awesemusi, Lead Procurement Specialist, Abuja
Mr. Lucas Akapa, Senior Operations Officer, Abuja
Mr. Abimbola Adubi, Senior Agriculture Specialist, Abuja
Ms. Francisca Ayodeji Akala, Senior Health Specialist, Abuja
Mr. Obadiah Tohomdet, Senior Communications Specialist, Abuja
Ms. Mary Asanto-Adiwu, Senior Procurement Specialist, Abuja
Mr. Amos Abu, Senior Environmental Specialist, Abuja
