Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13972-UNI
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3317-UNI)
JANUARY 31, 1995
Enterprise Development and Private Sector Management
West Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1994)
Currency Unit = Naira
US$1 = 22.065 Naira (Official)
NI = 0.045 US$/equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
bbl         Barrel
b/d         Barrels per day
ECA         Export Credit Agency
FGN         Federal Government of Nigeria
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GWh         Gigawatt hour
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IFC         International Finance Corporation
IOC         International Oil Companies
kW          Kilowatt
kWh         Kilowatt hour
LNG         Liquified Natural Gas
LPG         Liquified Petroleum Gas
LRMC        Long-run marginal cost
MESPI       Mobil Exploration and Producing Services, Inc.
MPN         Mobil Producing Nigeria
MRDC        Mobil Research and Development Corporation
MW          Megawatt
NAPIMS      National Petroleum Investment Management Services
NEPA        National Electric Power Authority
NNPC        Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
OPEC        Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PPMC        Pipelines and Products Marketing Company
scf          Standard cubic feet
T.A.        Technical Assistance
toe         Ton oil equivalent
tscf        Trillion standard cubic feet
tpy         Ton per year
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3317-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE     .............................v...................................v
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................. vi
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................1
I. INTRODUCTION   ..
A. Macroeconomic Setting .1
B.  Bank's Role in the Sector                        .2
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                   ..2
A.  Original Project Objectives                       .2
B.  Project Description and Components                    .3
C.    Loan Covenants and Special Arrangements                .3
D.  Evaluation of Project Objectives                    .4
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE ANDU RESULTS.. 5
A.    Project's Success and Sustainability                .5
B. Summary of Costs                               .7
C. Financing Arrangements                           .7
D.  Implementation Timetable                         .7
E.    Analysis of Factors Affecting Major Objectives           .8
F.    Assessment of Bank's and Borrowers Performance             .9
G.  Assessment of Project's Outcome                      .9
IV.  SUtMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY
LESSONS LEARNED ............................................. 11
A.    Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience ............11......... 1
B.    Future Project Operations and Sustainability ......................................... 11
C.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Nigeria .............................. 12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



iv
PART H:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER's
PERSPECTIVE ..........                                                   13
PART m: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ................................................................ 14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual            16
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs ............................ 18
Table 8B: Project Financing ............................ 18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ............................ 19
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits ............................ 19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ............................................................ 20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............................ 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................   ....................... 22
Table 13: Bank Resources Missions ...............        ............................ 22
APPENDIXES
A:    Mission's Back-to-Office Report
B:     Borrower Contribution to the ICR (AWAITED)
C:    Miscellaneous Appendixes
C-1:  Nigeria's Energy Sector
A. Sector Organization
B. Energy Resources and Production
C Energy Consumption and Pricing
D. Institutional, Legal and Tax Framework
C-2:   OSO Project Costs
Summary of Costs
C-3:   OSO Project Financial Arrangements
Financing Arrangements
C-4:   Bank's and Borrower's Performance
D:    Maps



v
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3317-UNI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the OSO Condensate Field
Development Project in the Federal Republic of Nigeria, for which Loan No. 3317-UNI in the
amount of US$ 218 million equivalent was approved on April 9, 1991, and made effective on
September 24, 1991.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, as originally scheduled. Final disbursement
took place on June 15, 1994, at which time the balance of US$ 3,550,647.25 was cancelled.
Aside from the IEBRD loan, additional independent financing for the project was
provided by (i) European Investment Bank, through a loan of US$ 65 million, made to the
Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) (ii) Japan Exim Bank, through a loan of
US$ 47 million, made to the NNPC; (iii) IFC, through an "A" Loan of US$ 75 million and (iv)
a "B" Loan of US$ 95 million provided by commercial banks, together made to Mobil
Producing Nigeria (MPN), the co-sponsor with the NNPC of this project. Equity of US$146
-illion and US$52 million was provided by NNPC and MPN, respectively.
This Implementation Completion Report was prepared by Patrick F. Connolly, Task
Manager in Division AF4IE of the West Central Africa Department and Mr. Fernando ZufSiga-
Rivero, Consultant, and was reviewed by Mrs. Mary Oakes Smith, Division Chief, Industry
and Energy, Ms. Denton (AF4CO), Mr. Franz Kaps, Project Advisor, Messrs. Awunyo and Al
Habsy (LEGAF) and Mr. Weindler (LOAAF).
Preparation of this ICR was begun on August 8, 1994 and a completion mission
visited Nigeria during the last week of September, 1994. The ICR is based on all the
information available in the project files, including information supplied by NNPC and Mobil
Producing Nigeria.






vi
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3317-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Bank's Role in the Sector. The Bank's involvement in Nigeria's energy sector has a
long history commencing in 1964 with a US$30 million loan. In 1983 an Energy Sector
Survey made jointly with UNDP was completed and was followed with a major sector
reassessment report in 1992 (para. 1.4). In the power sub-sector, the Bank's involvement in
Nigeria has consisted of six loans totaling US$472.5 million from 1964 to 1990, whose main
objectives were the consolidation of the power generation and operations capabilities of
NEPA. Although some progress was made toward achieving these goals, serious weaknesses
affecting the reliability of the system still need to be solved (para. 1.5). In the petroleum sub-
sector, the Bank assisted the Nigerian Government in recognizing natural gas potential in the
country's energy equation, particularly as a substitute for liquid fuels. The Bank's first lending
operation to NNPC, approved in March 1984, consisted of a Natural Gas T.A. Project
designed to accelerate the development of Nigeria's gaseous fuel reserves. The second loan
approved in 1989, was designed to improve preventive maintenance and decision making on
investments in the refineries to achieve profitable operations. Unfortunately, neither of these
projects obtained the anticipated benefits (para. 1.6).
2.    Project Objectives. The primary objective of the Project was to assist in the
commercial development of the Oso Condensate Field with the purpose of producing up to
100,000 barrels of condensate per day. In addition, there were a number of crucial secondary
objectives that underlay the Bank's commitment to support the project. These included the
reopening of a dialogue with Nigeria on important petroleum policy issues; the utilization of
the Bank as a catalyst in ensuring, by its participation, the sourcing of other multilateral and
commercial financing; helping to ensure that Nigeria was able to increase its foreign exchange
earnings to assist in meeting its external indebtedness; supporting the policy of diversification
in hydrocarbon production and; building Nigerian capabilities through transfer of technical and
managerial skills under a joint venture project (para. 2.1).
3.    Project Description and Components. The project consisted of the comme .al
development of the Oso Condensate Field, jointly owned by the Nigeria National Petroleum
Corporation - NNPC (60 percent) and Mobil Producing Nigeria - MPN (40 percent), with the
purpose of diversifying and increasing Nigeria's hydrocarbon reserves and production, and
particularly the country's exports of hydrocarbons by 8 percent per year. This was estimated
to result in significant additional foreign exchange earnings for the country, calculated to be in
the order of US$5.1 billion (1990 prices) over the life of the project. The Oso Condensate
Field is located in the sponsors' Oil Mining Lease No 70, situated 12 miles offshore in scath-
eastern Nigeria. Recoverable condensate proven r% r rves to be developed were originally
estimated to be about 330 million b4.-rels, ove- the   I-year life of the project, with a



vii
production profile of 100,000 barrels per day of condensate to be obtained during the first
three to four years, gradually declining at 18 percent per year thereafter (para. 2.2).
4.    The physical components consist of: (i) eight offshore platforms, four for the
producing and injector well heads, and one each for production facilities, natural gas
compressors, living quarters, and riser for all incoming and outgoing pipelines and flare-stack
for burning the discarded gas; (ii) 120 miles of subsea pipelines for transporting condensate
and natural gas; (iii) onshore condensate storage facilities and metering systems; and (iv) an
offshore single mooring and tanker loading facility for exporting condensate. The drilling
program consisted in the drilling and completion of 19 wells, which included 14 producing
wells and 5 natural gas reinjection wells (para. 2.3).
5.    Loan Covenants and Special Agreements. Agreements with the Borrower (NNPC)
were reached on the following issues, namely, that NNPC will: (a) annually up-date estimates
of condensate reserves from the Oso field, to be done by independent consultants, and furnish
the results for Bank's review; (b) provide the Bank with quarterly progress reports, interim
financial statements, audited annual accounts and auditor's reports, and finally, at completion,
with a Project Completion Report; (c) finance, through equity, its portion of any short-falls in
project financing and project overruns; (d) prepare and furnish to the Bank, for review and
comments by June 30, 1994, detailed arrangements for training the staff of NNPC in
marketing its share of the Oso field condensate production; (e) furnish, for Bank's review, a
pricing formula for calculating margins, taxes and royalties related to the Oso field condensate
production; and (f) maintain Oso field condensate production at levels necessary to produce
net revenues adequate to meet the estimated maximum debt service requirement of NNPC on
all debt incurred by NNPC for the Project (para. 2.4).
6.    In addition to the above agreements, the following conditions of loan effectiveness
were also agreed: (i) finalization of the financing plan for the Project; (ii) declaration of
effectiveness of the Japan Exim-Bank cofinancing arrangements; (iii) finalization of any loans
made to the co-sponsor Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN) for the financing of their share of the
Project; and (iv) signing of purchase agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale of
NNPC's equity of condensate production from the Oso field (para. 2.5).
7.    All the above conditions of loan effectiveness were complied with by NNPC to the
satisfaction of the Bank and the loan was declared effective on September 24, 1991.
8.    Evaluation of Project Objectives. After several years of unsuccessful attempts to
raise commercial financing for the Oso project, the Nigerian Government finally requested the
Bank Group, in late 1987, to participate in this project as a catalyst to help mobilize the
required financing. It is primarily in this context that the Bank's participation in the Oso
project must be evaluated. The initial financial arrangements involved, inter-alia: (i) offshore
retention of project export revenues, to be set aside in escrow accounts to be used for debt
service, and (ii) Project completion guarantees. As a result of early negotiations, some export
credit agencies, (including the US Eximbank) and certain commercial banks were willing to
participate in the project. But the rescheduling agreements between Nigeria and its London



viii
Club creditors required, in the case of limited recourse financing, that for a special security to
co-exist with a Government Guarantee, the Government should obtain a waiver from the
London Club. On the refusal of the London Club to consider such a waiver, it became
necessary to pursue a different approach, which was based on obtaining financing solely on
the basis of Government Guarantees. Under this revised finance plan, the Bank contributed a
slightly larger portion of the financial requirement, but still as a lender of last resort, and the
Bank loan amount was determined on a residual basis. The Project sponsors were required to
provide necessary equity funds in case of a shortfall in financing or to cover cost overruns
(para. 2.7). As will be discussed further in the ICR, virtually all the secondary objectives of
the project have been accomplished. Apart from the tangible success of the financing itself,
the Bank, through a joint effort of the Energy Sector Assistance Programme (ESMAP) and
the UNDP, was also successful in reopening a dialogue with the Government on hydrocarbon
policy issues resulting in 1992 in the National Energy Sector Survey, a cooperative effort
between the Bank, the Ministry of Planning and Budget, NNPC and the Ministry of Petroleum
Resources. The other objectives: development of substantial new foreign exchange earnings
(para. 3.3 and 3.14); diversification of hydrocarbon production (para. 3.2); and transfer of
technology and management capacity (para. 3.15) can all be seen to have been successfully
achieved.
Implementation Experience and Results
9.    Assessment of Project's Success and Sustainability. The Oso Field Condensate
Development Project has already started to generate substantial foreign exchange revenues,
whose benefits (after deducting all foreign exchange capital costs, operating costs and debt
services) have been calculated to be in the order of US$6.0 billion (in 1990 dollars) over the
20-year life of the Project. The present value of these net foreign exchange benefits discounted
at 12 percent amounts to US$1.9 billion over the Project's life. Based on the actual initial
revenues, the economic rate of return (ERR) for the Project has been calculated to be 63.1
percent, higher than the 51.0 percent originally estimated. over its 21 years of production life.
The main Project mechanism that will benefit the national economy is through the split of
revenues and royalties and taxation receipts that will accrue to the Nigerian Government over
the life of the Project. These benefits have now been confirmed because condensate
production will be maintained at its peak level of about 100,000 barrels per day during the
first eight years (instead of 3 or 4 years originally expected) of the Project's life, when about
78 percent of the total reserves will have been produced.  Thereafter the production is
expected to decline at about 18 percent per year. A total of 419 million barrels (about 100
million barrels more than initially estimated or 97 percent of the current estimate of total
reserves) will have been produced in the 16 years between 1993 and 2008, when the lease
expires, although it can be renewed for another 40 years (para. 3.3).
10.   In conclusion, the Project's sustainability is reasonably assured, because all the
Project's components are already in place and fully operational, and their useful life will be the
same or more than the Project's life, based on the known size of the hydrocarbon reserves.
Besides, the results of extensive sensitivity analysis of the Project's financial performance



ix
indicate that the Project's FIRR will remain positive, even if prices of condensate were to drop
to about US$6.0 per barrel (para. 3.5).
11.   Summary of Costs. The total project costs were estimated at appraisal to be about
US$885.0 million, but were actually reduced to US$785.0 million through cost savings and
procurement efficiencies, allowing the Oso field to be developed at a unit cost of
US$1.85/barrel versus the original US$2.44 estimate and well below the average of US$3-
4/barrel of other Nigeria fields. The allocation of the estimated versus actual Project costs,
between NNPC and MPN, on the basis of their respective pro-rata share of the Project in the
financing plan is detailed in the corresponding Annex Table No. 8A (para. 3.6). The
breakdown of the project's costs into local and foreign currencies in terms of project
components, base costs and actual costs, is given in Annex Table No. 8B (para. 3.7).
Additional information on project costs is given in Appendix C-2.
12.   The final financial plan is briefly discussed in para. 3.8 and further details are shown in
Appendix C-3.
13.   Implementation Schedule. Project implementation started on July 1, 1990, about 9
months before the project was approved by the Board, and 14 months before the declaration
of loan effectiveness. The Project was approved by the Board on April 9, 1991 with due
recognition of the pre-financing condition. Loan effectiveness, initially expected by end-May
1991, was declared on September 24, 1991. Implementation of the Project proceeded in a
very smooth and swift fashion, and it was completed six months ahead of schedule on
December 15, 1992, instead of by mid-1993. The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, the
original closing date (para. 3.9).
14.   Analysis of Factors Affecting Major Objectives. Two key issues were central from
the beginning in determining the outcome of the Oso Condensate Field Development Project.
These were: (a) securing adequate financing for the project, and thus the financing issue
became the only one to pose any problems because of its particular degree of complexity; and
(b) the risk that condensate production would be placed under the overall OPEC Quota. Both
these issues were addressed and solved to the Bank's satisfaction, as explained in para. 3.10.
15.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance. The Bank's performance on
the Oso Condensate Field Development Project was highly satisfactory, since it was possible
for the Bank to achieve almost all the objectives initially established for the project. The
Borrower's performance defined in terms of the project, can be classified as satisfactory, since
the Borrower was able to achieve the Project's narrow objectives, while, in the broader
macroeconomic context, it might be considered less satisfactory largely in part because many
of the broader evaluation criteria (Appendix C-4) lay outside the scope of the very specific
agenda of this project and cannot be easily linked to its obvious technical success.
16.   Assessment of Project's Outcome. The Oso Condensate Field Development Project
can be classified as highly satisfactory, and was the final result of an effort by the Bank Group
to re-introduce Nigeria into the international capital markets. The ability of Nigeria to raise



x
capital for its development needs had been severely constrained since the early 1980's.
However, with the approval and implementation of the Oso project, Nigeria made an
important beginning at raising once again long term debt from international and multilateral
sources and major export credit agencies. The Oso project has also been the first attempt to
finance a petroleum sector project in Nigeria on a defined project basis. The traditional
approach of using Federal financing had imposed severe limitations on the country's ability to
develop its crude oil and natural gas resources, because the capital investment requirements
for such projects have in recent years increased in magnitude and complexity thereby severely
straining available national budget and equity resources. For this reason the financing
arrangements for the Oso project, could well become a model for the future financing of other
major projects in the Nigerian petroleum sector, and perhaps in other petroleum producing
developing countries as well (para. 3.12).  The Project also contributed to a further
unforeseen environmental benefit by enabling the co-ventures to cease the flaring of all
associated gas from the surrounding oil production leases (Appendix C-4 (i)).
Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
17.   While the Bank's financing was to NNPC, actual project implementation was done
under a comprehensive joint venture between NNPC, holding the majority interest, and Mobil
Producing, Nigeria, the minority partner. Consequently, the highly complex procurement and
disbursement procedures in such a large undertaking benefited substantially from the
international expertise and experience of Mobil, while at the same time ensured a high level of
project management and technology transfer exposure to NNPC (para. 4.1). The design
feature that most impacted implementation was that 100 percent of the procurement was done
on a series of major turnkey contract packages, with no special accounts or complicating
SOEs. This added significantly to a smooth disbursement operation, and front-loaded all the
procurement clearances from the Bank in large comprehensive packages (para. 4.2). Despite
the need to finance the Oso project through Government guarantees, it was essentially an
enclave project. As such, it had a covenant structure that, with a few minor exceptions, was
project specific and relatively easy to administer. An important conclusion arising from the
successful implementation of this project is that care should be taken in project designs of this
kind to ensure that the sectoral and policy conditionalities are project related thereby ensuring
that the appropriate leverage is introduced (para. 4.3).
Future Project Operation and Sustainability
18.   The Oso condensate field development is a highly technical, long-term installation that
by definition is inherently sustainable. It will, throughout its life of 20 to 30 years, continue to
be managed by the joint venture, whose continuing interest will be to maximize production,
minimize costs, and ensures a high level of operational efficiency, adequate maintenance and
environmental caution (4.4). The original concerns on reserves, price and completion risks
have been eliminated as future risks for the following reasons: (a) Nigeria's falling level of
production has guaranteed that the Oso production will no longer be vulnerable to the OPEC
quotas for condensate versus crude definition risk; (b) the updated reservoir analysis has
added almost 100 million barrels of recoverable petroleum reserves, further ensuring a long



xi
and productive life for the project; and (c) with the early successful completion of the physical
installations, all completion risks are now eliminated (para. 4.5).
Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Nigeria
19.   The major obvious lesson to be drawn from the Oso project is that, despite its large
and complex physical nature, the financing and covenant structure was relatively simple.
Conditionalities were for the most part relevant and related to the project. The efficacy of the
joint venture between NNPC and MPN cannot be overstated, and suggests that for future
projects these partnerships, which serve to discipline the investment, because such
commercially linked partners have a strong motive to complete projects on time and on
budget to ensure the earliest maximum success might well be considered by the Bank as an
optimum arrangement (para. 4.6). It is also noteworthy, that despite the early difficulties of
blending a major international oil company's procurement practices with the Bank's, the
outcome has been universally acknowledged as excellent and of great benefit to the Project.
The use of the Bank's procurement procedures, implemented cooperatively and
sympathetically through the Oso experience, were highly beneficial and significantly cost
effective (para. 4.7).
20.   A second lesson to be drawn from this project is the importance of a strong private
sector-led involvement. While the success of the project can certainly be ascribed, as pointed
out above, to the discipline of a well-organized partnership, there can also be no doubt that
the private sector operators, the majority of whom were Nigerians, ultimately assured the
efficient and cost effective conclusion of the project. Given Nigeria's current economic
difficulties and scarcity of resources, there is a need to ensure in future major upstream
petroleum developments that priority be given first to IFC sponsored private sector financings
with the Bank being utilized only in its potential last resort capacity, subject to restoring and
maintaining a viable and stable macroeconomic framework (para 4.9).



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3317-UNI)
PART I:    IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
L   INTRODUCTION
A.   Macroeconomic Setting
1.1   Nigeria is a country of considerable mineral wealth and is a major petroleum producer,
with crude oil accounting for over 30 percent of total GDP and 90 percent of exports. There
are also vast reserves of natural gas, although in relation to their potential, very little has been
done towards exploitation. Agricultural production accounts for about 30 percent of GDP and
provides employment for over half of the labor force. Services account for about 30 percent
of GDP and are dominated by wholesale and retail trade. Manufacturing production, which
increased rapidly during the 1970's, now accounts for only 10 percent of total GDP and
employment. This was the result of tariff-distorted incentives, which prompted expansion in
import dependent, assembly-type manufacturing activities that contributed little to local value-
added and employment.
1.2  In the 1970's, buoyant petroleum export revenues provided Nigeria with the basis for
impressive increases in government expenditures designed to expand infrastructure and non-
petroleum productive capacity. The sharply rising petroleum revenues also boosted the value
of Nigerian exports and per capita GNP. This process was severely reversed in the 1980s
when the international price of crude oil progressively diminished. As a consequence, sizable
external and fiscal imbalances emerged in Nigeria, as in other countries whose economies
were dependent on petroleum exports. In Nigeria, the current account deficit reached 6
percent of GDP by 1983, and the fiscal deficit was twice that amount. These deficits were
financed by public sector borrowings, a rundown of international monetary reserves, and a
large scale accumulation of arrears on external trade payments.
1.3   As early as 1984, the Government began to implement measures to redress the
deficits, budgetary expenditures were slashed, and administrative controls over imports were
heightened. However, the inefficiencies that had developed during the period of high
petroleum revenues continued. As a result, production in most sectors fell sharply, and by
1989 Nigeria's GNP per capita was estimated to have fallen to around US$250. The
Government's structural adjustment policies have been focused on reorienting public
expenditures, implementing privatization and commercialization of public enterprises,
implementing financial sector reforms, restructuring incentives for private sector development,
and streamlining the regulatory environment for private investment, as well as reducing
macroeconomic imbalances. Despite the progress made until now, much still remains to be
done to overcome the severe structural and institutional problems left as a legacy of past
policies, and to promote a resumption of growth in per capita income.



-2 -
B.    Bank's Role in the Sector
1.4   The Bank's involvement in Nigeria's energy sector has been at the level of sectoral,
sub-sectoral and individual projects, starting with an Energy Assessment jointly made in 1983
with UNDP, and followed up with a major reassessment report in 1992. These reports
identified the main issues and options for the development and utilization of Nigeria's energy
resources. They also identified the major distortions in all the energy sectors and categorized
the losses being incurred. Investment priorities were analyzed and recommendations were
made for a more rational, larger range management of the energy sector including a major
recommendation to privatize downstream refining operations.
1.5   The Bank's involvement in the power sub-sector has consisted of six loans to Nigeria
totaling US$ 472.5 million from 1964-1990. The main objectives of these loans were to
contribute to the consolidation of the power generation and operations capabilities of Nigeria,
by the establishment of the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA), by helping NEPA to
become financially viable through adequate structure and increased tariffs, and to strengthen
the competence of its staff through training. Although some progress has been made toward
achievement of these goals, serious weaknesses affecting the reliability of the system still
remain to be solved.
1.6  In the petroleum  sub-sector, the Bank has attempted to assist the Nigerian
Government in recognizing the great potential of natural gas in the country's energy equation,
particularly as a potential substitute for liquid fuels. The Bank's first lending operation to
NNPC was approved by the Board in May 1984, and consisted of a Natural Gas T.A. Project,
designed to accelerate the development of Nigeria's gaseous fuel reserves. The second lending
operation to NNPC was approved in 1990, and consisted of a project to improve preventive
maintenance and decision making on investments in the area of refining to achieve a profitable
operation. Neither of these two projects obtained the anticipated benefits, because in both
cases the projects were implemented without the benefit of the contribution and active
participation of a reliable and experienced joint operations partner. The Bank has also played
an important role in building an adequate framework for attracting International Oil
Companies (IOCs) to invest in diversified production including natural gas field development,
in setting economic criteria for recovery of associated gas being flared, and for the
implementation of legislation to stop natural gas flaring. The Bank has likewise been involved
in establishing long-run marginal cost (LRMC) principles as a basis for establishing consumer
pricing, to induce appropriate inter-fuel substitution, and to improve the efficiency in energy
utilization.
HI. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
A.    Original Project Objectives
2.1   The principal objective of the Project as stated in the Loan Agreement was 'to assist in
the commercial development of the Oso Condensate Field located offshore in the Akwa Ibom



-3 -
State of Nigeria for an initial peak production of 100,000 barrels of condensate per day." The
secondary, unstated objectives were, after a period of virtually no dialogue with the petroleum
sector in Nigeria, to reestablish commnunications between the Bank and the Government on
important investment and petroleum policy issues. Other secondary objectives were (a) to
ensure that, by placing the Bank in the crucial position of a catalyst, the necessary finance
would be forthcoming from a variety of sources despite the prevailing negative economic
conditions in Nigeria at the time; (b) that, through increasing in foreign exchange earnings,
Nigeria would be able to address its substantial external indebtedness and contribute
significantly towards its economic development; (c) that Nigeria's overall policy of
diversification of its various hydrocarbon resources would be enhanced; and (d) that, through
the joint venture mechanism of the project, Nigeria's technology and management capabilities
would be strengthened.
B.    Project Description and Components
2.2   The project consisted of the commercial development of the Oso Condensate Field,
jointly owned by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation - NNPC (60 percent) and Mobil
Producing Nigeria - MPN, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Mobil Corporation (40 percent),
with the purpose of diversifying and increasing Nigeria's hydrocarbon production and
particularly the country's exports of hydrocarbons by 8 percent per year. This would result in
significant additional foreign exchange earning for the country, estimated to be in the order of
US$ 5.1 billion (in 1990 US dollars) over the life of the project. The Oso Condensate field is
located in the sponsors' Oil Mining Lease No. 70, situated 12 miles offshore in the River State
in south-eastern Nigeria. The recoverable condensate proven reserves to be developed under
the project, from the Oso field, were originally estimated to be about 328.8 million barrels
over the 21-year life of the project, with a production profile of 100,000 barrels per day of
condensate to be obtained during the first three to four years, which will decline gradually at
18 percent per year thereafter.
2.3   The physical components consist of: (i) eight offshore platforms, four for the
producing and injector wells, and one each for production facilities, natural gas compressors,
living quarters, and riser for all incoming and outgoing pipelines and flare-stack for burning
the discarded gas; (ii) 120 miles of subsea pipelines for transporting condensate and natural
gas; (iii) onshore condensate storage facilities and metering systems; and (iv) an offshore
single mooring and tanker loading facility for exporting condensate. The drilling program
consisted in the drilling and completion of 19 wells, which included 14 producing wells and 5
natural gas reinjection wells.
C.    Loan Covenants and Special Arrangements
2.4   During loan negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
(a)   The Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) would update annually the
estimates of condensate proved reserves from the Oso field, with the assistance of
internationally reputed consultants, and furnish the results to the Bank for review;



- 4 -
(b)   NNPC agreed to provide the Bank quarterly progress reports , interim financial
statements, audited annual accounts and auditor's reports, and at the end of the project
a Project Completion Report. In addition, specific arrangements for procurement and
disbursement were also agreed;
(c)   NNPC would finance through equity (provided by the Government) its portion of any
short falls in project financing and project cost overruns;
(d)   NNPC would prepare and furnish to the Bank, by June 30, 1994, for the Bank's review
and comments, detailed arrangements for training the staff of NNPC in marketing its
share of the Oso field condensate production;
(e)   NNPC would furnish for review by the Bank, a pricing formula for calculating
margins, taxes and royalties related to the Oso field condensate production, pursuant
to the Oso Field Development Agreement; and
(f)    NNPC would maintain Oso field condensate production at levels necessary to at least
produce net revenues adequate to meet the estimated maximum debt service
requirement of NNPC on all debt incurred by NNPC for the Project.
2.5   In addition to the above agreements, the following conditions of loan effectiveness
were also agreed:
(i)    Finalization of the financing plan for the Project;
(ii)   Declaration of effectiveness of the Japan Exim-Bank cofinancing arrangements.
(iii)  Finalization of any loans made to the co-sponsor Mobil Petroleum Producing
Nigeria (MPPN) for the financing of their share of the Project; and
(iv)   Signing of purchase agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale of the
Borrower's equity of condensate production from the Oso field.
2.6   All the above agreements and conditions of loan effectiveness were complied with by
NNPC and the loan was declared effective on September 24, 1991.
D.   Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.7   It was after several years of unsuccessful attempts to raise commercial financing for
the Oso condensate field development project, that in late 1989 the Nigerian Government
requested the Bank Group to participate in this project, as a catalyst to help mobilizing the
required financing. It is in this context that the Bank's participation in the Oso project must be
evaluated. The initial financial arrangements involved, inter-alia: (i) offshore retention of
project export revenues, to be set aside in escrow accounts to be used for debt service, and (ii)
project completion guarantees. As a result of these negotiations, some export credit agencies
(including the US Eximbank) and certain commercial banks, were willing to participate in the
project. However, these agencies and banks required both Government guarantees (at the



- 5 -
project completion stage) as well as a share in the special security arrangements. But the
rescheduling agreements between Nigeria and its London Club creditors required, in the case
of limited recourse financing and in order for a special security to co-exist with a Government
Guarantee, that the Government should obtain a waiver from the London Club. The Nigerian
request for this waiver was turned down by the London Club. Hence, some financial
institutions, such as the US Eximbank, were no longer able to participate in the financing plan.
Consequently, it became necessary to pursue a different approach, which was based on
obtaining financing solely on the basis of Government Guarantees. Under this modified finance
plan, the Bank contributed a slightly larger portion of the financial requirement, but still as a
lender of last resort, and the Bank loan amount was determined on a residual basis. With the
involvement of the Bank in its catalytic role, as lender of last resort to NNPC, the project was
successfuilly financed, and thereby enabled Nigeria to meet the following two prime objectives:
firstly, the project is a major and efficient earner of foreign exchange, through the export of its
entire condensate production. Secondly, its high economnic-financial rate of return supports
Nigeria's efforts to meet debt service obligations and generate incremental resources to
finance further development.
MI1. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
A.   Project's Success and Sustainability
3.1   Project implementation, organized through an unincorporated joint venture between
Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), was
managed by a joint task force consisting of appointed representatives of Mobil Producing
Nigeria (MPN), Mobil Research & Development Corporation (MRDC), Mobil Exploration &
Producing Services Inc. (MEPSI), and NNPC. The task force responsibilities included
supervision of the project's design, as well as of the engineering, construction and
commissioning of the production facilities, within the estimated costs and time schedule. In
turn, MEPSI acted in an advisory capacity for the drilling and completion operations, while
MPN had the ultimate responsibility for directly conducting the operations and coordinating of
all aspects concerning project implementation. A Joint Operating Agreement (JOA),
acceptable to the Bank, the first of its kind concluded in Nigeria for an upstream petroleum
industry operation, was signed between NNPC and MPN on June 28, 1990. The JOA defined
the organization and management structure for carrying out exploration, development and
production operations in the areas leased by the Nigerian Government to the NNPC-MPN
consortium, and established the respective rights and obligations of NNPC and MPN.
3.2   Following the guidelines for conducting operations under the JOA, project
implementation was carried out very successfully and completed 6 months sooner than the
estimated time schedule, which had estimated 34 months would be necessary to complete all
operations, from the award of the main facilities construction contract, which was signed on
June 28, 1990. The Oso project was formally completed and commissioned by the President
of Nigeria on December 15, 1992, with an initial level of production of 85,000 barrels of
condensate per day. Besides being completed ahead of schedule, the project was US$100



- 6-
million below the budgeted estimated costs. As indicated above, the project was expected to
be completed and on stream by mid-1993, and to achieve its design production rate of
100,000 barrels of condensate per day shortly thereafter, most probably in about 3 months.
With the full completion of the Project on December 15, 1992, the design production was
reached by February 18, 1993, when final Operational Acceptance was awarded to all the
facilities.
3.3   The Project has already started to generate very substantial foreign exchange revenues.
The value of these net foreign exchange benefits (i.e., after deducting all foreign exchange
capital costs, operating costs and debt services) has been calculated to be in the order of US$
6.0 billion (1990 dollars), over the life of the project. The present value of these net foreign
exchange benefits, discounted at 12 percent, amounts to US$ 1.9 billion over the project's life.
This significant net foreign exchange flow to the domestic economy is a reflection of the
existing taxation required for the petroleum industry. Based on the actual initial revenues, the
economic rate of return (ERR) for the Project has been calculated to be 63.1 percent higher
than the 51.0 percent originally estimated over its 21 years of production life. The main
mechanism by which the national economy will benefit from the Project is through the 60
percent of revenues from NNPC share of the condensate production, plus all royalties and
taxation receipts that will accrue to the Nigerian Government over the life of the Project. The
split of discounted net benefits between the domestic economy and the foreign investors is
expected to be 96 percent domestic-4 percent foreign. These Project benefits have now been
confirmed and are possible because condensate production will be maintained at its peak level
of about 100,000 barrels per day during the first eight years (instead of 3 or 4 years originally
expected) of the project's life, when about 78 percent of the total reserves would have been
produced, and thereafter the production will decline at about 18 percent per year. A total of
419 million barrels (about 100 million barrels more than initially estimated or 97 percent of the
current estimate of total reserves) would have been produced in the 16 years between 1993
and 2008, when the lease expires. However, the oil mining lease can be renewed for another
40 years.
3.4   Since NNPC acts in this project, as in all other petroleum industry development
projects, as an agent of the Nigerian Government, its financial return on the investments for
the Oso project cannot be evaluated separately from the return to the Government, which will
receive all of NNPC's share of revenues. The FIRR on NNPC's investment is, therefore,
estimated to be the same as the return for the Government on the total investment at 55.4
percent. The after-take FIRR for MPN is consequently very modest at 8.5 percent. This
situation is the result of the fact that a large share of MPN's revenues will be used to pay out
to the Federal Government of Nigeria for MPN's accrued royalties and taxes. However, the
real financial attraction of the project for MPN lies in the tax benefit it has been receiving
during the pre-production period (from 1991 to 1993) through depreciation, allowable
deductions and investment tax credits on its share of project investment costs. The total value
of this tax benefit is estimated at about US$ 268.1 million and was considered a cost to the
Government in the economic and financial analysis. After using these tax benefits for adjusting
its net investment in the project, MPN's overall after-tax FIRR is estimated at 26.0 percent,
making the Project still financially attractive for the foreign investor.



- 7-
3.5   In conclusion, the Project's sustainability can be ranked very high, because all the
project's components are already in place and fully operational, and their useful life will be the
same or larger than the Project's projected life, based on the known size of the hydrocarbons
reserves of the Oso field. Sensitivity analysis of the Project's financial performance indicates
that the Project's FIRR will remain positive, even if prices of condensate were to drop to
about US$6.0 per barrel.
B.    Summary of Costs
3.6    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated to be about US$ 885.0 million. The
allocation of the estimated versus actual project costs, between NNPC and MPN, on the basis
of their respective share of Project's participation in the financing plan are detailed in the
corresponding Annex Table No. 8A.
3.7   The breakdown of the project's costs into local and foreign currencies in terms of
project components, base costs and actual costs, is given in Annex Table No. 8B. Detailed
commentaries on all major components costs are given in Appendix C-2.
C.    Financing Arrangements
3.8   Obtaining satisfactory arrangements for the finalization of the financing plan for the
Project was one of the main conditions of loan effectiveness. The final status of the financing
arrangements is briefly described below:
(a)    The Financing Plan for NNPC consisted in raising US$330 million in loans from
IBRD, EIB and Japan Exim Bank. All these loans have been fully guaranteed by FGN.
Details on their utilization in the project, as well as their main terns and
characteristics, are discussed in detail in Appendix C-3 (i).
(b)   Debt financing for MPN was provided by IFC, U.S. Exim Bank and commercial
banks, all on a project finance basis, and to be serviced from MPN's share of project
cash flows. The main conditions and characteristics of MPN debt financing
arrangements are discussed in Appendix C-3 (ii) and (iii).
(c)   Equity contributions by the sponsors, i.e., MPN and NNPC, was to be made to cover
initial project costs, until all financing would be in place, and to cover shortfalls in the
financing to be provided by others than the Bank or IFC, and also to cover any project
cost overruns. Further details are given in Appendix C-3 (iv).
D.    Implementation Timetable
3.9   Project implementation started on July 1, 1990, about 9 months before the actual
project was approved by the Board, and 14 months before the actual declaration of
effectiveness. The project was approved by the Board on April 9, 1991. Loan effectiveness,



- 8 -
initially expected by end-May 1991, was declared on September 24, 1991. However, the
implementation of the project in close coordination with the Bank's procurement division
proceeded very smoothly and efficiently, and was largely completed on December 15, 1992
instead of by mid-1993. The loan was closed on June 30, 1994, as originally established.
E.    Analysis of Factors Affecting Major Objectives
3.10  Two key issues were central from the beginning in determining the outcome of the
Project. They were: (a) securing adequate financing for the project, and the financing issue
became the only one in reality to pose any problems because of its particular degree of
complexity; and (b) the risk that condensate production would be placed under the overall
OPEC quota.
(a)   Financing. It was the main issue facing the Oso project from the beginning, because
of Nigeria's lack of credit-worthiness. The Nigerian Government, supported by the
Bank Group, had made - since 1987- concerted efforts to arrange limited recourse
financing for NNPC, that would allow implementation of the Oso project. These
arrangements involved securing project completion guarantees, and establishing an
offshore escrow account. With these two key conditions in hand, a number of export
credit agencies, including the U.S. Exim Bank, Japan Exim Bank, and commercial
banks, were initially willing to provide financing for the project. All these agencies and
banks required both Government guarantees, at the project completion stage, and also
a share in the special security arrangements. However, under its rescheduling
agreements, Nigeria and its London Club creditors required that the Nigerian
Government obtain a waiver of its negative pledge from the London Club creditors, if
limited recourse financing arrangements would incorporate a special security to co-
exist vith a Government guarantee. After lengthy and protracted negotiations, the
Nigerian Government's request for this waiver was turned down by the London Club
lenders. As a consequence, the U.S. Exim Bank would not participate in the finance
plan on behalf of NNPC, and neither any commercial banks. Therefore, it became
necessary to pursue a fall-back option, in which financing was provided solely on the
basis of Government Guarantees. Under this revised finance plan, the Government of
Nigeria issued a Decree known as the 'Oso Project Enabling Decree,"which provided
an adequate set of guarantees for the project's execution, implementation and
operations throughout its life. Under the revised finance plan for NNPC, only those
financiers who were able to participate solely on the basis of a Government Guarantee
were included, i.e. IBRD, EIB and Japan Exim Bank. The IBRD loan amount
contribution was thus slightly increased under this revised financing plan, although the
amount was still determined on a residual basis with the Bank's participation as a
lender of last resort. The implications of these lengthy and complex negotiations on the
Project delayed the initiation of this project for over four years, and even after having
completed loan negotiations with the Bank, which took place on May 29-June 1,
1990, the project was not approved by the Board until April 9, 1991, and effectiveness
was not declared until September 24, 1991. These delays, however, did not completely
stop the project from getting started, because the Bank agreed to a 25 percent



- 9 -
retroactive financing, which allowed the project to commence upon signature of the
main contract for the construction of the production facilities, which took place on
June 28, 1990. Nevertheless, the consequence of the rejection by the London Club of
the waiver requested by the Nigerian Government was to eliminate any possible
financing by commercial banks to NNPC, thus failing to properly reinstate Nigeria into
the international financial community, one of the original major objectives of the
project. Under such circumstances, it is clear that the Oso project could not have been
implemented without the Bank's and IFC's involvement, which in and of themselves
provided an effective basis to attract other foreign financing for the project thereby
keeping the IBRD loan to a minimum.
(b)   OPEC Quota.- Initially, it was thought that the project would be worth supporting
only if condensate production would remain outside of OPEC's production quotas
assigned to Nigeria. That was the situation when the project was under preparation.
Shortly thereafter, OPEC adopted a new definition of condensate, under which fields
yet to be developed, such as Oso, could not be definitely classified as condensate
producers until they were on production. Hence, based on the borderline
characteristics of the Oso field condensate, it could be classified as an ordinary crude
oil producing field, and in that event, its production would be subject to OPEC's
quotas. Under these circumstances, the economic viability of the Oso project needed
to be confirmed. This was properly demonstrated because by combining the projected
aggregate crude oil production of Nigeria (i.e. the current production from existing
fields, plus the production to be obtained from the development of new fields) together
with the forecasted Oso condensate production, the lenders were satisfied it would
remain below the projected OPEC quotas already assigned to Nigeria. Hence, OPEC
ceiling quotas would not constrain production from the Oso field, or from any other
Nigerian fields to be developed in the near future, which could be at least as cost
effective as the Oso field. In reality, the issue of condensate production falling under
the OPEC quota has never been disputed.
F.    Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance
3.11   The Bank's performance on the Project can be classified as highly satisfactory, since it
was possible for the Bank to substantially achieve almost all the objectives initially established
for the project. The Borrower's performance, defined in terms of the project, can be classified
as satisfactory, since, while the Borrower achieved the project's narrow objectives, in a
broader, macro-economic context, it might be considered less satisfactory. The various
evaluation criteria are detailed in Appendix C-4.
G.   Assessment of Project's Outcome
3.12 With the successful implementation of the Oso project, NNPC made a modest but
important start at improving its risk threshold, and securing long term debt resources from a
combination of multilateral agencies, including a major export credit agency. The Oso project
is also the first attempt to finance a petroleum sector project in Nigeria on a project finance



- 10-
basis. Prior to the Oso project, investments in the petroleum sector had always been financed
exclusively through the Government budget, together with equity from the sponsoring
intemational petroleum companies. This traditional approach imposed severe limitations on
the country's ability to develop its crude oil and natural gas resources, because the capital
investment requirements have in recent years increased with the magnitude and complexity of
the projects, frequently exceeding available budget and equity resources. The financing
arrangements for the Oso project, which have been a mix of debt and equity, with a significant
portion of the debt (for the MPN share of the project) raised on a non-recourse basis, could
well become a model for the financing of future projects in the Nigerian petroleum sector, and
perhaps in other petroleum producing countries as well. The Bank Group was able to assist
Nigeria in achieving these important objectives because the Oso project was based on a sound
feasible and economically attractive investment for the country, for the sponsoring partners,
i.e., NNPC and MPN, and for the financiers, including the Bank, EIB, U.S. Eximbank, Japan
Exim Bank, IFC and the commercial banks.
3.13   The project was efficiently and satisfactorily implemented by MPN, as the nominated
operator of the joint partnership with NNPC. Physical implementation of the project had
already begun on July 1, 1990, immediately after the award of the Production Facilities
Construction Contract, and fully nine months prior to approval of the project by the Board of
the Bank, which took place on April 9, 1991. Project cash call requirements for investments
were met through sponsor's equity contributions, which were later replenished to the extent
eligible, once the Bank loan became effective, as of September 24, 1991. In support of these
arrangements, the Bank had previously approved retroactive financing of 25 percent.
Incidentally it is very important to note here that procurement for this project was done in a
very smooth fashion and strictly following the Bank guidelines. Whether the full $100 million
budget saving can be attributed to procurement is difficult to say, but the operator was quite
convinced that the Bank's insistence on international competitive bidding resulted in achieving
highly competitive contracts on the project.
3.14  The project has significally increased the country's hydrocarbon exports by more than
8 percent, which was the expected result, and concurrently has increased the country's foreign
exchange revenues by about US$ 618.2 million at the end of the first full year of project's life,
which is also above the US$ 500 nillion expected at appraisal. On the basis of these early
positive results and the updated reservoir engineering reports, it is now reasonable to affirm
that during its productive life, the Oso field will recover over 400 million barrels of
condensate, which at current 1994 prices of US$15.40 will generate cumulatively about US$
6.1 billion of net foreign exchange benefits for Nigeria, of which about 60 percent will be
generated during the first six years of production.
3.15  With the implementation of the project, petroleum exploration and field development
have already been significantly enhanced, assisting in an important way to reverse the decline
in petroleum production observed in the last few years, as well as to increase the
hydrocarbons reserves base. The project has also assisted in introducing the first Joint
Operating Agreement for upstream operations in Nigeria, providing the basis for adequate
management arrangement between NNPC and the international petroleum companies. During



supervision of the project, it was also noted that the technical implementation of the project by
MPN and NNPC, both at the project site in Eket, as well as at headquarters in Lagos, was
managed almost exclusively by Nigerian personnel, demonstrating both a significant level of
technical, as well as managerial capacity building influence in the project. Finally, the
contribution of the Oso project to reducing the flaring of a major segment of Nigeria's
associated natural gas, contributes a hitherto unmeasured benefit of substantial proportions.
IV. SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS AND
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
A.      Important Findings of Project Implementation Experience
4.1     The Oso project from inception was based on a joint venture arrangement between
NNPC, as the majority interest, and Mobil Producing Nigeria as the minority partner. While
the Bank's financing was directed towards NNPC, the actual implementation was done under
very comprehensive joint participation in all aspects of the project, with the consequence that
the highly complex procurement and disbursement procedures in such a large undertaking
benefited substantially from the international expertise and experience of Mobil, while at the
same time ensured a high level of project management and technology transfer exposure to
NNPC. Furthermore, the project benefited from having the presence of a major international
oil company by giving the external value and confidence to the international financiers that the
project was being managed by highly seasoned and experienced professionals.
4.2     The basic design of the project, while perhaps unique in some respects, has given
valuable guidelines for future projects of a similar type. The design feature that most impacted
implementation was that 100 percent of the procurement was done on a series of major
turnkey contract packages, with no special accounts or complicating SOEs. This added
significantly to a smooth disbursement operation, and perhaps even more importantly, front-
loaded all the procurement clearances from the Bank in large comprehensive packages.
4.3     The Oso project, despite the ultimate need to be financed through Government
guarantees, was essentially an enclave project, and as such had a covenant structure that, with
a few minor exceptions, was project specific and relatively easy to administer. This leads to
the conclusion that to ensure the success of these highly complex enclave projects there is a
need to design the sectoral and policy conditionalilities relative to the project thereby
guaranteeing the appropriate and focused leverage.
B.    Future Project Operation and Sustainability
4.4     The Oso condensate field development is a highly technical, long-term installation
that by its definition is inherently sustainable. Throughout its life of 20 to 30 years, it will
continue to be managed by the joint venture, whose continuing interest will be to maximize
production and minimize costs. This reasonably ensures a high level of operational efficiency,
adequate maintenance and environmental caution.



- 12 -
4.5     The original premises of reserves, price and completion risks have been largely
eliminated as future risks for the following reasons: (a) Nigeria's falling level of crude oil
reserves and production has guaranteed that the Oso production will no longer be vulnerable
to the condensate versus crude definition risk; (b) the updated reservoir analysis has added
almost 100 million barrels of recoverable petroleum reserves, further ensuring a long and
productive life for the project; and (c) with the early and successful completion of the physical
installations, all completion risks are now eliminated.
C.    Lessons for Future Projects in the Sector in Nigeria
4.6     The efficacy of the joint venture between NNPC and MPN cannot be overstated. It
suggests for future projects that it is to the advantage of the borrowing country and the Bank
to encourage these partnerships which definitely do serve to discipline the investment, because
the commercial partner has a strong motive to bring the project to completion on time and
within budget to ensure the earliest maximum possible cash flow.
4.7     It is also noteworthy that, despite the early difficulties of blending a major
international oil company's procurement practices with the Bank's, the outcome has been
universally acknowledged as excellent and of great benefit to the project. The use of the
Bank's procurement procedures, if implemented cooperatively and sympathetically, can be
demonstrated through the Oso experience to have been highly beneficial to the project and
significantly cost effective.
4.8    The Project Loan, regardless of its status as a guaranteed obligation of the
Government, is nevertheless tied to an amortization schedule based on production. While the
Project offers many reassuring features that mitigate this risk (para 4.5), the extended
amortization terms of 20 years, raises the concern that more time was allowed than necessary
for repayment. Project based loans of this type should normally have shorter repayment terms
as evidenced by the more commercially structured IFC loan to MPN.
4.9    While the project, as designed, was a technical success, an important lesson to be
drawn was the central role of a private sector company, MPN, as the operator to the project.
In addition to the disciplines it brought as a private sector entity, it also relied primarily on its
Nigerian staff to successfully implement and complete the project. Given Nigeria's current
economic difficulties and scarcity of resources, there is a need to ensure in future major
upstream petroleum developments that priority be given first to IFC sponsored private sector
financings with the Bank being utilized only in its potential last resort capacity, subject to
restoring and maintaining a viable and stable macroeconomic framework.



- 13-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3317-UNI)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The following comments were received on January 27, 1995, from the Nigerian
National Petroleum Corporation:
(a)    Thank you for obliging us with a draft copy of the Implementation Completion
Report on the Oso Condensate Field Development Project (Loan 3317-UNI).
(b)   We have gone through it and could not agree with you more that the report
clearly demonstrates the excellence and success of the Project.
(c)   We find the Report as a true account of the story of the project from conception
to implementation.
(d)   This will serve as the Sponsors counterpart report which details a review of the
project from our perspective.



-14-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3317-UNI)
PART HI: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
A.    Achievement of objectives   Substantial   Partial    Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                           V
Sector policies                          /
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives            /
Poverty reduction                         V,
Gender issues                                                            /
Other social objectives                                                  V
Environmental objectives       V
Public sector management                 /
Private sector development    V/
Training and Technology       v
Transfer
B.    Project sustainabilit             Likely       Unlikely            Uncertain
(8/)
C.    Bank performance                 Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance                     /
D.    Borrower performance             Highly satisfactory   Satisfactorv  Deficient
Preparation                             /
Implementation                          /
Covenant compliance                                         V
Operation (if applicable)
E.    Assessment of outcome             Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory  Deficient
I/



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Power Sub-Sector
1964       Power Transmission (Ln. 372)          $30 mnillion    Transmission systems
Kainji (NEPA) (Ln. 383)               $82 million     Hydro-Project, systems
and training
1969       Kainji Supplementary (NEPA) (Ln. 572)   $14.5 million
1972       Power IV (NEPA) (Ln. 847)             $76 million      Technical assistance
1980       Power V (Lagos Power) (Ln. 1766)      $100 million    Power distribution
system
1982       Power VI (NEPA) (Ln. 2085)            $100 million     Transmission systems
1990       Power System Maint. (NEPA) (Ln. 3116)  $70 million     TA & maintenance
Sub-total             $472.5
Oil and Gas Sub-Sectors
1984       Gas T.A. (Ln. 2390)                   $8.6 nillion     Gas Development and
studies
1989       Refineries Rehab. (Ln. 3104)          $9.2 million     Preventitive maint.
$17.8 million
TOTAL: Power, Oil and Gas Sub-Sectors $490.3 mnillion
(excl. Oso)
Table 3 - Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle   Date planned              Date actual/latest estimate
Identification                  April 19, 1988            June 19, 1989
Preparation                     August 9, 1988            October 9, 1989
Appraisal                       January 10, 1989          February 10, 1991
Negotiations                    April 6, 1989             June 1st, 1990
Oso Project Enabling Decree     October 14, 1989         May 28, 1990
Board presentation              December 4, 1989          April 9, 1991
Signing                         December 14, 1989         April 24, 1991
Effectiveness                   February 14, 1990         September 24, 1991
Project completion              June 30, 1993             December, 15, 1992
Loan closing                    June 30, 1994             June 30, 1994



-16-
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
FY-91        FY-92        FY-93         FY-94
Appraisal estimate          56            97            57           8
(US$ million)
Actual(US$ million)         85            77            42           10
Actual as % of estimate    152%           79%           74%          125%
Date of final disbursement   June 15, 1994
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key implementation
indicators in SAR/            Estimated                  Actual
President's Report
1. Engineering Design            March 1, 1992              March 1, 1992
2. Procurement goods             June 1, 1992               June 1, 1992
3. Construction/Hook up          November 1, 1992           November 25, 1992
4. Tests/Commissioning           December 1, 1992           December 15, 1992
5. Mechanical Acceptance         November 25, 1992          November 25, 1992
6. Operational Acceptance        June 1, 1993               September 21, 1993
7. Drilling of wells             December 15, 1993          April 14, 1993
8. Completion of wells           June 1st, 1993             May 18, 1993
9. Project completion            June 30, 1993              September 21, 1993



-17-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I. Key operating indicators in
SAR/President's Report   Estimated                 Actual
1.    Producing wells            14 wells to be drilled     16 producing wells were
and completed             drilled and completed
2.    Injection wells            5 wells to be drilled and  5 injections wells were
and completed             drilled and completed
3.    Condensate production      100,000 barrels per day    110,000 barrels per day
4.    Wellhead platform          4 platforms to be completed  February 18, 1993 fully
operational
5.    Riser platform             I to be completed         February 18, 1993 fully
operational
6.    Quarters and bridges       I to be completed         February 18, 1993 fully
operational
7.    Production & bridges       I to be completed         June 9, 1993 fully operational
8.    Compression & flare        1 to be completed          September 21, 1993 fully
operational
9.    Single point mooring bouy   1 to be completed        November 25, 1992 fully
operational
10.   Subsea pipelines           96 miles of pipelines     January 24, 1993 fully
operational
11.   Onshore facilities         3 tanks of 670,000 lbs.   February 14, 1993 fully
operational
12.   Piping/Instrumentation     for 5 injection wells     January 24, 1993



-18-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as                                Impact
Study                   defined at appraisal   Status             of study
1. Reservoir Engineering    To monitor reservoir  Initial study done  Initial estimate of
behavior and update   and completed in    proved recoverable
estimates of reserves  1992, and yearly   reserves has been
on a yearly basis.    update submitted    upgraded from 330.0
January 1, 1994.   million barrels to
419.6 million barrels.
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Item             costs    costs      Total        costs    costs     Total
1. Facilities    26.9    469.1    496.0          15.0    447.0    462.0
2. Drilling      35.1    151.9    187.0           30.0    131.0    161.0
3. PreOperating    10.9    64.1      75.0         10.0     43.0      53.0
4. Import duties   45.0     -.-      45.0         45.0      -.-      45.0
5. Finance        3.3      78.7      82.0          -.-     64.0      64.0
TOTAL           121.2    763.8    885.0          100.0    685.0    785.0
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/latest Estimate (US$M)
Local   Foreign                 Local   Foreign
Source           costs    costs     Total        costs    costs      Total
IBRD                      218.0    218.0                  214.5    214.5
IFC "A" and "B"           170.0    170.0                  170.0    170.0
US Exim Bank               95.0      95.0                  91.8      91.8
Japan Exim Bank            47.0     47.0                   45.4      45.4
EIB                        65.8     65.8                   65.8      65.8
Equity          121.0    169.0    290.0          100.0     98.0    198.0
TOTALS          121.0    764.8    885.8          100.0    685.5    785.5



-19-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Base Case: Data Extracted From Staff Appraisal Report as of February 1991
Oso         Nigeria           NNPC        MPN
Description                           Units           Project      (Government)      (Agent)    (Mobil)
Revenues
Aveage Condensate Price (Revenues/Np) USS/BC             27.6        27.6              27.6        27.6
Cummulative Condensate Production (Np MMBC              328.5       197.1             197.1       131.4
Total Revenues                      Million USS       9,064.9     5,438.9            5,438.9     3,626.0
Investments
Equity                              Million tJSS        290.0       190.0              190.0      100.0
Debt                                Million USS         595.0       330.0             330.0       265.0
Total Investments Cost (CapEx)      Million USS         885.0       520.0             520.0       365.0
USS/BC               2.69        2.64               2.64        2.78
Costs
Unit Cost of Production (OpExNp)    US$/BC                2.28        2.28              2.28        2.28
Operating Cost (OpEx)               Million USS         750.4       450.2             450.2       300.2
Depreciation                        Million USS         286.3       171.8              171.8       114.5
Financial Costs                     Mllion IUSS        361.0       271.7             271.7        89.4
Income
Icome Before Gvmnt. Take            Million USS       7,667.2     4,545.2            4,545.2     3,121.9
Government Take                     Million USS       6,718.8     4,145.3            4,145.3     2,573.4
Net Income                          Million USS         948.4       399.9             399.9       548.5
Total Tax Credits                   Million USS         268.1      (268.1)            (268.1)     268.1
Cash Flow
Net Cash Flow                       Million USS       7,068.5       3,28.9              51.7      298.0
N.P.V. @12% Discount                Million US        2,292.9      1,256.7              11.85      98.42
I.R.R.                                                     82.56%      74.73%            19.90%      37.31%
Table 9A: Economic Costs and Benefits
Actual Case: Projections Using Data as of September 30, 1994
Oso        Nigeria            NNPC        MTN
Description                           Units           Project      (Government)    (Agent)    (Mobil)
Revenues
AveageCondensatePrice(Revenues/Np)  USS/BC               19.1        19.1               19.1        19.1
Cummulative Condensate Production (Np MMBC              423.7       254.2             254.2       169.5
Total Revenues                      Million USS       8,075.8     4,845.5            4,845.5     3,230.3
Investments
Equity                              Million USS         198.0       146.0              146.0       52.0
Debt                                Million USS         587.4       325.6              325.6      261.8
Total Investments Cost (CapEx)      Million US$         785.4       471.6             471.6        313.8
Unit Investment Cost (CapEx/Np)     US$/BC                1.85        1.86               1.86        1.85
Costs
Unit Cost of Production (OpExNp)    US$/BC                1.77        1.77               1.77        1.77
Operating Costs (OpEx)              Million USS         750.4       450.2             450.2       300.2
Depreciation                        Million USS         254.1       152.6              152.6      101.5
Financial Costs                     Million USS         341.0       252.9             252.9        96.0
Income
Income Before Gvmnt Take            Million USS       6,730.3     3,989.8            3,989.8     2,732.6
Government Take                     Million USS       5,831.1     3,618.4            3,618.4     2,206.0
Net Income                          Million USS         899.2       371.4             371.4       526.6
Total Tax Cr.*dits                  Million USS         268.1      (268.1)              0.0       268.1
Cash Flow
Net Cash Flow                       Million USS       6,040.5     3,334.6             (15.7)      223.8
N.P.V. @12% Discount                Million US$        1,912.3    1,025.4             (47.0)       61.4
I.R.R.                                    %                63.11%      55.44%             0.00%      26.15%



- 13-
'Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Loan                                    Original         Revised
Agreement      Covenant    Present        Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Section         Type        Status         Date             Date                               Description of Covenant                              Comments
4.03                 13          C       Not Dated                         Take out and maintain satisfactory insurance against such risk and amounts as
shall be consistent with international industry practice.
4.04(a)              2           C       Not dated                         Maintain Oso field production at levels necessary to produce for NNPC net
revenues adequate to service in full the maximum estinated debt service
requirements of NNPC, on all debts incurred by NNPC for the Project.
4.05                 3           C       18 months prior   May 12, 1993    The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and comments, a pricing
to the start-up of               formula for calculating margins, taxes and royalties relating to the Oso field
production.                      condensate, to be determnine pursuant to the Oso Field Development Project
agreement defined in Section 1.02(b) of the Loan Agreement.
4.06                 5           C       June 30, 1994    Nov. 2, 1994     The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank, for its review and
comments, detailed arrangements for adequately training the Borrowers staff in
the marketing of their share of the Oso Field Condensate.
4.07                 It          C       Not dated                         The Borrower shall pay to the Guarantor a guarantee fee equivalent to 10C/ of
the interest payable by the Borrower under Section 2.05 of the Loan
Agreement, such fee to accrue from the respective dates on which the amounts
of the loan shall be withdraw from the loan account.
4.08                 5           C       Yearly           January 10,      The Borrower shall up date annually: (i) with the assistance of consultants, its
1994            estimates of the available Oso field reserves; and (ii) finnish to the Bank the
updated estimates as soon as available.
5.01(a)              I          CD       At all times                      The Borrower shall, with respect to the project, maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with formal accounting practices its
operations and friancial condition.
5.01(b)              I          CD       Yearly                            The Borrower shall have its records, accounts, financial statements and balance
sheet, if any, and statements for each fiscal year, audited in accordance with
appropriate accounting consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable
to athe Bank.
5.01(bXii)           I          CD       Quarterly                         With respect to the records and accounts mentioned in Section 5.01(a) above,    Borrower does not
the borrower shall furnish to the Bank, within one month after the end of each   prepare interim
quarter, its interim financial statements.                            statements.
'Key to above abreviations = C means complied with, and CD means complied with, but after delays.



-14-
Loan                                    Original          Revised
Agreement      Covenant    Present        Fulfillment      Fulfillment
Section         Type        Status         Date             Date                               Description of Covenant                               Comments
S.01(bXiii)          I          CD        Yearly                            The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but not later than   Complied through 1992.
6 months after the end of each fiscal year, (a) certified copies of its audited  Ongoing discussion for
financial statements for the project for such year, and (b) the report of such  1993 compliance.
audit of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonable
requested; and
5.01(iv)             I           CD       Not dated                         The Borrower shall with respect to the project, furnish to the Bank such other   No special account or
information concerning the records, accounts and financial statements of the  SOEs used in the
Borrower as well as the audits, thereof as the Bank shall (i) maintain in  project..
accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, records and accounts reflecting
such expenditures, (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has recalled
the audit reporl for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
account was made all records, (contracts orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing such expenditures, (iii) enable the Banks
representatives to examinie such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
section, and that report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statement of expenditures submited during such
fiscal year, together with procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Guarantee            4            C       Not dated                         The Guarantor declares its comnmitmeit to the objectives of the project as set
Agreement                                                                   out in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreenment, and to this end, without limnitation or
Section                                                                     restriction upon any of its obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, hereby
2.01                                                                        unconditionally guarantees, as Pi imary Obligor, and as surety merely, the due
and punctual payment of the principal of, and the interest and other charges on,
the Loan and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the loan, and the
punctual performance of all other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth in
the Loan Agreement.
2.02                 4            C       Not dated                         (a) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 2.01 of this
Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes, wherever this is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds availabl. to the Borrower will be inadequate to
meet its portion of the estimated expenditures required for carrying out the
Project, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed
to meet such expenditures. (b) The Guarantor further undertakes that it shall
provide to the Borrower any funds required under paragraph (a) above
exclusively through equity contribution from the Guarantor to the Borrower.
2Key to above abrevation = C means complied with, and CD means complied with, but after delays.



-22-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
SEE COMPLIED WITH
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of              Planned                Revised                   Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks                 Weeks                    Weeks
Through appraisal         50.0                  142.0                   146.9
Appraisal-Board           80.0                  100.0                   60.5
Board-Effectiveness       12.0                   40.0                   28.5
Supervision               60.0                  46.0                    20.8
Completion                10.0                   10.0                    10.0
TOTAL                    212.0                 338.0                   266.7
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of       Month/Year         Number of          Days in         Specialized
Project Cycle                         Persons            Field          Staff Skills
Represented
Through appraisal         86-89           39                  73.6    FA,EC,PE,ENG
Appraisal through        90-91            27                  18.6    FA, EC, ENG.
Board approval
Board approval          April 91          12                  10.8    FA, EC, ENG.
Supervision               91-94           25                  14.6    FA, EC, ENG.
Completion              Nov. 94            2                   5.0    FA, ENG.



-23-                             Appendix C-I
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA's ENERGY SECTOR
A.    Sector Organization
1. 1   Nigeria has a predominantly private market economy, but in the energy sector
various government institutions and corporations play a dominant role. This is particularly
true in the electric and coal sub-sectors, where the Government has a near absolute
monopoly through NEPA (the National Electric Power Authority) and the Nigerian Coal
Corporation. The administration of forest lands (and correspondingly of all biomass) is a
state responsibility, where the Federal Department of Forestry only plays an advisory,
investment-financing and coordinating role. A similar situation applies to the petroleum
sector in the areas of exploration, field development, refining, and marketing operations,
but to a lesser degree. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), through its
joint venture group, the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS),
is responsible for petroleum exploration, field development and the marketing of crude oil.
The four existing domestic refineries, including the most recently commissioned at Port
Harcourt, are owned and operated directly by NNPC. Three of the eight major petroleum
products marketing companies (African Petroleum, National and Unipetrol) are operated
and controlled by NNPC, and together they hold a market share of about 34 percent for
gasoline, kerosene and gas oil, and about 49 percent for other products (fuel oil, base oil,
asphalt, etc.). The other 5 marketing companies are subsidiaries of international oil
companies (Agip, Elf, Mobil, Texaco and Total), although they have a majority ownership
by Nigerian nationals (60 percent). These five companies hold a market share of about 43
percent for gasoline, kerosene, and gas oil , and about 51 percent for other products. The
remaining 13 percent market share for gasoline, kerosene and gas oil is held by small
national-independent companies. The small LPG market is 75 percent shared by 11
Nigerian distribution companies, and the rest is held by small independent domestic
operators.
1.2    Petroleum affairs and policy are administered by the Ministry of Petroleum and
Natural Resources in close coordination with the office of the President. Over the past
several years, however, through the various changes of Government, petroleum policy still
allows the continuation of a heavily subsidized domestic market, which has produced
numerous distortions and attendant losses of revenue to the Federal Government. The lack
of continuity and a rational petroleum pricing policy has left the domestic petroleum sector
in a considerable sense of disarray.
B.    Energy Resources and Production.
1.3   Nigeria has substantial and diverse energy resources, which include crude oil,
natural gas, hydropower, coal, wood fuels and agricultural residues. Since the commercial
discovery of oil in 1956, Nigeria has become a member of OPEC and one of the largest oil



-24-
Appendix C-)
Page 2 of 4
exporting countries. Proven recoverable crude oil reserves, mainly located onshore and
offshore within the Niger River delta area, are estimated to be between 14 to 16 billion
barrels, and additional probable recoverable oil reserves may add another 7 billion barrels.
Crude oil production reached a maximum of 2.3 million barrels per day in 1979, but since
then, oil production has declined because of market factors, such as OPEC production
guidelines and quotas , lower international prices, as well as declining productivity of
existing producing fields. Thus crude oil production, including some 80,000 barrels per
day of condensate produced together with natural gas, has averaged about 1.5 to 1.6
million barrels per day during the last few years. Until 1992, these 80,000 barrels per day
of condensate were produced outside OPEC production quotas, and future crude oil
production would likely be insufficient to meet projected OPEC quotas for the 1990s,
unless the level of investment is significantly enhanced to increase production facilities and
the level of proved developed reserves. This situation would continue, even after including
the Oso condensate field production.
1.4   Proven recoverable natural gas reserves are huge and are estimated at 85 trillion
standard cubic feet (85 x 10  SCF), which consist of similar volumes of associated and
non-associated natural gas. Additional potential reserves are estimated at 65 trillion SCF,
of which two third would probably be non-associated natural gas.
1.5   The country's hydroelectric power resources total over 11,000 MW  in terms of
technical feasible potential. Current installed hydroelectric capacity amounts to about
1,900 MW. The total installed power capacity of NEPA, including hydro and thermal
generation, is about 6000 MW. In addition, there is a significant amount of captive private
generation capacity, built as a back-up for NEPA. Maximum system demand is about
2,200 MW and the energy generated is over 11,000 GWH, with power sales of about
7,500 GWH.
1.6   Total coal reserves, including the most recent estimates of proven, indicated and
inferred categories, range between 270 to 980 million tons, which are mainly located in the
upper south east portion of the country,. Coal production reached a peak of more than
900,000 tons per year in the late 1950s. But coal exploration was interrupted during the
period of internal disturbances from 1968 to 1969, and production never fully recovered,
and thus less than 120,000 tons per year have been produced in recent years.
1.7   Wood fuel is the principal source of energy for the rural population, which is
usually supplemented by crop residues and animal dung, mainly in the dry central and
northern regions. However, wood fuel is now in relatively short supply. Total annual
consumption has been conservatively estimated at 15 million cubic meters, against an
estimated incremental annual supply from all sources (forest reserves and farmlands) of
only 10 million m3. The growing imbalance between supply and demand accentuated by
population growth, is producing an ever increasing trend of deforestation.



-25-
Appendix C-1
Page 3 of 4
1.8   The outlook for use of LPG in Nigeria's transport sector, and also in households,
appears promising, since the countries refineries have the capacity to produce over
350,000 tons per year of LPG. Additionally, the possibility of expanding refinery
throughout and catalytic cracking capacity could increase LPG production to about
450,000 tons per year. Besides, LPG could also be extracted from produced natural gas.
In spite of all this potential, current LPG consumption averages only about 90,000 tons
per year, and part of this demand is met by imports, because of frequent supply
interruptions of the refineries operations. Furthermore, a substantial amount of the LPG
produced at the refineries is flared, because of an inadequate distribution network. To
correct this situation, the Nigerian Government had planned a three phase LPG
distribution and storage program, which is supposed to result in the further development
of this attractive product.
C.    Energy Consumption and Pricing
1.9   Annual consumption of energy in Nigeria is estimated to be around 10 million tons
of oil equivalent, of which commercial energy accounts for about 60 percent and
petroleum products cover about 70 percent of commercial energy demand, while the rest
is covered by natural gas (20 percent), hydro and coal (10 percent). Overall, the average
per capita consumption of energy in Nigeria is very low (0.19 T.O.E.), mainly because
commercial energy use is concentrated in the relatively small but rapidly growing modem
sector within the principal towns throughout the country, while in the rural and low
income urban households the main fuels used are wood and crop residues, which account
for about 40 percent of total energy consumption.
1.10  Demand for petroleum products, has increased at an average rate of 13.5 percent
per year, from 3.9 million tons in 1976 to a peak of 9.5 million tons in 1983, and thereafter
gradually declined to 8.5 million tons in 1987, where it has remained almost stable. Of
total petroleum product consumption, gasoline and diesel oil together account for about
60 percent, and kerosene, used mainly as a household fuel, accounts for 22 percent, and
other products such as fuel oil account for the remaining 18 percent. Domestic
consumption of natural gas is about 600 million cubic feet per day. The government is
pursuing a policy of substituting liquid fuels with natural gas to meet the domestic needs
of large volume power and industry users, whenever it is technically and economically
feasible, in order to maximize the exports of crude oil production.
1.11  Energy prices in Nigeria are largely determined by the Federal Government, and
administered through parastatal entities, such as NEPA and NNPC. The tendency has been
to set prices at levels much below their economnic opportunity costs, thus creating severe
distortions in resource allocation. Low domestic petroleum products prices, which are an
implicit subsidy to domestic consumers, however, have encouraged smuggling of
petroleum products to neighboring countries. Nevertheless, in recent years and starting in
January 1980, petroleum products prices were revised and brought up to international
levels. But by late 1986, a substantial economic subsidy system had reemerged as a result



-26-
Appendix C-l
Page 4 of 4
of the adoption of a flexible exchange rate system and the large depreciation of the Naira.
Again, on April 1st, 1988, NNPC raised prices for petroleum products, and once more in
January, 1989 and March 1991. However, and as a result of the policy of subsidies, the
prices of petroleum products in Nigeria are still a fraction of the prevailing international
prices, as follows: 13 percent for kerosene, 27 percent for diesel and 50 percent for
premium motor gasoline.
1.12  Elimination of the subsidies would need to be carried out in a phased manner, in
order to minimize hardships to the urban and rural poor households, which rely heavily on
the use of kerosene, and also taking into consideration the Government plans for
improving urban mass transport systems, particularly to reduce the use of motor gasoline.
Therefore, the reduction of subsidies on petroleum products need to be coordinated with
the requirements for investments in alternative fuel sources (such as LPG and natural gas)
and in improvements in the road systems, taking into consideration the impact of increased
costs on the final consumer.
1.13  In Nigeria, natural gas is the lowest cost fuel on a heat equivalent basis for high
volume uses in urban areas. The price of natural gas has never reflected the actual
economic costs and thus has not permitted a healthy expansion of the gas subsector. A
new pricing policy for natural gas, based upon economic costs of supply is being
developed, and under this policy NNPC has negotiated a new price for gas sales to NEPA,
for one of its power plant (Egbin plant), where the price is equivalent to N5.24 per MSCF
of natural gas. At this price, however, gas production is still not profitable.
1.14  Electricity tariffs have also remained unchanged for over ten years (since 1979
until 1989). At that time, they represented only about one sixth of the long run marginal
cost of supply, and were totally inadequate to cover even the cash operating costs of
electricity generation, transrmission and distribution. In mid 1979, following extensive
discussions between the Bank and NEPA, in relation with the Power System Maintenance
and Rehabilitation Project, and in accordance with the Government's decision to partially
commercialize NEPA, electricity tariffs were raised to a weighted average of about 22.8
koboslkilowatt, although with the devaluation of the Naira, it is again insufficient to cover
the costs of supply.
D.    Institutional, Legal and Tax Framework
1.15  The Ministry of Petroleum Resources is responsible for overall policy formulation,
guidance and direction of all petroleum subsector activities. The Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), a public corporation wholly owned by the Federal
Government of Nigeria, reporting to the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, was established
to provide effective government participation and control of the petroleum industry. The
Petroleum Minister is the ex-officio chairman of NNPC, whose activities can be classified
into the two broad categories common to the petroleum industry, i.e. upstream and
downstream activities. NNPC operates for its own corporate account the downstream



-27-
ApDendix C-1
Page 5 of 4
facilities, which include refining, domestic products distribution, and petrochemicals.
These downstream operations are carried out by twelve subsidiaries of NNPC, called
Strategic Business Units (SBU). These SBU's have obtained increasing financial and
operational autonomy, as part of the program for the commercialization of parastatals
under the Structural Adjustment Program. For the upstream operations, NNPC acts as an
agent for the Federal Government, and all upstream operations, comprising exploration
and production mainly of crude oil, function under the system of unincorporated joint
ventures with international oil companies, which also handle the marketing of the crude oil
they produce, and all financial flows in relation with the activities of the joint ventures are
handled and accounted for separately by NNPC and the foreign partners. The
Government's equity participation in the joint ventures is currently 60 percent.
1.16  The ownership of all hydrocarbon resources in Nigeria is expressly vested in the
state, as clearly indicated in a number of statutes, including the Petroleum Act of 1969,
which is the main law governing the petroleum sector, together with the constitution of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria of 1979. Under existing legislation, private and foreign-
owned enterprises are entitled to be granted rights to explore for petroleum under "non-
exclusive" Oil Exploration or "exclusive" Oil Prospecting Licenses, provided they are duly
incorporated in Nigeria, but effective Nigerian participation is mandatory once commercial
production is established and an oil mining lease is granted, where the Federal
Government participates through NNPC. The terms of participation and NNPCs share in
such joint ventures are set forth in the corresponding Participation Agreements. These
agreements are entered into after the granting of an Oil Mining Lease, once a commercial
petroleum discovery has been made. NNPC makes a cash contribution to the working
capital of the joint venture in a proportion equal to the amount of interest acquired, which
is usually 60 percent. In return for NNPC making compensations in cash or kind
(petroleum), on the basis of the updated book value of the Lease, the other party assigns
to NNPC an agreed undivided percentage interest in the assets, rights, obligations,
liabilities, and duties arising from the title to the Lease.
1.17 The Government's take from all petroleum produced from any oil mining lease,
owned under these joint venture arrangements, is achieved through three procedures: (i)
the share of NNPC interest in the production of the lease, (ii) royalties and (iii) taxes. At
present, in almost all cases the Federal Government benefits entirely from the 60 percent
participation share of NNPC in all joint ventures., Royalty rates are set by the Petroleum
Drilling and Production Amendment (Regulations of 1979), and range from 16 2/3 percent
of total petroleum production from offshore fields, under more than 100 meters of water,
to 18.5 percent from offshore fields in less than 100 meters of water depth (such as the
Oso field), up to 20 percent from fields located onshore. Income tax rates are set by the
Petroleum Profit Tax Act of 1959, as amended at various times. The tax rate is now 85
percent.



-28-
Appendix C-2
Page I of 4
OSO PROJECT COSTS
Summary of Costs
2.1    At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated to be about US$ 885.0 million.
The allocation of the estimated versus actual project costs, between NNPC and MPN, on
the basis of their respective share of Project's participation in the financing plan will be
detailed in the corresponding Annex Table No. 8A, and are summarized below (in current
US$ equivalent):
TEXT TABLE i
PROJECT COSTS
(US$ million)
NNPC (60 percent)    MPN (40 percent)         Total
Estimated   Actual  Estimated  Actual     Estimated Actual
Facilities                298.0   277.2      198.0   184.8         496.0   462.0
DevelopmentDrilling        112.0    96.6      75.0    64.4         187.0   161.0
Sub-Total Assets Costs    410.0   373.8      273.0   249.2         683.0   623.0
Pre-OperatingExp.          45.0    31.8       30.0    21.2          75.0    53.0
Import Duties              27.0    27.0       18.0    18.0          45.0    45.0
Financing Costs            38.0    38.4       44.0    25.6          82.0    64.0
Sub-Total Other Cost      110.0    97.2       92.0    64.8         202.0   162.0
TOTALPROJECT COST         520.0   471.0      365.0   314.0         885.0   785.0
2.2    The breakdown of the project's costs into local and foreign currencies in terms of
project components, base costs and actual costs, is given in Annex Table No. 8A. Detailed
commentaries on all major components costs are given below:
(i)    Facilities
The total production facilities cost of US$ 468.0 million (about 7.4 percent
less than anticipated) is based on the actual costs of the corresponding contract
signed with the engineering/construction contractor, who was also responsible for
the provision of the equipment, and which included two components. The first
component consisted of a fixed price for the turnkey engineering, equipment
procurement, and construction contract, which together with change orders and
contingencies, had a cost of US$406.6 million. This also included the cost of a
"Builder's All Risk Insurance Policy", inclusive of marine insurance to be borne by
the contractor. The second component, with a cost of US$ 61.4 million, was to
cover the fees for technical support for design and supervision during
implementation, payable to the supplier of these services (Mobil Research and



-29-
Appendix C-2
Page 2 of 4
implementation, payable to the supplier of these services (Mobil Research and
Development Corporation). The production facilities contract came in significantly
under-budget, because of lower management costs (US$ 29.0 million actual versus
US$ 42.0 million originally planned) and because of non-utilization of a significant
portion of the contingency funds (US$ 19.0 million actually spent versus US$ 43.0
million planned) The total cost of the facilities was financed on a 60:40 basis by
NNPC and MPN, respectively.
(ii)   Development Drilling
The total drilling costs were 14 percent less than anticipated and amounted
to US$161.0 million, including escalation and contingencies, and were also
allocated on a 60:40 basis between NNPC and MPN, respectively. The wells were
normally drilled through the "lYl producing reservoir", and had an average cost
of US$4.13 million each. However, the five wells that were core-sampled through
the lYl reservoir had an average cost of US$6.82 million each, because of the
additional work and extra costs to perform the core sampling of the reservoir,
which were required for conducting detailed reservoir engineering studies and
special performance tests. The drilling program consisted in drilling 19 wells (14
producers and 5 injectors) to their projected total depth, but without immediately
completing any of them, in order to proceed to separately complete the future
producers and the injectors, whose costs were estimated and handled differently.
Completion costs of the producing wells averaged US$1.62 million each, and the
average cost of the injectors was US$1.85 million each, because of the higher
complexity of the completion design for the injectors. These drilling and
completion costs were lower than those originally estimated for the project. This
was the result of savings of about US$3.0 million, because of 70 days less of total
estimated drilling time, which were possible because of much shorter learning
periods for the crews of the two drilling rigs, and savings of US$13.0 million
because of .the decision for not using "gravel pack" technology to complete the
producing wells, since the reservoir sands did not require this type of precaution.
Similarly, savings of US$10.0 million were obtained on rig and equipment rental
costs, which were based on current rates, and also on casing and tubing costs,
which were based on recent quotations from well known manufacturers. The
contingency delay allowances of 7 percent for normally drilled wells and 10
percent for cored wells, which had been estimated at appraisal, coincided very well
with the experience obtained through project implementation of 8-10 percent.
These percentages had been built into the original estimates and, therefore, the
estimated and actual costs for these items were almost identical, and demonstrated
a good performance of the operator by industry standards.
(iii)  Pre-Operating Expenses and Import Duties
The pre-operating expenses amounted only to US$53.0 million, or
US$22.0 million less than the estimated cost of US$ 75.0 million, and consisted of



-30-
Appendix C-2
Page 3 of 4
(i) labor, (ii) materials, (iii) supplies, (iv) equipment rentals, and (v) contracted
services required during the construction period of the Oso field production
facilities. The labor costs considered incremental staff costs, including related
training required for conducting, upon completion of the project, the sophisticated
operations of the Oso field production complex. The costs of materials, supplies
and rentals included those for acquiring equipment, office supplies, furniture,
personnel housing, and rentals of vehicles and other equipment. The costs of
contract services included those for maintenance, repair services on housing,
catering and helicopter services. All these costs were less than the original
estimates, which had been made on the basis of actual ongoing operational costs
for similar services incurred elsewhere by the operator of the Oso project. The
import duties amounted, as estimated, to US$ 45.0 million and included duties on
materials and equipment imported for the execution of the Oso project. All these
costs were also shared on a 60:40 basis between NNPC and MPN, respectively
(iv)   Financing Costs
The financing costs amounted to only US$64.0 million versus the original
estimate of US$ 82.0 million, and the savings were due mainly to interest eamed
on the equity funds and also lower interest rates obtained by both NNPC and MPN
as borrowers from commercial banks. The financial costs had been estimated at
appraisal separately for NNPC and MPN, based on the indicated terms of their
respective borrowing arrangements and requirements, and consisted of capitalized
interest, financial advisory fees, front-end lending fees and exposure fees on export
credits.
(v)   Pre-development Costs
These are considered sunk costs, which had been incurred earlier, at the
time the field was discovered, and included costs for exploration and appraisal
drilling amounting to US$ 70.0 million, plus US$ 5.0 million for the Phase 1
reservoir engineering studies, for a total of US$ 75.0 million These pre-
development costs had been financed with equity on a 60:40 basis between NNPC
and MPN, respectively, and were not considered part of the project costs.
(vi)   Unit Costs
The development investment cost on a per barrel basis for the Oso Project
has been re-calculated at US$1.85/barrel, versus the US$2.44/barrel originally
estimated. This cost was arrived at taking into consideration the actual total
investment in production facilities, development drilling, pre-operating expenses
and import duties, which amount to about US$ 717.0 million, versus the revised
proved recoverable reserves of 387.8 million barrels of condensate, estimated by
the extemal consultants. The per-barrel investment cost for the Oso project
compares very favorably with the average estimated per barrel investment cost of



-31-
Appendix C-2
Page 4 of 4
US$ 3.00 - 4.00 for developing other comparable fields in Nigeria and elsewhere.
Therefore, the Oso project can be defined as a low development cost field by
intemational standards and the most convenient for the country.
(vii)  Insurance Costs
The main contractor in charge of the design, construction and procurement
of the production facilities had already included the cost of insurance as part of the
overall cost of the turnkey contract for the facilities. This insurance was a
"Builder's All-Risk Policy", which covered construction-related damage, loss of
materials and equipment, both within Nigeria and overseas, and for all phases of
work, including fabrication, installation, testing and commissioning, plus marine
insurance covering transit of all materials, equipment modules and pre-fabricated
assemblies, and finally, it also included insurance for the contractors personnel.
For the acquisition of drilling rigs and tubulars, the respective contracts included
arrangements, as it is the usual industry practice, whereby NNPC and MPN
provided jointly marine insurance coverage for losses or damages of equipment
and materials. Similarly, for the drilling operations, the contractor included the cost
of insuring the drilling rigs and the personnel, plus unforeseen down-hole losses, as
well as third party liability coverage, which included possible oil spills, seepage and
pollution. Once the project became operational, NNPC and MPN have insured the
physical assets on "All-Risk" basis, which includes third party liability coverage.



-32-
Appendix C-3
Page I of 3
OSO PROJECT FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Financing Arrangements
3.1    The final financial plan is shown below with its comparison to the original financial
plan envisaged at appraisal.
TEXT TABLE II
FINANCING PLAN
NNPC             MPN                Total
Oiiginal Actual  Original Actual  Original    Actual
US$ million
IBRD                      218.0  214.5                      218.0      214.5
IFC ("A" Loan)                             75.0  75.0        75.0      75.0
IFC ("B" Loan) with
Commercial Banks                           95.0  95.0        95.0      95.0
U.S. Exim Bank                             95.5  91.8        95.0       91.8
Japan Exim                47.0   45.4                        47.0      45.4
EIB                       65.8   65.8                        65.8      65.8
Total Loans              330.8  325.7    265.0  261.8       595.8      587.5
Eau&l~                    190.0  146.0    100.0  52.0       290.0      198.0
Total Financing          520.8  471.7    365.0  313.8       885.87    785.5
3.2   It is important to note that obtaining satisfactory arrangements for the finalization
of the financing plan for the Project was one of the main conditions of loan effectiveness.
The final status of the financing arrangements is briefly described below:
3.3    The Financing Plan for NNPC consisted in raising US$ 330 million in loans from
IBRD, EIB and Japan Exim Bank, All these loans have been fully guaranteed by FGN, and
their utilization in the project, as well as their main terms and characteristics, are as
follows:
(i)    The IBRD loan was originally approved for US$ 218.0 million equivalent,
to be available to partly finance NNPC's share of production facilities and
drilling costs, plus capitalized interest during construction and fees on the
IBRD loan. This loan has been used to finance all of NNPC's share of
eligible foreign costs not financed by equity, or by the Japan Exim Bank
and EMB loans. The IEBRD loan carries the Bank's standard variable interest
rate, and has a repayment period of 19 years, inclusive of a grace period of
5 years. Actual disbursements on the IBRD loan have amounted to US$
214.5 million.



-33-
Appendix C-3
Page 2 of 3
(ii)    The EIB loan was originally approved for US$ 65.8 million equivalent,
and was to be available for partly financing NNPC's share of the facilities
contract. This loan carries an interest rate of 5 percent, with a repayment
period of 17 years, including five years of grace. The EIB loan was made
available after the ratification of the LOME IV Agreement, which took
place outside the time frame of the IBRD loan effectiveness. Therefore, to
enable EIB to participate in the financing of the Oso project, and to ensure
that project implementation would proceed without interruption, the IBRD
loan condition of effectiveness, which required the effectiveness of all
cofinancing for NNPC, excluded the EM loan. Actual disbursement of the
EIB loan has amounted to US$ 65.8 million.
(iii)  Financing from the export-import Bank of Japan was to be available to
NNPC on a buyer's credit basis . The loan, denominated in Yen, was
originally approved for an amount of US$ 47.0 million equivalent, payable
in 10 years, commencing six months after project completion, with an
interest rate of 7.5 percent, and a commitment fee of 0.1 percent per year
on any undisbursed balances. This loan was designed to finance the
Japanese equipment components of the Production Facilities Contract.
Actual disbursements from this loan amount to US$ 45.4 million
equivalent.
(iv)    NNPC initially provided US$ 190.0 million as equity, representing 36
percent of its share of project costs. Due to the lower actual project costs,
actual equity contribution by NNPC was US$ 146.0 million equivalent,
equal to 32 percent of actual project costs, which included US$ 19.6
million derived from interest income earned from the equity funds
deposited and maintained throughout in the project's joint account with
Bankers Trust of New York. NNPC's equity contribution was utilized to
finance all local cost, all the capitalized interest on the Japan Exim Bank
and E1B loans, and other costs not eligible for financing by other lenders.
To enable project implementation to get started, prior to the availability of
drawdown from loans, NNPC had already made available its full equity
contribution, as originally proposed, through the deposit of its equity
contribution in a joint project implementation account.
3.5   Financing for MPN was provided by IFC, U.S. Exim Bank and commercial banks,
all on a project finance basis, and to be serviced from MPN's share of project cash flows..
The main conditions and characteristics of MPN debt financing arrangements are as
follows:
(i)    The IFC "A" and "B" loans in the amounts of US$ 75.0 million and US$
95.0 million, respectively, were fully disbursed and were to be used to
finance any of MPN's share of the project's foreign costs not financed by
the U.S. Exim Bank. The IFC loans are payable over a five year period,



-34-
Appendix C-3
Page 3 of 3
which already commenced six months after project completion; and they
carry a 10.5 percent interest rate.
(ii)   The U.S. Exim Bank provided export credits to cover MPNs share for the
procurement of goods and services from the U.S. for the project. This
financing became available on a buyers credit basis and amounted to US$
95.0 million, although only US$91.8 million was actually disbursed. The
U.S. Exim Bank financing was mainly available for the facilities contract,
with limited allocations to finance the cost of development drilling and the
exposure fee on the financing. The U.S. Exim Bank guarantee covers loans
repayable over five years, commencing  six months from  project
commissioning. There is a commitment fee of 1/8 of 1 percent per year on
any undisbursed balances and a flat exposure fee of 1.2 percent payable on
each disbursement.
(iii) The finalization of any loans to MPN for the project was a condition of
effectiveness for the World Bank loan to NNPC.
(iv)   The balance of MPN financing requirement for the project was originally
estimated at US$155.9 million or 27 percent of its share of project costs to
be covered with equity. MPN made available all of its equity requirement
to the project implementation account prior to the beginning of project
implementation. Actual equity, based on the reduced actual costs was
US$52 million or 17 percent of the actual costs.



-35-
Appendix C-4
Page I of 
BANK'S AND BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance
4.1   The Bank's performance on the Oso Condensate Field Development Project can be
classified as highly satisfactory, since it was possible for the Bank to substantially achieve
almost all the objectives initially established for the project. The Borrower's performance,
defined in terms of the project, can also be classified as highly satisfactory, since the
Borrower was able to achieve the project's narrow objectives. However, in a broader,
macro-economic context, it might be considered less satisfactory. Outlined below are the
various evaluation criteria which lie outside the clearly successful, project specific, issues
discussed earlier.
(a)   Macro-policies. One of the primary objectives of the Oso project was to enable
Nigeria to raise foreign exchange as a means of reducing its indebtedness and
financing its future development. It was after several years of unsuccessful
attempts to raise commercial financing for the Oso project, that the Government of
Nigeria requested the Bank Group to participate as a catalyst in mobilizing the
required financing. In addition to its catalytic role, the Bank also acted as a lender
of last resort and the loan amount was determined on a residual basis. Bank
participation in the Oso project must be viewed in this context, rather than
assuming it would have reduced Bank funds for social and infrastructure projects.
The Oso project has already proved since completion to be an efficient vehicle for
assisting Nigeria to raise foreign exchange (as much as over US$ 600 million per
year, during the early years of condensate production), which would not have been
possible without the Bank's participation.
(b)   Sector Policies. Initially, limited recourse financing was envisaged as the structure
for NNPC to finance its share of the Oso project investment. The Nigerian
Government, supported by the Bank Group, made concerted efforts to obtain this
type of financing, but to no avail. However, if these efforts had succeeded, the Oso
project would have been an enclave project. Given this genesis, therefore, it was
not deemed appropriate, to address certain sector policies, such as consumer
pricing issues, which would clearly be outside the concept of an enclave project.
When the loan was finally negotiated on the basis of Government guarantees, in
essence remained an enclave project. In parallel with the Oso project, in their
Letter of Intent for a Stand-by Arrangement, approved by the IMF Board on
January 13,1991, and agreed with the Bank, the Nigerian Government had
committed to implement certain sector policies, that would start from the
beginning of 1991. These policies included the elimination of the price differentials
between domestic and realized export prices for all petroleum products, which was
to be completed by mid-1994. As an initial step, the domestic price of gasoline was
raised by 17 percent by the end of March 1991, just prior to the Board's approval
of the Oso loan. However, since then, the Government has shown great reluctance
in implementing the agreed policies, and the price differential between domestic



-36-
Appendix C-4
Page 2 of 5
and imported realized prices for petroleum products not only still remains, but in
real terms is larger now than before.
(c)   Financial Objectives. Nigeria's economy continues to face severe and massive
resource constraints, together with the challenge of balancing its external debt
obligations against the need to rehabilitate its infrastructure and attend to its social
sectors. Therefore, a project such as Oso, designed to contribute significantly to
the country's foreign exchange earnings is of major significance to the economy as
a whole. The Bank s involvement in the project made this possible by catalyzing
foreign lenders, thereby enabling the project to reach a successful implementation.
Revenues from the Oso project began to be generated, as soon as the project was
completed and put into operation on December 15, 1992, when the Oso field came
on-stream with an initial production of 85,000 barrels per day of condensate, soon
increasing to 110,000 barrels per day. The net foreign exchange benefit to Nigeria
from the Oso project (after deducting pre-development investments and foreign
exchange capital costs, operating costs and debt services) will be about US$ 6.0
billion (in 1990 dollars), over the life of the project. The main mechanisms by
which the national economy will benefit from the Oso project are through the
receipt of 60 percent of revenues accruing to NNPC and additionally through
royalties and taxes, which will accrue to the Governrment from production
revenues from NNPC and MPN, totaling over 90 percent of project revenue.
(d)   Institutional Development. The Oso project has also been a vehicle for some
significant institutional developments. First, and as a condition of Board
presentation, the project sponsors, i.e., NNPC and MPN, had to prepare and agree
on the conditions for entering into the first Joint Operating Agreement for
exploration-production (up-stream) operations in Nigeria. This document has
provided the basis for other management arrangements with international
petroleum companies. Secondly, the Oso project has also played a major role in
preparing the first comprehensive environmental impact assessment for petroleum
up-stream operations, which will easily be applicable to other similar projects. But
perhaps, more significantly from an environmental point of view, has been the
capacity of the Oso reservoir and its production systems to accept from the
NNPC/MPN consortium's oil production, virtually all their associated gas. Thirdly,
the Bank has received and reviewed, as a covenant condition, the pricing formulas
worked-out to set the export prices to be obtained from the export of NNPC's
share of condensate production and has accepted NNPC's plans for the marketing
of its condensate production.
(e)   Physical Objectives. The physical objectives of the project were to complete the
construction of the production facilities and the completion of the drilling program
by mid-year 1993. The production facilities, were built, tested and commnissioned
by year-end 1992. The drilling program which consisted in the drilling of 19 wells
(14 producers and 5 injectors), were all completed by mid-year 1992. The long
term physical objectives of the Oso project, were established with the purpose of



-37-
Appendix C-4
Page 3 of 5
increasing by about 8 percent Nigerian hydrocarbons exports starting in 1993.
Recoverable reserves from the reservoir are currently estimated conservatively at
419.6 million barrels of condensate (almost 100 million barrels more than the
original estimate) to be produced over the 21-year life of the project, with a
production profile of 100,000 barrels per day of condensate during the first eight
years, and declining gradually thereafter at a rate of 18 percent per year. Project
implementation, pre-financed with the sponsor's equity, started on July 1, 1990,
with the award of the main producing facilities contract for the eight offshore
platforms. The project was actually completed on December 15, 1992, i.e., six
months ahead of schedule. Currently, the project is producing at a rate of 110,000
barrels per day of condensate, i.e., 10 percent above the original estimate.
(f)    Poverty Reduction. Bank participation in the Oso project rather than reduce
funds available for social and infrastructure projects, has meant that Nigeria will
receive over US$ 600 million per year, as a result of the highly successful
implementation of this project In fact, total gross revenues during the first year of
full production amounted to US$ 618.2 million, calculated at an average price of
US$ 15.4 per barrel. The Government of Nigeria had indicated during project
appraisal that revenues resulting from the project would be devoted to four main
uses: (i) to finance investments in the petroleum sector, aimed at arresting the
petroleum production decline, which had taken place in recent years because of
significant under-investments; (ii) to enhance expenditures in the social sectors,
targeted at the poor and other vulnerable groups, and to improve the country's
physical infrastructure in roads, water supply, etc.; (iii) to build-up the country's
monetary reserves to provide a buffer against fiture reversals in the external
account, and (iv) to reach a more durable accommodation with Nigeria's external
creditors and to reduce internal indebtedness. Given the enclave nature of this
project, it is too early to confinn the usage as defined by the Government but the
presumption of wealth creation for the economy is supported by the success of the
project.
(g)   Gender Issues. Not applicable
(h)   Technology Transfer. The Oso project became a very important vehicle for
promoting technology transfer, not only to the public sector, but also to the private
sector. Thus, after an intensive period of training, it was possible to continue
technical implementation of the project, both at the project site, as well as at
headquarters, with staff and personnel almost exclusively Nigerian, demonstrating
both a significant level of technical and managerial capacity building generated by
the project sponsors. This was possible because actual implementation was done
under very comprehensive joint participation, between MPN and NNPC, in all
aspects of the project.
(i)    Environmental Objectives. The main purpose of the environmental impact study
(EIS) was to identify the most important issues arising out of this project. This



-38-
Appendix C-4
Page 4 of 5
environmental impact study was the first done for a Nigerian project, which has
been complemented by the dramatic environmental benefit that Nigeria derives
from the completion of the project. But, perhaps more significant environmentally,
has been the capacity of the Oso reservoir and its production systems to accept
from the NNPC/MPN consortium's oil production, virtually all their associated
gas. At this time, out of some 500 million cubic feet per day of previouly flared
associated gas, almost 430 million cubic feet per day are being currently reinjected
into the Oso reservoir, and within the next several months 100 percent of all
NNPC/MPN's associated natural gas will cease to be flared. The objectives of the
environmental impact study (EIS) conducted by external consultants on behalf of
the project sponsors were: (i) to identify the existing status of the ambient
environment, prior to project implementation, (ii) to define how the project would
potentially impact the environment, and (iii) to address the requirements the
project sponsors would be responsible for during implementation to avoid or
minimize any potential negative impact. Therefore, the EIS contains the following
information: (i) a detailed description of the current status of the environment,
including the marine and terrestrial portions of the environment in offshore
Nigeria, (ii) the geology and climatology of the region, and (iii) current uses of the
area. The EIS addresses the probable and possible environmental impacts of the
project on the ambient air, sea water, flora and fauna of the region, as well as the
human socio-economic impacts. Where possible negative impacts were identified,
the necessary steps to minimize these impacts, were clearly proposed in the EIS.
An addendum to the EIS consists of the Mobil Producing Nigeria Oil Spill
Contingency Plan, which describes the type of organization and personnel that will
be responsible to respond for the necessary actions to be undertaken in each event,
which clearly indicates who will be involved in case an oil spill occurs and also
who will take over the clean-up operations. These documents also include the
identification and description of the planned measures for the protection of
environmental sensitive sites, such as the mangrove swamps. The consequences of
non-implementation of the project's environmental protection measures are also
addressed in the EIS. Finally, as a result of an overall Safety Audit on the project's
development scheme, which was conducted simultaneously by the Ministry of
Petroleum Resources, NNPC and by Mobil's Hazard and Operability Study Group,
to evaluate the results of the implementation of the measures recommended in the
EIS study, it was found that no long-term adverse effects could be foreseen, and
during project implementation no ill effects to the environment were detected.
(j)    Public Sector Management. The revenues generated by the Oso Condensate
Field Development Project, consisting of royalty and petroleum profit tax
payments and the Government's share of after-tax profits, will be paid into the
Federation Account, for sharing among the three levels of Government, and are
also to be distributed into a set of special funds, as it is the case with other joint
venture projects in the petroleum sector.



-39-
Appendir C4
Page 5 of 5
(k)   Private Sector Development. Mobil Producing Nigeria, the lead operator of the
project is a Nigerian, privately registered company. The project team was lead by a
senior Nigerian in Mobil and the entire team was predominantly Nigerian. This
project involved the complex organization of technology, international
procurement and technical management. All of which are being continued under
the operational requirements of the project.



NETHERLAND, SEWELL & ASSOCIATES, INC.
I~~~~~~   A ton   X ,1 c, ElcoX A
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ If Ho' 01 -1
|EPA  TCOMPEX/ATION   COPLANT
AREA OF               C      OASTERIA
INTERE8T
OMPLEX~~~~TiE OPLI
YOHO  COMPLEEE  /
ASABO COMPLEX ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~  CMPE
', *I.Lo.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~31119
EKECMPLEX                            ETIM UOM LE
WA(~AP oCIt. -
MOSIL ~     --- PAODUC  EPNSOS OPPEIES  NDFCIIIE 
,V0HO COMPLEX    LICANSI SO4JNOARY                                  MAP OF COASTAL NIGERIA
-_1110"90                                                            PROPD.  SNOWING LOCATION OF
050 FIELD
AND
EXITIN GA  IENOTESEUMAKE-UP GAS SUPPLY FIELDS,
PWIIOOSED EXPANSIOS TO     PIEIES  N   ACLTE
GAS GATHERIN SYSTEMPIEIE,ADFCLTS
FOR
PROPOSED 050 NGL PROJECT             0
IrPI



Exhibit 1
OSO FIELD
, t-~ A,    >            .                        QOUA IBOE
TERMINAL
40I I. bI&AW C
Ok- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
W   E I1.1 14E A   D)   11'"  t .EX
_  _=  _ ;_ 4         COMPHEtUioIIo                         .t              }jk2S
WELI IIEAO} l   AXX            lG_          'ilNsslO  -
--   --   -    -    -   - -    -   -
HI)
PHOOIJ. 19(;4.     Wtiil tlA iu^s G
QuAh'trIi.s  HP                                               ('
EDOP >   EOP
no~P                      * A                     ___
pp ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A
OSO FIELD CONDENSATE                   o 
DEVELOPEENT PROJECT



