Document of
THE WORLD BANK
AND
I'TERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/' A            <1d / /~  ( A/ /
Report No. 8245-UNI
IFC/T-1077
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 10, 1991
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department, World Bank
Division 2
Department of Investments, Africa 2, IFC
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Februaty 1991)
US$1 = 19.570
Nl   = US$0.105
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bbl           US barrel (42 US gallons)
bcpd     =   barrels of condensate per day
bpd           barrels per day
bpsd     =   barrels per stream day (330 days per year)
C*Wh     =   gigawatt-hour
kWh      =   kilowatt-hour
mbbl     =   thousand barrels
mbpd     =   thousand barrels per day
mmbbl    =   million barrels
mmbpd   =   mill'on barrels per day
MMSCFD  =   million standard cubic feet per day
mmstb   =   million stock tank barrels
MSCFD   =   thousand standard cubic feet per day
MW       =   megawatts
psia     =   pounds per square inch (absolute)
SCF      =   standard cubic feet (natural gas)
SCFD     =   standard cubic feet per day
t        =   metric ton (1,000 kilograms)
toe           tcn of oil equivalent
tpa      =   metric tons per annum
tpd      =   tons per day
tpy      =   tons per year
TSCF     =   trillion standard cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS
ADL    Arthur D. Little, Inc.             MOC       Mobil Oil Corporation
API    American Petroleum Institute       MOU       Memorandum of Understanding
ECA    Export Credit Agency               MPN       Mobil Producing Nigeria
EIB    European Investment Bank           MPR       Ministry of Petroleum Resources
ERR    Economic Rate of Return            MRDC      Mobil Research and Development
FGN    Federal Government of Nigeria                        Corporation
FYRR   Financial Internal Rate of Return  NAPIMS   National Petroleum Investment
IOC    International Oil Companies                          Management Services
Japan                                     NEPA      National Electric Power Authority
Exim  Export-Import Bank of Japan        NNPC      Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
LPG    Liquified Petroleum Gas            NSA       Netherlands, Sewell A Associates, Inc.
LRMC   Long-Run Marginal Cost             OML       Oil Mining Lease
MDNI   Mobil Development Nigeria, Inc.    OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting
MENI   Mobil Exploration Nigeria, Inc.                      Countries
MEPSI  Mobil Exploration and Producing    SAP       Structural Adjustment Program
Services, Inc.                  SBU       Strategic Business Unit
US Exim  Export-Import Bank of the United States
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA            FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................................   l v
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........    .................................   1
II.  THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING ......     ........................  1
III. THE ENERGY SECTOR ........     ..............................  4
A. Energy Consumption .                                        4
B.   Energy Resources and Production .....    ..............   5
C.   Institutional Framework ......     .....................  6
D.  Energy Pricing ..................,                         8
E.   Bank's Role in the Sector ......     ...................  9
IV.  THE PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR .......     .........................  11
A.   OPEC Quotas and Nigeria's Share ...  ..............      11
B.  Refining Facilities, Product Supplies
and Distribution ..........................          13
C.  The Institutional Framework .............    .........    14
D.  The Legal Framework ......      .........................  14
E.   Fiscal Regime ........     .............................  15
V.   THE PROJECT SPONSORS .......     ............................  16
A.  The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation   .......     16
1.  Commercialization ......      ......................  17
2.  Management and Organization .....     .............  le
3.  Accounting Systems ......      .....................  19
4.  External and Internal Auditing ....    ...........   20
5.  Financial Situation and Prospects .... ........      20
B.  Mobil Producing Nigeria ............. ..............      21
1.  Ownership and Legal Structure ....    ............   21
2.  Management  ...................................      21
3.  Financial Situation and Prospects ....   ........    22
C.   The Joint Venture .......     ..........................  23
1.  The Oil Mining Leases .....      ...................  23
2.  The Participation Agreement .....     .............  24
This joint report was prepared by Tei Mante (Task Manager for IFC), Ziad
Alahdad (Task Manager for IBRD), Sita Ramaswami and John Wilson (IFC). The
report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (October 1988) and
post appraisal mission (October 1989) to Nigeria, led by Tei Mante (IFC)
and Ziad Alahdad (IBRD), respectively. Surendra Agarwal (IBRD) provided
operational guidance and Gilbert Hunt (IFC) provided technical advice.
Secretarial support was provided by Eleanor George, Pamela Blyther and Mary
Keane. The Division Chief and the Department Director for IBRD are Mary
Oakes Smith and Edwin Lim. For IFC. the Division Manager and Director are
Tei Mante and M.A.K. Alizai.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank/IFC authorization.



_ ii. -
Paso No.
3.   The Joint Operating Agreement ................*0           24
4.   Memorandum of Understanding on Fiscal
Incentives *.. .... o.o..*.*.... .....*....           24
5.   Oso Field Development Project Agreement                    25
VI.  THE PROJECT. ........ .         * ..       *** **  * .......oo.*      25
A.   Project Concept  ...............* ...                            25
B.   Project Description . . ...........   ....... . . .    . o4      25
C.   Existing Facilities            ................o....             26
D.   The Oso Reservoirs  * .,......044,o .*.....o.o .....             26
E.   Estimation of Recoverable Reserves                               27
F.   Project Implementation and Timetable ............. o             27
G.   Environmental Considerations             ..............          28
VII. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN..,...................                 31
A.   Project Cost Estimate                                            31
B.   Pre-Development Costs .....33
C.   Unit Costs ...  ..0....0..  00  .                                34
Do   Insurance              ....  #.oo.  ..oooo.34
E.   Financing Plan  .        ..... .... ..-.**40                     34
Fo   Procurement ....... . ...... . ... . ..     .                   37
G.   Disbursement of IBRD Funds  o...  .....o........o...*           38
VIII. MARKET CONSIDERATIONS o ..         .    * ...   . . .... ..     .    40
A.   Introduction .......         *.**,,.0  .      ..     ..         40
B.   World Oil Production and Price Outlook ............              41
C.   World Condensate Supply and Demand ...............              42
D.   Oso Condensate Quality and Yield Characteristics ..              43
E.   Oso Marketing Opportunities ................... o...             43
F.   Transportation .............. ....o........                      43
G.   Valuation and Price Assumptions ...........*.......              44
H.   Offtake and Pricing Arrangements 40444...4....44                 44
IX.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION  ...... ...,....*......**,**                     45
A.   Forecast Production Profile 4......S.............                45
B.   Projected Profitability and
Rate of Return ......                  o.o ........... .      46
C.   Net Cash Flow Prospects and Loan
Evaluation .  0..0........*..0. o                             47
D.   Margin Analysis      .         o         4.4. 0444000444        47
E.   Sensitivity Analysis    .....          .............             48



- iii -
Pag No.
X.  ECONOMIC IMPACT AND RISKS .... .................. .... . . . . .  48
A.  Project Justification and Benefits ............ ...      48
B.  Sensitivity Analysis ......     ...........................  49
C.  Risks ................. ..,....,...   .............   49
1.  Completiuft and Reservoir Performance ..*.....      49
2.  Price  ........... .... 0.. . ...............       50
3.  OPEC  Quota  ..............  .............. . *     SO
XI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
ON THE IBRD LOAN ................ ,.       .......           51
ANNEXES
Annex 4-1     Distribution of OPEC Production Quotas
Annex 4-2     World Oil Output by Economic Regions
Annex 5-1     NNPC: Organization Structure
Annex 5-2     NNPC: Historical Financial Statements
Annex 5-3     MPN:  Historical Financial Statements
Annex 5-4     Oso Project:  Contractual Basis
Annex 6-1     Project Description
Annex 6-2     Oso Reserve Estimates
Annex 6-3     Project Schedule
Annex 7-1     Project Cost Estimates
Annex 7-2     Project Costs and Finance Plan
Annex 8-1     OPEC Definition of Condensate
Annex 8-2     World Condensate Supply and Demand
Annex 8-3     Oso Quality and Yield Characteristics
Annex 8-4     Oso !'rice Projections
Annex 9-1     Financial Analysis
Annex 9-2      Sensitivity Analysis
Annex 10-1    Economic Return and Disttibution of Benefits
Annex 10-2    Direct Foreign Exchange Benefits
Annex 11       Selected Documents and Data Available in
the Project File
Diagrams
W46252        Nigeria:  Field Locations
W46252b       Oso Field Development Schematic



-iv_
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOANS AND PROJECT SUMMARY
IBRs, Laan:
Borrower:         Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC).
Guarantor:        Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN).
Amount:           US$218 million equivalent.
Terms:            Nineteen years including five years grace per!od at
the Bank standard variable interest rate. FGN would
guarRntee the loan and NNPC would pay a guarantee fee
to 1vN equal to 1OX of the Bank interest rate.
Additionally NNPC would bear the foreign exchange
risk.
IFC A Loan (IFC Own Account):
Borrower:         Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN)
Amount and
Currency:         US$75 million.
Maturities         10 equal semi-annual installments commencing April 15,
199 '.
Interest 'Rate:    Variable rate equivalent to 1.5? over 6 months LIBOR.
Commitment Fee:   1/2X per annum -n the undisbursed amount of the A loan
commencing to accrue 30 days from approval of the
investment by the IFC Board.
Front-end Fee:    lZ of the total amount of the A Loan.
IFC B Loan (For the Account of Participants):
Borrower:         Mobil Producing Nigeria
Amount and
Currency.         US$95 million.
Maturities:        10 equal semi-annual installments commencing April 15,
1994.
Interest Rates:   Variable rate equivalent to 1? over 6 months LIBOR.
Commitment Fee:   1/2X per annum on the undisbursed amount of the B loan
commencing to accrue on the date of signature of IFC
participation agreements.
Front-end Fee:   1  of the total amount of the B loan.



v
Project
Description:         The main objective of the project is to increase
Nigerian hydrocarbon exports by about 82 as of 1993,
resulting in significant additional foreign exchange
earnings for the country. The project will consist of
the commercial development of the Oso Condensate field
jointly owned by NNPC (602) and Mobil Producing
Nigeria - MPN (402). The field is located in the
sponsors' Oil Mining Lease no. 70, situated 12 miLes
off-shore south-eastern Nigeria. Recoverable reserves
from the reservoir to be developed under the project,
are estimated conservatively at 330 million barrels
over the 21-year life of the project, with a
production profile of 100,000 bpd during the first
three to four years, and declining gradually
thereafter. Project implementation, pre-financed with
sponsors' equity, started on July 1, 1990, following
the award of the miain facilities contract. Condensate
production is expected to commence by mid-1993. The
facilities will consist of eight off-shore platforms
for well-heads, production facilities, gas compression
and living quarters; 120 miles of subsea pipelines for
condensate and gas; onshore condensate storage and
metering systems; and an offshore tanker loading
facility for condensate. The drilling program
consists of 19 wells, which includes gas reinjection
and production wells.
Rationale for
Bank Group
Involvement:         Prevailing economic conditions in Nigeria are such
that external financing is difficult to obtain, even
for export-oriented investments with high r ;turns like
the Oso Field Project, despite the substant±ve program
of macroeconomic reforms undertaken by the Nigerian
Government with the support of the Bank and the IMF.
The participation of the Bank in the financing of the
project is essential to triggering the resumption of
urgently needed financial flows into the country trom
export credit agencies and international commercial
banks. In addition to the Bank loan to NNPC, the
project would be supported by an IFC loan to MPN.
Preparation has been undertaken jointly by the two
institutions.
Benefits:            Revenues from the Project are expected to begin by
mid-1993. The net foreign exchange benefit to Nigeria
--after foreign exchange capital costs, operating
costs and debt service--is US$5.1 billion (1990
prices) over the life of the project. The economic
rate of return (ERR) is 51%. The main mechanism by
which the national economy will benefit from the
Project is the royalties and taxation receipts that
will accrue to the Government. The split of



- vi -
discounted net benefits between the domestic economy
and foreign investors is expected to be 96:/42.
Risks:               As with most field development projects, the main
risks are project completion and reservoir
performance. By procuring the main facilities on a
fixed price turnkey basis from an experienced
contractor, the physical completion risk is minimized.
On reservoir performance, chere has been extensive and
detailed snalysis of seismic and sub-surface data.
Well logs, core data and well test data indicate that
the proposed production and recovery rates are within
reasonable levels. Under the direction of a task
force comprising NNPC and Mobil Oil Corporation
affiliates, field operations will be managed by an
experienced operator, MPN.
Volatility of oil pricer  institutes another risk.
Price forecasts indicate that, after the effects of
the Gulf crisis subside, oil prices will increase
during the 19909:. However, unpredictable developments
could take place. Sensitivity analysis indicates that
a major collapse of oil prices to an average of about
USS6/bbl would have to occur before operating expenses
and debt service payments are affected. Pr'ces have
not fallen to this level in the past decade.
The third risk stems from the possibility of Oso
production cutbacks in the event that 080 output is
classified as crude oil by OPEC and therefore is
subject to OPEC quotas. This scenario has been
examined and it is concluded that, even if Oso is
classified as crude, it could be brought on production
as proposed without Nigeria exceeding its projected
OPEC quotas.
Economic Rate
of Return:           512



-  vii  -
Estimated Cost:                      Loctl            Foreign         Total
------ -- (US$ million)-
Facilities                               27             469             496
Development Drilling                     35             152             187
Pre-operating Expenses                   11              64              75
Import Duties                            45               0              45
Financing Costs                           3               7              10
Interest During Construction              0              72              72
TOTAL                               121              764             885
Firiancing Plan:                         NNPC           MPN             Total
---------------(USS millions)----------
Debt
IBRD                                     218             0              218
IFC                                        0            75               75
EIB                                       65             0               65
JapanExim                                 47             0               47
USExim                                     0            95               95
Commercial Banks                           0            95 1/            95
Sub-total                            330           265               595
Equity                                   190           100              290
TOTAL                                520           365               885
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year
1991      1992       1993       1994
…(US$ millions)---------
Bank Loan
Annual                      56        97         57          8
Cumulative                 56        153        210        218
IFC A Loan
Annual                      18        34         20          3
Cumulative                 18         52         72         75
IFC B Loan
Annual                      23        43         25          4
Cumulative                 23         66         91         95
1/   The US$95 million of commercial bank loans to MPN will be structured
as participations in an IFC "B" loan.



FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Mobil
Producing Nigeria (MPN), joint venture partners holding respectively 602
and 401 undivided interests, are undertaking the commercial development of
the Oso field, located some 12 miles (19.3 kilometers) offshore Akwa Ibom
state in south-eastern Nigeria, to bring into peak production about 100,000
barrels of condensate per day (bcpd), a liouid hydrocarbon that occurs with
associated gas. Project implementation is expec;ed to take 34 months, with
targeted prodtnction start up by mid-1993, and the project cost is estimated
at US$885 million.
1.02      NNPC and MPN are each seeking financing for their respective
shares of the project cost (US$520 million for NNPC and US$365 million for
MPN), and have jointly approached multilateral and commercial sources,
inrluding IBRD and IFC for financing.  This would represent the first
project financing for a petroleum development project in Nigeria, and
because commercial financing is not easily available for Nigeria from the
international capital markets at this time, World Bank Group (IBRD/IFC)
n.'port is essential to catalyze the mobilization of cofinancing from
e)  :t credit agencies (ECAs), commercial banks and other development
banks. To mobilize such cofinancing, substantial World Bank Group
financing, consisting of an IBRD loan of US$218 million for NNPC, and an
IFC loan of US$75 million for MPN, is proposed for the project.
1.03      The Oso Project would have a quick and substantial incremental
impact on Nigeria's foreign exchange earnings from exports. Oso liquid
hydrocarbons, with American Petroleum Institute (API) gravity in the range
of 47-520, are expected to be classified as condensates by the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and therefore be exported in
addition to Nigeria'e crude export quotas. During the life of the project,
the Oso field is estimated to cumulatively generate US$5.1 billion (in
constant 1990 dollars) of net additional foreign exchange benefits for
Nigeria, a substantial portion of which (US$3.1 billion) will be generated
in its first six years of production. Implementing the project at this
time will help Nigeria increase its resources available to finance economic
growth and service its external indebtedness. The Project therefore has
the strong support of the Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN).
II. THE MACROECONOMIC SETTING
2.01      Nigeria is a country of considerable mineral wealth and
potential for diversified development. It is a major oil producer, with
petroleum accounting for over 30% of total GDP (1987 prices) and 90% of
exports.  There are also vast reserves of natural gas, although, in
relation to the potential, little is being exploited at present.
Agricultural production accounts for about 30% of GDP and provides
employment for over half the labor force.



- 2-
2.0Z      Buoyant oil revenues in the 1970s provided Nigeria with the
basis for large increases in Government expenditures designed to expand
infrastr"t,ure and non-oil productive capacity. Manufacturing production
increased rapidly during this period. But because of tariff-distorted
incentives, much of the expansion was in import-dependent, assembly-type
activities that contributed little to local value-added and employment.
lhe manufacturing sector now accounts for less than 10% of total GDP and
employment. Services, which account for over 252 of GDP, are dominated by
wholesale and retail trade.
2.03      In the 1970s, sharply rising oil revenues boosted the value of
Nigerian exports and per capita GNP.  This procqs was reversed in the
1980s as the oil market progressively weakened. Sizeable external and
fiscal imbalances emerged. The current account deficit reached 6? of GDP
in 1983 and the fiscal deficit was twice that amount. These deficits were
financed by public sector borrowing, a rundown of international reserves,
and a large-scale accumulation of arrears on external trade payments. In
1984, the authorities began to implement measures to redress the deficits.
Budgetary expenditares were slashed and administrative controls over
imports -- in the form of import licenses and prohibitions against imports
of many items -- were tightened, resulting in drastic reductions in
imports, but at the same time also multiplying the inefficiencies that had
developed during the period of strong oil revenues. Production in most
sectors fell sharply. Nigeria's GNP per capita is estimated to have fallen
to around US$250 in 1989.
2.04      The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) combined exchange rate
and trade policy reforms with stabilization policies designed to restore
balance of payments equilibrium and price stability. Considerable stress
was laid on shrinking the public sector and improving its efficiency.
Although the SAP formally ended ir- June 1988, the Government reaffirmed its
commitment to the program and has continued to take steps to strengthen and
consolidate it.
2.05      Over the past four years, the focus of the Government's
structural policies has been on reorlenting public expenditures,
privatization and commercialization of public enterprises, financial sector
reforms, restzucturing incentives for private sector development and
streamlining the regulatory environment for private investment.
Notwithstanding a brief period of expansionary policies in the early part
of 1988 in an attempt to accelerate economic growth, progress has also been
made in reducing macroeconomic imbalances.
2.06      There is considerable evidence throughout the economy of
program-related changes.  After falling by over 3% in 1987 due mainly to
the effects of bad weather on agricultural output, non-oil GDP recorded
positive, albeit modest, growth rates in 1988 and 1989. Preliminary
estimates indicate a further acceleration in non-oil GDP growth to close to
4Z in 1990. The reforms of the foreign trade system combined with a more
realistic exchange rate have rationalized the incentive framework. As a
result, there is now a more economically rational allocation of foreign
exchange across competing uses. In general, however, the private sector's
investment response to the adjustment program has been muted. This is due
partly to uncertainty regarding the sustainability of the Governm¢nt's
adjustment measures, in particular after the scheduled transfer of power to
a civilian government in 1992.



2.07      Despite the progress made to date, much remains to be done to
overcome the severe structural and institutional problems left as a legacy
of past policies, and to promote a resumption of growth in per capita
income. ln the short-term, the Government is placing priority on locking
in the process of financial sector reform, completion of the privatization
program, and achieving a more durable solution to the external debt
situation. The resumption of per capita income growth over the medium-term
requires that some major constraints resulting from past policies be
removed. Private sector investment confidence needs to be restored. This
will require the Government to pursue a steady course of structural reform
and to maintain macroeconomic stability.  Long-term challenges '.clude the
reduction of population growth rate and reversal of the current trend of
environmental degradation. The Government has recognized the importance of
reducing the population growth rate, and a comprehensive population policy
was launched in 1989.
2.08      In the immediate future, the challenge of sustaining the reform
process, while maintaining responsibie fiscal and monetary policies and
managing the transition to civilian rule, has been complicated by the
impact of the Gulf crisis on oil markets. The size and durability of any
resulting revenue windfall to Nigeria remain uncertain. But the benefits
to Nigeria are likely to be temporary and have little medium- or long-term
effect on the underlying economic realities.
2.09      Even though recent reschedulings have reduced Nigeria's debt
service burden, the Government will continue to face the challenge of
balancing external debt service obligations against the need to increase
imports to allow resumption of growth and rehabilitation of the
infrastructure and social sectors. The increase in oil export revenues
following the Gulf crisis will improve Nigeria's financial situation; but
for the medium-term, the size of any likely windfall income from higher oil
prices, even if the Gulf crisis persists, will be dwarfed by the volume of
outstanding external debt, which currently amounts to US$33 billion. This
underscores the critical importance of implementing high foreign exchange
earning projects such as Oso as a means of reducing this debt burden and
enhancing Nigeria's ability to finance its public expenditure programs.
2.10      In recent years, World Bank assistance has been targeted on all
the principal sectors of the economy, even while the overall program has
contained large structural adjustment operations. The FY90 commitment of
over US$600 million included operations in the education, health,
agriculture, infrastructure and telecommunication subsectors. In the
futtre, the program is expected to focus on sector loans and traditional
sector investment operations. IDA resources have been made available since
Nigeria was declared IDA-eligible in 1988. IDA eligibility has helped
galvanize support from the international donor community, laying the
groundwork for the convening of a consultative group meeting for Nigeria in
November 1989.
2.11      A multi-year rescheduling agreement between Nigeria and its
commercial bank creditors (London Club) became effective in June 1989. The
Government kept up with the agreed schedule of payments until May 1990,
when interest payments were restricted to levels consistent with a debt
service reduction proposal made to the banks i-a March of that year.



-4-
Negotiations on the proposal are still under way. Nigeria negotiated its
third rescheduling with its Paris Club group of creditors and an agreement
was signed in January 1991.
III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. Energy Consumption
3.01      Annual consumption of energy in Nigeria is estimated to be 20
million tons of oil equivalent (toe), of which commercial energy accounts
for about 60%. Petroleum products make up about 702 of commercial energy
consunrntion while the rest consists of natural gas (20%), hydro and coal
(lO?).
3.02      Consumption of petroleum products increased at an average rate
of 13.5Z per annum from 3.9 million tons in 1976, to a peak of 9.5 million
tons in 1983 and thereafter gradually declined to 8.5 million tons in 1987.
Gasoline and gas oil together account for about 60X of total petroleum
consumption in Nigeria; kerosene, mainly used as a household fuel, accounts
for another 22?. In order to maximize export of its crude oil, the
Government is pursuing a policy of substituting liquid fuels with gas to
meet tbe domestic needs of large-volume power and industry users, whenever
technically and economically feasible. Domestic consumption of natural ges
is about 600 MMSCFD. Present consumption of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG)
is about 90,000 tons per year (tpy). However, the potential for its use is
much greater and steps are underway to develop the necessary distribution
infrastructure to achieve increased utilization (see para 3.10 below).
3.03      Electric power consumption, although low for a country with a
population of 105 million, grew rapidly at an annual rate of over 14Z
between 1974 and 1980, and thereafter slowed down to a 62 per annum growth
rate between 1980 and 1987, reaching 7,500 GWh in 1987   During the decade
ending in 1987, the number of electricity consumers rose threefold to a
total of two million. With the development of internal petroleum resources
in the late 1950s, the consumption of coal declined sharply and presently
stands at about 120,000 tons. Potential consumption and output could total
as much as one million tons, However, any long-term commitments towards
the enhanced development and utilization of coal resources must be preceded
by a comprehensive evaluation of the role and relative economics of coal
vis-a-vis other energy sources.
3.04      Overall, the average per capita consumption of energy in Nigeria
is low (0.19 toe). This is mainly because commercial energy use is
concentrated in the relatively small but rapidly growing modern sector,
while the major fuels used in rural and many low-income urban households
(woodfuels and crop residues) contribute about 40% of total energy
consumption. The rapid growth in commercial energy consumption reflects
the fundamental structural change from an agricultural society to-wards an
urban-based one which has a greater reliance on commercial fuels. With the
projected increase in the proportion of urban population, commercial energy
is expected to continue growing. This will mean higher demands for



- 5 -
commercial household fuels such as kerosene, LPG, natural gas and
electricity.
B. Energy Resources and Production
3.05      Nigeria's substantial and diversified energy resources include
oil, natural gas, hydropower, coal, woodfuels and agricultural residues.
Since the first discovery of oil in 1956, Nigeria has become one of the
world's leading oil-exporting countries. Recoverable oil reserves, onshore
and offshore in the Niger River delta, amount to between 14 to 16 billion
barrels, and undiscovered recoverable oil reserves may reach an additional
7 billion barrels. Nigeria's oil production reached a maximum in 1979 at
2.3 mmbpd. Since then, production has declined due to market factors such
as OPEC pricing guidelines and quotas as well as declining producibility of
existing fields. In recent years, oil production including condensates has
been as followst
Year               Average Production
(mmbpd)
1985                       1.499
1986                       1.468
1987                       1.323
1988                       1.449
1989                       1.600
During 1989, about 80,000 barrels per day of condensate were produced
outside of OPEC quotas. Future oil production is likely to be insufficient
to meet projected OPEC quotas in the 1990s unless the level of investment
is significantly enhanced to add production facilities and increase the
level of proved developed reserves.
3.06      Recoverable natural gas reserves are estimated at about 85
trillion standard cubic feet (TSCF), consisting of roughly equal amounts of
associated and non-associated gas. Recoverable undiscovered gas reserves
are estimated at 65 TSCF, two thirds of which would probably be in the form
of non-associated gas.
3.07      The country's hydroelectric power resources total over 11,000 MW
in terms of technically feasible potential. Current installed hydro
capacity, with the recent commissioning of the Shiroro project, amounts to
about 1,900 MW. Potential future projects identified by the Nigerian
Electric Power Authority (NEPA) include Zungeru (950 MW), Mambilla (2,600
MW), and Katsina-Ala (260 MW), together with several small-hydro projects.
The feasibility of any new major hydropower projects would need to be
evaluated taking into account other potentially more economic power
sources, particularly natural gas. The total installed power capacity of
NEPA, both hydro and thermal generation is about 6,000 MW. In addition,
there is a significant amount of captive private generation capacity,
mainly as a back-up for NEPA. Maximum system demand is about 2,200 MW and
the energy generated is over 11,000 GWh with power sales of about 7,500
GWh.



3.08      The most recent estimates of proven, indicated, and inferred
coal reserves range between 270 and 980 million tons which are located in
the upper southeast of the country. Output reached a peak of more than
900,000 tons per year in the late 1950s.  Interrupted completely during the
internal disturbances in 1968-69. production never fully recovered. Only
117,000 tons were produced in 1987.
3.09      The principal source of energy for the rural population is
woodfuel supplemented by crop residues and dung in the dry central and
northern regions. Woodfuel is in relatively short supply. Total anr.tlal
consumption has been conservatively estimated at 15 million cubic meters
(m3), against an estimated incremental annual supply from all sources
(forest reserves and farm lands) of only about 10 million m3. The growing
imbalance between demand and supply, in keeping with population growth,
indicates ant increasing trend of deforestation.  It is estimated that,
excluding forest reserves, the standing volume of tree stocks represents
less than 10 years' supply at the current level of consumption. The
scarcity of woodfuel is unevenly distributed. While supply is generally
ample in the forested regions of the south, increasingly severe resource
constraints are being encountered in the dry central and northern regions
as well as in the vicinity of urban areas.
3.10      The outlook for use of LPG in Nigeria's transport sector and in
households appears promising. Nigerian refineries have the capacity to
produce over 350,000 tons per year (tpy) of LPG, and possible expansion of
basic and cracking capacity could increase this to about 450,000 tpy.
Additional quantities of LPG could also be extracted from .atural gas
streams. As stated earlier, current consumption averages 90,000 tpy. Part
of it is met by imports because of frequent supply interruptions from the
refineries. Although the potential for expanding the market is
significant, a substantial amount of the LPG now being produced at
refineries is being flared because of an inadequate distribution network.
In response to this situation, the Government is actively pursuing a three-
phase LPG distribution and storage development program which will result in
the establishment of nine depots in various parts of the country.
Engineering for the first phase (for three depots and ancillary facilities
at Lagos, Kano and Yombe) is expected to be initiated shortly.
C. Institutional Framework
3.11      While Nigeria has a predominantly private market economy,
Government institutions and corporations play a dominant role in the
various energy supply sectors. This is particularly true in electricity
and coal, where the Government has a near monopoly through NEPA and the
Nigerian Coal Corporation. The same applies, although to a lesser degree,
in petroleum exploration, development and marketing. The Nigerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), through its joint venture group, National
Petroleum Investment Management services (NAPIMS), is responsible for oil
exploration and development and the marketing of crude. All four existing
domestic refineries, including the recently commissioned refinery at Port
Harcourt, are owned and operated by NNPC. Of the eight major petroleum
marketing companies, three (African Petroleum, National and Unipetrol) are
controlled by NNPC. Together they hold a market share of about 34% for
gasoline, kerosene and gas oil and about 492 for other products (fuel oils,
base 3ils, asphalt). The other five (Agip, Mobil, Texaco, Total and Elf)
are subsidiaries of international oil companies (IOCs) and have majority



- 7 -
ownership by Nigerian nationals (60?). They hold a market share of about
43Z for gasoline, kerosene, gas oil and about 512 for other products. The
remaining market share is held by small indepencbnt companies. Of the
small LPG market, 75? is shared by 11 Nigerian distribution companies; the
rest is held by small independent operators.
3.12      During its early years, NNPC mainly oversaw state participation
in the oil companies. However, in recent years, it has taken a more active
role in exploration, refining and marketing. NNPC is now in the process of
being decentralized and commercialized. As a consequence, individual units
are expected to be given more autonomy, and the organization in respect of
its own group operations will eventually no longer be dependent upon FGN
for capital funding. NNPC will be expected to raise loans on its own from
commercial banks and other financial institutions within and outside
Nigeria to finance its investment program. It would also be able to set
prices for its products on the basis of commercial considerations.
3.13      In the power sector, UEPA generates and distributes most of the
public supply of electricity. NEPt was created in 1972 through the merger
of the Electricity Corporation of Nigeria and the Niger Dams Authority,
under the National Electric Power Decree, giving it the monopoly to
generate, transmit and distribute electricity throughout the country. NEPA
operates under the general supervision of the Federal Ministry of Mines,
Power and Steel (FMMPS). In recent years, the quality of NEPA's service to
its customers has not been up to standard. As a result, a large
autogeneration capacity has been built up in the country by customers
unable to obtain adequate and reliable supply of power.
3.14      Following NNPC's commercialization, and the Government's
decision to privatize and commercialize some 135 parastatals, the
Government has decided to implement a partial commercialization program of
NEPA as well. A sub-committee of the Technical Committee for
Commercialization and Privatization has examined the various options
available, and its recommendations are now being considered by the
Government. Although it is anticipated that NEPA, as a public utility,
would not be fully self-sufficient financially for its investment program,
it will nevertheless receive full autonomy in several critical areas,
notably in compensation policy, tariff setting, and in determining its
capital expenditure program. The Government also intends to restructure
NEPA's management, and a new organizational chart has already been
approved.
3.15      The administration of forest lands is a state responsibility.
FGN's Department of Forestry mainly plays an advisory, investment-financing
and coordinating role.
3.16      Energy Planning and Policy Formulation.  The divergence of
interests between the states and the various federal organizations has made
it very difficult to evolve a coordinated energy strategy based on rational
economic criteria. The office of the Special Advisor to the President on
Petroleum and Energy, which used to perform coordinating functions, was
abolished in 1984. FGN has recently set up a National Energy Commission
under the Ministry of Science and Technology in an attempt to fill this
gap. Once fully staffed, the National Energy Commission is expected to
coordinate energy policy and planning in Nigeria.



3.17      Hence, in the absence of a specific energy ministry at the
federal level, a clear-cut energy policy has yet to emerge. In general,
however, the Government's energy sector priorities are increasingly
concerned with (a) the preservation of oil reserves for export; (b) the
channelling of energy sector investments into least-cost power sector
programs and into hydrocarbon projects which earn foreign exchange; and (c)
ensuring that energy prices gradually evolve to approach their economic
opportunity costs.
D. Energy Pricing
3.18      Energy prices in Nigeria are determined by the Federal
Government through parastatal entities such as NNPC and NEPA. There has
been a tendency to set energy prices at levels well below their economic
opportunity costs which has created distortions in resource allocation.
3.19      Low domestic petroleum prices meant an implicit subsidy to
domestic consumers, which has encouraged smuggling of petroleum products to
neighboring countries. After six years, in January 1986, product prices
were revised and brought up to international levels. By late 1986, a
substantial economic subsidy had reemerged mainly as a result of the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate system and the large depreciation of
the Naira which followed. With effect from April 1, 1988, NNPC raised
prices for petroleum products as followss 6? for gasoline, 124X for
kerosene, 375? for aviation fuel, 18X for diesel oil, 58? for fuel oil, 21?
for engine oil, and 160X for base oil used in the manufacture of
lubricants. This raised the price of kerosene to 23? of the -,orld market
price, diesel to 571 and gasoline 60?. The price of gasoline was increased
further by another 432 effective January 1989 for private cars and January
1990 for other vehicles. However, the Naira has depreciated further since
the April 1988 price revision, as a result of which, by mid-1989, product
prices as percentage of international prices were: 131 for kerosene, 272
for diesel and 502 for premium motor spirit.
3.20      Elimination of the subsidy would need to be carried out in a
phased manner in order to minimize hardship to the urban and rural poor
households which rely heavily on the use of household kerosene. The
Government's plans for improving urban mass transit systems particularly
for the poor, would also need to be taken into account. Hence, the
reduction of subsidy would need to be coordinated with investments in
alternative fuel sources (such as LPG) and in road systems, taking into
account the impact of increased costs on the final consumer.
3.21      Natural gas is the lowest cost fuel on a neat equivalent basis
for high volume uses in urban areas. For many years, customers were served
by NNPC-Shell under price agreements signed 15-20 years ago. New customers
-- Delta Steel, and NEPA's Sapele and Afam plants -- were being served
without formal sales agreements, and prices were under dispute.
Subsequently, an inter-agency committee of NNPC and major gas consumers,
under the Federal Ministry of Petroleum, was established to administer
natural gas pricing and other issues. The price of gas did not reflect
economic costs and thus did not permit a profitable expansion of the gas
sector. A pricing policy for natural gas based upon the economic costs of
supply is now being developed. NNPC has negotiated a new price for gas
with NEPA for its Egbin power plant, at about N5.24 per MSCF. At this
price, gas production is rendered profitable.



- 9 -
3.22      Electricity tariffs had remained unchanged since 1979, when they
were raised to about 7 kobos/kWh (weighted average). At that level, they
represented only about one-sixth of the long-run marginal cost of supply,
and were totally inadequate to cover even the cash operating costs of
generating, transmitting and distributing power. Following extensive
discussions between the Bank and NEPA in the context of the Power System
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, and in accordance with the
Government's decision to partially commercialize NEPA, electricity tariffs
have been raised in mid-1989 to a weighted average of about 22.8 kobos/kWh.
E. Bank's Role in the Sector
3.23      The Bank's involvement in energy in Nigeria has been at several
levels: sectoral, subsectoral and at the level of individual projects.
The Bank's sectoral involvemea.t started with the Bank(UNDP Energy
Assessment which issued its report in 1983. This report identified the
main issues in the energy sector, identified options for the development
and utilization of energy resources, analysed investment priorities,
recommended an institutional framework for managing the sector and defined
the technical assistance necessary for supporting the least-cost
development of the sector. The Bank's sectoral efforts have increased
awareness within the Nigerian Government of the need to resolve complex
energy-related issues, including the need for energy price adjustments.
Through the Public Sector Expenditure Review process, the Bank continues to
assist the Nigerian Government, NNPC and NEPA to evaluate investment plans
in the energy sector and define realistic programs which are consistent
with the Government's tight budgetary position.
3.24      In the power subsector, the Bank's involvement has been within
the context of six loans to Nigeria totalling US$407.5 million. The main
objectives of the Bank in the power sector were to contribute to
consolidation of sector development and operation through the establishment
of NEPA, to help make NEPA financially viable through tariff increases, and
to strengthen the competence of staff through training. Although some
*            progress has been made toward achievement of these goals, serious
weaknesses affecting reliability of the system remain. These are being
addressed through ongoing projects including the US$155 million Pover
System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, which became effective in
November 1990.
3.25      In the petroleum subsector, the Bank has assisted the Government
in recognizing the major potential of natural gas in Nigeria's energy
sector, particularly as a substitute for liquid fuels, thus making
available additional oil for export.  The Bank has played an important role
in building a framework for attracting the IOCs to make investments in non-
associated gas field development, in setting economic criteria for recovery
of associated gas being flared, and for the implementation of Decree 99 to
stop flaring.  The Bank has also been involved in establishing long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) principles as a basis for consumer pricing, to induce
appropriate interfuel substitution and improve economic efficiency.
3.26      The Bank's first lending operation to NNPC, the Gas T.A.
Project, approved by the Board it. May 1984, was designed to help accelerate
the 'Ievelopment of Nigeria's gaseous fuel resources. Under this project,
.;



- 9 -
3.22      Electricity tariffs had remained unchanged since 1979, when they
were raised to about 7 kobos/kWh (weighted average). At that level, they
represented only about cne-sixth of the long-run marginal cost of supply,
and were totally inadequate to cover even the cash operating costs of
generating, transmitting and distributing power. Following extensive
discussions between the Bank and NEPA in the context of the Power System
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, and in accordance with the
Government's decision to partially commercialize NEPA, electricity tariffs
have been raised in mid-1989 to a weighted average of about 22.8 kobos/kWh.
E. Bank's Role in the Sector
3.23      The Bank's involvement in energy in Nigeria has been at several
levels: sectoral, subsectoral and at the level of individual projects.
The Bank's sectoral involvement started with the Bank/UNDP Energy
Assessrwent which issued its report in 1983.  This report identified the
main issues in the energy sector, identified options for the development
and utilization ok energy resources, analysed investment priorities,
recommended an institutional framework for managing the sector and defined
the technical assistance necessary for supporting the least-cost
development of the sector. The Bank's sectoral efforts have increased
awareness within the Nigerian Government of the need to resolve complex
energy-related issues, including the need for energy price adjustments.
Through the Public Sector Expenditure Review process, the Bank continues to
assist the Nigerian Government, NNPC and NEPA to evaluate investment plans
in the energy sector and define realistic programs which are consistent
with the Government's tight budgetary position.
3.24      In the power subsector, the Bank's involvement has been within
the context of six loans to Nigeria totalling US$407.5 million. The main
objectives of the Bank in the power sector were to contribute to
consolidation of sector development and operation through the establishment
of NEPA, to help make NEPA financially viable through tariff increases, and
to strengthen the competence of staff through training. Although some
progress has been made toward achievement of these goals, serious
weaknesses affecting reliability of the system remain. These are being
addressed through on-oing projects including the US$155 million Power
System Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project, which became effective in
November 1990.
3.25      In the petroleum subsector, the Bank has assisted the Government
in recognizing the major potential of natural gas in Nigeria's energy
sector, particularly as a substitute for liquid fuels, thus making
available additional oil for export. The Bank has played an important role
in building a framework for attracting the IOCs to make investments in non-
associated gas field development, in setting economic criteria for recovery
of associated gas being flared, and for the implementation of Decree 99 to
stop flaring. The Bank has also been involved in establishing long-run
marginal cost (LRMC) principles as a basis for consumer pricing, to induce
appropriate interfuel substitution and improve economic efficiency.
3.26      The Bank's first lending operation to NNPC, the Gas T.A.
Project, approved by the Board in May 1984, was designed to help accelerate
the development of Nigeria's gaseous fuel resources. Under this project,



- 11 -
IV. THE PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
A. OPEC Quotas and Nigeria's Share
4.01      During the period 1980 to 1986, dec'.ining world demand for oil
together with the increased availability of non-OPEC oil, reduced the
demand for OPEC oil from about 27 million barrels per day (-mbpd) to 18.4
mmbpd, OPEC's share in global production declining from 42.6Z to 32.02.
Through this period, OPEC's attempts to regain its market share led to a
sharp drop in oil prices and a considerable drop in OPEC's oil revenues.
From a peak of US$300 billion in 1980/81, when the price of oil was over
US$30 per barrel, revenues dropped to about US$100 billion after the oil
price collapse of early 1986, when prices dropped to US$13.5 per barrel.
Since the start of the most recent oil crisis in August 1990, oil prices,
while remaining volatile and uncertain, surged upwards and reached a peak
of around US$41 per barrel before declining. OPEC's production quotas in
the past and Nigeria's share in these quotas are suimmarized in the table
below.
Quotas and Ceilings in OPEC Production Agreements
Agreement Date         OPEC Quota      Nigeria's Ceilin"      Nigeria's Share
(-----------(mmbpd) ------------             (Z)
March 1982               18.000             1.300                    7.22
March 1983               17.500             1.300                    7.43
October 1984             16.000             1.300                    8.13
December 1986            15.060             1.301                    8.64
November 1988            18.500             1.355                    7.32
June 1989                19.506             1.428                    7.32
September 1989           20.500             1.501                    7.32
November 1989            22.086             1.611                    7.29
July 1990                22.491             1.61.                    7.16
4.02      Shortly after the oil crisis began, OPEC decided to suspend
ceilings on quotas for its member cuuntries in order to stimulate increased
production and thereby compensate for supply shortfalls due to
unavailability of oil from Iraq and Kuwait.  It is expected that the
suspension of ceilings is a temporary measure and it is assumed that the
situation will return to normal after the crisis is over. Just prior to
the crisis, Nigeria's share of the OPEC quota amounted to 1.611 mmbpd,
which was 7.16X of the OPEC total of 22.491 mmbpd (Annex 4-1).
4.03      Until today, the most important criteria for determining quotas
for individual countries have been the capacity of installed production
facilities and the magnitude of recoverable oil reserves. In the future,
Nigeria could possibly press for enhancing its share on the grounds of its
high population in relation to other members. On the other hand, it has to
be realized that Nigeria is competing with some OPEC members which have
much larger and increasing reserve bases. In view of these conflicting
considerations and the fact that other non-quantifiable factors also enter
into the decision process, it would be prudent to assume that Nigeria's
percentage share of OPEC quotas would remain at the present level of 7.16X.



- 11 -
IV. THE PETROLEUM SUBSECTOR
A. OPEC Quotas and Nigeria's Share
4.01      During the period 1980 to 1986, declining world demand for oil
together with the increased availability of non-OPEC oil, reduced the
demand for OPEC oil from about 27 million barrels per day (mmbpd) to 18.4
mmbpd, OPEC's share in global production declining from 42.6Z to 32.0Z.
Through this period, OPEC's attempts to regain its market share led to a
bharp drop in oil prices and a considerable drop in OPEC'r oil revenues.
From a peak of US$300 billion in 1980/81, when the price of oil was over
US$30 per barrel, revenues dropped to about US$100 billion after the oil
price collapse of early 1986, when prices dropped to US$13.5 per barrel.
Since the start of the most recent oil crisis in August 1990, oil prices,
while re aining volatile and uncertain, surgec. upwards and reached a peak
of around US$41 per barrel before declining. OPEC's production quotas in
the past and Nigeria's share in these quotas are summarized in the table
below.
Quotas and Ceilings in OPEC Production Agreements
Agreem.ent Date        OPEC Quota      Nigeria's Ceiling      Nigeria's Share
-(mmbpd)------------                         (2)
March 1982               18.000             1.300                   7.22
March 1983               17.500             1.300                   7.43
October 1984             16.000             1.300                   8.13
December 1986            15.060             1.301                   8.64
November 1988            18.500             1.355                   7.32
June 1989                19.500             1.428                   7.32
September 1989           20.500             1.501                   7.32
November 1989            22.086             1.611                   7.29
July 1990                22.491             1.611                   7.16
4.02      Shortly after the oil crisis began, OPEC decided to suspend
ceilings on quotas for its member countries in order to stimulate increased
production and thereby compensate for supply shortfalls due to
unavailability of oil from Iraq and Kuwait. It is expected that the
suspension of ceilings is a temporary measure and it is assumed that the
situation will return to normal after the crisis is over. Just prior to
the crisis, Nigeria's share of the OPEC quota amounted to 1.611 mmbpd,
which was 7.16? of the OPEC total of 22.491 mmbpd (Annex 4-1).
4.03      Until today, the most important criteria for determining quotas
for individual countries have been the capacity of installed production
facilities and the magnitude of recoverable oil reserves. In the future,
Nigeria could possibly press for enhancing its share on the g:ounds of its
high population in relation to other members. On the other hand, it has to
be realized that Nigeria is competing with some OPEC members which have
much larger and increasing reserve bases. In view of these conflicting
considerations and the fact that other non-quantifiable factors also enter
into the decision process, it would be prudent to assume that Nigeria's
percentage share of OPEC quotas would remain at the present level of 7.162.



_ ;3 -
4.07      It is necessary to draw a distinction between Oso production and
the ongoing and. projected production of condensate from other fields. The
present production of condensate in Nigeria is about 80,000 barrels per
day. It is understood that if OPEC decides to include condensate
production within its quotas, the ceilings will be enhanced to accommodate
this change in policy. The possibility that Oso0s unique characteristics
could result in its classification as crude does not depend on OPEC's
decision of whether or not to include condensates per se within the quota.
B. Refining Facilities, Product Supplies and Distribution
4.08      Until March 1989, three refineries were operating in Nigeria:
the old refinery zt Port Hartcourt, and the refineries at Warri and
Xaduna -- all owned by NNPC. The combined crude distillation capacity of
these refineries was 295,000 bpsd (13 million tpa), of which only 180,000
bpsd was effective. At Kaduna, imbalance between product demand and
production capability contributed mainly to low utilization (652). At
Warri, low utilization was due to unreliable power supply and operational
problems in the process units. Since March 1989, the old Port Harcourt
refinery was rendered inoperable due to a fire, which further reduced the
effective capacity to 140,000 bpsd. However, around the same time, the
fourth Nigerian refinery with 120,000 bpsd capacity, originally designed to
serve the export market, was commissioned. To enable the export of
products from this refinery, additional pipeline and port facilities will
be required. NNPC is evaluating various alternatives. In the meantime,
the refinery is unable to run at its full capacity.
4.09      During 1987, the total output of refined products from Nigeria's
refineries was 5.3 million tons of which 0.9 million tons (mainly surplus
high-pour fuel oil and some LPG) were exported. During the same year, 5.4
million tons of refined products were imported to supplement Nigeria's
internal production. Imported products consisted mainly of gasoline,
kerosene, automotive gasoil, specialized products, lubes and greases. The
Bank's Refineries Rehabilitation Project is expected to identify the
problems and define measures to increase the efficiency and therefore the
profitability of the Warri and Kaduna Refineries. It will also identify
the longer-term needs of the refining subsector and in this context will
address the issue of the refinery imbalance and the need to reduce
supplementary imports of refined products. The loan became effective in
August 1990.
4.10      Following the severe shortaget of petroleum products in the
interior of the country during 1974 and 1975, the Government decided to
embark on the construction of 3,000 km of pipelines, linking the refineries
to storage terminals (depots) located in 19 towns, and commissioned most of
them in 1980 and 1981. The refineries of Port Harcourt, Warri and Kaduna
are supplied with Nigerian crude oil. The Kaduna refinery is supplied also
with imported Venezuelan oil through the pipeline originating in EscLavos
and passing through Warri. White products (gasoline, kerosene and diesel)
are transported through four systems of pipelines of 6 to 16 inches in
diameter to the 19 depots throughout Nigeria, from where the marketing
companies take the products to the depots and pump stations, by rail, tank
cars and trucks. Other products, including LPG, are transported by rail
and road, directly to retail outlets and bulk consumers.



- 14 -
C. The Institutional Framework
4.11      The .Ainistry of Petroleum Resources is responsible for overall
policy formulation, guidance and direction of all petroleum subsector
activities. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), a public
corporation wholly owned by FGN and reporting to the Ministry, was
established to provide effective government participation in, and control
of the oil industry. The Petroleum Minister is the ex-officio chairman of
NNPC. NNPC's activities can be classified into two broad groups, upstream
and downstream activities. For its own corporate account, NNPC operates
its downstream facilities, which include refining, domestic distribution of
petroleum products, and petrocnemicals. The downstream operati ns are
carried out by twelve subsidiaries of NNPC, referred to as Strategic
Business Units (SBUs). As part of a program for the commercialization of
parastatals under the Structural Adjustment Program, these SBUs are being
granted increasing financial and operational autonomy. Upstream operations
comprise exploration and production of crude oil mainly under
unincorporated joint ventures with international oil companies, and the
international marketing of crude. For these operations, NNPC acts as an
agent for FGN. All financial flows in respect of the joint ventures are
separately accounted for. The present Government equity contribution in
the joint ventures is 602. The international oil companies (Nigerian
subsidiaries of Shell, Gulf, Mobil, Agin, Elf, Texaco and Pan Ocean) act as
operators in all of these joint ventures.
4.12      NNPC, on behalf of FGN, has also entered into a production
sharing agreewent with Ashland and service contracts for oil exploration
with ELF, Agip and Nigus.
4.13      As NNPC is one of the sponsors in the proposed project, its
institutional structure is dealt with in more detail in Chapter V. An
organizational chart is given in Annex 5-1.
D. The Legal Framework
4.14      For over 50 years since 1914, most &ctivities in the field of
petroleum exploration and production were regulated by the Mineral Oils Act
of 1914.  This is modelled on English mining legislation of the time, and
forms part of a substantial corpus of law governing such activities. Other
laws which were cr are part of this corpus include the Petroleum Act of
1918, the Petroleum Profit Tax of 1959 (which was modified -ight times
between 1959 and 1985), the Petroleum Control Act 1967, the Petroleum Act
1969, the Petroleum (Drilling and Production) Regulations 1969, the
Territorial Waters (Amendment) Act 1971, the Petroleum (Amendment) Act
1977, the Exclusive Economic Zone Act 1978, the Associated Gas Re-Injection
Act of 1979 (amended in 1984 and 1985), and the Companies and Allied
Matters Decree 1990.
4.15      Following the first discovery of crude oil in commercial
quantities at Oloibin in 1957, a more modern body of petroleum law was
gradually enacted, principally through the 1969 Petroleum Act and
Regulations. The latter was both more adequate to the times and more
consistent, though certain provisions of the earlier texts were preserved
for the purposes of leases and other rights granted prior to 1969 (or made
retroactive to that period, like the lease governing the Oso field) by



- 15 -
Transitional and Saving Provisions contained in the 1969 Act. The Oso
field lies within one such lease, so that some provisions of the 1914 Act
continue to apply to it.
4.16      The ownership of oil and gas resources in Nigeria is expressly
vested in the State; this is stated in a number of statutes including the
Petroleum Act of 1969, which is now the main law governing petroleum
activities, and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria of
1979. As in many other countries, the State can and does contract with
public and private parties to give those parties certain rights over such
resources for periods of time in exchange for specific obligations and
undertakings. The 1969 Act provides that oil mining leases entail the
right to "search for, win, work, carry away and dispose of petroleum"
discovered in or under the leased area.
4.17      While private and foreign-owned entities are entitled to be
granted rights to explore for petroleum under (non-exclusive) Oil
Exploration or (exclusive) Oil Prospecting Licenses, provided they are duly
incorporated in Nigeria, effective Nigerian participation is mandatory once
commercial production is established and an Oil Mining Lease granted. The
Federal Government participates in such leases through NNPC. This can take
one of three forms: (i) joint ventures, (ii) production-sharing contracts,
and (iii) service contracts. Most of Nigerian oil production is carried
out by joint ventures between Nigerian incorporated subsidiaries of
foreign-owned, or mostly foreign-owned, international oil companies and
NNPC. These joint ventures provide for co-tenancy of the rights and
obligations conferred by the mining lease, in which the foreign-owned or
private party or parties and NNPC each possesses an undivided interest.
4.18      The terms of acquisition of NNPC's share in such joint ventures
are set forth in Participation Ag-:eements. These agreements are typically
entered into after the granting of an Oil Mining Lease based on a discovery
of petroleum in commercial quantities. In return for NNPC making
compensation in cash or kind (oil) based on the updated net book value of
the Lease, the other party assibAs to NNPC an agreed undivided percentage
interest in the assets, rights, obligations, liabilities and duties arising
from title to the Lease. NNPC also makes a contribution to the working
capital of the joint venture in proportion to the amount of irterest
acquired.
E.  Fiscal Regina
4.19      Government take from petroleum produced from Mining Leases under
joint venture arrangements is achieved through two levies: (i) Royalty,
and (ii) Tax. Royalty rates are set by the Petroleum (Drilling and
Production) (Amendment) Regulations 1979, and range from 16 2/32 on total
production of petroleum (crude oil and natural gas) from offshore fields
under more than 100 meters of water, to 18.57 from offshore fields in water
depths less than 100 meters (such as the Oso Field); and 20a from sales of
onshore production. Tax rates are set by the Petroleum Profit Tax Act of
1959 as amended at various times. The basic mechanism for government tax
provided for therein is a percentage levy on the profits of companies
engaged in the production as well as transportation of petroleum (crude
oil, natural gas, and liquified natural gas). Allowable deductions include



- 16 -
royalty payments and the usual costs associated with production, including
interest expenses if owed other than to an affiliate. Prior to January 1,
1986, taxable income on exported petroleum was calculated on the basis of
the higher of actual proceeds of sales or a posted price set by the
Government. The tax rate for such activities is now 85Z.
4.20      By late 1985, a soft world oil market and rising average costs
of production led the oil companies involved in Nigeria to i.aitiate
negotiations with the Government to improve the fiscal terms in order to
make them competitive with terms prevailing in other producing countries.
These negotiations led to the signing by the Government, in early 1986 of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with all the operators of joint ventures
in Nigeria. The MOUs provide that tax and royalty calculations would be
made in accordance with an "offset pricing formula' involving an f.o.b.
netback formula following the actual market value of the main Nigerian
export grades of crude. If the tax computation using this formula results
in a lower Government take than that obtained using the regulations in
effect on December 31, 1985, then the oil company concerned is entitled to
a tax credit equal to the difference. In return for the incentives
provided by MOUs, the oil companies have the obligation to carry out
certain ne'. exploration and/or production investments mutually agreed
between the Government and each company.
V. THE PROJECT SPONSORS
A. The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
5.Ui      Decree 33 of 1977 )rovided for the merger of the Nigerian
National O;.1 Corporation anC :he Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources
(MPR) to form NNPC, a public corporation with full legal status under
Nigeriar. Law and wholly owned by FGN. 2/  The rationale behind NNPC's
establishment was to provide for effective government participation in, and
control of the oil industry, with a view to ensuring optimal utilization of
Nigeria's petroleum resources. According to the provisions of the decree,
NNPC is charged with the following responsibilities:
(i)     exploring, prospecting for, or otherwise acquiring and disposing
of petroleum;
(ii)     refining, treating, processing and generally engaging in
handling of petroleum for manufacture and production of
petroleum products and its derivatives;
(iii)     purchasing and marketing of petroleum products and derivatives;
2/   The Hinistry of Petroleum Resources was subsequently reconstituted to
represent the Federal Government in petroleum affairs, which includes
the supervision of the activities of NNPC.



-  17  -
(iv)     providing and operating pipelines, tankership or other
facilities for the conveyance of crude oil, natural gas, and
their products and derivatives;
(v)     carrying out research irn connection with petroleum and its
derivatives and promoting commercial activities derived from it;
(vi)     entering into contracts or partnership with any company, firm or
person to facilitate the discharge of the above
responsibilities; and
(vii)     training managerial, technical and other staff for the purpose
of running its operations and for the petroleum industry in
general.
The Petroleum Inspectorate Divisiorn, which has recently been transferred
from NNPC to MPR, has been given the responsibility of issuing permits and
licenses for all activities connected with petroleum exploration, refining,
storage, marketing, transportation and distribution.
5.02      For the development of its downstream activities, (refining,
domestic distribution of petroleum products, and petrochemicals) NNPC is
empowered to undertake these operations for its own corporate account. For
upstream operations (exploration and production of crude oil, mainly under
joint ventures with internat.ional oil companies) NNPC acts in an agency
capacity for FGN. All financial flows in respect of these joint ventures
are segregated from NNPC's own finances and are separately accounted for.
The cash flows from these operations flow directly to FGN, into a special
account called the 'Federation Account," created by the 1979 Nigerian
constitution, and cannot be used to finance operations that NNPC undertakes
for its own account.
5.03      In addition to the joint ventures, NNPC has a production sharing
contract with Ashland Oil (Nigeria) on behalf of FGN, whereby it is
entitled to 55 to 67X of the profit of Ashland's operations depending on
the level of production. It has also signed service contracts for
exploration with Flf, Agip and Nigus Petroleum Corporation, under which the
companies are required to carry out, at their own expense. oil exploration,
development and production in specifically allocated blocks for a period of
time. There is a provision in the contracts that where oil is found in
commercial quantity such oil rests irrevocably w'.th the Federal Government
of Nigeria. As yet, no petroleum is being produced from the service
con.'racts.
1.   Commerciali.at4on
5.04      As part of a program of commercialization of parastatals under
the Government Structural Adjustment Program (SAP), NNPC's organizational
restructuring was initiated with a view to eventually transformiag it into
a commercialized, integrated company meeting international performance
standards. Once completed, the restructuring is expected to result in more
effective control, quicker response to market conditions, efficient
management and minimum political interference. The transition period is
currently underway. The conversion of NNPC from a cost-center organization



- 18 -
which is entirely dependent oti government for capital funding to one that
is profit-driven, commercial in orientation and independent of government
financial grants, would be a major transformation. Hitherto, NNPC has been
largely dependent on the Government for capital funding through grants from
the Federal Ministry of Finance and Economic Development and Federal
Government guaranteed loans. In its new role, NNPC would be expected to
raise loans on the strength of its balance sheet from commercial/merchant
banks and other financial institutions within and outside Nigeria to
finance its investment programs. Gover.anent interest in the new business
organization will be based largely on equity participation.
5.05      This mode of operation as a financially independent statutory
corpo..ation is expected to extend at least to those operations that NNPC is
empowered to undertake for its own corporate account. With regard to
agency operations, NNPC expects that these will continue to be financed
directly by FGN through budgetary grants or, if external borrowing is
required, as for the Oso Project, to be arranged on a case-by-case basis
with NNPC as the borrower.
5.06      In March 1989, a special sub-committee on the commercialization
of NNPC submitted its Diagnostic Report for approval to FGN's Technical
Committee on Privatization and Commercialization (TCPC). Based on the TCPC
review of the Diagnostic Report, a special implementation committee,
constituted in November 1989, is preparing a detailed implementation plan.
This plan is expected to be implemented within the next two years. In view
of the significance of these initiatives for the institutional
strengthening of NNPC, an understanding has been reached with NNPC that,
once the plan is prepared, it will be made available to the Bank for an
exchange of views with NNPC.
2.   Management and organization
5.07      Decree 33 establishes NNPC9s formal hierarchical structure.  At
the apex of the structure is the Federal Executive Council which reserves
the right to undertake a general review of the affairs of the Corporation
and any of its subsidiaries. The Board of Directors consists of the
Chairman (the Petroleum Hinister), the Managing Director, the two Deputy
Managing Directors, two representatives of the Ministries of Finance and
Petroleum Resources, and five other members from the business community.
The Board of Directors provides policy level managerial guidance for the
corporation and regulates the conditions of service, the granting of
pensions, gratuities and other retirement benefits.
5.08      NNPC's current organization structure, which reflects the move
towards commercialization, is shown in Annex 5-1. In view of the state of
transition, further changes in the structure are expected to take place.
The Managing Director is responsible for the day-to-day business operations
and for policy implementation. Five senior executives report directly to
him -- the Deputy Managing Directors (DMD) for Corporate Services and for
Operations, the Coordinator of the National Petroleum Investment Management
Services (NAPIMS), the Corporate Secretary and the Internal Auditor.  DMD
Corporate Services is responsible for finance, personnel, administration,
corporate planning and development, and legal and engineering services.
DMD Operations is responsible for the 12 subsidiary companies covering



- 19 -
refineries, petrochemicald, natural gas and domestic marketing. The
Coordinator of NAPIMS is responsible for entering on behalf of FGN into all
joint venture activities with foreign oil companies and for the
international marketing of crude oil. As such, NAPIMS plays a critical
role in the joint venture with MPN for the Oso Project.
5.09      The new organization has trimmed down the span of control so as
to ensure greater delegation and efficiency in management and
administration. It establishes operating business units as profit centers.
These business units are scheduled to operate au autonomous units in line
with defined missions, objectives, targets and goals, so as to enhance the
commercial objective of the Corporation. Like organizations in the public
sector, NNPC and its various business units will be subject to Government
policies and regulations. Since the restructuring of NNPC is only in its
initial stages, its effects cannot be assessed for another year or so.
5.10      The number of employees in NNPC is related to its growing role
in the Nigerian economy. As the Corporation diversified from participation
in crude oil production to manufacturing and marketing of petroleum
products and derivatives, the manpower requirements grew with it. In 1979,
3,072 persons were in the employment of the Corporation. By 1981, the
figure had increased two-fold to 6,000, due mainly to the construction of
the Warri aiid Kaduna refineries. NNPC's total staff strength today stands
at over 14,000, and is projected to increase by about 25? in the next five
years in view of NNPC's new development programs and expansion of existing
activities.
5.11      The current planning cycle of NNPC covers five years.  With the
help of consultants, the first corporate plan, for the period 1988-92, was
prepared in 1987. An interim plan was then prepared for the period 1989-
93. The 1990-94 plan has now been prepared. The five-year plans are
supported by policy assumptions concerning prices, the scope of NNPC's
investment program and financing, and debt servicing. The strategic
planning process is thus becoming an important tool for policy formulation
and planning for the petroleum s'Absector as a whole.
3.   Accounting Systems
5.12      Since 1983, basic accounting systems have been set up in NNPC
for: general accounting; collection of data from NNPC's various branches;
cash management; and budget preparation and control -- budget performance
reports for a given month are now obtained within three months of the last
day of that month. Considerable work remains to be done to implement fully
the existing procedures and to develop additional control systems. Under
the ongoing Gas T.A. project, cost accounting practices similar to those
widely adopted by most international commercial oil companies are expected
to be adopted. This will entail a major revamping of accounting systems,
as it implies introducing tighter closing schedules for general accounting,
accelerating the payment process, implementing the capital expenditure
procedure devised by the newly established corporate planning division,
improving project controls and cash flow planning, and establishing a
reliable system of fixed asset accounting. NNPC is currently involved in
compiling a comprehensive inventory of its assets. Once this is complete,
NNPC will determine the optimal distribution of assets between the various



- 20 -
business units and NNPC's head office. The mechanism for allocating the
assets (transfer of ownership, leasing, etc.) will also be determined. A
major training program for accountants is also included in the Gas T.A.
project.
4.   External and Internal Auditing
5.13      NNPC's external auditors, Peat, Marwick and Ani, Ogunde
(Nigeria), a partnership between a Nigerian and a U.S. firm acceptable to
the Bank, and Muhtari Dangana, also acceptable to the Bank, are issuing
NNPC's audited financial statements. With the implementation of the
restructuring, each NNPC subsidiary will produce its own financial
statements, which will be subject to independent audit. The internal audit
department will introduce a central control function for the new
commercialized and integrated structuxe of NNPC to ensure that the new
semi-autonomous decentralized units will adhere to NNPC's policies,
guidelines, and operating and administrative procedures. In order to carry
out those functions efficiently, training is being provided to key
specialists under the ongoing Gas T.A. project.
5.   Financial Situation and Prospects
5.14      Two sets of historical financial statements for NNPC are shown
in Annex 5-2. The first set covers the consolidated results of its
subsidiaries; the second set covers the consolidated results of NNPC's
share in joint venture agency operations with the oil companies.
Highlights from the agency operations, which are more relevant to the
proposed Oso Project, are summarized below:
NNPC: Agency Operations
(In Naira billions)
1983     1984      1985     1986        1987       1988
Revenues               5.0      6.3       7.4      6.1        13.8       16.1
Expenditures           0.5       0.7      0.7      1.3         1.4        2.5
Surplus                4.5      5.6       6.7      4.8        12.3       13.6
Payments to FGN        4.5      5.6       6.7      4.8        12.3       13.6
- Statutory       (4.1)    (4.1)    (5.8)    (2.3)        (9.8)    (11.01
- Income          (0.4)    (1.5)    (0.9)    (2.5)        (2.5)      (2.5)
Net Assets             2.2      3.5       3.5      5.5         5.8        8.1
FGN Funds              2.1      3.4       3.3      5.5         5.8        6.6
L.T. Liabilities       0.1      0.1       0.2        -           -        1.5
5.15      All surpluses generated from agency operations are paid directly
into the Federation Account but are classified for accounting purposes into
two categories -- statutory payments comprising royalty and taxes, and
income.  As already indicated, although the assets for these operations are
legally in NNPC's name, it is clear ftom the way the surpluses are handled
that FGN has direct financial control over these operations. NNPC is in
effect only nominally responsible for providing its participating share of
tLe financing required for investment and operating needs; the actual
funding is provided by FGN through annual budgetary allocations.
5.16      As of the date of issue of this report, NNPC had submitted to
the Bank the audited accounts for its group operations and joint venture



21 -
operations for 1987 and 1988. An understanding has been reached with NNPC
that, over the life of the loan, it would furnish for review by the Bank
each year, as soon as published, the audited accounts for its group and
joint venture operations. In addition, NNPC would also provide to the Bank
other relevant information concerning its records, accounts and financial
statements.
5.17      Each year, NNPC updates its five-year corporate plans for group
and agency operations together with the corresponding financing plan and
financial projections. An understanding has been reached with NNPC that
once these plans were prepared, they would be made available for
discussions with the Bank. This would constitute an important input into
the public expenditure review process.
B. Mobil Producing Nigeria
1.   Ownership and Legal Structure
5.18      MPN was incorporated in Nigeria in 1969 to take over the assets
and operations of Mobil Exploration Nigeria Incorporated (MENI), which was
registered in Nigeria in 1955 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Mobil Oil
Corporation (MOC). MPN is owned 50X each by MENI and Mobil Development
Nigeria Incorporated (MDNI), both limited liability companies incorporated
in the State of Delaware and wholly-owned by MOC. MPN was formed in
response to a requirement in the Nigerian Companies Decree of 1968 that all
companies doing business in Nigeria be locally incorporated. MPN was
established as an unlimited liability company with no share capital, so
that MOC can indirectly own MPN through MENI and MDNI and still be able to
directly consolidate MPN's revenues and costs for all United States tax
purposes. Pursuant to the requirements of the Companies and Allied Matters
Decree, MPN will shortly change its name to Mobil Producing Nigeria
Unlimited and will issue shares with an aggregate nominal value of N10,000
to be subscribed equally by MENI and MDNI.
5.19      Membership of MPN is restricted, under its Articles of
Association, to MENI and MDNI. The Articles further stipulate the
automatic dissolution of MPN, should either of these two memnbers cease to
be a member, and forbid the transfer of any of their rights. The two
members are responsible for providing in equal proportions, any equity
financing required for operations and are entitled to equal shares of
profits and net assets. In the event of insolvent liquidation of MPN, the
liability of MENI and MDNI is joint, several and unlimited. However,
because MENI and MDNI are limited liability companies whose only assets are
their respective shareholding in MPN, their joint liability in such an
event would be limited to MPN's assets, with no direct recourse to MOC.
2.   Management
5.20      As a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of MOC, MPN is managed
with strong support from MOC and its affiliates.  The Chairman and Managing
Director of MPN is seconded from tHOC and has a line reporting
responsibility to MOC's Exploration and Production Division.  All senior
functional managers of MPN, consisting of Executive Directors,
respectively, for Exploration and Producing; Finance; Legal and



- 22 -
Administration have functional relationships to managerial and technical
experts relating to these functions in MOC. In addition, MPN has agreements
with MOC and its affiliates under which the latter provide specialized
services, on a fee basis, to MPNo Existing agreements cover the provision
of technical expertise in the areas of exploration, engineering and
drilling; the participation of MPN in MOC's research program; the provision
of administrative support, including legal, treasury and accounting
services; and the marketing of all MPN's equity share of crude oil
production.
3e   Financial Situation and Prospects
5.21      MPN is engaged exclusively in the exploration and production of
petroleum in Nigeria. All its operations are off-shore, in four lease
areas (67-70) in Eastern Nigeria covering 642,642 acres. Its gross working
interest in reserves in this acreage at year-end, 1989 was 1.2 billion
barrels, of which 492 million barrels were proven. Its total annual
production for the period 1985-1989 is as summarized below:
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Allowable Prod.(mmbbls) 1/   35.8    34.8    33.1    28.7    31.5
Actual Production(mmbbls)    29.4    30.2    24.6    28.2    30.7
Capacity Utilization (2)      82.0    86.6    74.3    98.3    97.5
1/   Technically Allowable Production is determined by the Department of
Petroleum Resources of the Nigerian Ministry of Petroleum Resources.
5.22      The financial results of MPN's operations for 1985-89 and
projections through 1998 are summarized in Annex 5-3. Highlights of the
results through 1989 are as follows:
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Crude Liftings (mmbbls)         28.8    30.7    24.7    28.2    31.0
--US$ millions-----------
Revenues                       1,409      664     440     440      558
Net Income                       108      112      53      59       75
Dividends                         80       94      45      59       62
Assets Employed                  141      133     133      158     136
Long-Term Debt                     2        1       -        -       -
Shareholders Equity               95      114     122     126      136
MPN's net income is substantially determined by the terms of its MOU wit'.
FGN which provide it with a profit margin of US$2.00 for each barrel of
equity oil it exports, if oil prices range between US$12.50 to US$23.00 per
barrel and technical costs of production are US$2.00 per barrel or less.



- 23 -
Its past results show that MPN is a very profitable company with no long
term debt obligations.
5.23      MPN has embarked on an investment program which would
significantly increase its production and profits in the 1990s. In
addition to the 080 Project, it has a development program which is
estimated to add another 300 million barrels to its share of producible
crude reserves and increase its annual crudc oil output by about 50X from
the 1988 level of 28 mmbbls to about 42 mmbbls by 1992. It has already
started phased development of the Edop field, with reserves of 340 mmbbls
(MPN's share), to bring it to a production rate of 100,000 bpd by 1992. An
independent evaluation of MPN's crude reserves and their producibility, has
not been undertaken as part of the Oso appraisal; however, these reserves
have been certified by DeGolyer and McNaughton (D&M) who are retained by
MOC for annual reserve confirmations.
5.24      Highlights of MPN's projected production and financial results
for 1990 through 1993, based on these reserves and development plans, are
summarized below (details in Annex 5-3):
1990     1991     1992      1993
Crude Liftings (mmbbls)          33.8      37.4     41.8      44.6
- ______ -US$ millions -
Revenues                          636       742      864      1130
Net Income                          75       91       87       119
Cash Flow                         121       211      230       248
5.25      These projections indicate that during the main construction
period of Oso (1990-1992), MPN should generate about US$562 million in cash
from its ongoing operations.
C. The Joint Venture
5.26      The joint ventute between NNPC and MPN is unincorporated and has
no legal personality of its own. It is effectively a non-taxable
partnership, with NNPC and MPN each separately responsible for its share of
operating costs and taxation and thus able to directly derive any tax
benefits arising out of its share of operations. The contractual framework
for the Oso Project falls within the general legal and fiscal framework for
oil operations discussed in Chapter IV. The basic agreements which created
the joint venture and govern its operation are summarized below. (Annex 5-
A provides a more detailed review of the framework and a discussion of its
main provisions.)
1.   The Oil Mining Leases
5.27      Oil Mining Leases 67-70 were originally granted to MPN with
effect from December 1, 1968. The term of the leases is 40 years and will
expire in the year 2008, with an option to renew for an additional 40
years. In line with the provisions of the Petroleum Act of 1969, MPN's
interest in the leases is effectively an interest only in the petroleum
produced from the concession areas.



24 _
2.   The Participation Agreement
5.28      A Participation Agreement, signed on July 1, 1983, between NNPC
and LPN, confirmed the previous acquisition by FGN, and assignment to NNPC,
of a 60? participating interest in MPN's leases and the related assets and
working capital. NNPC and MPN each hold, respectively, a 602 and a 402
undivided interest in the leases, assets and working capital, and they
share in petroleum produced from the lease area on the basis of these
participation interests.
3.   The Joint Operating Agreement
5.29      A Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) acceptable to the Bank, was
signed on June 28, 1990. It defines the organization and management
structure for carrying out exploration, development and production
operations in the leased areas, and the respective rights and
responsibilities of NNPC and MPN. Under the JOA, each party has an
undivided obligation to pay its respective participating interest share in
all funds required for operations in return for the right to its
participating interest share of all petroleum produced from the leased
areas. an operating committee comprised of six representatives from NNPC
and four from MPN, and chaired by the non-Operating Party, approves annual
work programs and budgets for the venture. Decisions by the committee are
by unanimous vote. Under an agreement, collateral to the JOA, MPN has been
designated the operator for the joint venture, with responsibility for the
day-to-day management of all exploration, development and production
operations of the joint venture. This constitutes the first Joint
Operating Agreement concluded in Nigeria for an upstream oil operation.
5.30      The principles for nominating and lifting production between
NNPC and MPN are provided for in a uniform nomination, ship scheduling and
lifting procedure incorporated in the JOA. The procedure provides each
party with the right to nominate, lift and separately dispose of its equity
share of allowable production, corresponding to its percentage
participating interest. The agreement further provides that should either
of the parties nominate less than its equity share, the volumes not
nominated may be nominated and lifted by the other party. Should this
happen, the underlifting interest owner acquires make-up rights for the
volume underlifted to be exercised within five calendar years from the date
of underlift, but only to the extent that the overlifting party fails to
lift its equity share during this period.
4.   Memorandum of Understanding on Fiscal Incentives
5.31      A "Memorandum of Understandir.g on Incentives For Enhancing Crude
Oil Exports and Encouraging Investments in Exploration and Development
Activities" (MOU), signed on January 23, 1986, between FGN and MPN defines
prevailing terms applicable to MPN's operations. The MOU essentially
guarantees MPN a profit margin per barrel of oil produced of US$2.0, when
realized prices are between US$12.50 and US$23.00 per barrel, and the
technical costs of production are within US$2.00 per barrel. Below
US$12.50, the guaranteed margin slides downward from US$2.00 per barrel in
accordance with a formula provided for in the MOU. Above US$23.00, the
margin increases with price until the US$30/barrel price level, beyond



- 25 
which the equity margin is subject to negotiation. The MOU also obliges
MPN to lift available volumes of crude oil from NN".#'s equity entitlement
(notice volume) which NNPC is unable to lift, provided an appropriate
notice period is provided.  When NNPC is unable to satisfy the required
notice period, MPN may, at its discretion still lift any volumes offered
by NNPC (emergency volume).  For all notice and emergency volumes lifted by
MPN for SNPC, MPN is paid a lifting fee equivalent to 502 of its guaranteed
equity margin.
5.   Oso Field Development Project Agreement
5.32      The Oso Field Development Project Agreement signed between NNPC
and MPN on May 12, 1988, defines certain principles for the joint
development of che Oso project. In general, it confirms the broad
principles already set out and agreed in the main joint venture agreements
summarized above, and provides a special tax credit to MPN not to exceed
US$54 million which it is entitled to take over a five-year period starting
in the MPN fiscal year when the project comes on stream.
VI. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept
6.01      The Oso field is located in the sponsors' Oil Mining Lease t70,
situated some 12 miles (19.3 kilometers) offshore Akwa Ibom state in
south-eastern Nigeria (Diagram no. W46252). The field was discovered in
1967 and its two main reservoirs, the lYl and 2Y2, have been delineated
through seismic work and the drilling of seven appraisal wells. The
proposed project is the commercial development of this gas condensate field
for an initial peak production of 100 thousand barrels of condensate per
day (bcpd) and gas injection of about 500 million standard cubic feet per
day (mmscfd), using proven technology. Gas injection is necessary to
maximize condensate recovery and will, at the same time, enable NNPC and
MPN to minimize flaring in their concession area, in compliance with
regulations, and preserve an economic asset. The injected gas will be
associated gas gathered from nearby oil producing platforms (approximately
200 MMSCFD) and the gas produced from the Oso Field itself (approximately
300 MMSCFD). The initial investment, for which financing is now being
sought, consists of developing the lYl reservoir, which contains about 902
of the field's estimated reserves. Although the development and production
of the 2Y2 reservoir is not planned until ten years after the lYl reservoir
has been put into production, some additional. wells could be completed in
the shallower 2Y2 reservoir at little cost. The production life of the lYl
reservoir, based on current estimates of risked reserves, is about 21
years.
B. Project Description
6.02      A brief account of the combined off-shore/on-shore facilities,
and a drilling program necessary to bring Oso into commercial production,
is given in Annex 6-1. The facilities will consist of: (i) eight
conventional off-shore platforms for well-heads, production facilities, gas
compression equipment and living quarters; (ii) 120 miles of subsea



_ 26 -
pipelines for condensate and gas; (iii) an on-shore condensate storage and
metering system, and (iv) an off-shore tanker loading system for
condensate. The drilling program consists of 19 wells, in addition to the
seven already drilled through the lYl and 2Y2 reservoirs, for a total of 26
wells. It is anticipated that five of the existing veils will be abandoned
for design, engineering, or future production reasons, and two will be used
as either injection or producing wells. According to the present design,
there will be a total of 6 gas injection wells and 15 production wells. A
schematic of the Oso Project is presented in Diagram no. W46252b at the end
of this report.
C. Existing Facilities
6.03      The Project will be physically and operationally integrated into
the joint venture's existing facilities in Oil Mining Leases Numbers
67-70. Off-shore facilities include 130 producing weils (in 16 crude oil
producing fields); 35 multiple well platform structures; seven producing
platforms; one berth operation platform and two single point mooring buoys
for tanker loading; one gas compression platform and two living quarters
platforms. On-shore facilities include a terminal at Qua Iboe with seven
'500,000 barrel storage tanks.  In addition, there is an extensive undersea
pipeline network linking the off-shore production facilities with the
terminal and loading facilities off-shore.
D. The Oso Reservoirs
6.04      An evaluation of the geology of the Oso reservoirs was carried
out for IPC by the petroleum engineering consulting firm of Netherlands,
Sewell and Associates (NSA) in the context of an independent estimation of
the field's reserves.
6.05      The principal hydrocarbon accumulation in the Oso field is
contained in the lYl reservoir, which is encountered at a subsea depth of
approximately 10,000 feet.  The lYl has a gross sand thickness ranging from
500 to 800 feet and net pay ranging Irom 44 to 453 feet. Most of the lYl
is underlain by water which is encountered at a subsea depth of 10,350
feet. The 2Y2 reservoir is above the lYl reservoir, the two reservoirs
being separated by approximately 150 feet of shale. The 2Y2 reservoir has
a gross sand thickness ranging from 25 to 64 feet and net pay ranging from
23 to 64 feet. No water level has been encountered in the 2Y2 reservoir to
date. Lowest known hydrocarbons are at a subsea depth of 10,181 feet.
6.06      The dominating structural feature of the Oso field is a
down-to-the-South growth fault which provides updip closu.e. NSA's
interpretation is that the hydrocarbon accumulations in the lYl and 2Y2
intervals are sub-divided by additional faulting into six reservoirs.
Based on fluid contact data and fault throw magnitudes, it is believed that
some communication will exist between reservoirs.
6.07      The Oso lYl reservoir contains an undersaturated near-critical
fluid with a bubble point pressure of 4,415 psia, which is much lower than
the initial reservoir pressure of approximately 6,300 psia. Reservoir



_ 27 -
fluid studies indicate that the reservoir fluid is miscible with methane in
all proportions down to a pressure of about 6,000 psia. The proposed
injection gas is approximately 78Z methane and is miscible with the
reservoir fluid in all proportions down to a pressure of about 4,800 psia.
E. Estimation of Recoverable Reserves
6.08      NSA's estimate of recoverable reserves of the lYl reservoir is
328.8 mmbbls, classified as follows, using recovery factors according to
accepted oil industry practice (see Annex 6-2 for details):
Reserve Classification    Amount
(mmbbls)
Proved                149.7
Probable              158.8
Possible               20.3
Total              328.8
The sponsors, using the same geological, seismic and well test information,
and their standard in-house approach to the probabilistic estimation of
reserves, estimate that there is an 80Z probability of recovering 335
mbbls or more from the lYl reservoir, with an expected value of 468 mmbbls
(Annex 6-2). The two estimates are not strictly comparable, given the
different approaches used. The difference in the reserves total can be
largely attributed to the different judgmental approaches of NSA's and the
sponsor's engineers.  In general, NSA has been more conservative than the
sponsors in interpreting the data available at this stage.
6.09      The proved reserves are based on natural pressure depletion only
and represent about 151 of the estimated hydrocarbons in place. It is only
after the gas injection and compression facilities are completed, that the
probable plus possible reserves can be reclassified to proved. NSA
estimates that after about two years of production history, it should be                   b
possible to prove about 313 mmbbls million bbl (951) of the total
recoverable lYl reserves. It was agreed that NNPC would update Oso
reserves annually with the assistance of consultants and furnish the
results to the Bank for review. It is expected that the reserves update
would reflect the position as of the end of December each year.
F. Project Implementation and Timetable
6.10      Project implementation is being managed by a task force
comprising representatives of MPN, Mobil Research and Development
Corporation (MRDC), Mobil Exploration and Producing Services Inc. (MEPSI),
and NNPC.  The responsibility of the task force is to execute the project
design, engineering, construction and commissioning within the estimated
cost and schedule. MEPSI acts in an advisory capacity for the drilling
operation, while MPN has ultimate responsibility for coordinating all
aspects of project implementation.



- 28 -
6.11      Project implementation is estimated to take about 34 months from
the award of the main facilities contract, which was signed on June 28,
1990. The platforms will be fabricated and installed by the first half of
1992. At about the same time, the production and gas compression modules
will be fabricated, outfitted and installed on the platforms. Pipeline
fabrication will start in the first half of 1991 and the pipeline will be
laid during the dry season of 1991-92. On-shore tank construction began in
the fourth quarter of 1990. The Project is expected to be completed and
started up by mid-1993, and to achieve its design production rate of
100,000 bcpd shortly thereafter. A chart showing the project schedule is
given in Annex 6-3.
6.12      It was agreed with NNPC that the project implementation task
force will prepare quarterly progress reports covering the work of
contractors and consultants, physical progress, project cost, disbursements
and administrative aspects of the project as well as institutional
performance, and submit these to the NNPC Board, the Bank and other
financing agencies. In addition, agreement has been reached that the
project accounts, and the statements of expenditure would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank according to
acceptable auditing standards. Further, NNPC would submit copies of all
consultants' reports to the Bank and would prepare a Project Completion
Report within six months of project completion. It was agreed that NNPC
would fuirnish to the Bank the interim financial statements for the Project
within one month after the end of each quarter. It was also agreed that
NNPC would furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but not later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year, a certified copy of the
audited accounts for the Project, together with the report of the
independent auditors.
G. Environmental Considerations
6.13      Nigeria has recently established a Federal Environmental
Protection Agency (FEPA) with representation from several Ministries,
including the Ministry of Petroleum Resources. The enabling legislation
(Decree 58 of December 30, 1988) also specifies that the FEPA shall
cooperate with the Ministry of Petroleum Resources for the removal of oil
pollutants and shall support the Ministry in other ways as they may
request. There is already in existence at the country level the legal and
institutional framework for dealing with any environmental issues that may
arise out of this Project.
6.14      An environmental impact study for the Project was prepared by
consultants in 1982.  A revised and more comprehensive draft environmental
assessment, dated March 1990, was submitted to the Bank and IFC for review.
The Bank Group reviewed this report and held a series of discussions with
the field operator's environmental staff. As a result, a revised report
dated September 4, 1990 (together with explanatory notes dated October 11
and November 27, 1990), satisfactory to the Bank, were issued. The project
sponsors have also issued a letter dated December 20, 1990, concurring with
the contents of the environmental impact study (EIS) together with the
explanatory correspondence. The purpose of the EIS is to identify the
existing status of the ambient environment, identify ;Iow the project will
potentially impact the ambient environment, and address what steps the



- 29 -
project sponsors will take to minimize the imDact. Thus, the EIS contains
a description of the current environment, including the marine environment,
the terrestrial environment, the climatology and geology of the region, and
curient uses of the area. The EIS also addresses the environmental impacts
of the Project on the ambient air, water, flora and fauna, as well as the
socio-economic impacts. Where negative impacts are identified, steps are
proposed in the EIS to minimize these impacts. An addendum to the EIS is
the Mobil Producing Nigeria Oil Spill Contingency Plan. This document
lists the organization and rCsponsibilities of personnel involved in oil
spill response and clean-up. Also included is the identification and
protection plan for environmentally sensitive sites. Finally, the
consequences of non-implementation of the Project are addressed in the EIS.
6.15      At the project level, measures regarding the prevention of
potential damage to the environment are stipulated in an MPN "loss
prevention procedure guide."  The manual is similar to others used by the
oil industry for off-shore operations and deals in particular with
procedures to be followed- (i) in case of oilspill or any other
catastrophic situation; (ii) while working with explosives, radioactive
materials and hazardous chemicals; and (iii) in situations arising from
the use of helicopters, supply vessels, gantries and other equipment. An
overall Safety Audit on the project development acheme has been conducted
by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources, NNPC and by Mobil's Hazard and
Operability Study Group (HAZOP), and no long-term adverse effects are
foreseen.
6.16      During drilling operations, the drilling contractor will be
required to follow current international regulations and practices for
blow-out prevention, and for instituting fire and safety cor.trols with the
latest equipment and techniques available to the industry. The rigs will
be equipped with blow-out preventors rated at 15,000 psi, fire control
equipment, a helicopter deck and emergency health facilities. In addition,
during the construction phase of the Project, there will be a number of
support vessels to assist in any emergency. The well design includes
casing and tubulars of the latest metallurgical alloys which allows for
long-term maximum strength and corrosion inhibition. All wellr. will be
equipped with a Sub-Surface Safety Valve (SSSV) installed below the
mud-line at some 250 feet (80 meters) of depth. The design of this valve
will permit each well to close-off (shut-in) below the surface of the sea
floor in case of any catastrophic damage to the well-head platform. At the
surface, there will also be a Surface Safety Valve (SSV) installed within
the christmas tree. This valve will shut-in each well in case of any
pressure loss within the flowline. The flowlines from the well-head
platforms to the production platform have been sized and weighted to
operate at 150Z of the maximum pressure expected and will be buried 3 feet
(1 meter) below the sea floor to help prevent damage from dragging anchors
and for thermal insulation.
6.17      The Operations Complex, consisting of the Gas Compression
Platform, the Production Platform, the Accommodation/Utilities Platform,
Riser Platform and the Flare Stack, are separate structures. Bridge
connectiorns will allow access to each platform within the complex. The
platforms will be oriented with the trade winds to allow safety from
exposure in case of an emergency. Each process platform will contain a
fire and gas monitoring system controlled from the central control room and
an independent monitoring/control system for the separate living quarters.



. 30 
The fire protection system can be activated by heat, smoke, gas or
ultraviolet light sensors. A fire water distribution system feeds water to
fixed monitors, hoses and the automatic deluge system on the bridge-
connected platforms. A fixed Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) system is
installed to prevent firs spills at the heaters and halon extinguishing
systems are provided for the protection of selected enclosures!rooms,
Portable fire extinguishers ere provided throughout the platforms. In
addition, the platforms are equipped with safety and shut-down systems to
stop the flow of fluids to the production unit and gas compressors in case
of an emergency, and any excess hydrocarbon f'luids in the system will be
diverted for discharge through the flare stack, where they will be burned.
Firewalls and noise abatement panels will separate the various functions of
each platform, and are isnstalled for safety and health requirements. There
will be a sick-bay for emergency and medical provisions. The oily waters
from the three-phase separators will be processed through a corrugated
plate interceptor and induced gas flotation unit, designed to reduce the
hydrocarbon content of the water to between 30 to 40 parts per million
(ppm) prior to its discharge into the sea. The current oil/water
concentration discharge regulation in the Gulf of Mexico is 48 ppm
hydrocarbon and in the North Sea, it is 40 ppm.
6.18      The chemical analysis of the waters in the reservoir show no
concentration of arsenic, lead or other salts which could be
envircnmentally hazardous when discharged in great quantities into the
sea. The domestic waste from the Accommodation/Utilities platform will be
passed through a macerator priar to its discharge into the sea.
6.19      The 35 mile 16-inch pipeline from the production platform to the
storage area at Qua Iboe will be installed in a trench three feet (one
meter) below the sea floor and held in place by concrete coating placed
over the entire length of the line to protect it and assure its integrity
from catastrophic failure. Where the line reaches the mainland and is
exposed to wave action, additional protection will be installed to reduce
exposure and corrosion.  All exposed metal surfaces in contact with water
within the system will be protected from galvanic corrosion by installing
sacrificial anodes.  The layout of the storage tanks at Qua Iboe includes
firewa'll dikes and levees and a foam protection system.
6.20      During the review of the EIS, one of the main concerns focussed
on the protection of Nigeria's mangrove swamps, which in turn depended upon
the adeauacy of the Oil Spill Contingency Plan to deal with acute oil
spills. The adequacy of the Plan in preventing contamination of the
swamps, under the most unlikely and 'worst-case scenario" of winds and
water currents, was assessed.  Under such conditions of a "high-impact,
low-probability" spill, sufficient time would be available to deploy
containment booms to protect shoreline vegetation. In addition, the rapid
rate of evaporation of the condensate would reduce the severity of the
spill before it reaches the booms. Oil spill containment equipment is
readily available on site.  MPN's staff are adequately train-d and frequent
drills are held to ensure a workable Oil Spill Contingency Plan.



- 31 -
VII. PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
A. Project Cost Estimate
7.01      The estimated project cost, allocated between NNPC and MPN on
the basis of their respective responsibility for financing, is as
summarized below (in current US$ equivalent) and detailed in Annex 7-1.
NNPC         MPN         Total
-------(US$ millior.)-
Facilities                        298          198          496
Development Drilling              112           75          187
Total Asset Costs               410          273         683
Pre-Operating Expenses             45           30           75
Import Duties                      27           18          45
Financing Costs                    38           44           82
Total Other Costs               110           92         202
Total Project Cost                520          365         885
7.02      The breakdown of the costs into local and foreign components in
terms of base costs and contingencies, is outlined below. Base costs are
in 1990 prices.



_ 32 -
Local       Foreign        Total
---------(US$ millions)--
A.  FACILITIES COSTS
Engineering/Construction/Equipment    14.4          366.5          380.9
Project Task Force                      8.6          39.9           48.5
Base Costs (B)                       23.0         406.4          429.4
Physical Contingencies                  2.8          39.5           42.3
Price Contingencies                     1.1          23.1           24.2
Total Facilities Costs                      26.9        469.1          496.0
B.  DRILLING COSTS
Services                               24.3          54.9           79.2
Rig Rental                               3.7         29.7           33.4
Tangibles/Equipment                     0.0          32.5           32.5
Base Costs (A)                       28.0         117.1          145.1
Physical Contingencies                   4.6         24.4           29.0
Price Contingencies                     2.4          10.4           12.9
Total Drilling Costs                        35.1        151.9          187.0
C.  PRE-OPERATING EXPENSES
Production Expense                      5..:         32.5           38.0
Matl & Supplies & Rental                 3.7         21.6           25.4
Base Costs (C)                        9.3          54.1           63.4
Physical Contingencies                  0.8           5.2            6.0
Price Contingencies                     0.8           4.8            5.6
Total Pre-Operating Expenses                10.9         64.3.          75.0
D. IMPORT DUTIES
Base Costs                             37.5          C0.0           37.5
Physical Contingencies                  4.2           0.0            4.2
Price Contingencies                     3.3           0.0            3.3
Total Import Duties                         45.0          0.0           45.0
Total Base Cost                        97.8         577.6          675.4
Total Physical Contingencies           12.4          69.1           81.6
Total Price Contingencies               7.6          38.4           46.0
PROJECT COSTS                              117.9        685.1          803.0
Interest During Construction
On IBRD Loan                        0.0          23.0           23.0
On Other Loans                      0.0          48.7           48.7
Financing Fees                          3.3           6.9           10.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                   121.2        763.8          885.0
NOTE: Numbers may not add due to independent rounding.



-  33  -
7.03      Facilities.  The total facilities cost of US$496 million
includes two components. The first is the fixed price turnkey engineering
procurement and construction contract which, together with change orders
and contingencies, is estimated at US$439 million. This includes the cost
of a builder all-risk policy, inclusive of marine insurance, to be borne by
the contractor. The second is US$57 million of fees for technical support
for design and implementation payable to Mobil Research and Development
Corporation (MRDC). The facilities cost will be financed on a 60:40 basis
respectively by NNPC and MPN.
7.04      Development Drilling.  The total drilling costs amount to US$187
million, including escalation and contingencies, and are allocated on a
60:40 basis between NNPC and MPN. Wells drilled through the lYl reservoir
are projected to cost US$4.80 million each. Five wells to be cored through
the lYl reservoir are projected to cost US$7.66 million each. The drilling
program involves drilling all 19 new wells to the projected total depth
before completing any of them. As such, the completion costs have been
estimated separately. Completion of producing wells is estimated to cost
US$1.89 million each, and injection wells are estimated to cost US$2.15
million each. These drilling cost estimates are based on the most recent
drilling experience in the Oso field. Rig and equipment rental costs are
based on current rates, and _asing costs are based on recent quotations
from steel m';8is.  Contingency allowances are 7? for drilled wells and 10%
for cored wells and are acceptable. Historically, the joint venture has
experienced 8-10% rig down-time in Nigeria. This has been built into the
estimates and represents a good performance by industry standards. The
overall unit well costs are acceptable estimates.
7.05      Pre-Operating Expenses and Import Duties.  The pre-operating
expense estimate of US$75 million consists of labor, materials, supplies,
rentals and contract services during the Oso Project consttaction period.
Labor costs represent incremental staffing costs and related training
necessary for operation of the Oso plant on completion.  Materials,
supplies and rentals consist of office supplies, furniture, equipment,
personnel housing and rentals of vehicles and equipment.  Contract services
consist of maintenance and repair services on housing, catering services
and helicopter services. These costs have been estimated on-the basis of
the joint venture's actual ongoing operational costs for similar services.
The import duties of US$45 million consist of duties on equipment and
material. All these costs are also to be shared on a 60:40 basis between
NNPC and MPN.
7.06      Financing Costs.  Financing costs consist of capitalized
interest, financial advisory fees, front-end lending fees and estimated
exposure fees on export credits. These costs have been estimated
separately for NNPC and MPN, based on indicated terms of theit respective
borrowings.
B. Pre-Development Costs
7.07      Oso's pre-development costs consist of US$70 million already
incurred since the field was discovered for further exploration and
appraisal work, and US$5 million for Phase I engineering, for a total of



- 34 -
US$75 million. These are sunk costs which have been financed with equity,
and are not included in the project cost estimates.
C. Unit Costs
7.08      Tak.-ng into account the total facilities, development drilling,
pre-operating expenses, and duty costs of US$803 million, and NSA's total
reserves estimate of 328.8 million recoverable barrels, the per barrel
development cost of 00 is US$2.44. This compares favorably with an
estimated average per barrel cost of US$3.00-4.00 for developing a
comparable oil field in Nigeria, and makes Oso a low cost development, both
by Nigerian and international standards.
D. Insurance
7.09      For the Facilities Contract, there is a Builder All-Risk Policy.
This is a 'wrap-around' policy which would cover construction-related
damage, and loss of materials and equipment both within Nigeria and
overseas. The policy would cover all phases of the work including
fabrication, installation, testing and commissioning. Marine insurance
covering the transit of all material, modules ar,d pre-fabricated assemblies
is included in this policy. The facilities contractor has included the
cost of the insurance as part of the overall turnkey contract for the
facilities. Contractor's employees will also be insured. For the Drilling
and Tubulars Contracts, as per usual practice, NNPC/MPN will arrange marine
insurance coverage for materials and equipment. For drilling operations,
the contractor will include the cost of inburing the rigs and crews. In
addition, NNPC and MPN will provide for third party liability coverage
(including seepage and pollution). Cost of well control (dealing with
unforeseen down-hole losses) will also be insured.
7.10      Once the project is operational, NNPC and MPN will also insure
the assets on 'All Risks" basis. Liability coverages will also be in
force.
E.  Financing Plan
7.11      The proposed financing plan is as follows:



_ 35 -
NNPC       MPN      TOTAL
--- (US$ millions)
Debt
IBRD                                     218          -         218
IFC A Loan                                 -         75          75
Commercial Banks 1/                        -         95          95
US Eiim                                    -         95          95
Japan Exim                                 47         -          47
EIB                                        65         -          65
Sub-Total                              330        265         595
Equity                                    190       100         290
TOTAL                                  520        365        885
1/   The US$95 million commercial bank loans to MPN vill be structured as
participations in an IFC B loan.
Details of items proposed to be financed by the institutions involved are
given in Annex 7-2. The status of financing arrangements is outlined
below. Satisfactory arrangements for the finalization of the financing
plan for the Project will be a condition of loan effectiveness.
NNPC
7.12      NNPC will raise US$330 million in loans from IBRD, EIB and Japan
Exim. These loans will be fully guaranteed by FGN. Effectiveness of
cofinancing for NNPC, except that of EIB (see (b) below), will be a
condition of loan effectiveness. The proposed utilization and main terms
of the loans to NNPC are as follows:
(a) IBRD: The proposed IBRD loan of US$218 million will be
available to partly finance NNPC's share of facilities and
drilling costs, interest during construction and fees on the
IBRD loan. The loan would be used to finance any of NNPC's
share of eligible foreign costs not financed by Japan Exim and
EIB. The loan will be at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The repayment period will be 19 years inclusive of a
grace period of five years;
(b) EIB: The propobed EIB loan estimated at US$65 million
equivalent will be availdble for financing a part of NNPC's
share of the facilities contract. An interest rate of 5Z has
been assumed together with a repayment period of 19 years.
including five years' grace. EIB financing will be made
available after the ratification of Lome IV, which is not likely
to occur within the time frame of IBRD loan effectiveness. To
enable participation of EIB in the financing and to ensure that
project implementation proceeds without interruption, IBRD's
condition of effectiveness, which requires the effectiveness of
cofinancing for NNPC, excludes the EIB loan.



- 36 -
(c) Japan Exim: Financing from the Export-Import Bank of Japan will
be available to NNPC on a buyer's credit basis from Japan Exim's
own resources. The loan is estimated at US$47 million and will
be available to finance the Japanese component of the Facilities
Contract. The loan will be a yen loan, payable in 10 years
commencing six months after project completion. The interest
rate will be 7.5% and the commitment charge will be 0.1% per
annum on undisbursed balances.
7.13      Equity:  NNPC will provide US$190 million, representing 36.52 of
its share of project costs, as equity. This will be utilized to finance
all local costs, all the capitalized interest on the Japan Exim and EIB
financing and other costa not eligible for financing by lenders. In
addition to this, NNPC will finance any cost overruns or shortfalls in debt
finance with equity. As previously pointed out (para 5.15), this equity
will be provided by FGN through NNPC. To enable project implementation to
start, pending the drawdown of loans, NNPC has already made available its
full equity contribution in a joint project implementation account.
Agreement has been reached that NNPC would finance, through equity provided
by the Goveriument, its portion of shortfalls in project financing and
project cost overruns.
MPN
7.14      MPN's debt finance will amount to US$265 million and will be
provided by IFC, US Exim and commercial banks, all on a project finance
basis, and will be serviced from MPN's share of project cash flows.
(a) IFC: The IFC "Al and "B" loans will be used to finance any of
MPN's share of the project's foreign costs not financed by US
Exim.  The IFC loans will be payable over five years commencing
approximately six months after project completion.
(b) US Exim: US Exim will provide export credit cover for MPN's
share of procurement of goods and services from the United
States for the project. This financing will be available on a
buyers credit basis and is estimated at US$95 million. The US
Exim financing is mainly available for the facilities contract,
with small amounts to be utilized to finance development
drilling, and an exposure fee on the finai.-Ang. The US Exim
Bank guarantee will cover loans repayable over five years
commencing approximately six months from project commissioning.
There will be a commitment fee of 1/8 of 1% per annum on
undisbursed balances and a flat exposure fee of 1.2Z payable on
each disbursement.
7.15      The finalization of any loans to MPN for the project would be a
*         condition of loan effectiveness.  HPN will finance about 27% of its share
of project costs with equity.  MPN has already made available all of its
equity requirement in the project implementation account.



- 37 -
F. Procurement
7.16      The table below indicates the procurement method used for the
various project components including the portion proposed to be financed by
the Bank.
Project Component                             Procurement Method               1/
ICB         LIB          Other         Total
… -----------(US$ millions) 
A.  Facilities                   439            -            57           496
(139)                                   (139)
B.  Drilling Costs 2/             79           31            77           187
(43)        (13)                        (56)
C.  Pre-operating Expenses         -            -            75            75
D.  Import Duties                               -            45            45
E.  Interest During Construction  -             -            72            72
(23)          (23)
F.  Financing Fees                              -            10            10
Total                    518          31           336            885
(182)        (13J(23)                    (218)
1/ Figures in parentheses denote IBRD financing.
2/ The ICB portion of the drilling costs relates to drilling rigs, tubulars
and cement; the LIB portion relates to electric logs, mud logs, tubing
conveyed perforating (TCP) and measurement while drilling (MWD).
7.17      The major component of the Project is the facilities contract.
This consists of four wellhead platforms; three large platforms for
condensate production, gas compression and living quarters; one riser
platform; subsea pipelines of approximately 120 miles in various sizes; a.id
on-shore condensate storage facilities. The facilities were procured on a
single responsibility turnkey basis under international competitive biddirg
(ICB) following IBRD guidelines. Bids received from three pre-qualified
major international contracting groups with experience in contracts of this
type, size and complexity were evaluated by the Project sponsors. A
contract was awarded to the MBJ Consortium 3/ on June 28, 1990 and work
commenced on July 1, 1990.
3/   The MBJ Consortium consists of McDermott Offshore Services Company,
Inc., Bouygues Offshore and JGC Corporation.



- 38 -
7.18      There are a variety of procurement arrangements for the
development drilling services. In all contracts in which IBRD financing is
involved, procurement will be in accordance with Bank Guidelines. This
includes drilling rigs, tubulars and cement, which are being processed on
the basis of ICB. Since there are only a limited number of suitable
suppliers for specialized products and services -- such as electric logs,
mud logs, tubing conveyed perforating (TCP), and measurement while drilling
(MWD) -- limited international bidding (LIB) will be followed for these
goods and services. Other equipment and services will be procured
according to NNPC/MPN standard bidding procedures, which generally involve
competitive bidding. Most of the specialist technical services, such as
reservoir and operational engineering studies, will be provided by MPN
affiliates or specialized consultants retained by them.
7.19      The IBRD loan of US$218 million is expected to finance a part of
NNPC's share of facilities and drilling costs as well as the interest
during construction and commitment fees on the IBRD loan. The proportion
of the latter to the total IBRD loan is 112.  Retroactive financing of up
to 25Z of the IBRD loan is envisaged. This level of retroactive financing
is required because a portion of the expenditure to ae financed out of the
IBRD loan is currently being pre-financed by NNPC's equity.  This
arrangement was necessary to enable project implementation to start on July
1, 1990 following the award of the Facilities Contract and, at the same
time, to contend with delays encountered in the complex task of raising
commercial financing for Nigeria. Failure to award the Contract at that
time wot'ld have resulted in substantial cost increases and delays. It may
be noted that the Bank Group has not only been active in the design of the
project but is closely involved in supervising its on-going implementation.
Hence there was no bidding or contracting activity for the project which
preceded the Bank Group's involvement.  Retroactive financing will be used
for specific project expenditures meeting prescribed eligibility criteria
and, as mentioaed above, the Bank's procurement guidelines are being
followed for all goods and services that the Bank is expected to finance in
part.
G.  Disbursement of IBRD Funds
7.20      Under the facilities contract, th, IBRD contribution would be
US$139 million and would cover a portion of the cost of platforms,
compressor trains, process equipment and flowlines. For the drilling and
tubulars contracts, the IBRD contribution would be US$56 million and would
cover a part of the cost of drilling rigs, tubulars, electric logs,
drilling cement and mud. Interest during construction on the Bank's
contribution and commitment fee (proposed to be financed by the Bank) are
expected to be US$23 million. Disbursement categories and amounts are
summarized in the table below:



- 39 -
Disbursements
(in US$ million equivalent)
CstegoEX                            Amount               Disbursement
1.  Facilities                       139                 100t of foreign
- Platforms for                                        expenditures
Wellheads, Production,
Compression, Living
Quarterst
- Riser Platform
- Sub-sea Pipelines
- On-shore Storage
2.  Drilling                          56                 1002 of foreign
- Rigs and Services                                    expenditures
- Tubulars, Cement
- Mud Logs
- Electric Logs
- TCP
- MWD
3. Interest During Construction       23 2-
and Commitment Charge
Total                       21t,
1/   Interest during construction and coumitment charge on IBRD loan.
7.21      The disbursement profile of the Bank's contribution, which
corresponds to the project impLementation schedule prepared by the field
operator MPN, is given belowt
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ millions)
FY1991    FY1992    PY1993    FY1994      TOTAL
Facilities               39        65        33         2        139
Drilling                 15        24        15         2         56
Interest During
Construction            2         8         9         4         23
TOTAL                  56        97        57         8        218
7.22      A Special Account denominated in US dollars will be established
under the Project. An amount of US$15 million, covering an average of
about three months' anticipated disbursements will be initially deposited
into this account. The Special Account will be operated on terms and



- 40 -
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Withdrawal applications will be
submitted with full supporting documents, except for contracts of less than
US$500,000 equivalent, which will be reimbursed on the basis of statements
of expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documents relating to SOEs will be
retained in a central location by NNPC and made available for review by
visiting missions. All contracts equal to or greater than US$1,000,000 in
which Bank financing is involved will be reviewed by the Bank prior to
award. In addition, funds from the IBRD loan may be withdrawn under other
standard World Bank procedures which include re mbursement to the borrower
of eligible expenditures, direct payment to suppliers/contractors, and
Special Commitments to cover letters of credit.
7.23      Project implementation started on July 1, 1990, and the Project
should be completed by mid-1993. Effectiveness of the Bank's loan is
expected by May, 1991, and the closing date of the loan will be June 30,
1994.
VIII. MARKET CONSIDERATIONS
A. Introduction
8.01      Historically, condensate production has been excluded from OPEC
crude production quotas and has not been subject to production
constraints. However, a mounting crude surplus recently led OPEC to
contemplate some measures for controlling condensate supply. The most
important is a decision to adopt a specific definition of condensate
broader than the API specific gravity standard which is the prevailing norm
in the industry. The new definition (Annex 8-1) recognizes the dew point
as a unique characteristic of condensate reservoirs at in-situ conditions,
and prescribes rules of thumb cut-offs for such surface production
parameters as gas-liquid ratio (GLR), stock-tank gravity and C7+ content as
an approximation to actual sampling to determine dew point. Since the
adoption of this definition, OPEC has initiated a pr;_ess of classifying
fields in production, and has indicated that new fields such as Oso would
have to wait to be classified when they come on stream. Although. PVT data
and reservoir simulation studies indicate Oso to be a dew-point system, and
that its API gravity falls within the acceptable OPEC range for condensate,
there is incomplete information on how Oso would measure against the other
tests. There is a risk, therefore, that it may not be classified as
condensate when it comes on stream.
8.02      Irrespective of how it is eventually classified by OPEC, the Oso
hydrocarbon has special qualities which would clearly differentiate it from
other Nigerian crudes in world oil markets and make it a new product. To
assist in the evaluation of the market and price outlook of this new
product, IFC/IBRD commissioned the energy consulting firm of Arthur D.
Little Inc. (ADL) to conduct a thorough review of Oso's marketability and
relative value. The discussion of Oso's market and price prospects which
follows is based on the results of this study.



- 41 -
B. World Oil Production and Price Outlook
8.03      As discussed in para 4.04, between now and the year 2000, the
share of OPEC in total world oil production is expected to increase
significantly, mainly due to its large and increasing low-cost reserves in
relation to non-OPEC countries. The table below summarizes the situation
in terms of average outputs for 1989 and 2000:
World Oil Output
1989                             2000
Output     Percentage of       Output      Percentage of
(Embpd)      World Total        (mmbpd)     World Total
OPEC             22.6           36.4             il.0            42.6
Non-OPEC         39.5           63.6             41.7            57.4
Total            62.1          100.0             72.7           100.0
8.04      Refined product demand growth is expected to be concentrated in
light (gasoline/naphtha) and middle (kerosene/diesel/gas oil) distillates,
with little or no growth in residual fuel oil and other heavy products.
Since growth in crude oil supply is expected to be predominantly in heavier
crudes, a major and growing imbalance is projected between light/middle
distillate supply and demand. This imbalance will lead to expanding price
spreads between these products and heavy fuel oil and, subsequently, to new
investment in fuel oil destruction capacity which will be required by, or
before, the mid-1990s. Initially this new conversion investment is likely
to be focused on fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) and hydrocracking capacity
additions in Western Europe, but some deep conversion projects (coking and
residues cracking) are also possible if conversion margins grow
sufficiently.
8.05      Under these conditions, light crude oils and condensates will be
particularly valuable if they reduce the need for new conversion while, at
the same time, crude distillation capacity is available. The strong demand
for light crudes and, to a lesser extent, condensates can be expected to
continue until such point as there are major adlitions to fuel oil
destruction capacity which relieve the pressure on light and middle
distillate supply.
8.06      Crude oil price forecasts are complex undertakings and since the
early 1970s, consensus has been the norm. There appears to be a cyclical
pattern in energy pricing whereby oil prices respond to changes in economic
activity. This fluctuating economic activity or business cycle will affect
the demand for oil and consequently, the price of oil. In addition,
factors such as urbanization and population can affect demand.
8.07      Similarly, prices are affected on the supply side by the oil
industry cycle, characterized by periods of expansion and contraction.
Higher oil prices generate an increase in investment in the oil sector,
bringing on more production, resulting in increased supplies, and
eventually a fall in prices. Price behavior can also be influenced by
supply concentration as evidenced by the responses to OPEC's behavior.



42 -
8.08      The table below shows the historical movement of average crude
prices since 1980 and staff estimates of projected prices until the year
2000, in terms of current dollars. These projections are used in this
chapter as a basis for estimating prices of Oso Condensate.
Year          Current Price           Year           Current Price
(US$/barrel)                         (US$/barret)
1980              30.5                1989               16.3
1981              34.3                1990               21.6
1982              31.0                1991               23.8
1983              28.1                1992               20.5
1984              27.5                1993               18.5
1985              26.7                1994               19.6
1986              13.6                1995               20.9
1987              17.2                2000               31.2
1988              13.7                2005               35.7
C.   World Condensate Supply and Demand
8.09      Most countries with oil and gas production are also producers of
gas condensate.  Obtaining a clear picture of condensate supply is,
however, complicated by several factors: (i) many countries have relatively
small volumes of condensate production, which are blended into crude at or
near the field and are not reported per se; (ii) condensate is frequently
mislabeled ke.g., the term is frequently applied to processing plant
natural gas liquid mix and natural gasoline), and (iii) sometimes,
condensate is not reported separately, but as a component of total natural
gas liquids or in terms of its fractionated components.
8.10      Past and projected world production of gas (or lease) condensate
is summarized in Annex 8-2.  The data and estimates presented exclude
production of plant condensate and natural gasoline. World gas condensate
production was nearly 2.2 million barrels per day in 1988, with the largest
producers -- accounting for almost 70X of production -- being the USqR, USA
and Algeria.  Other significant producing countries are Indonesia, Mexico,
the UAE and Australia. Gas condensate production is projected to grow in
the future, largely as a result of developments in the UK and Norwegian
sectors of the North Sea.
8.11      While substantial quantities of gas condensate are produced
around the world, only about one-quarter (about 550,000 bpd) of this
production enters international markets as segregated condensate.  Roughly
50X of condensate production is blended into crude oil in the producing
country, while a further 25Z is segregated, but used within the producing
country. Algeria dominates the supply of internationally traded
zondensates (Annex 8-2) with exports of about 400,000 bpd followed by
Indonesia with about 100,000 bpd.  Few other sources exceed 10,000 bpd on
export markets. Accordingly, Oso will become one of the main
internationally-traded condensates in the early 1990s when it comes on
stream with a production of 100,000 bpd.



- 43 _
.1
8.12      Due to its own limited production and its proximity to Algeria,
western Europe is the largest importer of condenseete. Over 300,000 bpd of
gas condensate was imported into western Europe in 1987, which was divided
equally between refining and petrochemical steam cracking outlets. The US,
in addition to segregating roughly 100,000 bpd of its domestic production,
imported in excess of 150,000 bpd in 1987, much of which was refined.
Other gas condensate importers include Japan and South Korea. The
aggregate imports of gas condensate into countries other than western
Europe and the US were less than 100,000 bpd in 1987.
D. Oso Condensate Quality and Yield Characteristics
8.13      Oso is a light refinery feedstock having yield and quality
characteristics (Annex 8-3) which position it between light Nigerian crude
oil export grades (e.g., Bonny Light) on the one hand, and the
internationally-marketed condensate streams (notably Algerian and
Indonesian condensates) on the other. Its yield characteristics exhibit a
high proportion of gases and light straight run (LSR) naphtha vis-&-vis
Bonny Light crude. Its light products yields are relatively low compared
to other major condensate grades. Its high gas yield could lead to crude
distillation tower overhead condenser limits on refineries already running
at capacity on light crudes. Osos' LSR naphtha is highly paraffinic in
nature which makes it an excellent petrochemical steam cracker feedstock,
but a poor gasoline component, as is LSR from most crudes. However, it
cannot be used directly as a petrochemical feedstock without prior refining
or prefractionation.
E.  Oso Marketing Opportunities
8.14      While a variety of export marketing opportunities exist for Oso,
it will probably find its best markets with refineries in western Europe
and the US, given its principal characteristics outlined above. As already
noted, 080 cannot be directly steam cracked as a petrochemical feedstock.
Due to the significant light product yield obtained from distillation of
condensates, refiners generally prefer to run them in blend with more
conventional crudes.  Many refineries in the US and western Europe could
accommodate condensates up to a level of 10-20S of refinery throughput
without creating extensive problems with working capital costs, or overhead
condenser/catalytic reformer loading. Because of this, batch refining of
condensates, or even the dedication of a refinery to running condensates,
is rare. Since refiners running Oso, or other condensates, in a 10-20Z
blend would process (and value) it as a conventional refinery feedstock,
this method of processing opens up a large number of refining outlets in
western Europe and the US East and Gulf coasts, as potential markets for
Oso condensate, even if used in blend at only 102 of distillation capacity.
F. Transportation
8.15      Provided the condensate is stabilized in Nigeria, it can be
transported in conventional tankers. Transportation concerns are more
likely to be focused on economic issues. In particular, a number of
non-integrated refiners would probably prefer to receive shipments of Oso
condensate in small parcels (of no more than 40,000 DWT) for a combination
of storage availability and working capital reasons. Using small (35,000
DWT) vessels to service the needs of individual refiners would create quite
substantial freight penalties vis-a-vis shipment in Very Large Crude



- 44 -
Carriers (VLCCs) or even 80,000 DWT vessels. Alternatives include
multi-port discharge or, prerirably, pare loading of Oso in large vessels
with a major Nigerian crude export grade.
8.16      Despite these opportunities to improve 090 condensate freight
economics, it is likely that Oso will tend to suffer freight penalties
compared with traditional Nigerian crude oil export grades, particularly in
its early years of production. This is due to its special characteristics,
particularly if sold to non-integrated refiners, its smaller volume and the
need to spread its sales amongst several outlets.
G. Valuation and Price Assumptions
8.17      While a market netback valuation system is currently used to
derive f.o.b. prices for the majority of Nigerian crude oil exports, it
does not appear to be an appropriate pr.cing approach for Oso condensate,
at least before its production volumes, qualities and markets are well
known by the market place. This is because of its relatively small and
declining production, the probable spread of buyers across different
markets and refinery configurations, and the specific refining process
operations which Oso may encounter. All of these factors make it hard to
attribute an Oso-specific refinery margin to a netback formula. The more
appropriate and more likely pricing approach for Oso, and the one
recommended by ADL, would be in relation to the f.o.b. price of a major
Nigerian crude oil export grade, in particular Bonny Light. In view of the
product's unfamiliarity in the market, and freight and other penalties due
to its special characteristics, ADL estimate that Oso will be priced in the
market at a discount of up to US$l1bbl on Bonny Light, The price
projections used ir. analyzing the project have been derived on this basis
(Annex 8-4), star4ing with staff forecasts of crude oil pri:s (paras 8.06-
8.08), adjusting these to reference Bonny Light prices and applying the
estimated discount to obtain projected Oso condensate prices.
H. Offtake and Pricing Arrangements
8.18      All Oso output will be lifted and disposed of outside Nigeria
under offtake agreements between each joint venture partner and buyers
acceptable to their respective lenders. The buyers will, in turn, be
responsible for finding suitable market outlets for the product. This
marketing arrangement will assure that, given the lack of familiarity of
world markets with Oso, the marketing risk in the financing of the project
is reduced through reliance on strong offtakers.
8.19      For the portion of the condensate to be lifted by NNPC, lenders
require the finalization of purchase agreements extending over the maturity
period of their respective loans. Purchase agreements satisfactory to the
Bank for the sale of the production of NNPC's equity share of the
condensate would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
8.20      In parallel, NNPC will need to develop necessary in-house
marketing capability for the sale of condensate. Under the Oso Field
Development Agreement, MPN, with assistance from its affiliates, has agreed
to support NNPC in training its staff for the marketing of condensate.
Agreement has been reached with NNPC that by June 30, 1994, it would



- 45 -
prenare and furnish to the Bank for review, detailed arrangements for the
adequate training of staff of NNPC in the marketing of its equity share of
condensate.
8.21      Agreement has not yet been reached between FGN and NNPC/MPN on
the Oso price to be used for calculating margins, taxes and royalties, but
it is intended that one will be concluded before commencement of
production. It has, however, been agreed in principle, that this price
will be market-based and competitive, and will be reviewed from time to
time to ensure its continued applicability to changing market conditions.
The Oso Field Development Agreement between NNPC and MPN stipulates that
the pricing formula will be finalized 18 months prior to start-up of
production. It was agreed that NNPC will furnish for review by the Bank,
the pricing formula for calculating margins, taxes and royalties for Oso
condensate, as determined under the Oso Field Development Project
Agreement.
IX. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.  Forecast Production Profile                                                               t
9.01      The financial evaluation of the project is based only on the lYl
total reserves (proven, probable and possible) of 328.8 million barrels as
estimated by NSA. Summarized below is the projected production profile for
the first ten years of the project, based on these reLervess
Yeor ending Dec. 81    1998  1994 1996    18   1997  l998   1999  2000  2001   2002
(6 moe)-
Daily Production Rate   100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  91.6  62.5   71.6  69.6  49.0   40.2
Barrole (000)
Annual Production (mmbbl) 18.8  38.5  86.5  86.5  88.5  80.1  26.1  21.7  17.9  14.7
Cumulative Production    18.8  64.6  91.8 127.8 161.8 191.4  217.5 239.2 257.1  271.7
-  of Reservae
Annual Production      5.7X 11.651  11.65  11.5% 10.5%  9.6%  8.2%   6.813  6.6%   4.83
Cumuletivo Production    6.713 17.2X 28.7% 40.1%3 60.613 60.113 68.81  76.1% 80.7X  85.38
Reserve Tail          94.8% 82.8% 71.3% 59.9% 49.493 89.9% 81.7S  24.9% 19.3%  14.71
9.02     Production is forecast to begin in the third quarter of 1993, at a
peak rate of 100,000 bpd, which will be maintained until 1996, when about
402 of the total reserves will have been produced. Thereafter, the
production rate will decline very rapidly at about 172 a year.  A total of
319 million barrels (97X of the current estimate of total reserves) will be
produced in the 16 years between 1993 and 2008 when the lease expires
(renewable for another 40 years), unless further recoverable reserves are
proven during the development drilling and gas re-injection programs.



-  46  -
B. Projected Profitability and Rate of Return
9.03      The base case financial projections are based on condensate prices
derived from staff crude oil price forecasts. The development of the Oso
field is financially attractive, because the projected development costs
(about US$2.4/bbl) and cash operating costs (expected to average about
US$2.0/bbl) are very low, enabling the Project to generate substantial cash
flows.  The financial internal rate of return (FIRR) on the total
investment is estimated in real terms as 49.32.  The financial returns to
NNPC and MPN differ, as discussed below.
9.04     Projected financial statements for the total project and for NNPC
and MPN are presented in Annex 9-1 and are summarized below for the first
ten years (current US$ equivalent):
Yoar ending Dec.31     1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1S99   2000   2001   2002
(6 moo)
Production (mmbbl)      18.3   36.6   36.5  38.5   83.6   80.1  28.1   21.7   17.9  14.7
Unit Price (US8/bbl)    18.7   19.9   21.8   23.1  25.1   27.0   29.1   31.4   82.6   33.7
Sales Revenue (USJmm)    342    727    777    842    843    814    760    681    S8i    496
Covt. Take              210    469    527    836    673   6e8    624    560    475    402
Net Incomo               34     8s    72    79    84         72    68      67    46    37
Rati o. (X)
Govt. Take/Sales         61    63    68    76    80          82    82    82    82    81
Net Income/Sales         9.9    9.4    9.3    9.4   10.0    8.8    8.9    8.4    7.9   7.6
9.05       NNPC:  NNPC acts in this project, as in all its oil development
projects, as an agent of the Government (para 5.02).  Its return on the
investment cannot therefore be evaluated in isolation from the return to
the Government, which will receive all of NNPC's share of revenues. The
combined NNPC/FGN returns for the first ten years (current US$ equivalent)
are summarized below:
Year ending Dec.31     1993   1994   1996   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002
(6 mos)
Production (mmbbl)     11.0   21.9   21.9   21.9   20.1   18.1   16.7  18.0   10.7    8.9
Unit Price (USS/bbl)    18.7   19.9   21.3   23.1  25.1   27.0   29.1  81.4    32.5  83.7
Revenues                205    436    466    50S    506    469    456   409     349    297
Expenses                66    114    104    77    55    63    S0    47           43    40
Surplus to FON          149    321    862    428    461    436    406   362     808    257
Comprising
Tax and Royalty         182    287    326   3s8    407    894    867   329    279    237
Income                  17    84    86    40    44    42           39    33      27    20
9.06       The Government take (tax and royalty) for NNPC is notional and is
not relevant for its investment decision.  The FIRR on NNPC's investment is
therefore the same as the return on the total investment, and is estimated
at 49.32. The net economic foreign exchange benefits to Nigeria total
US$5.1 billion (in 1990 prices) and the distribution of discounted net
benefits between the domestic economy and foreign investors is in the ratio
96Z/4Z.
9.07      MPN:  A summary of MPN's financial results for the first ten
years is as follows (in current US$ millions):



- 47 -
YVar ending Dec.81     1998   1994   1996   1996   1997   1999   1999   2000   2001   292
(6 moe)
Production (mmbbl)      7.3   14.6   14.6   14.6   13.4   12.0   10.4   8.7      7.2    6.9
Unit Prieo (USS/bbl)    18.7   19.9  21.8   28.1   26.1   27.0   29.1  81.4    82.5  83.7
Revenues                137    291    811    887    887    826    304   272      238    198
Expenses                42      65    78    G0       80    24      19    18      17    16
Covt Take                78    172    202    248    266    272    257   230      196    166
Net Income               17    84    88    89    41         S0    28    24       20    16
Ratios (#)
Covt Take/Revenue        57    59    66    74    79    68    85    85            64    84
Net Income/Revenuo       12    12    12    12    12          9      9     9       9      8
9.08      A large share of MPN's revenues are paid out to FGN for take
(royalties and taxes).  The after-take FIRR for MPN is therefore modest at
10.32. However, the real financial attraction in the project for MPN is
the tax benefit it will receive during the pre-production period (1990 to
mid-1993) through depreciation, allowable deductions and investment tax
credits on its share of project costs. The total value of this tax benefit
is estimated at about US$233 million. After using these tax benefits to
adjust its net investment in the project, MPN's overall after-tax FIRR is
estimated at 42.2?, making the Project financially very attractive.
C. Net Cash Flow Prospects and Loan Evaluation
9.09       The projected cash available for debt service and debt coverage
analysis for NNPC and MPN are summarized below (current US$ million). Debt
service coverage ratios are very strong for both NNPC and MPN.
Year ending Dec 81         1994  1996  1996  1997  1998  1999 26w  2001 2602
NNPC
Net Operati ng Co. h       411   440   474   475   459   427  882  828 278
Debt Service Covorage
Ratio              18.8  14.6  18.0  11.1  10.9  10.8  9.4  6.1  7.0
Year ending Dec 81        1994  1995  1996   1997   1998
MPN
R1  Operating Cash         274   298   816   817    s8
Debt Service Coverage
Ratio                8.6   4.0   4.6   6.0    5.8
Life of Loan Ratio         5 5.2   6.0   7.2   10.1    -
D. Harsin Analysis
9.10       The strong debt service capacity of the Project is further
illustrated by cash flow analysis on a per barrel basis as summarized below
(in current US$):
41   Net present value of future cash flows to total debt outstanding.



- 48 -
NNPC                        MPN
Loan Lifetime              Loan Lifet.me
1994-2010                  1994-1998
US          2              US$         2
Averages:
Projected Revenue             27.8         100.0           23.1      100.0
Cash Operating Costs         2.2           7.9            1.4        6.1
Debt Service                 3.1          11.2            4.9       21.2
Total                      5.3          19.1            6.3      27.3
9.11      The Project's average cash operating costs are low.  They amount
to US$2.2/barrel over the life of the NNPC loans, equivalent to only 7.9%
of average projected prices for NNPC, and for MPN US$1.4 and 6.1%
respectively. About 30% of these operating costs are production volume
related, about 25Z are related to the number of wells in operation, and the
rest are essentially fixed over the production life of the field. Because
of these low average costs, the proportion of projected revenues needed to
fully pay off principal and interest on project loans is only about 192 for
NNPC and about 272 for MPN whose overall loans have a shorter maturity.
This provides a significant cushion for downside price risks.
E. Sensitivity Analysis
9.12      The results of extensive sensitivity analysis of the Project's
projected financial performance are shown in Annex 9-2.  The alternative
scenarios tested assume various production and price levels and higher
capital costs, including a catastrophe scenario under which, concurrently,
prices and production are 252 lower, and capital costs are 25% higher. It
has been assumed that any increase in project cost is financed through
equity. The results indicate that Oso's profitability is most s2nsitive to
changes in prices and production volume.  The Project's FIRR remains
satisfactory, falling from 49.32 in the base case to 24% in the
catastrophic case. For both NNPC and MPN, debt service coverage remains
acceptable under all cases considered.
X. ECONOMIC IMPACT AND RISKS
A. Prolect Justification and Benefits
10.01     The undertaking of projects aimed at maintaining the production
levels of existing oil fields, developing alternative sources of energy for
domestic use in order to increase crude oil resources available for export
under the OPEC quotas and developing other exportable hydrocarbons not
falling under the OPEC quota (condensate, LNG), are critical to the success
of the Structural Adjustment Program and the ability of the economy to
sustain a positive growth in per capita income.
10.02     The Oso Condensate Project will help Nigeria to achieve these
economic objectives because it would provide additional foreign exchange



- 49 -
earnings, irrespective of how the output is classified by OPEC.
Development of new fields is needed to meet production levels required
under OPEC quotas for Nigeria during the 1990s.  Oso is the least-cost
option for increasing production significantly. Hence, all net revenues
from the project are incremental to Nigeria.
10.03     Based on the additionality of its revenues, the economic rate of
return (ERR) of the Project is estimated at 512 (Annex 10-1) over its 21-
year production life. The main mechanism by which the national economy
will benefit from the Project is the royalties and taxation receipts that
will accrue to the Government. The split of discounted net benefits
between the domestic economy and foreign investors. in the base case, is
expected to be 962 domestic/4Z foreign.
10.04     The Project generates substantial net foreign exchange revenues
(Annex 10-2). The value of net foreign exchange benefits (i.e., after
foreign exchange capital costs, operating coStc and debt service) is US$5.1
billion in terms of 1990 dollars. The present value of these net foreign
exchange benefits, discounted at 12?. amounts to US$1.9 billion over the
project life. Again, this significant net foreign exchange flow to the
domestic economy is a reflection of the taxation regime.
B. Sensitivity Analysis
10.05     The sensitivity of the economic rate of return (ERR) has been
tested under four adverse assumptions and remains high under all
scenarios. A 25% increase in the capital cost reduces the ERR to 432.
Assuming a 251 reduction in oil prices compared to those forecast, also
reduces the ERR to 43%. Including the sunk cost of US$75 million in the
capital cost reduces the ERR to 45%.
10.06     Conversely, for the ERR to fall to 12%, (i) capital costs would
have to increase to four times the present estimates; or (ii) condensate
prices or production would need to fall to less than a third of the
projected levels.
C. Risks
1.   Completion and Reservoir Performance
10.07     As with any new field development project, the main risks in the
Oso Project are the completion and reservoir performance risks. By
procuring the main facilities on a fixed price turnkey basis from an
experienced contracting consortium, the physical completion risk is
minimized to a large extent. Regarding reservoir performance, the critical
factor is the gas reinjection technology which is new in the concession
area, but is already well proven elsewhere. While the extensive and
detailed analysis of all available Oso seismic and sub-surface data, well
log and core data and well test data have indicated that the production and
recovery rates projected for the Oso reservoir are within reasonable
levels, the field's actual performance will depend on how well it is
managed. In this connection, the presence of MPN, an experienced operator
already familiar with the area and supported by MOC expertise, would be
invaluable in managing this risk.



- 50 -
2.   Price
10.08     The volatility of oil prices presents another major risk for this
type of project. Over the past two decades, prices of oil have exhibited
enormous fluctuations, with two significant peaks during the 1970s, a major
collapse during the 1980s and another substantial increase as a result of
the present crisis. A variety of factors may have influenced prices. On
the demand side, this included variations in economic activity, trends in
urbanization, population, and the impact of technological advance in fuel
substitution. On the supply side, high oil prices have stimuleted
increases in investment, resulting in surges in production, making it
difficult to maintain prices. At the same time, non-economic factors, such
as the Iran-Iraq conflict, the ongoing Gulf crisis, and general differences
between various OPEC member-countries, have also played a role in oil price
determination. Price forecasts used in project evaluation indicate that,
after the effects of the Gulf crisis subside, oil prices will increase
during the 1990s. However, there is a risk that any number of
unpredictable developments could lead to a price collapse.
10.09     Sensitivity analysis indicates that the project is strong enough
to withstand significantly lower prices than projected.  A major collapse
of oil prices to an average of about US$6/barrel, a level to which prices
have not fallen in the past decade, would have to occur before the price
risk begins to affect operating expenses and debt service payments.
3.   OPEC Quota
10.10     Another risk which has been addressed is the risk of implementing
the Oso project in the event that OPEC decides to classify the output of
00 as crude oil rather than condensate. The issue has been discussed in
some detail in paras 4.06-4.07. Due to the uncertainties involved in
predicting the eventual OPEC classification of Oso, the risk has been
evaluated in the worst case scenario, which assumes 080 output as crude and
therefore subject to OPEC quotas.
10.11     Due to the curtailed level of investment in oil production and
exploration activities in Nigeria over the last ten years, there has been a
substantial decline in the producibility of existing fields which, in
effect, has resulted in the build-up of a backlog of work which now needs
to be carried out over the coming years in existing and new fields.  The
situation is such that a substantial increase in expenditure (60? over
recent levels) is required over the next five years to arrest the decline
and achieve only modest increases in Nigeria's aggregate producibility.
Under these conditions, assuming there would be no funding constraints for
an enhanced work program, even with the addition of 080, aggregate
producibility will fall short of the level required to meet future OPEC
quotas. It is therefore concluded that, even if Oso production is
classified as crude, it could be brought on production as currently
scheduled without Nigeria exceeding OPEC quotas. In fact, it would
therefore be important to develop oso on schedule. This is unders-ored by
Oso's relatively low cost per barrel and its state of technical readiness.
It was agreed with NNPC that Oso field production would be maintained at
levels necessary to at least produce net revenues adequate to meet the



- 51 -
estimated maximum debt service requirements of NNPC on all debt incurred by
NNPC for the Project.
XI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
ON THE IBRD LOAN
11.01     During negotiation, the following agreements were reacheds
(a) NNPC would update its estimates of Oso field reserves annually
with the assistance of consultants and furnish these to the Bank
for review (para 6.09);
(b) On Project reporting requirements, NNPC agreed to provide the
Bank quarterly progress reports, interim financial statements,
audited accounts and auditor's reports, and the Project
Completion Report (para 6.12). In addition, arrangements for
procurement and disbursement were also agreed (paras #.16 to
7.23);
(c) NNPC would finance through equity (provided by the Government)
its portion of any shortfalls in project financing and project
cost overruns (para 7.13);
*d)  NNPC would prepare and furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1994, for
its review and comments, detailed arrangements for training the
staff of NNPC in marketing its equity share of condensate (pare
8.20);
(e)  NNPC would furnish for review by the Bank, a pricing formula for
calculating margins, taxes and royalties related to the Oso field
condensate, pursuant to the Oso Field Development Agreement (par-
8,21); and
tf) NNPC would maintain Oso field production at levels necessary to
at least produce net revenues adequate to meet the estimated
maximum debt service requiremenits of NNPC on all debt incurred by
NNPC for the Project (para 10.11).
11.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) Finalization of the financing plan for the Project (para 7.11);
(b) Effectiveness of Japan Exim cofinancing (para 7.12);
(c) Finalization of any loans made to MPH for the Project (para
(7.15); and
.d)  The signing of purchase agreements satisfactory to the Bank for
the sale of the borrower's equity share of condensate production
(para 8.19).
11.03     Based on the above agreements, the above project is suitable for
an IBRD loan of US$218 million equivalent to the Nigerian National



- 52 -
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
for 19 years including a 5-year grace period. Retroactive financing of
US$54.5 million for financing a part of the facilities and drilling costs
is also recommended (para 7.19). and is included in the amount mentioned
above. The Federal Government of Nigeria (FGN) will guarantee the loan and
NNPC will pay a guarantee fee to FGN equal to 10? of the Bank interest
rate. NNPC will bear the foreign exchange risk.
AF4IE
February 1991



DISTRIBUTION OF OPEC PRODUCTION QUOTAS
(Volumes in mmbpd)
Agreement Date              June 1989 a/        September 1989 b/        November 1989 c/            July 1990
Volume     1 Share    Volume      2 Share     Volume      Z Share      Volume      2 Share
Algeria                 0.733         3.76     0.771         3.76      0.827         3.74        0.827         3.68
Fcuador                 0.242         1.24     0.254         1.24      0.273         1.23        0.273         1.21
Gabon                   0.175         0.90     0.184         0.90      0.197         0.89        0.197         0.88
Indonesia               1.307         6.70     1.374         6.70      1.374         6.22        1.374         6.11
Iran                    2.783        14.27     2.925        14.27      3.1          14.22        3.140        13.96
Iraq                    2.783        14.27     2.925        14.27      3.140        14.22        3.140        13.96
Ktmait d/               1.093         5.61     1.149         5.61      1.500         6.79        1.500         6.67
Libya                   1.093         5.61     1.149         5.61      1.233         5.58        1.233         5.48
Nigeria                 1.428         7.32     1.501         7.32      1.611         7.29        1.611         7.16
Qatar                   0.329         1.69     0.346         1.69      0.371         1.68        0.371         1.65
Saudi Arabia d/         4.769        24.45     5.014        24.45      5.380        24.36        5.380        23.92
UAE                     1.041         5.34     1.094         5.34      1.095         4.95        1.500         6.67
Venezuela               1.724         8.84     1.812         8.84      1.945         8.80        1.945         8.65
Total                19.500       100.00    20.500       100.00     22.086       100.00       22.491       100.00       l
a/      As agreed by OPEC for the second half of 1989.
b|      As agreed by OPEC during its September meeting; to be revised in the group's November 1989 conference.
C/      As agreed by OPEC for the first half of 1990.
d/      Under the quota structure, neutral zone output is part of the quota allocation for Saudi Arabia.



- 54 -                          Annex 4-2
WORLD OIL OUTPUT
BY ECONOMIC REGIONS
(1989)
Production
Category                             (mmbpd)
Industrialized Countries              14.94
Development Countries                 34.52
Eastern Europe & USSR                 12.68
Total                               62.14
Memo:
OPEC Production                       22.58
Non-Opec Production                   39.56
Total                               62.14
Sources Staff Estimates



NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
ORGANIZAT1ON STRUCTURE -NNPC.1I
Yin vie of the state of managerial transition, this structure is
subject to change.



- 56 -                     ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 5
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIGERIAN PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
INCOME STATEMENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER
(IN NAIRAS MILLION)
1985        1986         1987         1988
Sales of Petroleum Products           2,840.6      4,668.8     5,953.2      7,264.8
Other Income                            198.3        160.9       354.0        661.9
Total Income                        3,038.9     4,829.7      6,307.2      7,926.7
Expenditures
Crude Oil and Product Purchases       901.4     2,068.3      2,546.8      3,378.7
Depreciation                          203.8       244.9        227.5        223.5
Other Expenses                        696.3       311.3      1,199.9      1,164.6
Total Expenditures                  1,801.5     2,624.5      3,974.2      4,766.8
Net Income Before Statutory
Payment to Federal Government       1,237.4     2,.05.2      2,333.0      3,159.9
Income Tax and Other Government
Duties                              1,007.0     1,539.9      1,018.4      1,264.0
Minority Interest                        14.0         13.3         19.5        28.8
Net Income for the Year                 216.4        752.0     1,295.0      1,867.1



57 -                    ANNEX 5-2
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIGERIAN PETROLEUM CORPORATION AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
FUNDS FLOWI STATEMENTS AS OF 31 DECEMBER
(IN NAIRAS MILLION)
1985        1986         1987        1988
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Net Income Before Statutory
Payments to Federal Government    1,237.4       2,205.2      2,333.0      3,159.9
Depreciation                            203.8       244.9        219.1        218.5
Funds Generated from Operations       1,441.2     2,450.1      2,552.1      3,378.4
Grants from Federal Government          145.0       222.0      2,203.7      1,6-6.8
Loans                                  36.6       541.3      2,529.2      2,270.8
Sundry                                 (2.2)       35.5        356.6       (23.6)
Total Sources                        1,620.6      3,177.9      7,641.6      7,312.4
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Statutory Payments to Federal
Government                         1,007.0      1,539.9        871.4      1,104.8
Fixed Assets                            546.7       976.2      5,097.8      4,922.0
Sundry                                   48.1        15.8         11.9         16.0
Total Applications                   1,601.8      2,531.9      5,981.1      6,042.8
Net Inflow of Funds                      18.8       646.0      1,660.5      1,269.6
Represented by Variations in:
Inventories                           (42.4)      334.6        (25.1)      (71.8)
Accounts Receivable                   425.6       475.4        480.6       469.8
Accounts Payable                      272.1      (603.2)   (1,142.6)       (548.3)
Short Term Investments               (447.8)     (111.1)    2,629.5      1,372.3
Bank and Cash                         (99.7)      451.1       (289.5)       44.7
Bank Overdraft                        (89.0)       99.2          7.6         2.8
Net Increase in Working Capital          18.8       646.0      1,660.5     1,269.6



- 58 -                    ANNEX 5-2
Page 3 of 5
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOHI3T PROJECT
NIGERIAN PETROLEUH CORPORATION AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
BALANCE SHEETS AS OF 31 DECDMDER
(IN NAIRAS MILLION)
1985        1986        1987         1988
Long Tefm Assets
Net Fixed Assets                   2,158.7     2,044.4     2,238.1      2,253.6
Works in Progress                    617.3     1,460.2     6,136.8    10,820.3
Long Term Investments                 74.4        72.0        82.0         26.9
Total Long Term Assets               2,850.4     3,576.6     8,456.9   13,100.8
Current Assets
Net Accounts Receivable            1,279.7     1,755.0     2,235.6      2,705.4
Short Term Investments             1,164.7     1,053.6     3,734.8      5,379.7
Inventory                            388.8       723.5       698.3        626.5
Cash and Bank Balances               273.1       724.2       434.8        479.5
Total Current Assets                 3,106.3     4,256.3     7,103.5      9,191.1
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable                     307.8       911.0     2,105.7      2,875.4
Tax Provision                        374.6       366.1       513.1        672.3
Bank Overdraft                       110.1        10.9         3.4          0.5
Total Current Liabilities              792.5     1,288.0     2,622.2      3,548.2
Net Current Assets                   2,313.8     2,968.3     4,481.3      5,642.8
Long Term and Net Current Assets    5,164.2      6,544.9    12,938.2    18,743.7
Fimnnced by:
Capital Grants                     2,885.5     3,107.5     5,311.2      6,998.0
Capital rPeserves                    526.0      520.7       543.4        552.8
Revenue Reserves                   1,535.4     2,152.0     3,780.9      5,607.9
Minority Interest                     70.5        85.3        85.3         97.0
Long Term Debt                       146.8       688.2     3,217.3      5,488.1



NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION JOINT VENTURE OPERATIONS
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
FIVE YEAR INCOME SUMMARY
1983        1984         1985          1986         1987          1988
--_____________0_______-__ mooo _----------------------------------
Sales and Other Income
Sale of Crude and Gas                 4,974,493    5,861,704    6,530,096    5,792,746   13,534,107   15,556,049
Other Income                             66,790      462,235       905,749      340,188       224.596      507,366
Total                               5,041.283    6,323,939    7,435,845    6,132,934   13,758,703   16,063,415
Expenditure
Direct Production and Handling          179,306      186,170       210,894      334,517       707,498    1,027,575
Exploitation                             35,325       13,800        18,389       43,666        63,242       80,612
General and Administration              244.695      341,897       367,802      376,270       786,071    1,324,949  w
Depreciation and Amortization           173,677      245,799       232,866      284,314       302,965      369,132
Provision for Bad Debts                  11,710            0        86.602      496,456        (6,599)      91,540
Gain on Exchange                       (107,830)     (57,551)    (191,341)    (239,207)    (434,171)    (395,896)
Total                                 536,883      736,115       725,212    1,296,016    1,419,006    2,497,912
Surplus Before Statutory Payments
To Federal Government of Nigeria      4,504,400    5,587,824    6,710,633    4,836,918   12,339,697   13,565,503
Petroleum Profit Tax                  3,055,908    3,027,097    4.259,492    1,559,640    7,077,248    6,904,877
Royalties and OML Rentals             1,078,090    1,080,210    1,503,545       755,498    2.655,802    4,055,300
Other Government Duties                   5,240        4,926        17,012       55,231        63,135       78,011
Total                               4,139,238    4,112,233    5,780,049    2,370,369    9,798,185   11,038,188
Excess of Income Over Operating                                                                                       ° 4
Expenditure for the Year                365,162    1,475,591       930,584    2
Source: NNPC



NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION JOINT VENTURE OPERATIONS
ON BEHALF OF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF NIGERIA
FIVE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
1983          1984           1985           1986           1987         1988
-______________________________   m000… _______…_______________________________
Fixed Assets (Net)             1,864,798     1,925,581      2,023,035      2,128,791      2,986,799    5,612,061
Current Assets                 1,234,946     1,764,738      1,746,502      4,262,715      4,119,422    3,970,850
Current Liabilities             (861,539)     (154,798)      (292,582)      (900,434)    (1,326,602)  (1,486,143)
Net Current Assets               373,407     1,609,940      1,453,920      3,362,281      2,792,820    2,484,707
Total Assets                 2,238,205     3,535,521      3,476,955      5,491,072      5,779,619    8,096,768
Financed by:
Federal Government Funds       2,110,915     3,371,688      3,268,598      5,489,122      5,777,669    6,580,668
Long Term Liability                1,950         1,950          1,950          1,950          1,950    1,516,100
Deferred Production
Sharing Revenue                  125,340       161,883        206,407              0              0             0
Total Capital Employed       2,238,205     3,535 521      3 ,4767955     5491 072       S5,79,619           68
Ul
0I
U l



- 61 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 3
N<TGEIR
0Q0 i ELD DEVELOPMT PROJECT
IA03ZL PRODUCrNG _V_TR_G
FIVE YEAR TlfNA CTAL SICAY
For the yers ende!d Dece_mber 31
1985       1986       1987       1988        1989
- ~~~~US3 ' 00 ____
A. ZNCOME STATEMENT3
Turnover             1,409,209  663,600   439,549    439,826    557,694
Profit Before
Taxation          1,104,746  528,659   315,049    292,978    402,632
Taxation               996,595 .416,207   261,825    230,189    311,238
Profit After
Taxation            10sD151  112,452    53,224      62,789     91,394
Dividends               79,890   94,000    45,210      50,340     62,200
.,3. LALANC! . S=2
yet Assets              97,369  114.314   133/1.   125,95    136.287
Capital Contribution     2,800    2,800      2,800      2,800      2,800
Retained Karnings       92,313  110,765   118,719    122,829    133,342
Kediu. & L.T.
Liabilities            2.256       749      405         266        145
Total Capitalization    97.369  114.314   129.924    125.895    136,287
-~~~~~~



ONo FIaLO OEtVUI'HTU NipioJit
HUI  eWIIIciNG NIGERPIA
ACtUAl.
1. 9     mu 1992]21    1.92    1993    192         125    19 199i 12 1   Qa
Cside                          213     235      260     290      310     315     320      325     330      335
Ceondensate                      0       O        0      50      100     100      100     100     100      100
Reallied Prim -1/nfl,
Crude                        11.94   18.60   19.60   20.40   21.70   23.16   24.66   26.7'   29.06  .31.46                             1
Condensate                    0.00   17.15   18.75   19.40   20.70   22.10   23.60   25.70   28.00   30.40
Revenues & -xpenses (I Hillionsi
Crude Equity                   558     636      742     864      979   1,062   1,149   1,210   1,397   1,536
Condensate EquIty              _Q        iQ      QJ       i    .5       .Z3   .i35        376   _A9R     .L44.
Total revenue                  5SS     636      742     864   1,130   1.385   t,494   1,646   1.606   1,9l0
Total Operating Expenses       130     209      263     289      349     341     360      389     421      453
Ose Interest Expense             9        0      12       27      30      24       is      11        5       0
lotal taxes                    353     352      376     461      643     890     915   1,089   1,206   1,339
IW! Oelore Notice Income        15       15      91      81      108     130      141     151      114     ISO
Notice lntaw.                                                             1 Q  Q  Q  1  1   LI;
IAI                    *                 5                 i    Ji s U  .   9                     £ "a     JAB
0 1
ot1
w.'



KIVA
.~~~
Met                  is       i~~    ~~~~~sO   go11. Dt[a?'r  1Pe 19nirt6ifz                    S
Cap tal recovery                It I    18      24      33      S19      51      so       so      W9      W
Deferrd tl                        Q      e a6 fin                82     lei 2U 51                 35      63 
CaSh fro  lntHe                 92     121     2It     230      24f     313     305     219      276     310                      0
Addl team  raWwOs                          0   I" tRooUCNG        0 N I G                          O       O
lolal Cash Inllobds                                           Zsh       in L  29 12              21 
Less Capital txpenditlres       17     105     216      169     138      O9      1g1      is      714    153
tong term debt Repaymnt          O       0       O        0      29      se      se       se      se      29
Escrow A/C 12 oth Servlce       ZI       Q           9       2  e        ik       W.i.    Ilil    HAI      Q
Total Outlflows             1i          5     mi       M        Zs    ins     Un    in            Go     i
Net Cash                        i5      16     125      161       O     1129    15     149       2es     128
A    as
a  4
0
0eI,rredtu~~~~~~a  U  ii  96  Jill  00  1.9!   14      53       15      13~~~~~~~~~~~o
Cash frsa Incase  92  121  211  230  246  313  308    219     216      310~~~~~~~~~~~~~^ 



- 64 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 1 of 6
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTRACTUAL BASIS
The Legal Arrangements
1.        The contractual framework for the Oso Project falls within the
general legal and contractual framework for oil operations in Nigeria. In
addition to the various laws and regulations governing all such operations,
the activities of Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN) under several Oil Mining
Leases including OML 70 (Oso Field) are covered by a number of bilateral
agreements between MPN and NNPC. The most important of these for the
purposes of this project ares  (a) OML 70, granted to MPN with effect from
December 1, 1968; (b) the Participation Agreement dated July 1, 1983, by
virtue of which NNPC acquired an undivided 5Z interest in MPN's Oil Mining
Leases, assets, and working capital in addition to the 55Z it had
previously acquired; (c) the Memorandum of Understanding dated January 23,
1986, providing fiscal incentives as amended at various times; (d) the Oso
Field Development Project Agreement signed on May 12, 1988; and (e) the
Joint Operating Agreement, dated June 28, 1990.
2.        OML 70 was granted to MPN by virtue of a Deed made on March 11,
1971, with retroactive effectiveness as from December 1, 1968.  OMLs 67,
68, and 69 were granted at the same time. The area of OML 70 had been
granted to the predecessor of MPN, Mobil Exploration Nigeria, Inc., in 1961
as a Continental Shelf Oil Prospecting Licence governed by the Mineral Oils
Act of 1914; MPN was incorporated in Nigeria as an unlimited liability
company as required by the Companies Act 1968, and is itself owned in equal
shares by two Delaware corporations as represented below:



- 65 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2 of 6
PARTICIPATION IN RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF OFFSHORE MINING LEASE 70
(OSO CONDENSATE FIELD)
HOLDING                       MOBIL OIL CORPORATION   FEDERAL GOVT. OF NIGERIA
COMPANY
N.Y. CORP.
DELAWARE           MOBIL DEVELOPMENT    MOBIL  XPLOR.           NNPC
SHELL                 NIGERIA INC.       NIGERIA INC.
CORPS.
502 each
(SEE * BELOW)         MOBIL PRODUCING NIGERIA*
OSO CONDENSATE                      OIL MINING LEASE 70 **
FIELD                                                              7
(SEE ** BELOW)                      402               602
* Incorporated in Nigeria in 1969 as an Unlimited Liability Company in
accordance with the Companies Act 1968.
** OML 70 was granted to MPN on March 11, 1971, retroactive to December 1,
1968. Its effective date therefore predates the enactment of the Petroleum
Act 1969 (November 27 of that year). and certain key terms are therefore
governed by the Mineral Oils Act of 1914.
3.        The joint venture created by this arrangement is, like others in
Nigeri2, unincorporated and is not a legal entity separate from the
partic'.pants, making it effectively a non-profit making, non-taxable
associacion; income and tax benefits and liabilities arising as a result of
its activities flow directly to MPN and NNPC. NNPC and MPN each hold
respectively 601 and 402 undivided interests in the leases, assets, working
capital, and obligations, and bear all costs and share in petroleum
produced from the lease area on the basis of these participating interest
percentages.



- 66 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 3 of 6
4.        Even though the Mineral Oils Act of 1914 was repealed by the
Petroleum (Drilling and Production) Act 1969, the Transitional and Saving
Provisions in the latter law state that a few key provisions of the
previous Act of 1914 would continue to apply to Leases granted prior to the
effective date of the 1969 Act (November 27, 1969), notably as regards the
term. The 1969 Act provides for a 20-year term; the 1914 Act allows 40
years, with the option to renew for a further 40 years by notice to the
Minister of Petroleum Resources. This is very favorable to MPN by modern
standards (these days, a total of 20-30 years is the rcugh average). The
Lease is governed by Nigerian law; application of host-country law is a
uniform feature of OPEC-member agreements.
5.        OML 70 also spells out the rights and obligations of the
titleholder of such leases, which are in line with provisions usually found
in similar instruments of the period. It gives MPN the right to 'mine,
bore, quarry, dig, search for, win, get, work, store, carry away, export,
refine or otherwise treat and dispose of petroleum within the leased area
or the products thereof"; "petroleum' is defined in its natural condition
fin strate", but this excludes "coal or bituminous shales or other
stratified deposits from which oil can be extracted by destructive
distillation". While these rights appear to be limited to an interest in
petroleum produced as opposed to unproduced oil in the reservoir, there is
no doubt that the rights do cover crude oil, condensate, and natural gas.
6.        OML 70 further provides for dispute resolution through
arbitration under rules to be agreed by the three arbitrators, with each
party to appoint one and the third to be appointed (absent agreement
between the first two) by the President of the International Court of
Justice. Among the miscellaneous obligations assumed by MPN are the
training of Nigerians for supervisory posts (not quantified); and to
consider the construction or upgrading if a refinery if the Commissioner
(now Minister) so requests, again with no firm or specific obligation to
comply. Compulsory unitization is provided for if MPN cannot agree on a
joint development plan with the adjacent leaseholder. The royalty and
rental provisions of the Lease have been replaced by those of the Petroleum
(Drilling and Production) (Amendment) Regulations 1979.
7.        The Participation Agreement (PA) of July 1, 1983, confirms the
previous acquisition by the Government of interest in MPN's Oil Mining
Leases, assets, and working capital, including OML 70: 35? on April 1,
1973, and a further 20? on April 1, 1974. T1- Government made a net
payment of over US$140 million (free of Nigerian tax) to MPN as
compensation. The PA provides for the transfer to NNPC of a further 52
undivided interest, and for NNPC to pay MPN US$7.8 million compensation,
calculated as 5? of MPN's "fiscal net book value" as of the effective date,
plus US$477,900 being 52 of MPN's working capital as shown on its balance
sheet.
8.        An agreement between MPN and NNPC of general application to MPN
is the Memorandum of Understanding or MOU signed on January 23, 1986,
amended by a Side Letter of the same date, an Amendment dated December 1,



- 67 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 4 of 6
1986, and further amended on October 22, 1987. The basic purpose of the
MOU and amendments thereto was to provide the producing companies in
Nigeria with fiscal incentives in exchange for (1) increased investment in
exploration and development in addition to contractually obligated levels,
and (2) a commitment to market a certain portion of NNPC's equity crude.
Such incentives were justified by the slump in crude oil prices on the
world market which began in 1984 and intensified throughout 1985 and
(especially) 1986. With their profit margin squeezed by falling prices,
the operators were reluctant to invest, and the terms of their Leases did
not require them to d. so; most of these, like OML 70, antedated the 1969
Act and therefore had many decades to run with no specific obligations to
invest beyond the original development plan.
9.        The basic fiscal incentive provided by the MOU consists in a
change in the oil price used for calculating Petroleum Profits Tax, which
constitutes the largest element in Government "take" or share in the
revenues of the joint venture partners producing oil under Oil Mining
Leases. The Petroleum Profits Tax (Amendment) Act 1967 defines the posted
or tax reference price as the "price f.o.b. at the Nigerian port of export
... which is from time established by the Company, after agreement with the
Government of Nigeria ... as its posted price for Nigerian crude oil of
that gravity and quality". In practice the posted price was (as is
customary in OPEC countries) unilaterally set by the Government, and the
price actually used for tax computations was the higher of posted prices or
realized market prices, generally meaning (except in times of rapid price
escalation) the posted price. However, for sales of natural gas and crude
oil to the domestic market for refining in Nigeria, the actually realized
price was used.
10.       The MOU was subsequently amended three times during the time of
drsmatic decline in the world price of petroleum throughout 1986, each time
to provide a further measure of fiscal incentive to the companies. The MOU
(as amended) introduced the concept of an "offset price" for fiscal
purposes; this is obtained by multiplying the market-related "realized
price" (calculated through a weighted netback formula), by a "K-Factor"
related to the notional technical cost of production and the notional
"guaranteed margin", which is set at US$2.00 per barrel so long as the
realizable price is between US$12.50 and US$23.00. Between US$23.00 and
US$30.00, the "K-Factor" formula in the original January 23, 1986 Agreement
would be applied again. In the event prices rise above US$30.00, the
Minister would have the right to alter the "K-Factor" to a less favorable
level than that provided for in the original MOU.
11.       The basic result of this nexus of agreements, however, is to
shield the companies from the application of an arbitrary posted price
higher than the market value of their share of production, by assuring hem
a tax refund if they pay more tax based on the posted price than they wca1d
have based on realized prices. In very weak markets, the new structure
even provides MPN with a larger take than it would have received under the
previous system using market prices. The MOU also requires MPN to lift any
portion of NNPC equity crude that NNPC does not lift, up to two-thirds or



- 68 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 5 of 6
(in certain circumstances) all of NNPC's share. MPN is to receive a
guaranteed profit margin on auch buyback oil equal to half the guaranteed
notional margin on MPN's own equity production, currently set at US$2.00
per barrel.
12.       Another important agreement is the Oso Field Development Project
Agreement signed between NNPC and MPN on May 12, 1988, and made 'subject to
the approval in writing by MPN shareholders, the NNPC Board of Directors
and the Federal Goverrment of Nigeria". The main provisions of the 080
Agreement are: confirming the intention of MPN and NNPC jointly to develop
the field within the context of the various agreements between the two
parties; affirming that each party will be responsible for obtaining its
share of the required financing and for advancing its share of development
costs; that nomination and lifting will also be carried out separately by
NNPC and MPN.
13.       Clause 3 of the Oso Agreement deals with the fiscal terms and
pricing of 080 condensate for the purposes of margin, tax and buyback
(purchase of marketing of NNPC equity condensate). Unfortunately, this key
provision is neither clear nor complete on two basic subjects: (1) the
degree of application of the MOU (which 4s stated will apply, as it has
been and as it may be subsequently amended by mutual agreement of NNPC and
MPN). which only applies even in part 'provided the amendment is agreed by
the parties thereto to be relevant to the Oso Project"; and (2) the degree
of application of an as-yet undetermined 'market-related and competitive"
price which is to be mutually agreed between MPN and NNPC no later than 18
months before commencement of production.
14.       The Oso Agreement also states (Clause 5(A)] that "the parties
acknowledge that the condensate production from 080 will be outside OPEC
production restrictions".  The fact that it is not actually within the
power of MPN or NNPC to make any undertaking about what is or is not
outside OPEC quotas is indeed recognized by the following subparagraph,
which says that in the event Oso condensate does fall within Nigeria's
overall OPEC quota restriction along with crude  lil, "the Oso quota shall
be on a pro-rata basis recognizing field producibility and Oso Field being
a separate stream as any other crude stream in Nigeria". The intention
here is clearly to provide that if the working definitions of crude oil and
condensate used in determining national oil production rates should be
revised so that Nigerian Oso Condensate is counted along with liigerian
crude properly speaking such as Bonny Light, then any resultant
restrictions on Oso production would be pro-rated according to the relation
of Oso field producibility with that of the other producing fields in
Nigeria, so that Oso production levels are not below the ceiling for other
fields of similar producibility.
15.       The Joint Operating Agreement (JOA) was signed on June 28, 1990.
It formally defines the organization and management structure for carrying
out exploration, development and production operationb in the leased areas
and the respective rights and responsibilities of NNPC and HPN.  Under the
JOA, each party has an undivided obligation to pay its respective



- 69 -
ANN3EX 5'4
Page 6 of 6
participating interest share in all funds required for operations in return
for the right to its participating interest share of all petroleum produced
from the leased areas. An operating committee comprised of 6
representatives from NNPC and 4 from MPN, and chaired by the non-operating
Party, approves annual work programs and budgets for the venture.
Decisions by the committee are by unanimous vote. Under an agreement,
collateral to the JOA, MPN has been designated the operator for the joint
venture, with responsibility for the day-to-day management of all
exploration, development and production operations of the joint venture.



- 70 -                    ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.          The off-shore surface facilities will consist of:
(a) Four wellhead production platforms9 each equipped with a
9-well jacket, strategically located over the field from which 19 wells
will be directionally drilled to predetermined areas of the reservoir,
for a specific function.
(b) A central facilities complex consisting of three
platfonms, interconnected with bridges for ease of access and safety,
each designed for the following specific functions:
(i)      One production platform equipped with a single cascading
train of separators designed to process the entire field
production. The first stage separator will operate at 1450
psi, the second stage separator at 7750 psi, and the third
stage separator at 250 psi. In addition, there will be
vertical towers for heating, treating and stabilizing the
condensate; a pumping system for the transfer of the
condens6te onshore for storage; a fire protection and safety
system; and an air-conditioned control room to monitor the
entire process system. The platform will be equipped with
firewall partitions separating the functional areas.
(ii)      One gas compression/injection platform equipped with two
compresso: trains designed for a through-put of 500 mmscfd
in five stages of compression. The first three stages of
compression will raise the associated gas received from the
neighboring oil field and the separated gas from Oso up to
some 1400 psi using centrifugal compressors. The discharge
will be recompressed in the next two stages up to 5500 psi.
All of the compressors which will be utilized are proven
technology. This platform is also equipped with separators,
heat transfer units, all of the high pressure manifolding
required to distribute the gas to injection wells, and an
air conditioned control room to monitor the system, with the
necessary noise abatement panels for an environmentally safe
ambient.
(iii)      Oae accommodation/utility platform equipped with
installations necessary to house, feed and cater to the
needs of 60 personnel required to operate and maintain the
facilities; a helicopter deck; a power generation station
rated at 5.4 MW; a communications network; air conditioning
system; and a waste disposal system designed to meet the
environmental constraints of the area.



- 71 -                    ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 3
(Uv)      One riser platform for all incoming and outgoing pipelines.
(v)      One flare stack for burning the discharged gas.
(vN)      About 54 miles of underwater low pressure flowlines required
to transport the associated gas produced in neighboring oil
production platforms to Oso; some 10 miles of high pressure
production and injection flowlines; and some 32 miles of an
export pipeline to transfer the stabilized condensate for
storage on-shore. Pipelines, where required, will be
equipped with scraper (pig) launching and receiving
facilities.
2.          The on-shore facilities will consist of:
(a)  three 670,000 barrel tanks, each equipped wtth floating
roofs, and a cumulative storage capacity of some 2 million barrels of
condensate;
(b) metering facilities, equipped with turbine meters and
prover loops (for calibration purposes), to measure the condensate as it
is pumped for export;
(c) loading pumps designed to deliver condensate from
storage tanks to the tankers;
(d) a 36-inch underwater product loading line some 22 mile,
long to a single point mooring (SPM) buoy;
(e) an SPH buoy anchored some 30 miles offshore, with oil
discharge facilities and hoses required to load *ankers; and
(f)  the control r. om and panels for this system which will
be incorporated into already existing pumping facilities at the Qua Iboe
Oil Terminal.
3.          The development drilling program will consist of the
drilling of 19 wells. These wells will be drilled from four well-head
jacket platforms located strategically over the field. Each of the
platforms will be provided with slots for a 9-well jacket. Each well
will be drilled directionally into a pre-determined area of the field,
for a specific function (producer or head injector), by a jack-up
cantilever rig installed over the well-head platform. Some ten years
after production has been establishel, seven additional wells will be
drilled, five for production from and two for injection into the 2-Y2
reservoir and to maintain the condensate production at a high level.
Though the average vertical depth of the reservoir is only some 10,500
feet, actual drilling depth measurements along the well bore for most
wells will be 13,000 to 14,000 feet, depending on the angle of deviation
required to reach the reservoir target objectives.
4.          All of the wells are planned to be drilled using the
following well casing configuration:



- 72 -                    ANNE  6-1
Page 3 of 3
a. 30' casing driven to .........          360 feet
b.  200 casing --e-------------------  1,500 feet
c.  13 3/80 casing --e------ -----  6,000 feet
d.  9 5/8  casing ------------------- 13,000 feet
5.          Depending upon whether the well is an injector or a
producer, the tubing will be 4 1/2' for a production well and 7' for a
gas injector. While at the present time it is planned to drill the
wells with the above casing configuration, actual geological conditions
found while dril3 .ng will determine how the individual wells will be
completed.



NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESERVES SUMMARY
1-Yl Reservoir
NSA's Reserve Summary
Proved +
Proved +       Incremental  Probable +        Incremental   Risked
EMT"      zolahl             e           bssili            1             TZIi-
Area (acres)                3960           527.                           5588
Avg. Thicknew (ft)         214.6          199.8                          199.0
Volume (ac-ft)            850000        1053404                       1111757
Av& Porosity               025            0.254                          0.254
Avg. Sw                    0.124          0.065                          0.065
OCIP (stb/af)                675            720                            720
OCIP (MMSTB)               S73.3          758.5                          300S
Reebvery Factor             0.29            0.6                           0.67
Unrisked Reserves          166.4          455.1          28.7            536.3           81.2
Risk Factor                  0.9                          05                             0.25
Risked Reserves            149.7                         IS88                           20.3         328.8    X
x l



NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
RESERVES SUMMARY
2-Y2 Reservoir
NSA's Reserve Summary
Proved +
Proved +      Incremental  Probable +       Incremental   Risked
fmxm4        Emhkhk         Zwkabk             PEssible                  I
Area (acres)              2832           4435                          7514
Avg. Thidns (ft)           33.2           34.9                         36.0
Volume (ac-ft)           93934         154752                        270566
Av  Poroity               0.265          0.265                        0.265
Avg. Sw                   0.152          0.152                        0.152
OCIP (saib/t)              536            536                           S36
OCIP (MMSTB)               503            82.9                        14S.0
Recovery Factor            0.27          0.S5                           0.6
Unrlked Renrves            13.6          4S.6           32.            87.0           41.4
Risk Factor                 0.9                         0.5                            0.2
Risked Reserves            12.2                         17.6                           83   3A1 



NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Projected Production Rates
.Psowed  .lbeetewe-  u,etm  * Peebe&b     -12unmemaee  Pebet          -PeoeadoPi.bePeb e-    .ngsMI&I F.ob,         41e"le'r -
(mmSeI)               I Weml                 tUmSWeuK               (lM8Ites)              (m0efe)               ImMwoe')
?eos  t-VI 2-Ve Totael I-Vst  a-ba vToga    1-- Vs 2.2.8  e  I-V                                      a-Va ee-        t s-v ITo a-va  Toeta
I  38 S0  0.00  2.080     2.50  0 00  36.60       0.00  0.00   0.00     36.60  0 00  30 50     0.00  0.00   0 00    36.50  0 00  36 60
a  3 65  0.00  38.5       38.60  0.00  3650       00 000    0 00        36 60  0.00  35 60     0.00 0o00   0 00    36.50  0.00  30.50
s  23 o   .2  28.78       38.o0  0e 00  30.0      23.00  .28   7.72     30.60  0 00  38.60     0.00  0.00   0 00    30.60  0 00  36 50
4  13.30  1.84  15.14     38.50  0.00  36.60     23.20 *1.84  21.38     38.50  0 00  30.50     0.0  0.00   000    358B   0 So   3 50
a   o.oo    6   6.08      35.80  010  3050       26.00 .0.28  2e 52     30.50  0.00  36.50     0.70 -0I0   0.00    31.15  4 75  38 50
8   680  0.64   7.44      34.31  2.10  3660      27.51  1.65  29.00     36 46  0.04  36.60     2.16 -2.16   000    28.41  020  346?
530  0.40   6.78          30.84  5.6   30       256.4  520  30 74       34.78  1.82  36.00    3.04 -3.84   0.10    23.72  as0  2022
4 37  0.26   4 73         7.74  504   3 630     23.31 648  2885        38.40  5.1I  30.60     3.75 0.73   ' 02    19 11  4 46  24 18
3 73  0.30   4 03        25.00  6 37  30 37     21.27  6.07  20 34     28.75  7.30  30 05     3.17   1 93   6 66    180   360 s  0 66
I 0   3.21  0.27   3 46    22.73  4 62  27 2      SI5 62  4   23 77      26 38  7.30  33.66     3 65  2 78   6 43    13 32  2.86  id 62
II   260  0.24   223    10.61  320  23681          712  3 be  2006       24.12  723  3136       431  342   714    11.12  2.33  13 4
It a 241  0.23   204    ?7.0   321  20.26          46e  206  17 6I       22 00  7.07  20.07     4.02  35 e    8 Pe   9 3  a 6   100 e0
3 a 27  022   236          14.88  270  1758       12.71  2.48  15.15     10.45  se1  26.42      457  327   764        730   S0  8660
14   :.S  021   2.16       82.88  2.27  1136      l003  208  12.09       17.26  5.71  2207      438  3.44   762       564  1.20   704
IS   6.71  020   19S       1160  1. 521            06  172  1157         15.43  400  2023       363  268    671       476  0e9   57I
a8  ISO  0.60   177         e77  1.62  11.39         19  1.43   062      13.61  4.25  17.06     364  262   641       378  077   413
17   1.42  01        :      8.60  1.3   080t       708  6.88   028       12.15  3.76  t6s1      3.66  240   605      286  0el   341
t6   628  0.67   141        7.20  .16   644        Q01  008   60s        10.60  3.36  1405      3.40  221   568      e.l  050   267
IS   1.t5  0.18   131       621  00e6   7.87       5.06  0.0    6 56      0.48  300  1248       322   2.04   538      164   40   2 04
36   1.04  0.15    18       6 32  002   6.14       428  0.67   405        639  2.70  tl.00      3.07  1.66   405      I 86         116
3    0093  0.4   1.07       4.55  06    522        2562  0 s4   4 1       7.33  241   9.74      2.78  172   45        060         0 60
22   0.84  0.13   007       2.00  047   437        300  0.34   340        641  2.II   a65       25I  1.70   428
a   0.76  0       060       3 24  0 27   3.51      2.4 o 14   2.62        .6s     03   7.56     2.34  1.68   400
3 4   0 68  0 12   0 80     2.61  010   2.75       t7  o.002    I 0       4.02  1.72   6.64     2 ?  16 2   36
a2   05O  0.81    072       2.84         214       8.63 -0.11   1.42      4.37  8.53  560       2.2.  1.53   376
2o   0.56  0.11   060       147          641       092 o 0l8   081        360  8.30   6.06      *.  139   386
37   04   0.6O   061        003          0.63      0.34 -0.10  024        3.15  824   430       2a2  1.24   356
3a   044  0.60   054        013          0.63      0.00  -0.60  -00       2.05  8.88   3.70     2.16  16I   325
a    0 40 o.09   0.40                             **4  .0.00  -0 40      2a24  0 00     23      2.24  0.09   3 23
30   o     0.00   045                             .038 .000  -046         1.82  0.80   2.71     162  0a8    271
3 1   0.33  0 09   0 42                           .0.33 -000   0 4 2      0.59  0.80   1.30     09  00 o 0   839
3    0    0.0 a      2    .      37                028  o00 8    37       0.3: 0    701   80o7  0.36  o      8 01
33   0I0 0.06   0.66                              -.10  0.06   01I        0.26  064   0.00     0.26  064   00
4          0.05   0                                      00 o  o 06
*35        0.07   0 07                                  .0.07  -0.07
rO.1  166043 13.60 16003    4b106 45   1o000e?    26863 3208 320.B4    536.34  0005 62320    51.26 41.34 12202   328.18 38 12  86 00
w
0% 
O s
%a



NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Time Table for Reclassification
of Risked Reserves
Proved    Proved                           Risked
Pool       Devlpd Undevlpd  Probable  Possible          Total        Additional Data Availability
1. Curet (May 199)                  I-YI          0.0      149.7      158         20.3      328
2-i           0.0       12.2       17.         83        38.1
TOal          0.0      161.9      176         28        366.9
a Pa¢ffida Islalled d                v1-Ti      1727         0.0      13U         173       323.8           L   development weDs
al 1-YI wel dild                 2-T2         203         0.        12.8        5.0       AI
aS eeamfd (1992)
Toal        193.0        0.       151.6       22.3      366.9                                      0
3. Ome erof prductio                I-VI        230.8        0         BIB        16.2      328           Omejerof I-YI peom
bioy frm 1-YI (193)                                       0.0       12.8    5    .0       38.1         hioy an bottom boe preum
data, provin teesbfty of
Totdal       SLI         0         96         21.2      366.9          nJeceto progrm.
4. Two yers of produton             1-TI        312.6        0.0       16.2        0.0      323.8         Twoyearsofl.-YI prrforme
istory  fm 1-YI                  2-Y2         20.3       0.0        12.8                  38.1        bhty, bonom hole pse
simulation update (1994)                                                                               data, and simundos update
Total       3329         0.0       2910        SJ.      366.9
S. Five years of producdon          1-YI        328.8        0.0        0.0        0.       3288          Two years of 2-Y2 performance
hir frm I-TI ad                  2-Y2         33.1        0.0                   u        .31           hbstory, bonom bole prsuse
2 yeas bty frt  2-Y2 (1997)    TOal          361.9        0.0        3          00       366.9         daft, and simbaaon updat
=p4
o la



- 77 -
AIINEX 6-2
Page S of 6
NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
sognsar's REsrve Sumumar
IYI Reservoir - Weibull Distribution used on all parameters
MOST
Y6Q&D5E,IIMM                                IK~L      MAXIMM
Gross Rock Volume, acre feet        1129000.00    1457000.00    1650.00
Net/Gross Ratio                          0.60          0.78          0.84
Porosity                                 0.23          0.254         0.28
Hydrocarbon Satuation                    0.80          0.880         0.94
Formation Volwne Factor, RB/STB          3.00          2.557          2.00
Recovery Factor                          0.15          0.60           0.80
2Y2 Reservoir e WelbullD Distribudon med on all parametems 
Gross Rock Volume, ace feet         93934.00      361599.00     400000.00
Net/Gross Ratio                          0.80          0.90           1.00
Porosity                                 0.20          027           0.29
Hydrocarbon Saturation                   0.75          0.848         0.88
Formation Volume Factor, SCF/CF        247.00        267.00         291.00
Liquid Yield, STB/MMSCF                14800         167.00         181.00
Recovery Factor                          0.10          0.50           0.60
:         11The f6lobwing values are output from the Monte Carb sdmldom  sing the above input
IYI            2Y2       YI+ Y2
*         80% P;ob. of a                          335.00         36.00        371.00
EXPECTED VALUE                         468.00         56.00         524.00
20% Prob. of a                         590.00         76.00         663.00



- 78 -
ANEX 6-2
Pa-ge 0 Mor
DEFINITIONS OF RESERVES
PROVED RESERVES
I!rAvgd reK=  are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which
geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years
from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions. Proved reserves are limited
to those quantides of oil and gas which can be expected, with little doubt, to be recoverable commer-
cially at current prices and costs, under existing regulatory practices and with existing conventional
equipment and operating methods.
Pryvd develo_ed producing r        are those reserves which are expected to be produced from ex-
isting completion intervals now open for production in existing wells.
Eryvd de_eloned  n-n,e               are (I) those reserves expected to be produced from exist-
ing compledon intervals in existing wells, but due to pending pipeline connections orother mechanical
or connatual requirements hydrocarbon sales have not yet commenced, and (2) other non-producing
reserves which exist behind the casing of existing wells, or at minor depths below the pesent bottom of
such wells, which are expected to be produced through these wells in the predictable future, where the
cost of making such oil and gas available for production should be relatively small compared to the cost
ofa new well.
:     _ adrndeydaMd   [=  are those reserves which are expected to be recovered from new wells on
undrilled acrage or f&om exisdng wells where a reladvely major expenditure is required for recom-
pledon. Proved reserves on undrilled acreage are limited to those drilling Uwits offsetting productive
units that are reasonably certain of producdon when drilled.
PROBABLE RESERVES
11eMb&bJ&Xf       are those reserves which geological and engineering data demonstrate to be poten-
dally recoverable, but where some element of risk or insufficent date prevent classificadon as proved.
POSSIBLE RESERVES
hit ==  an those speculadve reserves esdtmated beyond proved and probable reserves where
geologic and enginering dat suggest the presence of additional reserves, but where the risk is relatively
high.



NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVEOPIT PROJECT
PROJECT SCHEDULE
1990           1991               1992             1993
JUL - DEC      JAY - DEC         UJA  - -DEC       JAN - DEC
FACILITIES
ENGINEERING -
PLATFORMS, PIPELINES           l     -
ONSHORE FACILITIES             1 July                    1 March
PROCUPEENT -
PLATFORMS, PIPELINES                 -
ONSHORE FACILITES              1 July                        1 June
FABRIC/CONSTR. HOO _P 
PLATFORMS, PIPELINES               le
ONSHORE FACILITIES                 1 November                 1 November
TESTICOMM ISSIONING
PLATFORMS, PIPELINES
ONSHORE FACILITIES                                       1 February   1 December
ACCEPTANCE                                                                 Al
- SYS. MECHANICAL                                                       15 December    A
- OPERATIONAL                                                                        1 June
WELLS                                        1 may              15 December
- DRILLING                                   l
- COMPLETION
15 October   1 June
____                ~~...                  .     ,    .1,...... , . __ .  , ,___   ,



OSD FIELD DEVUEFREUI PROJECT
IOT. PROJECT
PROECT COSt ESTINIE
TOlTA I3191O-31          ISO                     3991                     1SS2                      I9S3
Fo'-                     For-                     for-                      For-                     For-
Local uipn  Total        LKal eip   Total         Local uigi   Total        Loal eipn  lotal         toKal eipw  Total
IlTUiL1h ShEICES                   24.3  54.9  79.2           0.0   0.0   0.0         10.0  74.5  35.3          12.6  26.6  41.6          0.7   1.5    7.3
BIg RENTAL                           3.7  29.7  33.4          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.7  13.3  11.0           1.9  11.6  17.5          0.1   0.8    0.9
TAUILESIEWIPIIET                    0.0  32.1  32.5           0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0  14.5  14.5           0.0  17.1  17.1          0.0   0.8    0.9
gml-uISE A                        29.0 117.1  145.1         0.0   0.0   0.0          12.1  12.3  64.9         14.1  61.6  76.2          0.0   3.2    4.0
PICM   UaUIIEISXES                   4.6  24.4  2S.0          0.0   0.0   0.0           1.   lO.?  12.6          2.2  12.8  15.0          0.7   0.7    1.5
PIMS WUTIIEEltES                     2.4  10.4  12.9          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.6   2.9   3.5           1.6   7.2   8.8          0.2   0.4    0.5
VE UNhILIE WITS                     35.1  151.9 187.0         0.0   0.0   0.0          14.9  66.1  91.0         1.5  9t1.5 100.0          1.7   4.3    S.0
L.FCURIIEI mmIT
tEiEIIUW6icUTTIEI/E!UIP1111         14.  36.5 380.9           4.4  6U.7  71.1           7.2  134.6 191.7         2.7 114.6 117.4           0.1   0.6    0.7
P    T 1TO  FINE                     8.6  39.9  49.5          2.6   7.3   9.9           4.3  20.1  24.4          1.7  12.4  14.1           0.0   0.1    0.1
3-NI!I  3                         23.0 406.4  429.4         7.0  74.0  11.0          11.5 204.6 216.1          4.5 127.0 131.5          0.1   0.7    0.9
P13I5CM CItQInIlE3S                  2.9  39.5  42.3          0.9   7.1   8.0           1.5  19.6  21.1          0.4  12.7  13.1          0.0   0.1    0.1
PRIME  UTI3lES                       1.1  23.3  24.2          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.6  10.1  10.7          0.5  12.9  13.4           0.0   0.1    0.1
1013 FKIIUTIES C0ST5                26.9 419.1 496.0          7.9  91.1  89.0          13.b 234.4 249.0           .3 152.7 158.0          0.1   0.9    1.0
C.' H-WEATIU EMVES
-PtOI11 tEWElE                       5.5  32.5  39.0           0.0   0.0   0.0        . 3.5   9.9  10.4           2.7  16.0  10.7          1.3   7.6    9.9                         a
'L("tIES A ETIAL                     3.7  21.6  25.4          0.0   0.0   0.0           1.1   9.7  10.2          1.6   3.4  33.0           0.5   3.5    4.1
3-   It                          9.3  54.1  63.4           0.0   0.0   0.0          3.1  17.6  20.7           4.4  25.4  29.?          1.9  11.2   13.0
FISIEt  iNT15Eli IES                 0.8   5.2   6.0          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.3   3.9   2.2          0.5   3.3   3.8          0.0   0.0    0.0
PalE MIIIEES                         0.8   4.9   5.6          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.2   0.9   1.0          0.3   2.9   3.2          0.2   1.1    1.3
TlTAL PIE-WITIB EEUES               10.9  64.1  75.0          0.0   0.0   0.0           3.5  20.4  23.9          5.4  31.4  36.9          2.0  12.3   14.3
3. IIWIT WTIES
SUB-SUE 9                         37.5   0.0  37.5          0.0   0.0   0.0          32.5   0.0  12.5         10.1   0.0  13.1           7.0   0.0    7.0
P115ICM ClINTlSNIES                 4.2   0.0   4.2          0.0   0.0   0.0           1.4   0.0   1.4          2.0   0.0   2.0           0.9   0.0    0.8
PRICE EOIHENCIES                     3 3   0.0   3.3          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.6   0.0   0.6          1.9   0.0   1.9           0.9   0.0    0.9
TOTAL INlT DUTIES                   45.0   0.0  45.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          14.5   0.0  14.5         22.0   0.0  22.0          9.5   0.0    9.5
TOTAL M!E CST                       97.8 577.6 675.4          7.0  74.   01.0          39.6 274.6 314.2         43.6 213.9 255.5          9.7  15.1   24.8                              0
TOTAL PHISICAI EDITlMINS ES         12.4  69.1  91.6          0.9   7.1   0.0           4.9  32.4  37.4          5.1  29.8  33.9           1.5   0.8    2.3                                X
TUAT PRICE CDNTIECMIES               7.6  39.4  46.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          2.0  13.9  15.9           4.5  22.9  27.4          1.1   1.6    2.7
0I1
TDTU PUECT MDST                    117.9 695.1 903.0          7.9  91.1  89.0          46.5 320.9 367.4         531.2 265.6 316.9         12.3  17.5   29.8
IOTEIST bURING UIETRICTIE           0.0  71.8  71.9           0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0  12.1  12.1           0.0  35.6  35.6          0.0  24.3   24.1
QS THE ILo aG UILou                0.0  23.0  23.0          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   3.9   3.9          0.0  31.4  11.4           0.0   7.9    7.9
Ml Dia1l9 liOnS                    0.0  49.7  48.7          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.0   9.2   8.2          0.0  24.2  24.2           0.0  16.3   16.3
FIBRNCINS F'ES                       3.3   6.9  10.3          0.0   0.0   0.0           0.6   5.7   6.2          1.7   1.2   2.9           1.1   0.0    1.1
T1TAL FIVSIIU  REIDIIRED       321.2 763.8 995.0           7.9  1.1  9.0          47.1  339.6 385.7         52.9 302.5 355.3         13.4  41.6   55.0



SO FIlELD ofYELPPIMIT PROJECT
NIGERIN NATIOL FEIROLEUR CORiATiUU
PROJECT CQSI ESTIMIE
TO*tA 1m9-I31,          I19O                      1991                     1Z                      193
for-                     For-                    Far-                     for-                      For-
txil lip   Total        total lip   Itoal         toal eiqa  Total        Loal eip  Total          Lotal  eign  Tota8
B.EILLIU OmST
ilinsikE S 31tCES                  14.6  32.9  47.5          0.0   0.0   0.0          6.5  14.7  21.2          7.7  17.3  24.9          0.4   0.9    1.4
l1i Ei ar                           2.2  17.3  20.1          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.0   9.0   1.0          1.1   9.4  t0.1           0.1   0.5    0.S
TIIIBIUESI1§OlP01                  0.0  19.5  19.           0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   9.7   9.7          0.0  10.3  10.3           0.0   0.5    0.5
-NE A *                          16.0  10.2  97.1          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.5  $1.4  38.9          0.8  36.9  45.7           0.5   1.9    2.4
F!iSICRL GITlIE5                    2.3  14.6  17.4          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.0   6.1   7.6          1.3   7.7   9.0           0.4   0.4    0.9
NICE EltO1 0IE0n                    1.5   6.3   7.7          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.4   3.7   2.1          1.0   4-3   5.3           0.1   0.2    0.3
1311  tUII  camS                   21.2  91.1  112.2         0.0   0.0   0.0          8.9  39.7  43.6         11.   49.9  60.0           1.0   2.6    3.6
M.*CII.1E1S Cmm
llEm18s,c51T1u11011EgI£11          9.6 21t.9  2.6           2.6  40.0  42.1          4.3 110.7  11.0         1.6  6.9  70.4            0.1   0.4   0.4
iOC  Tom VIE                        5.2  23.9  29.1          1.6   4.4   1.9          2.6  12.1  14.6          1.9   7.4   9.5           0.0   0.1    0.1
su-ani I                          13.9 243.9 257.7         4.2  44.4  49.6          6.9 122.8 129.1          2.7  76.2  78.9           0.1   0.4    0.5
3115lM CIT IEI                     1.1  23.7  25.4          0.5   4.3   4.3          0.9  12.9  12.7          0.2   7.6   1.9           0.0   0.1   0.1
Plitt aTNsl  S                      0.6  13.9  24.1          0.0   0.0   0.0         0o4   6.1   6.4           0.3   1.9   9.0           0.0   0.0    0.1
TUTAL FRIUTln  ' ii               16.1 291.5 297.6          4.1  4.7  53.4           8.2 140.6 149.9          3.2  91.6  94.9           0.1   0.5    0.6
*C.9E-WNIM La    S                                                                                                                                                                   IIE
FUMIIU [W11                         3.3  19.5  22.9          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.9   5.3   6.3          1.6   9.6  11.2           0.3   4.6    5.3                        O
*    U  a UfIES I hNl               2.2  13.0  1.2          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.9   5.2   6.1          3.0   5.6   6.6           0.3   2.1    2.5
33U61 C                           5.6  32.5  33.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.8  10.6  12.4          2.8  IS.2  17.9           1.1   6.7    7.9
ICiit 0c1i16iltlES                  9.5   3.1   3.6          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.2   1.1   1.3          0.3   2.0   2.3           0.0   0.0    3.0
nIcIE WNSEIKIES                     0.S   2.9   1.3          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.1   0.    0.6          0.3   1.?   1.9           0.1   0.7    0.9
1M1A  E-WEIIE  t1115E               6.5  33.5  45.0          0.0   0.0   0.e          2.3  12.2  14.3          3.2  18.0  22.1           1.2   7.4    0.6
D. WW min
511I'M  I                        22.5   0.0  22.5          0.0   0.0   0.0          7.5   0.0   1.5         10.9   0.0  I0.9           4.2   0.0    4.7
M        1511  aumTnISics           2.5   o.0   2.5          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.8   0.0   0.3          1.2   0.0   1.2           0.1   0.0    0.5
N2IC  0EiE5iCI                      2.0   0.0   2.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.4   0.0   0.4          1.2   0.0   1.2           0.5   0.0    0.5
OT1l3 ll    pol3                  27,0   DA   27.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          9.7   0.0   9.7 1O.2   0.0  13.2                   5.1   0.0    5.1
1Il11 n5u clm                      53.7 346.6 405.3          4.2  44.4  48.6         23.7 I64.9 133.5         24.9 128.4 153.3           5.9   9d    14.9
TOL PR5IItM CLITIUIIES              7.5  41.5  48.9          0.5   4.3   4.8          3.0  19.5  22.4          3.2  17.3  20.3           0.9   0.5    2.4
10TTA RICE QilsTImarn               4.6  23.2  27.6          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.2   9.3   9.5          2.1  13.7  16.4           0.7   1.0    1.6
TOTAL PROECT CST                   70.7 411.1 431.0          4.7  43.7  13.4         27.9 192.5  20.4         30.7  159.4  190.1         1.4  10.5   17.9
13IES1011M t013C13   o            0.0  33.4  33.4          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   S.7   5.7          0.0  16.5  16.5           0.0  11.2   11.2
01 M 1 1Mae 1AM Lou               0.4  23.0  23.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   3.9   3.9          0.0  11.4  £1.4           0.0   1.8    1.3
am  LOtW                         0.0  10.3  10.3          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   3.3   1.9          0.0   5.2   5.2           0.0   3.4    3.9
FIBCINS FEES                        3.3  i.5   4.8           0.0   0.0   0.0          0.6   1.1   1.6          1.7   0.4   2.0           1.1   0.0    1.1
TOTAL FINAKIB REWIRED           74.1 44.9 520.0          4.7  48.7  533.4        23.5 19.3 227.7          37.4 176.3 208.7           9.5  N .7   -.2



ID FIELD IEVENLOIl P10CT
KIlDl. FI8UtIMJCI 11131111
IOIEtl COSi ESTIKArt
1011 1193)              19m0                     M9I                     9m                      1M
For-                    For-                     For-                    For-                     For-
Local eix  hbtal        Local ein  lotal         tocal sigo  Total       LSal tip   Tolal         Local sign  Total
AA UW am
IUIIIU 539155                      9.7  21.0  31.?          0.0   0.0   0.0         4.3   9.1  14.1          5.1  11.3  36.6         0.S  0.6    0.9
all REA1                           1.5   1.9  13,4          0.0   0.0   0.0         0.?   5.3   6.0          0.e   6.2   I.0          0.0   0.3    0.)
11i1313.IEUINIT                    0.0  13.0  U3.0          0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   5.8   5.8          0.0   6.9   b.9          0.0   0.t    0.3
mum e                            11.2  41.6  53A.0        0.0   0.0   0.0          5.0  20.9  25.9         5.9  24.1  30.5          0.3   1.3   l.o
USt3  UTIISmE3IS                   1.9   9.3  11.6          0.0   0.0   0.0         0.7   4.4   5.1          0.9   5.1   1.0          0.3   0.3   0.4
NM  UIIIIE 5.0   4.2   5.1                                  0.0   0.0   0.0          0.3   1.1   1.4         0.7   2.9   3.5          0.1   0.2   0.2
mm Matto am                        14.0   .6  74.6          0.0   0.0   0.0         1.0  21.4  32.0          7.4  32.1  40.0          0.?   3.    2.4
3.Fgiw m 51
*  S_lWSIuIu         IEIurnw       5.0 146.1 152.4          1.0  2b.7  26.4          2.9   1.6  76.1         1.1  45.9  46.9          0.0   0.3    0.3
WEll IW  FS                         3.5  16.0  39.4         1.0   2.9   4.0          2.7   3.0   9.3         0.7   5.0   5.7          0.0   0.0    0.0
Ql    3                           9.2 162.6 17.l          2.8  29.6  32.4          4.6  81.9  b6.          1.3  50.3  52.1          0.0   0.3   0.3
fl1 t  UItIlls                      1.1   5.6  16.9         0.6   2.8   3.2          0.6   7.3   8.5         0.1   $.I   5.2          0.0   0.0    0.0
mm =U11w)[11                       0.4   9.3   9.7          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.2   4.1   4.3         0.2   5.2   5.4          0.0   0.0    0.0
1311 FKtIIUI     mU                W6.8 13.6 19.4           3.2  $2.4  35.6          5.4   3.3  9.?          2.3  61.1  63.2          0.0   0.4    0.4
ttIWlE 1111391                      2.2  13.5  15.2         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.6   3.6   4.2          3.1   6.4   7.5         0.5   3.1    3.6
on. I UPSUB I RIIIO                 3.5  6.1  10.1          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.6   3.5   6.1         0.7   3.0   4.4          0.2   3.4    3.6
U-"  t                            3.7  21.7  25.4         0.0   0.0   0.0          1.2   1.0   3.3          1.3  10.1  11.9         0.7   4.5    5.2
UliIM. t_ CIES                     0.3   2.1   2.4          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.1   0.6   0.9         0.2   1.3   1.5          0.0   0.0    0.0
1eE UEiIIS                         0.3   1.9   2.2          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.1   0.4   0.4         0.2   1.1   1.3          0.1   0.4    0.5
111 T  EM 1TIIifOIE                4.4  25.6  30.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          1.4   6.2   9.6         2.2  12.6  14.7          0.8   4.9    5.?
3. 3111  RTI
UlsE                             15.0   0.0  35.0         0.0   0.0   0.0          5.0   0.0   5.0          7.2   0.0   7.2         2.3   0.0    2.3
91111  Il :ciES                    1.7   0.0   1.7         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.1   0.0   0.1         0.3   0.0   0.8          0.3   0.0   0.3
PlUE  tQiEiUls                      1.3   0.0   1.3         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.3   0.0   0.3         0.3   0.0   0.3          0.3   0.0    0.3                           *d
1015 .l 11301                    1U.0   0.0  33.0          0.0   0.0   .0.          5.9   0.0   5.6         U.   0.0   6.3           3.4   0.0    3.4                          co
IRSSK u   0m1.                     39.1 231.0 270.2 .       2.6  29.6  32.4         15.0 10.9  123.7         6.6  035.6 102.2        3.9   6.0   9.9
TDtL  11SIC. CUITINCIES             5.0  27.7  32.6         0.4   2.8   3.2          2.0  13.0  14.9         2.0  1l.5  33.6          0.1   0.3    0.9
MAL "16E CTIIIEICIEIi              1.1  15.3  111.4         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.11   S.    M          J.ll  9.2  11.0          0.4   0.6    1.1                    
10111 man1 c0m1                    47.2 274.0 321.2         3.2  32.4  35.6         11.6 121.4 147.0        20.5 101.2 126.7          4.9   7.0   11.9
Wolln$G5 WIN CUlY IIU             0.0  3.4  33.4           0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   6.4   6.4         0.0  19.1  19.1          0.0  12.9   12.9
a lIi onI am LOU                  0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   0.0    0.0
OilMeR lUE                       0.0  33.6  38.4          0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0   6.4   6.4          0.0  IS.I  19.1          0.0  12.9   12.
flltiKl  FEES                       0.0   5.5   5.5         0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0   4.6   4.6          0.0   O.9   0.9         0.0   0.0    0.0
TOMS FIUKIin UUiE              47.2 317.9 365.1          3.2  32.4  35.6        19.6 139.4  15E.0        20.5 136.2  146.7         4.9  20.0  24.9



ANNE 7-2
-83                                     Page  1 of 5
D0                                                                   NlSERtA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCE PLANS
(US$ MILLIONS)
SUMMARY
NNPC                           NM                              TOTAL
FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL       TOTAL
COSTS
Facilities                                282        16        298       187         11       198        469        27        496
Drilling                                   91        21        112        61         14        73        152        35        187
Duties                                               27         27                   18        18                   45         45
Pre-Operating Exp.                         38         7         45        26          4        30         64        11         75
Financirg Costs                            35         3         38        44                   44         79         3         82
TOTAL COST                              446        74        520       318         47       365        764       121        885
:s:5=  au::-=/Z   us:ang-  :3~gzgg~238                         uU fl8U3   uE:gagS  =f:n::::
FINANCING
Equity                                    116        74        190        53         47       100        169       121        290
IDRD                                      218                  218                                       218                  218
IFC 'A' and '8'                                                          170                  170        170                  170
US EXIM                                     0                    0        95                   95         95                   95
JEXIl                                      47                   47                                        47                   47
EI0                                        65                   65                                        65                   65
leso - total debt                         330                  330       265                  265        595                  595
TOTAL FINANCING                         446        74        520       318         47       3b5        764       121        885
t r358Us 8s83  ::Ua*n  gUtJSC   lUOUU*USO3 UflflOaU  8*U                  UUUU   ufUSSt:



- 84 -                                  ANNEX 7-2
Page 2 of 5
N1GERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCE PLANS
(US$ MILLIONS)
A. FACILITIES
NNPC                             NPN                            TOTAL
FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTA.    FOREIGN    LOCAL        TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL       TOTAL
COSTS                                        --------… -__ - ...  ----   ,.,       - _       ....       ------ _            ---------
lCB
~~~~~~~~~.. .... ....... ............. ......
McDersott                                  122          3        123        80          3         83        202          6       208
Bouygues                                    47          5         52        31          3         34         78          8        86
JoC                                         41          1         42        27                    27         68          1        69
Subtotal EPC (Original)                 .210          9       219        138          6        144       348          15       363
Incremental Items (Change Orders)           22                   22         16                    16        39          0         38
Subtotal Excluding Contingencies         232          9       241        154          6        1l0       396         15        40;
Contingencies - ICa                         22          1         23        14          1         15         36         2         38
Subtotal - ICB                           254         10       264        168          7        175       422         17        439
Non-lCS
Tas  Force _--  _ _ Pha- e _                 4 _                             3                     3__
Task Force (NRDC) - Phase     I             2                      4         3                     3         7                     7
Task Force (hRDC) - Post Phase 1            21                   21         14                    14        35                    3
Shore Approach - Condensate Line                        2          2                    1          1                    3          3
Venture Group                                           4          4                    2          2                    6          b
Subtotal Excluding Contingencies          25          6        31         17          3         20        42          9         51
Contingencies - Non-lC3                      3          0          3         2          1          3          5         1          6
Subtotal - Non-lC8                        28          6        34         19          4        23         47         10         57
TOTAL FACILITIES COST                      282         16       298        187         11        198       469         27        496
::JZInz2:: DZUZt3DDg 883U32n n:82u22fl "UUUUaZ  n-u#u3U   mugau: szst:u:u *-:-:-::-
FINANCING
Equity                                      31         16        47         19         11         30        50         27         77
IORD                                       139                  139                                        139                   13q
IFC A'  and  D                                                              99                   89 99                            89
US EXIN                                      0                    0         79                    79        79                    79
JEXII                                       47                   47                                         47                    47
EtB                                         65                   65                                         65                    b'
TOTAL FACILITIES FINANCINS               282         16       298        187         11       198        469         27        496
WIMMOROMR WOr3t39=   3 22222*2:2 13C32S3I2  32822=222 3    2:: 3a323X33: 2:c33:a:  3a 2::-::::



AINEX 7-2
- 85 -                                   Page 3 of 5
N16ERIA
A                                                          090 FIELD DEVELOPhENT PROJECT
...............
FINANCE PLANS
(USS MILLIONS)
B. ORILLUNG
NNPC                              NPN                             TOTAL
FOREIGN    LOCAL       TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL       TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL        TOTAL
COSTS                                    _--------------
Intangibles:
Mob/DeNob t                                   3                     3          2                     2          5                     5
Rig 8                                        19          2         21         13          2         1S         32          4         36
Coring                                        1                     1                                           1                     1
Electric Logging I                            4          2          6          2          1          3          6          3          9
Tubing Conveyed Perforation 8                 3          2          5          2          1          3          5          3          8
Mud Logging 8                                 1          1          2          1                     1          2          1          3
Measureeent While Drilling I                  1          1          2          1                     1          2          1          5
Mud                                           6          3          9          4          2         .6         10          5         1.5
Cesent 8                                      4          1          5          2          1          3          6          2          a
Fuel & Transportation    *I                                         I                                                      I          I
Other Services                               12          5         17          9          5         14         21         10         31
Total Intangibles                          54         18         72         36         12        48          90        30        128
Tangibles:
Casing 8                                     11                    11          7                     7         18                    18
Wellheads & Trees                             2                     2          2                     2          4                     4
Tubing t                                      4                     4          3                     3          7                     7
Downhole Equipnent                            4                     4          2                     2          ;.                    6
Total Taingibles                           21                    21         14                    14         35 3
Contingencies:
ICB/LIB 8                                     6          2          8          4          1          5         10          3        13
Non-lCd/LId                                  10          1         11          7          1          8         17          2         19
Total Contingencies                        16          3         19         11                    13         27          5        ,'
Total ICB/LIB 8                              56         11         67         37          6         43         93         17       110
Total Non-ICO/LIB                            35         10         45         24          3         32         59         18        77
TOTAL DRILLING COST                          91         21        112         61         14         75        152         35       187
:as::asaz  naz:z:3:I               ----a-: ::u:un:s -:-:---=     u2_a.:  uuzn::uc za:::::u
FINANCING
Equity                                       35         21         56          5         14         19         40         35         15
IQRD                                         56                    56                                          56                   So
IFC *'A  and '3'                                                              41                   41          41                   41
US EXIN                                       0                     0         15                    15         1S                   15
JEXIM                                         0                     0                                           0                     0
EI8
TOTAL DRILLING FINANCING                   91         21        112         61         14        75        152         35        187
==Z=    annaunats ons: auStzza ^X=z:f:ae =aSsasuca: Bacanurm=s :Czza=:za: S__ZZZZZC=       ===:::



AMNE 7-2
-86 -
* NIERIA
050 FIELD DEVELOPRENT PROJECT
FINANCE PLANS
(USt NILLIONS)
C. DUTIES AND PRE-OPERATINS EIPENSES
WC                             NPN                            TOTAL
FOEIGN    LOCAL      TOW'AL    FOREIGN    LOCAL     T07AL    FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTAL
COSTS                                                                      - -…
Duties                                               27        27                   1E        18                   45        45
Prod. Expensuq                             21         4        25         14         2        16         35         6        41
Nat/Sup/Rental                             14         2        16          9         2        11         23         4        27
Contingencies                               3         1         4         3                    3          6         1         7
TOTAL DUTIES & PRE-GP COST              38         34        72        26         22        48         64        56       120
-8-3---   --- Rua                                               --3  --3  -=3 3 -:--
FINANCING
Equity                                     38        34        72         13        22        35         51        56       107
IDRD
IFC *AO and i8                                                           13                   13        13                   13
US EXIN
JEXIN
EIB
TOTAL DUTIES & PRE-P FINANCING          38         34        72        26         22        48        64         56       120
UU8U8~ 8~U3U3 ;::::t  =m~::- 3::___  zuCn:=:  :                   gz5::     aag:
Notes
1. Duties pill nct be financed by any of the lenders.
2. Producing expenses consist exclusively of many single source procurement items (primarily !roe RPN).
These are most suited for equity financing.



AMEX 7-2
-87                                   Page 5of5
A                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NIGERIA
OSO FIEL  DEVELPN   PROJECT
FINNE PLANS
(USs NILLIONS)
0. FINAIININS COSTS
NNPC                          In                            TOTAL
FOREIGN    LOCAL     TOTAL   FOREIGN    LOCA       TOTAL   FOREIGN    LOCAL      TOTAL
COSTS                                                                                           -   -       -  - -a---------
Debt Service Reserve                      0                   0         0                   0         0
Capitalized Interest                     33                  33        39                  39        72
ECA Preuiums                              0                   0         1                   1         1                    1
Fees                                      2         s         5         4                   4         6          3
TOTAL FINANCING COST                   35         3        38        44                  44        79          3       6
FINANCING
Equity                                   12         3        15        16                  16        28         3         31
IDRO                                     23                  23                                      23                  23
IFC 'A' and 'B9                                                        27                  27        27                  27
OS EXIN                                   0                   0         1                   1         1                   1
JEXIH
£El
TOTAL FINANCING COST FINANCING         35         3        38        44                  44        79         3        8
u8::a= 23=saa 32=*32 032382322raX tSanuazauul1 n2sua uuumss xs2=gg*:Xrws 2-=3::



AtitJEX 8-1
- 88 -
NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OPEC
Cfi                               D~~~~~~~~2fiii
p.API Gravity                           45 MinImum
*. Gas/Liquid Ratio                     5,000 CF/BbI
Minimum
3o C,+ Content of                       8% MImum
Total ReservEŽ Fluids
90% Distffled                         6507F Maxh um
Source: Arthur D0. Little Inc.



ANNEX 8-2
89 -
NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WORLD CONDENSATE PROD'JUCnON AND USES
(000 BID)
L~~~ PRO. ;JETE
World
Condensate Producdon                 2,066       2,790       2,737
of which:
i). Blended into Crude               1,083       19497        1,487
Wi). Fracionated at Site                 0          30          10
iii)e Local Market                     407         S71         656
iv). Exported, ind.                    576         722         594
- Ugeria                     400         270         140
Australia                    8          50          1i
Brunei                       s           S           5
Canada                       2           10           6
Indonesia                   99         106         106
Nigeria. Oso                 0          92          40
Norway                       0          11          65
Oman                         0          SO          SO
Papua New Guinea             0           5          37
Peru                         0          20          29
Sharjah                     39          3S          25
Other U.AoE.                13          16           16
Thailand                    10          16           14
U.K.                         0           6          16
Source: Arthur D. Little Inc.



An=  8-3
- 90 -
NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECr
OSO CONDENSATE QUALITY AND YIELD CHARACTERISTICS
Bonny Light       Oso               Anr                Hassi RMel
5duction=    CM&Q &MM   CandmN=
County                   Nigeria            Nigeia               donesia        Algeria
Poduction (MID)         300                100               130               330
API                      37                 47                 54               63
RVP .bs)                  S                 8                 104                12
Pour Pbint F)            s                  45"0              0                  -40
Sulu (% WL)              0.11               0.04              0.02              0.01
Yield (% vol)
-GaMse(C. -C4)           2.7                4.7               9.8               62
- (Cs - 160F)
(LSAhW)                6A                102                16.4              21.1
-160.375SF
(tvy nRota)           25A                37.5              378               46.7
-37547fF
(kem1)                 12.               10.7               10.7              13.5
475 - 650 F
(Pis oi               23.1              18.                183               12.5
- 650 - 1050F
(tJmr l              25.6               18.1              6.5
-1050
(short nih)          4.0                -                 _
*Estimated
+ Airm codSM  is now s ed at 7  s. RVP whkh will cbhs its Y_n. P5H
"*MiN    po  poin of6°F wi b orduc  to 4 r his wih pow&po dep        L



OSO PRICE PROJECTIONS
Staff Price forecasts                                 1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    199?    1998    1999    2000   2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Current prices USS bbl Opec lverage)                21.60   23.80   20.50   18.50   19.60   20.90                                      31.10
Inflation Index                                       1.00    1.09    1.10    1.10    1.12    1.16    1.20    1.26    1.30    1.35    1.39    1.44    1.50    1.55    1.61    1.6?
Deflated 1990 prices                                 21.60   21.83   18.59   16.85   11.56   18.05                                      22.31
Extrapolated 1990 prices                                                                               18.83   19.65   20.51   21.40            22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.31
(US4/bbl)                 21.60   21.83   18.59   16.85   17.56   18.05   18.83   19.65   20.51   21.40   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34
Premium to get to bonny Light                         1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06
Oso OB Price Adjustment (US$/bbl)                   -1.02   -0.96   -0.90   -0.85   -0.79   -0.73   -0.76   -0.79   -0.81   -0.84   -0.87   -0.90   -0.94   -0.96   -1.01  -l10S
Oso fob IS$/bbl (1990 pricea)                        21.61   21.93   18.75   17.06   17.83   18.38   19.14   19.93   20.76   21.63   22.53   22.50   22.46   22.42   22.39   22.35
Oso fob US$/bbl (escalated)                          21.64   23.91   20.68   18.73   19.90   21.28   23.06   25.14   27.04   29.14   31.3?   32.49   33.66   34.87   36.11   37.40
Staff Price forecasts                                 2006    200?    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Carrent prices (0SM bbl Opec Average)
Inflation lndex                                       1.74    1.80    1.87    1.94    2.01    2.09    2.1?    2.25
Deflated 1990 prices
Extrapolated 1990 prices                            22.34   22.31   22.34   .'.34   ?2 34   ^2.34   22.34   22.34
(US$/bbl)                 22.34   2:.3!   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34   22.34
Premium to get to Bonny Light                         1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.06    1.0H    1.06    1.06
Oso IOB Price Adjstmet (US$/bbl)                     -1.05.  -1.05   -1.05   -1.05   -1.05   -1.05   -1.05   -1.05
Oso fob HS$/bbl (1990 prices)                        22.35   22.35   22.35   22.35   22.35   22.35   22.35   22.35
Oso foo US$/bbl (escalated)                          38.81   40.26   41.77   43.34   44.96   46.65   48.40   50.21



- 92 -              ANNEX 9-1
Page 1 of 10
NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ASSUMPTIONS USED IN FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1.          Financial Projections have been prepared at current prices.
Rates of return calculations are at 1990 constant prices (MUV Index).
2.          Project costs are US$885 million, at current prices, including
US$72 million interest during construction, and US$10 million in financing
fees. The disbursement profile is as advised by the operator MPN.
3.          Project financing is based on the finance plan in Chapter 7:
Amount      Inte-est       Loan Period (years)
NNPC     MPN     kute       Grace         ReDayment
(US$ millio'n)    (a)
Debt
IFC                   -        75    10.50         3               5
World Bank           218        -      7.72        5              14
EIB                   65        -      5.00        5              14
US Exim               -        95    10.50         3               5
Japan Exim            47        -      8.00        3              10
Commercial Banks      -        95    10.50         3               5
330      265
Equity:              190      100
TOTAL              520      365
World Bank debt service has been calculated on an annuity basis, with the
principal repayment beginning in October 1996. Interest charges are
expensed from 1993, the first year of production.
It has been assumed that the interest during construction for export
credits will be financed by equity. Other financing costs covering
advisory, syndication, and commitment fees have been assumed as follows on
each tranche, by lender. Commitment fees are payable on undisbursed loan
balances while othar fees/premiums are payable upfront.



ANNEY 9-1
Page 2 of 10
Commitment       Other Fees/Premiums
NNPC     MPN      NNPC             MPN
IFC                        -      0.5Z        -             1.5?
World Bank               0.25?     -          ^               -
EIB                      1.0.t     -          -               -
US Exim                    -      0.3752      -              1.2?
Japan Exim               0.5?      -          -               -
Commercial Banks           -      0.52        -              1.5?
A guarantee fee of 102 of the World Bank, EIB and Japan Exim interest
charges sill be payable by NNPC to FGN in local currency, out of equit7.
4.          Pre-operating expenses were supplied by MPN and irere derived as
follows:
Labor included in Production Expenses.
During tha construction period, MPN's regular work force
will increase by 100 personnel. Labor costs reflect
salaries, benefits, moving expenses, training and other
labor-related expenses.
Services and Contracts included in Production Expenses.
These include Mobil technical specialist support for the
project during its implementation, maintenance/repair
services on company furnished houses and equipment, and
other services such as mail, telephone, catering, helicopter
transport, etc.
Material, Supplies and Rental.
These cover materials and supplies for operations, office
furniture and equipment, provision of furnished houses for
personnel, and rentals of vehicles and equipment.
5.          Duties totalling US$45 million include import duties on all
equipment and structures, estimated at 30? of the material cost.
6.          Depreciation and pre-production tax benefits were calculated as
follows: all facilities, venture costs and tangible elements of drilling
costs are depreciated on a strai6.Lt line basis over five years commencing
in the year of expenditure except for 1% salvage value recovered in the
last year of asset life. A 102 Investment Tax Credit is allowed on capital
costs in the year of expenditure. Intangible drilling costs, pre-operating
expenses, duties, interest during construction, and other financing
costs/fees are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
7.          Operating expenses, including marketing costs, supplied by MPN
were first deflated by MPN's escalation of 5? per annum to 1990 levels and
then re-inflated using the MUV index.
8.          Government take is calculated in accordance with the Memorandum
of Understanding between FGN and MPN, dated January 23, 1986.



94 -              ANNEX 9-1
Page 3 of 10
9.          Condensate Prices are extrapolated in current terms and are
based on staff projections of weighted average FOB price forecasts for
petroleum exports from OPEC countries, as follows (US$/bbl):
1990      1995      2000
Staff projection-base (1990 constant)             21.60      18.05     22.34
Plus premium for Bonny Light (1990 constant)        1.06      1.06      1.06
Less Oso price adjustment (1990 constant)          (1.02)    (0.73)    (0.87)
Oso current price                                 21.64      18.38     22.53
080 constant price                                21.64      21.28     31.37
Base prices beyond the year 2000 have been kept flat at the projected base
constant price for the year 2000 of US$22.34.  The premium for Bonny Light
is based on staff estimates, while the discount for Oso is based on A.D.L.
estimates.
10.         Production volumes are for the 1-Yl reservoir, based on the
production profiles developed by Netherland Sewell and Associates.
11.         The sensitivity analysis is based on proportionate changes to
critical assumptions as follows:
Base       -102        -25X         -502
Price (US$)
1990                      16.0       14.4        12.0          8.0
1993                      19.6       17.6        14.7          9.8
1995                      22.4       20.2        16.8         11.2
2000                      34.0       30.6        25.5         17.0
2005                      40.4       36.4        30.3         20.2
Base       -10        -25Z
Production               320.3      228.3       240.2
Base       +102        +25Z
Project Cost (US$mm)      777        855          971
All increases in project costs are assumed to be financed with equity.



95 -                        ANNEX  9-1
Page- 4 of 10
Projected Tar  Benefits to NPN
Current US $ million
Year ending Dec. 31                1990    1991    1992    1993
Expensed:
Intangible Drilling Cots          0.0   25.1   31.0       1.9
Pre-operating Expenses            0.0     9.6   14.7      5.7
Duties                            0.0    3.8      8.8     3.4
Interest                          0.0   .6.4   19.1   12.9
Fees                              0.0     4.6     0.9     0.0
Sub-total Intangibles           0.0    51.5    74.5   24.0
Capitalized-
Tangible rilling Costs            0.0     7.3     9.0     0.5
Facilities Costs                 35.6    99.2   63.2    0.4
Sub-total Tangibles            35.6   106.5   72.2      0.9
Total                              35.6  158.0  146.7   24.9
ProJected Tax Benufits to PNP
Carrot US $ million
6 no
Year ending Oec. 31                1990    1991    1992    1993   TOTAL
Capital Costs:
A. Expensed                         Q.C   51.5   74.5   24.0  149.9
8. Capitalized
(20% of 99%)
1M90             7.0    7.0      7.0    3.5   24.7
1991                    21.1    21.1   10.5   52.7
19                              11.3     7.1   21.4
193                                      0.1     0.1
Total Cort for Tar Pur-             7.0   79.6  116.9   45.3  248.8
poses
Tax at 85%                          6.0   67.7   99.3   38.5  211.5
Investment Tar Credit               3.6   10.6      7.2    0.1   21.5
(lOZ of not tangibles)
Totel Tax Benefit                   9.6   78.3  106.6   38.6  233.0
Deflated                    9.6   71.8      6.6    35.1  203.6



OSD FIELD KY   IEN PROErT
Wi  s                                                                                       TOTAL I  OJECT
RJECTED PR-FORMA INCOI STATEMENTS
(IS l eillio epivalet)
6so
YEAR E110111  EIECE  31,                            19"0  IS91  1992  193  1994  195  19S   1977  199S  1M9   2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2009  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013 TOTAL
PRIUDCTIW  m  PRICE ESTINATES
EI  PRWUCTIEI IITE (TBD)                                 0.0   0.0  100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0  91.9  62.5  71.5  57.5  49.0  40.2  33.5  27.8  22.5  18.0  14.5  11.7   9.1   6.9   5.2   3.9   2.4
m.  PRTI  Ira1)                                          0.0   0.0  19.3  36.5  36.5  36.5  33.5  30.1  26.1  21.7  17.9  14.7  12.2  10.1   9.2   6.6   5.3   4.3   3.3   2.5   1.9   1.4   0.9  52S.5
UNIT SAM1.  PRICE III19)                         21.6  23.9  20.7  19.7  19.9  21.3  23.1  25.1  27.0  29.1  31.4  32.5  33.7  34.9  36.1  37.4  38.8  40.3  41.9  43.3  45.0  46.6  48.4  50.2
NET SALES 955E20E5                                         0.0   0.0 341.9 726.5 776.8 941.5 842.6 814.2 760.3 691.1 591.2 494.5 426.2 365.8 307.3 255.0 213.2 177.7 143.4 113.1  98.9  69.2  44.7 9064.1
95IIII    SPENs
CASH WROTIS EIUISES                                      0.0   0.0  20.2  41.9  43.9  51.2  51.2  50.1  47.9  45.2  42.3  40.0  39.3  36.9  35.6  34.6  26.1  25.2  25.2  22.4  23.2  24.1  25.0  750.2
iERECIITIU                                               0-0   0-0  52.6 15.1  97.5  35.4   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.3  296.2
TOAL O TI  EPIOSES                                     0.0   0.0  72.7 146.9 131.4  96.6  51.6  50.1  47.9  45.2  42.3  40.0  38.3  36.9  35.6  34.6  26.1  25.2  25.2  22.4  23.2  24.1  30.3 1036.5
OPEROTIID 1I0                                              0.0   0.0 269.2 579.6 645.4 754.9 791.0 764.2 712.4 635.9 538.9 454.5 397.9 329.0 271.7 220.4 197.1  152.5 119.3  90.7  65.6  44.2  14.4 e027.6
FllICIAlt EWISES                                                                                                                                                                                                  q
INIEREST                                                 0.0   0.0  25.2  52.5  46.5  40.4  33.9  26.8  21.1  19.4  17.7  16.0  14.1  12.2  :0.6   8.8   7.0   5.0   2.8   1.1   0.0   0.0   0.0  361.1 -
IN1C101 1£FORE SONERIENT TAKE                              0.0   0.0 243.9 527.1  599.9 714.6 757.2 737.4 691.3 616.3 521.1 438.5 373.8 316.7 261.1 21W.5 10.1 147.5 115.5  99.6  65.6  44.2  14.4 7666.6
605101E1T TAKE
B-FACTOR                                              0.8977 0.9965 0.0750 0.8922 0.8997 0.8977 0.8977 0.8977 0.B977 0.9020 0.9054 0.9085 0.9116 0.9146 0.9174 0.9203 0.9231 0.9258 0.9294 0.9309 0.9333 0.9356 0.9379
MFET PICE                                               21.5  18.3  I.4  17.6  19.9  20.7  22.6  24.3  26.2  29.3  29.4  30.6  31.8  3t.0  34.3  35.7  37.2  38.7  40.2  41.9  43.5  45.3  47.1
TA6A1LE REIE IOFSETI PRICExOA  PRODN)                    0.0   0.0 2"9.2 641.0 691.1 755.4 756.4 730.9 692.5 614.4 526.2 449.3 398.6 354.6 2S1.9 234.6 196.8 164.5 133.2 105.3  92.9  63.8  41.9 8174.4
LESS DDCTIBLE CeSTS (OP.FIN EIPuG5?)                     0.0   0.0  83.3 169.5  151.2 107.9  72.6  45.3  58.6  54.9  51.0  47.5  44.5  41.8  39.3  36.9  28.1  25.7  23.9  20.0  19.7  20.5  25.8 1187.9
LESS IlWESTMEtT TAI CREDIT                               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
ESS SPECIAL TAX CREDIT TO In                             0.0   0.0   6.2  12.5  12.5  12.0  10.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   54.0
bOVERN T TAKE                                          0.0   0.0 209.6 459.0 527.4 635.5 672.9 665.6 623.9 559.5 475.1 401.7 344.0 2.8 242.6 19 .7 168.7 178.9 109.4  85.3  63.2  43.4  16.2 6932.5
MET IME  AFTER TAKE                                        0.0   0.0  34.3  68.1  71.5  79.0  84.3  71.8  67.5  57.0  46.0  36.9  29.8  23.9  18.4  13.9  11.4   8.7   6.1   4.3   2.4   O.B  -1.8  734.1
CD 
Ul
0 1



0SD FIELD OEVELOPIENT PRWECT
alflEUT4                                                                               119823NERIA NTIM. PETRI  CRP
PINECTED PR-FOI  INKOE STATERIS
tllS  siltiU  equivalet)
6 moo
R E111513 KE     R 31,                               1mo  I1  I'   Im    1m74  1msm  I6  17  198  19    20W   2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011   2012  2013 lulAL
PUWIll J0 PRICE ESTIITES
RM   UCTIQIi RNE (TOD)                                    0.0   0.0  60.0  eO.0  60.0  60.0  53.1  49.5  42.9  35.7  29.4  24.1  20.1  16.7  13.3  10.8   8.7   7.0   5.4   4.1   3.1    2.3   1.S
w. PFRWIION (Rl                                           0.0   0.0  11.0  21.9  21.9  21.9  20.1  19.1  15.7  13.0  10.7   8.8   7.3   6.1   4.9   3.9   3.2   2.6   2.0   1.3   1.1    0.0   0.5  197.1
MIT SAMS PRICE IUS/8L)                                   23.9  20.7  19.7  19.9  21.3  23.1  25.1  27.0  29.1  31.4  32.5  33.7  34.9  36.1  31.4  38.0  40.3  41.9  43.3  45.0  46.6   4.4  50.2
ETl 4s avow'                                                0.0   0.0 20S.1 435.9 466.1 504.9 50.s 48.  456.2 408.7 348J  296.7 255.7  219.3 184.4 153.0 I7.9 106.6  86.1  67.0  53.3   40.s  26.8 5431.5
IWIRTIUS ETNS
CU91 3¶MTIS EEEIISES                                      0.0   0.0  12.1  25.1  26.3  30.7  30.7  30.0  29.7  27.1  25.4  24.0  23.0  22.1  21.3  20.8  15.7   S.1,  15.1  13.4  13.9   14.5  15.0  450.1
IPUCIATIN                                                 0.0   0.0  31.5  63.1  52.3  21.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   O.k   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    3.Z   0.0  171.7
TMTAL fPAT113  ESES                                     0.0   0.0  43.6  88.1  78.5  52.0  31.0  30.0  28.7  27.1  25.4  24.0  23.0  22.1  21.3  20.8  15.7  15.1  15.1  13.4  13.9   17.6  15.0  621.9
Pt19111  IlM                                                O.    0.0 16bl.  347.8 317.2  452.9 474.6 458.5 427.4 381.5 323.3 21g.  232.8  197.4  163.0 132.2 112.3  91.3  71.0  54.4  39.4   23.3  11.8  4816.6
FIRAELM EPEES
ITRT                                                      0.0   0.0  12.3  26.1  25.7  25.1  24.1  22.6  .21.1  19.4  17.7  16.0  14.1  12.2  10.6   8.8   7.0   .0   2.8   1.1   0.0    0.0   0.0  271.84
IKUlE BEFORE IOVE4t TAKE                                    0.0   0.0  149.2 321.6 361.5  427.9 450.5 435.9 406.4 362.1 305.6 256.7 218.7  185.L 152.4 123.4 105.3  86.5  69.1  53.3  39.4   23.3  11.8 45U.8 1
6HEEIT TAKE
B FACTOR                                               O.87  0.8865 0.S750 0.5822 0.9897 0 8977 0.8977 0.8977 0.8977 O.9020 O.034 0.83 0.9116 0.9146 0.9174 0.23 0.M.1 0.9258 0.9284 0.9309 0.9333  0.9356 0.9371
IIFFSET PRICE                                            21.5  18.3  16.4  17.6  19.9  20.7  22.6  24.3  26.2  29.3  29.4  30.6  31.8  33.0  34.3  35.7  37.2  38.7  40.2  41.9  43.5   45.3  47.1
TAIARLE REVE (OFFSET PRICExOURML P1RD                     0.0   0.0 179.5  384.6 414.6  453.3 453.9 439.5  409.5 38.6 315.7 269.6 233.1  20.8  169.1  140.8  118.1  98.7  79.9  63.2  41.8   38.3  25.1 40.6
LESS OE1UTI9LE COSTS IUP.FIN ElPx851)                     0.0   0.0  47.5  97.1  89.9  65.5  46.9  44.7  42.3  39.6  36.6  34.0  31.5  29.2  27.2  25.2  19.2  17.1  1.2  12.4  11.8   15.0  12.7  739.6
LESS IVES11ENT  CIREDIT                                   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
IE4OIT TAKE                                             0.0   0.0 132.0 287.4 325.8 387.7 407.0 373.8 367.2 329.1 279.0 235.6 201.6  171.5  142.0 115.6  98.8  81.6  64.7  50.8  37.9   23.3  12.4 4145.0
KET I1   AFTER TAKE                                         0.0   0.0  17.3  34.2  35.7  40.1  45.5  42.1  39.2  33.0  26.5  21.1  17.0  13.6  10.4   7.7   6.4   4.9   3.5   2.5   1.5    0.0  -0.6  399.8
0'
a 0
0I



CWAB8 FIE                                                                                        E        116PIOSE
FIWECTED PM-FM  INCON STATEIT
(U3S e dllime euivalentS
6 u
EmmN             ItEE  J1                          19    1     1      1     1     195M  1996  1"9   II    19   200   2001  2002  2         2004  200   2000  2007  20    2009  2010  2011  2012  2013 TOT7A
mm a P RIE EIt"IT
#mt M       l   imI  IT"S)                               0.0   0.0   0.0  40.0  40.0   0.0           33.0  29.0  23.8  19.0  16.1  13.4  15.1   9.0   7.2   5.9   4.7   3.0   2.t   2.1   1.5   1.0
M      rI       1N)                                     0.0   0.0   7.3  14.6  14.0  H.6  13.4  12.0  L1.4   0.7   7.2   5.9   4.9   4.1   3.3   2.0   2.1   1.7   1.3   1.0   0.9   0.0   0.4  131.4
U    SW " nm  jst}                                      23.9  20.7  I.7  19.9  21.3  23.1  23.1  2.0  29.1  31.4  32.5  33.7  34.9  30.1  3.4   .0  40.3  41.9  43.3  45.0  46.6  48.4  50.2
E    SW  I ti                                              0.0   0.0 134.9 290.0 350.1 33.6 37.0 325.7 304.1 m2.4 22.5 17.  170.5 146.3 122.9 102.0  N.3  71.1  57.4  43.2  35.5  27.3  17.9 3025.
a   pInT    SiK                                          0.E   0.0   9.1  10.7  17.4  20.5  20.5  20.0  19.2   .1  1.9  10.0  15.3  14.9  14.2  13.0  10.4  10.1  10.1   9.0   9.3   9.0  10.0  300.1
fif iofln                                                C.0   0.0  2n.0  42.0  35.0  14.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.1   0.0  114.5
M07L fN3BM E                                           0.0   0.0  29.1  59.0  12.5  34.7  20.6  20.0  19.2  18.1  16.9  16.0  15.3  14.0  14.2  13.9  10.4  10.1  10.5   *.0   n53  11.9   1.0  414.0
13T IINI                                                   0.0   0.0  167.7 231.0 256.2 302.0 316.4  0.7  25.0 254.4 215.0  191.8 155.2 131.6 1N.7  19.1  74.8  01.0  47.3  34.3  20.3  15.5   7.9 3211.1,
fll1. IlIMS I0
loom    01.L ECA INUMI                                   0.0   0.0  13.0  26.4  20.3  1S.3   9.7   4.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   99.3
mm    rim   kEMi TAKE                                      0.0   0.0  9.7 205.5 237.4 296.7 306.7 301.5 295.0 254.4 215.6 161.8 155.2  131.6 109.7  93.1  74.9  01.0  47.3  36.3  26.3  15.5   7.9 3121.9
34C00                                                 0.9977 0.805 0.s750 0.9322 0.8997 0.8977 0.977 0.977 0.97 0.9020 0.9054 0.9005 0.9116 0.9146 0.9174 0.9203 O.23  0.9258 0.9284 0.939 0.9333 0.M 0.9m
OFFSET PRICE                                            21.5  19.3  16.4  17.6  18.9  20.7  22.6  24.3  20.2  28.3  29.4  30.6  31.9  33.0  34.3  35.7  37.2  38.   40.2  41.9  43.5  45.3  41.1
rTUsi lEVEE Iwo  PRICEsAL  PRMI                          0.0   0.0 119.7 250.4 276.4 302.2 302.5 29.4  273.0 245.9 210.5 179.7 155.4 133.8 112.8  93.9  79.7  05.8  53.3  42.1  33.2  25.5  16.8 3209.7
LE OEwCiREl COSTS (PflM EOMi s                           0.0   0.0  35.7  72.4  62.4  42.4  25.9  20.b  10.3  15.4  14.4  13.6  13.0  12.5  12.1  1l.9   9.9   9.6   8.6   7.6   7.9  10.0   9.5  428.3
LESS IIHES1IEM 11 T EOI8                                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
LESS SPCIAL TOE MD   tO isPO                             0.0   0.0   6.2  12.5  12.5  12.0  10.9   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 0 .0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   C.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   54.0
69EE1     TM!                                          0.0   0.0   7.7 111.6 201.6 247.8 2U5.9 271.9 256.7 230.4 190.1  166.1  142.4 121.3 100.7  92.1  69.8  57.2  4.7  34.5  25.3  15.5   8.3 2797.5
NE 1[MM  TER TAKE                                          0.0   0.0  17.0  33.9  35.7  YP.  40.8  29.7  2S.2  24.0  19.5  15.7  12.9  10.3   9.0   6.0   5.0   3.9   2.6   5.9   1.0   0.0  -0.4  334.3
00
lb 
5 ~ ~    ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ 0



TOTAL~ EVL0IEIIT   IC
M10ECTI SU1=E  MD WftICATIS OF FM13
fog fraillima equi,aliu
TM11313130 EI IF 31                                  190  191       M99   1993  1994  1995  I994  1997  1999  1999  200   2001  200   2003  200   2001  2006  2007  200   200   2010  2011  2012  2013 TDTAL
INCON1 WmU  3591.111  & 1I1ES                     0.0   0.0   0.0 243.9 527.1 599.9  714.4  751.2  131.4 491.3 614.5 S21.1 438.5 373.8 316.7 261.1 211.5 110.1 147.5 115.5  89.6  65.6  44.2  14.4 1406.6
EmialoN                              ~~~~~~~~0.0   0.0   0.0  52.6 105.1  67.5  35.4   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.@   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   5.3  2986.2
TOTAL CMI FMl PIATIONS                              0.0   0.0   0.0 296.5 632.3 4686.4 749.9 751.6 737.4 691.3 616.5 521.1 436.5 313.8 316.7  261.1  211.5  190.3  147.5 115.5  99.6  65.6  44.2  19.7 792.6
tuI-II  KIT                                          0.0 36.7  247.6  31.)   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  59.0
OmCI Kml IEICE NM139                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
[NIEREST 9 I6.S. 113                                                                                                                                                                                              0.0
twin1                                               69.0  97.0  v7.?  16.4                                                                                                                                      290.0
1011go ECEI                                          89.0 365.7  555.3 351.5 632.3 486.4 749.9  757.6 731.4 691.3 616.5 521.1 438.5  373.8 316.7 261.1 211.5 190.1  147.5 115.5  69.6  45.6  44.2  19.7 9837.9
WPLICMhUON
FlIE AMI AMIISITIIN
*iLL5m                                             0.0  61.0 100.0   4.0                                                                                                                                       is?.0
FKILITIE                                          69.0  246.0  139.0   1.0                                   0.0                                                                                               496.0
MALS FlIE  351E1S                                  69.0 32.0 256.0   7.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  663.0
PIE-awITIUI ENPEsI                                 0.0  36.4  16.6  22.6                                                                                                                                       122.0
IUIIES  MIN1  CUBISKIUEIOUhIS                     0.0  16.3  36.5  25.?                                                                                                                                        62.0
Mill cwInA                                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0
E1CR69 KIT SERVICE RESERVE                                                                                                                                                                                       0.0
7Ol.01A 13 OMASSET                                  0.0  56.7  97.3  46.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  20.0
ff1113  U LOSTIE oEut                               0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  57.7  57.7  44.5  71.6  72.5  20.3  21.2  22.1  23.1  24.2  20.7  21.9  23.3  24.8  24.4  21.1  14.7   0.0   0.0   0.0  595.0
331.111  MUl                                        0.0   0.0   0.0  63.2  134.4 143.7  155.7 155.9  150.6  140.7 126.0  107.5  91.5  71.9  47.7  54.6  47.2  39.4  32.9  26.5  20.9  56.4  12.6   6.3  1676.9
1415 lOll                                           0.0   0.0   0.0  144.4 324.6 363.7  479.6  517.0 515.0 463.2 433.4 367.6 310.2 265.2 225.1  165.6  150.5  129.3  106.0  62.8644.4  44.6  30.7   7.9 523.5.6
NET CMI  OFLUSIIIEFIC1II                            0.0   0.0   0.0  66.6  115.5  101.3  49.9  12.9  -0.7  47.1  39.9  23.9  13.7   5.6   3.2  -3.5  -9.5 -13.3 -17.7  -22.0  -10.4   2.4   0.6   3.5  425.3
1013.. APIYCAIONS                                    69.0 365.7 355.3 351.3 432.3 464.4 740.9 757.6  737.4 691.3 614.1  521.1 436.5  373.6  316.7  261.1 211.5  160.1 347.5  115.5  69.6  65.6  44.2  19.7 6137.9
13.5.1. IIFOE 3013.I11  A 741E31                                                6.2   7.0   7.S   7.5   7.   17.2  35.1  13.5  11.6  10.3  10.0   6.3   6.9   5.9   4.9   3.6   5.7
O.U.C. IMINI         ES61131111  6 14A15                                        2.0   2.0   1.5   1.1   1.0   2.1   1.9   1.6   1.4   1.1   1.1   0.9   0.7   0.4.  0.4   0.3   0.3
0 



CIRET s
NIGERIA
ISO FIELD DEVELIlET PROiECI
N101ERIN NATIIK PETIRW  CWP
FglJECTED SOURCES AIM0 APlICATIONS OF FlOIS
IUS * ,illiwm eqivalent
6 Ws
TEE ENDIIS EEIER 31                                 199   19I  I2  193  1SS4  IS95  1996  I 97  196  199   2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2000  2009  2010  2011   2012  2013 TOTAL
SOURCES
CPSA FRGI    TIU
IN=E BEFIIE ROTALt71ES & TAMlS                   0.0   0.0   0.0 149.2 321.6 361.5 427.9 450.5 435.9    ., 362.1 305.6 256?7 216.7 185.1 152.4 123.4 105.3  66.5  66.1  53.3  39.4   23.3  11.6 4544.8
KPRECUITIO                                       0.0   0.0   0.0  31.5  63.1  52.5  21.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    3.2   0.0  171.7
TO.L C4511 FURl DlOTIlS                            0.0   0.0   0.0 160.6 364.7 414.0 449.1 450.7 435.9 406.4 362.1 305.6 256.7 218.7 185.1 152.4 123.4 105.3  U6.5  68.1  53.3  39.4   26.5  11.9 4716.5
LIO-TERI  EOT                                      0.0 161.9 147.5  20.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  330.0
ESCII D130 SERPICE RESERWE                                                                                                                                                                                  0.0
INTEREST U L.S. RESE                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
EOJITO                                            53.4  65.6  41.2   9.6                                                                                                                                  169.9
TOTA.L IECES                                        53.4 227.? 206.7 210.9 364.7 414.0 449.  450.7 435.9 406.4  362.1 305.6 256.7 218.7 185.1 152.4 123.4 10i.3  86.5  66.1  53.3  39.4   26.5  11.6  5236.5
PtICATIOIS
FITED ASSET CIUISITIO                                                                                                                                                                                           °
MIRINS                                          0.0  46.6  60.0   3.6                                                                                                                                   112.2
FACILITIES                                      53.4 146.6  94.    0.6                                    0.0                                                                                           297.6
TOTL FIRED ASSETS                                 53.4 197.4 134.8   4.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  409.6
OTHER ASSETS
PRE-IIU; EIPENSES                                0.0  23.0  35.3  13.7                                                                                                                                    72.0
tITEREST IIIS COIfSTRlCTIUFlFEES                 0.0   7.3  18.6  12.3                                                                                                                                   39.2
1101u1 CniAPJ                                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0
ESOON NOT SERVICE RESERE0.0
TOTA. OTE A S                                      0.0  30.3  53.9  26.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.o   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    0.0   0.0  110.2
REPAIIIET OF LOW-TERN DEOT                         0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.7   4.7  11.5  18.8  19.5  20.3  21.2  22.1  23.1  24.2  20.7  21.9  23.3  24.6  26.4  26.1  14.7   0.0    0.0   0.0  330.0
ROYIATIES PAID                                    0.0   0.0   0.0  37.9  60.6  U6.2  93.4  93.5  90.4  84.4  75.6  64.5  54.9  47.3  40.6  34.1  26.3  23.7  19.7  15.9  12.6   9.9    7.6   5.0 106.1
TRIES PAID                                         0.0   0.0   0.0  94.0 206.6  239.6 294.3 313.5 303.4 m.6 253.5 214.5 180.7 154.3 130.9 107.9  97.3  75.2  61.9  49.7  36.2  20.1   15.7   7.4 3138.9
PIET CASH SIIllUSI(DEFICITI                        0..   0.0   0.0  4.6  92.6  63.5  49.9  24.9  22.6  18.9  11.9   4.4  -2.0  -7.2  -7.1  -11.5 -15.6  -16.3 -21.5 -24.6 -12.2   1.5    3.  -0.6  241.5
TOTAE APPLICATIONS                                  53.4 227.1 206.7 210.9 364.7 414.0 449.1  450.7 435.9 406.4 362.1 305.6 256.7 218.7 185.1 152.4 123.4 105.3  86.5  6U.1  53.3  39.4   26.5  '1.8 5236.5
D.S.C.R. IEFURE ROYALTIES 1 TAI3I                                            13.3  14.5  13.0  11.1  10.9  10.3   9.4   8.1   7.0   6.1   6.0   5.0   4.1   3.5   2.9   2.3   3.4
D.S.C.R. IAFTER ROAtTIES 6 TAIES)                                             4.0   3.7   2.4   1.6   3.5   1.5   1.3   1.1   0.9   0.8   0.6   0.6   0.5   0.4   0.3   0.2   0.2                          .o
0 



NIGERIA
0OS FIELD  EELOMT ROECT
MIL PRODU'ING NISERIA
PROJECTED SOURCES AND APPLICATIOS OF FlS
(US t ailli  quiwleot)
YEAR ENDING lCEER 31                                 1990  1991  12        3  14  15  19   17  199   19   2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  200   2006  2007  2                    2009  2010  2011  2012  2013 TOTAL
CASM FRON OPERATIONS
INCME EFORE RYALTIES A TAEIS                             .D   0.0  94.7 205.5 237.4 296.7 306.7 301.5 2B5.0 254.4 215.1  181.9 155.2  131.6 108.7  89.1  74.8  61.0  47.3  36.3  26.3  15.5   7.9  3121.8
DEPRECIATIDN                                             0.0   0.0  21.0  42.0  35.0  14.2   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   2.t   0.0  1U1.
TOTAL CA FROM OPERATIONS                                  0.0   0.0 115.7 247.5 M.3  300.9 306.8 301.5 295.0 254.4 215.6 191.8 155.2 131.6 109.7  88.1  74.8  61.0  47.3  36.3  26.3  17.7   7.9  236.3
LOGTERM DEBT                                        0.0  126.9  120.1  16.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.o   0.0   0.02 MO.
ESCROI E9T SERVICE RESERE                                                                                                                                                                                      0.0
INTEREST ON 0.. RESERVE                                                                                                                                                                                        0.0
E0U1?                                              35.6  31.2  26.6   6.8                                                                                                                                    10.1
TOtAL 5ORCES                                         35.6 158.0 146.7. 140.6 247.5  2.3  300.9 306.9  301.5 2.0 254.4 215.6 191.8 15.2 131.6 108.7  00.1  74.8  01.0  47.3  36.3  21.3   1.7  71.9 3Al04
AlC4TAIONS
FIED SSED #T CKISITUON
BRILLINS                                          0.0  32.4  40.0   2.4                                                                                                                                     74.9
FACILITIES                                       35.6  99.2  63.2   0.4                                     0.0                                                                                           t1.4
TOTAL FIDED ASSETS                                 35.6  1.6 103.2   2.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 0o                0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  213.2
OW R ASSETS
PRE-ETlis EPENSES                                 0.0  15.4  23.s   9.1                                                                                                                                     4.0  _
NlTEREST DURINS CtSTRUCTIONIFEES                  0.0  1U.0  19.9  13.0                                                                                                                                     43.  0
1ROIU CAITAL                                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0k  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3    3.0 -
ESCRO1 EMt SERViCE RESERE                                                                                                                                                                                    0.0   I
TD7AL OTNER SSEs                                 0.0  26.4  43.5  22.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0    n.9
REPAYMT OF LONTERM  DEBT                            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  53.0  53.0  53.0  53.0  53.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0 o.o   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  263.0
ROYALTIES PAID   *                                  0.0   0.0   0.0  25.3  53.0  57.5  62.3  62.4  60.3  56.3  50.4  43.0  36.6  31.5  27.1  22.7  18.9  15.9  13.2  10.6   3.4   6.4   5.0   3.3  110.1
TAXES PAID                                          0.0   0.0   0.0  52.4 117.6  144.1 15.5 203.5  211.6 200.5  180.0 153.1 129.5 110.9   4.2  77.9  63.2  54.1  44.1  34.1  26.1  18.7  16.5 S50 2116.7
NET C4so SllPEUSI(/EFICITI                         0.0   0.0   0.0  39.1  23.0  17.7   0.1 -12.0 -23.3  20.2  24.0  19.5  15.7  12.9  10.3   8.0   6.0   5.0   3.9   2.6   1.8   1.0   2.1  -0.4  13.8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                                  35.6  150.0 146.7 110.6 247.5 M.3 300.9 306.9 301.5 295.0 254.4 215.6 11.9  155.2 131.6 109.7  98.1  74.8  61.0  47.3  36.3  26.3  17.7   7.9  3801.4
D.S.C.t. (BEFORE ROYALTIES A TAXES)                                            3.5   4.0   4.6   5.0   5.3
D.S.C.R. (AFTER ROYALTIES I TAIES)                                             1.3   1.2   1.0   0.8   0.6
PRESENT VALUES & PROTECTION RATIOSITEAR-END,LOA LIFE)
BEE ROYALTIES 6 TAD
(A) PW NET OPERATiNG COS  11 02                                            1106   9S3   765   53b
lei LOANS OUTSTANDt  - 1231                                                 212   159   106    53
ICI PROTECTION RATIO (04/1                                                  5.2   6.0   7.2  1L.1
NDISCOUNTED NET OPERATING CAQS                                            1505  1231   938   622                                                                                                          ow
AFTER ROYALTIES & TA4                                                                                                                                                                                        o   J
(A) PW NET IPERATIN CASH  11.0                                              270   197   127    73
1S) LOANS USMTADING - Ii                                                   212   ISP   106      s-
(CI PROTECTION RATIO (/B8)                                                  1.3   1.2   1.2   1.4
NISCIMMeTED NET OPERATING CASH                                             347   244   153    95



0SO CO8SATE FIEL OEVILPMI PROJECT
SE0ST5V AN.LVSSt
FM      OSCR Totl Project                          DM - IU'C                OM - WE
Constat Tenn        Corret Term           FON Take       Currnt Term                Cw ret Te
1w.   19ss     am    lose   Prejet   low  1ass   2000  u00    low  1us.   am    am
Bore  After Before  After  Before After  Crret  Before Aftwr Before After Befo  After  eore After
Tax    Tax    Tax    Tax     Tax   Tax   USe        Tax   Tax   Tax    Tox    Tax   Tax    Tax   Tom
1. Base C..              49.8    9.8    6.2    2.0    7.7   1.0    608        18.8   4.0   2.8    0.2    8.5   1.8    5.8   0.6
2. Pries Sensitivity
a. 105 reduction       46.4    9.6    5.6    2.0    6.9   0.9   6075       11.9   4.0   2.0    0.a    8.1   1.8    4.8   0.5
b. 25S reduetloe       89.0    9.6    4.6    2.1     6.7   0.9   4796       9.9   4.0   1.6    0.2    2.6   1.8    4.0   0.3
c. 50 reductIon        26.5    9.0    8.0    2.0     8.7   0.9   2647       6.4   8.6   0.9    0.2    1.7   1.2    2.6   0.5
8. Prod. SsItivity
8. 10 reduction       45.4    .6    5.6    2.0    6.9   0.9   6184        11.9   8.6   2.0    0.2    8.1   1.2    4.6   0.6
b. 265 redeakion       89.0    6.6    4.6    1.9    6.7   0.6   4986        9.9   8.6   1.6    0.2    2.6   1.2    4.0   0.6
4. Ca=Ital Cost
Senoltilty
a. 10  lcare.,        48.9    6.2    6.2    2.1     7.7   1.0    6003     18.8   4.2   2.8    0.2    8.5    1.8   6.8   0.6
b. 2S increase         41.5    6.1    6.2    2.8    7.7   1.0   6972       18.8   4.4   2.8    0.2    8.5    1.4   5.8   0.6
5. Cmbieabtlon°
a. Price   -105        38.5    7.0    6.0    2.1    6.2   0.8   588        10.7   4.0   1.6    0.2    2.6    1.8   4.8   0.5
Prod    -105
Cap cost .1ox
b. Price   -265        82.7    7.0    4.1    2.1     5.1   0.6   4166       6.6   4.0   1.4    0.2    2.8    1.3   8.6   0.5
Prod    -105
Cp cost e105
c. Price   -10o        84.6    5.0    5.0    2.2    6.2   0.8   5801       10.7   4.8   1.6    0.2    2.9    1.4   4.8   0.5
Prod    -105
Cap cost .+2S
d. Price   -255        *9.1    6.0    4.1    2.2     5.1   0.6    4149      8.8   4.8   1.4    0.2    2.8    1.4   3.5   0.5
Prod    -l0
Cap coot .265
e. Price   -105        29.1    8.2    4.1    2.1    5.1   0.7   4282        6.6   4.0   1.4    0.2    2.$    1.8   8.5   0.4
Prod    -263
Cap cot *.253
f. Price   -25S        24.0    8.2    8.4    2.1     4.2   0.7    8272      7.8   4.0   1.1    0.2    1.9    1.3   2.0   g.4    r
Prod    -255
Cap coot .23



0OS1IIO DM       IUT fROJC
DSI CSIt ICONOIC nit of 3mu  CALCULL?10
ll Coutant 19t0 IN  mllione)
1190    1991    1I92    1953    1994    1995    19i0    199?    1991    1199    2001    2061    2102    2663    2064    2005
bit Sales  ale CUSt barrel)  /a                          22       22      19       11      Is       16      19       20      21       22      a3       22      22       22      22       22
Sales  alle   (Ibbl)                                      0        0       0       18      31       31      37       34      36       26      22       18      15       12     1to 
----    ....   ---             --      ..         .. ..    ... .    .....    ....     ...   .....     ....     .. . .    .. ...    .. ...
Sales Reveue                                              I        0       G      311     651      611     696    I66       625      5t4    469      402      3N      2f4      227      IIU
Operating lRpetnle   /b                                   0        0       0       26      31       31      42       40      38       35       St     29       28       24      22      21
~~~~~. . .   ....          . ......   -----   .....   ..-    .....   .... .                 .....   .....   .....   .....
Operating Ca  flog                                        0        0       0      283     6tt      633     65       62l6    511      529     45?     314      304     250      204      163
Capita llpeeditere   /c                                  88      319     263       19       0        0       0        0       0        0       0       0        0      1O        0        0
Icenoslc let Cash flog                                  -11    -319    -263       264     614     633      65?     628      Sit     529      415    314       304     25a      2U4     I
Aseuptloms:  (a) to IS$ bafrel, fres Staff forecasts, adjated for ho condeasate taaltti nd mrkettig  argie.
(b) prm tifclal projections dflated to 2990 prices.
c) lacludlu  Putl, We   ee, Capitelisd l nterest ad  Sik Costs.  eflated to 1390 pites.
261     200      2100    2009    210    2011    2012    2613
bit Sales Vale (Q4S  barrel)  la                         22      22       22      i2       it      it       22      2
Salesioe  (Ibbl)                                         I       5        4       3        3       I        l       I
.....    -  *-   -   --  -   - - - ...  . ..   .....--    -    - ---  .....-
Sales teves                                             147     til       95      14       56      43       32      20
Operating lenses  /b                                     20       14      13       Is      i2      1t       12      It
.. ..   .   ... .. ....      .....     .....   .....    .....                                     .                      o 
Opraliog Cash flog                                     I2       104      62     S6        44      31       20       I                                                              U
Capitaltpeaditere   It                                    I   0                    8a       0       0          
Iconoale let Cash fl                                    121      104      82       1       44      31       20       I



NIlGEIA
OSO FIELD DEiELOPNEI? PROJECT
BASK CASI DISTRIBUTIOI Of ECOIOUIC BlIIFlTS
(in Conetant 1990 QS$ millio)l la
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    199?    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
Inflo foreig  Loans                                       36      293     26?       41        0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0        0        0       0        0
Repapment Foreiga Loans, Interest & Fees                   0       16      34       44       9?      89       86       82      t5       30      28       27       25      24       20       19
BPi Tax Credit                                             0        0        0       6       11      11       10        9       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
PI tax Impact                                             10       ?2      9?       35        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0       0        0
SPI Equity Position                                        0        0        0      34       19      14       -1      -t0     -18       21       17      13       10        8       6        5
let Foreiga Capital flows                                 26      205      136     -78    -128    -114       -95      -81      -57     -51      -45      -40     -36      -32      -26     -24
Net Economic Benefits to Project                         -88    -319    -263       284      614     633      65?     628      5B7      529     457      374      304     250      204      163
Met Return to Domestic Economy                           -62    -114    -127       186      486     520      562     541      530      479      412     333      268     218      1T8      139
2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Inflov foreign Loau                                        0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0
Repayment foreign Loans, Interest & fees                  18       17       17      16        8       0        0        0                                                                A
BPI Tai Credit                                             0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0                                                                 a
PI Tax lmpact                                              0        0       0        0        0       0        0        0                                                                U     .
BP! Equity Position                                        3        3       2        1        1       0        1       -0
let Foreign Capital floes                                -22      -20     -19      -17       -9      -0       -1        0
let Economic Benefits to Project                         127      104      82       61       44      31       20        9
----    --- -    ----    ----    ----    ---- .... lFT of Beturn To Domestle Iowomy :  15S   1851 sillioa
let Return to Domestic  Economy                          106       84      63       44       35      30       19        9             (discounted at 121)
In  Of leturn To  oreign SCooSy T       5:  U   13 MilliOn
(disecented at 121)
Retain to Total Foreign Capital   :             17t
/a  All financial floes Deflated to 1990 values by the MNO ldex



NIGERIA
OSO FIELD DEVELOPUEIT PROJECT
DIRECT IOREICN EXCHINGE IFFICT - excluding Sunk Costs
(in Constant 1990 US$ zillion)
1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1998    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    ?03    2004    2005
foreign Value of Sales                                      0        0        0     311      651      671      698     668      625      564      489      402     330      274      227      184
foreign Value of Operating Costs                            0        0        0     -26      -34      -34      -38      -37     -35      -32      -29      -26      -24     -22      -20      -19
foreign Value of Capital Costs                            -81    -294    -241         0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Foreign Value of Capital Flows                             26      205      136     -78    -128    -114        -95      -81     -57      -51      -45      -40     -36      -32      -26      -24
let Foreign Exchange Iffects                              -55      -89    -105      208      489      523      565     550      533      482      415      336     270      220      180      141
Sum of Foreign Exciange Benefits :  USS    5067 Killion
IPN  of Foreign Exchange Benefits    BS$    1927 Million
(discounted at 12%)
IEquivalent AnuAity                 =  05$      248 Killion
2006    2007    2008    2009    2010    2011    2012    2013
Foreign Value of Sales                                    147      118      95       74       56       43       32      20
Foreign Value of Operating Costs                          -17      -13     -12      -11      -11      -11      -10     -10
Foreign Value of Capital Costs                              0        0        0       0        0        0        0        0
Foreign Value of Capital flows                            -22      -20     -19      -17       -9       -0       -1       0
let Foreign lxchange Iffects                              108       85      65       45       37       32       20       10
0



- 106 -                        ANNEX 11
NIGERIA: OSO FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.   Oso Project Information Summary, dated April 7, 1988, prepared by
NNPC and MPN.
2.   Oso Project Information on MPN, dated August 5, 1988, prepared
by MPN.
3.   Market Outlook for Oso Condensate, dated May 10, 1989, prepared
by ADL.
4.   Reserve Estimate Study of the Oso Field, May 1989, prepared by
Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc.
5.   Oso Project: Additionality Issue, Bank Memo dated October 30,
1989.
6.   Oso: Technical Review of Additional Information, Bank Memo dated
November 3, 1989.
7.   Comparative Cost Analysis of Infill Drilling Vs Uso Production,
Bank Memo dated July 5, 1989.
8.   Agreements:
(a) Joint Operating Agreement, between NNPC and MPN, dated
June 28, 1990.
(b) Oil Mining Lease No. 70, between FGN and MPN, dated
March 11, 1971.
(c) Participation Agreement, between NNPC and MPN, dated
July 1, 1983.
(d) Memorandum of Understanding on Incentives for
Enhancing Crude Oil Exports and Encouraging
Investments in Exploration and Development Activities,
between FGN and MPN, dated January 23, 1986 (Including
Side-letters).
(e)  Oso Field Development Project Agreement, between NNPC                         u
and MPN, dated May 12, 1988.



NIGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NNPC/MPN FIELD LOCATIONS
QUA IBOE TERMINAL
NIG  IA             . , , o
AA~~~~~~~~~~~~T
OML 70 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ML6
< / ~OYOT                                  _                     <UNAM 
Us                                                     MFESM
~~~~~~~~OMI~OMS
\ \ , n p~~~~NIM  IBT 
- -                 I   ~~~~~~~ENANG f                  ;-UBIT\ 
OML 70                                            IYAK            TUE
\ A xJEDOP , TIM W ' . . .
I             \ ~~~~ASABO D                         YKS 
A     ADUA                                      '   tlM .. 
9 9 ) () WA~~~SABO XI  ......
ASASA 
O           10 Ml
0       ~~~16 KM
aadsf*46252



NiGERIA
OSO CONDENSATE FIELD DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Field DeveOOPment schematic
S  *
5  4
-  S
z<Fa~~~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~ *  *
S         I
S~~~~~~
IC!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
p p~~~~~~~~ 
SPM                           KEY __.
\ - -u -  GAS GAtHERING
|    * SCONDENSATE/LOADNG
|or TO ec~  PROD /GAS IJ.
NoT To SCALE                                                                 ssads/w46252b



