Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3317 UNI
            (Oso Condensate Field Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
              NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
                       Dated April 24, 1991
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3317 UNI
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April  24,  1991  between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and the NIGERIAN
NATIONAL  PETROLEUM  CORPORATION   (the   Borrower),  a  statutory
corporation  established  and  operating  under  the  laws  of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria.
     WHEREAS (A) the Federal  Republic  of Nigeria (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be jointly  carried out by the Borrower
and Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN);
     (C)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
Page  2
the Loan and to undertake  such  other obligations as set forth in
the Guarantee Agreement;
     (D)  the  Borrower  intends  to   obtain  from  the  European
Investment  Bank  (EIB)  a  loan  (the  EIB  Loan)  in  an  amount
equivalent to sixty-five  million  dollars ($65,000,000) to assist
in financing the Project on the  terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (the EIB Loan  Agreement)  to be entered into between
the Borrower and EIB;
     (E)  the Borrower intends  to  obtain  from the Export-Import
Bank of Japan (Japan  Exim)  a  loan  (the  Japan Exim Loan) in an
amount equivalent to forty-seven  million dollars ($47,000,000) to
assist in financing the  Project  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in  an  agreement  (the  Japan  Exim  Loan  Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and Japan Exim; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, wherever
used in this Agreement, the  several  terms defined in the General
Conditions  and  in  the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement  have  the
respective meanings therein  set  forth  and   the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02. (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Basic Agreements" means the following:
         (i)   the Oil Mining Leases (67,68 and 70) granted to MPN
               in 1968 and subject to the Petroleum Act, 1969 (No.
               51) of the Guarantor;
        (ii)   the  Participation  Agreement  dated  July  1, 1983
               between  the  Borrower  and  MPN  under  which  the
               Borrower inter  alia  acquired  a 60% participating
               interest in (A) the  Oil  Mining Leases referred to
               in  (i)  above,  and  (B)  the  assets  and working
               capital relating thereto;
        (iii)  Memorandum  of  Understanding   on  Incentives  For
               Enhancing  Crude   Oil   Exports   And  Encouraging
               Investments   In    Exploration   and   Development
               Activities  dated  January  23,  1986  between  the
               Guarantor and MPN;
         (iv)  Heads of Agreement Governing Offtake/Scheduling and
               Lifting dated July 1, 1983 between the Borrower and
               MPN;
          (v)  the Oso Field  Development  Project Agreement dated
               May 12,  1988  between  the  Borrower  and  MPN (as
               amended to the date  of this Agreement) which inter
               alia provides  for  the  joint  development  by the
               Borrower and MPN of the Oso Field and together with
               the Joint Operating  Agreement  referred to in (vi)
               below governs the mutual  rights and obligations of
               the parties thereto; and
Page  3
         (vi)  the Joint Operating Agreement  dated June 28, 1990,
               between the Borrower  and  MPN (including the side-
               letter supplemental  thereto  of  same date between
               the Borrower and MPN)  which inter alia (A) defines
               the  organization  and   management  structure  for
               operations to be carried  out  in  the areas of the
               Oil Mining Leases referred to in (i) above, and (B)
               together with  the  Oso  Field  Development Project
               Agreement referred  to  in  (v)  above  governs the
               mutual  rights  and   obligations  of  the  parties
               thereto;
     (c)  "Oso Field" means the Oso condensate field located about
12 miles off the coast of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria;
     (d)  "MPN"  means   Mobil   Producing   Nigeria,   a  company
established and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
     (e)  "NNPC  Act"  means   the   Nigerian  National  Petroleum
Corporation Act, 1977 (Act No. 33)  of the Guarantor as amended to
the date of this Agreement;
     (f)  "Oso Condensate Project Decree" means the Oso Condensate
Project Decree 1990 of  the  Guarantor  as  amended to the date of
this Agreement; and
     (g) "Joint  Operating  Agreement"  means  the Joint Operating
Agreement  (including   the   side-letter   supplemental  thereto)
referred to in (b) (vi) above.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or  referred to in this Loan Agree-
ment,  various  currencies  that  shall  have  an  aggregate value
equivalent to the amount  of  two hundred eighteen million dollars
($218,000,000), being the sum  of  withdrawals  of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the Bank as of the date
of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and in  respect of interest and other charges on
the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and  maintain  in  dollars  a  special  deposit  account in a
commercial bank on terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the Bank
including  appropriate  protection  against  set-off,  seizure  or
attachment.  Deposits  into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special
Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  On each of the  semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this  Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the  Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required  to  pay,  on  such  date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and  payable on or before the date set
forth, and up  to  the  amount  allocated,  in  Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may  be  amended  from time to time by
agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time, at a rate for  each  Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified  Borrowings  determined  in  respect  of  the  preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section  2.06  of  this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest  accrued  on  the  principal amount outstanding
during the  preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Borrower  and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means  a  six-month period ending
               on  the  date   immediately   preceding  each  date
               specified  in  Section   2.06  of  this  Agreement,
               beginning with the  Interest  Period  in which this
               Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the  Bank and expressed as
               a  percentage   per   annum,   of  the  outstanding
               borrowings of the  Bank  drawn  down after June 30,
               1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof
               as the Bank has  allocated  to fund: (A) the Bank's
               investments; and (B) loans which may be made by the
               Bank after  July  1,  1989  bearing  interest rates
               determined otherwise than  as provided in paragraph
               (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower,  paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii)
of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
               "(a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest  on  the
          principal amount of the  Loan withdrawn and outstanding
          from time to time, at a  rate for each Quarter equal to
          the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings determined in respect
          of the preceding Quarter,  plus one-half of one percent
          (1/2 of 1%). On each  of the dates specified in Section
          2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal  amount outstanding during the
          preceding  Interest  Period,  calculated  at  the rates
          applicable during such Interest Period."
               "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each
          Quarter, the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower and the
          Guarantor  of   the   Cost   of   Qualified  Borrowings
          determined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter'  means  a three-month period
          commencing on January 1, April  1,  July 1 or October 1
          in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  5
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  with  MPN,  under the Joint
Operating Agreement, carry out the  Project with due diligence and
efficiency  and  in   conformity   with  appropriate  engineering,
administrative, financial and petroleum production and development
practices in common usage in the international petroleum industry,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and works required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 4.01. The Borrower shall  carry on its operations and
conduct  its  affairs  in  accordance  with  sound administrative,
financial  and  engineering  practices  in  common  usage  in  the
international  petroleum   industry   under   the  supervision  of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 4.02. The  Borrower  shall  at  all times operate and
maintain its plants, machinery,  equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly  as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof,  all  in  accordance  with sound engineering
and financial  practices  in  common  usage  in  the international
petroleum industry.
     Section 4.03. The Borrower  shall  take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make  other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance  against  such  risks  and  in such amounts as
shall be consistent with  appropriate  practice in common usage in
international petroleum industry.
     Section 4.04. (a) The  Borrower  shall  at all times maintain
the Oso Field production  at  levels  necessary to produce for the
Borrower net revenues adequate  to  service  in full the estimated
maximum debt service  requirements  of  the  Borrower  on all debt
incurred by the Borrower for the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of the
               Borrower maturing by its  terms  more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred;
        (ii)   debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date the agreement providing  for
               such guarantee has been entered into;
        (iii)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  in  the  Oso  Field adjusted to
                    take  account  of  the  Borrower's  prices  in
                    effect at the time  of  the incurrence of debt
                    even though they were not in effect during the
Page  6
                    twelve-month  period  to  which  such revenues
                    relate and net non-operating income, and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    in  the  Oso  Field  including administration,
                    adequate maintenance,  taxes  and  payments in
                    lieu of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt;
         (iv)  the  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from all sources derived from the Oso
                    Field other than  those related to operations;
                    and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above;
         (v)   the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt; and
         (vi)  whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 4.05. The Borrower shall  furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments  a  pricing  formula  for calculating margins,
taxes and  royalties  relating  to  the  Oso  Field condensate, as
determined pursuant to the Oso Field Development Project Agreement
defined in Section 1.02 (b) (v) of this Agreement.
     Section 4.06. The Borrower shall  no later than June 30, 1994
prepare and  furnish  to  the  Bank  for  its  review and comments
detailed  arrangements  for  adequately   training  staff  of  the
Borrower in the marketing  of  the  Borrower's equity share of the
Oso Field condensate.
     Section 4.07.  The  Borrower  shall  pay  to  the Guarantor a
guarantee fee equivalent to  10%  of  the  interest payable by the
Borrower under Section 2.05 of  this Agreement, such fee to accrue
from the respective dates on  which  amounts  of the Loan shall be
withdrawn from the Loan Account.
     Section 4.08.  The  Borrower  shall  annually:  (i)  with the
assistance of consultants  update  its  estimates of the available
Oso Field reserves;  and  (ii)  furnish  to  the  Bank the updated
estimates as soon as available.
                             ARTICLE V
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 5.01. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  with  respect to the
Project maintain  records  and  accounts  adequate  to  reflect in
accordance with  sound  accounting  practices  its  operations and
financial condition.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, if  any,  statements of income and
Page  7
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  with respect to the  records and accounts mentioned
               in Section  5.01  (a)  above,  furnish  to the Bank
               within one month after the  end of each quarter its
               interim financial statements;
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each  fiscal  year:  (A)  certified  copies  of its
               financial statements for the  Project for such year
               as so audited, and (B)  the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
         (iv)  with respect to  the  Project  furnish  to the Bank
               such  other  information  concerning  the  records,
               accounts and financial  statements  of the Borrower
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
         (i)   a change shall have been made in the NNPC Act or in
               the  Oso  Condensate  Project  Decree  which  would
               materially and adversely  affect  the operations of
               the Borrower or the carrying out of the Project;
         (ii)  a change shall have been  made  in any of the Basic
               Agreements  which  would  materially  and adversely
               affect  the  operations  of  the  Borrower  or  the
               carrying out of the Project;
        (iii)  a default shall  occur  in  the  performance of any
               obligations of the Borrower  or MPN under the Joint
               Operating Agreement; and
Page  8
         (iv)  subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
               (A)  the right of the  Borrower  or MPN to withdraw
                    the proceeds of any loan, credit or grant made
                    to the Borrower or to MPN for the financing of
                    the Project, including the EIB Loan, the Japan
                    Exim  Loan  Loan   and   the   loan  from  the
                    International  Finance  Corporation  (IFC)  to
                    MPN, shall have  been  suspended, cancelled or
                    terminated in whole  or  in  part, pursuant to
                    the terms of the agreement providing therefor,
                    or
               (B)  any such loan or  credit shall have become due
                    and  payable  prior  to  the  agreed  maturity
                    thereof.
     (b)  Paragraph (a) (iv) of  this  Section  shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to  the  satisfaction  of the Bank or, as
the case may be, MPN establishes  to the satisfaction of IFC that:
(A) such suspension,  cancellation,  termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the  Borrower or, as the case may be,
MPN to perform any  of  its  obligations under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the  Project  are available to the Borrower
or, as the  case  may  be,  MPN  from  other  sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the  obligations  of the Borrower under
this Agreement or those of MPN under its agreement with IFC.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event  specified  in  Section  6.01  (a)(i)  of this
Agreement shall occur;
     (b)  any event specified  in  Section  6.01  (a)  (ii) or (a)
(iii) of this  Agreement  shall  occur  and  shall  continue for a
period of 60 days after  notice  thereof  shall have been given by
the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor or, as the case may be,
by IFC to MPN; and
     (c)  the event specified  in  Section  6.01  (a) (iv) of this
Agreement shall occur, subject to  the proviso of paragraph (b) of
that Section.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 7.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the  Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
Japan Exim Loan  Agreement  have  been  fulfilled,  other than the
effectiveness of this Agreement;
     (b)  purchase agreements satisfactory  to  the Bank have been
signed for the sale  of  the  production  of the Borrower's equity
share of the Oso Field condensate;
     (c) finalization of the financing plan for the Project; and
     (d) finalization of any loans made to MPN for the Project.
     Section 7.02. The  date  (90)  days  after  the  date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Page  9
     Section 8.01. The Group Managing  Director of the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 8.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         197688 (TRT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
                                                  82987 (FTCC)
     For the Borrower:
          Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
          Falomo Office Complex
          P.M.B. 12701
          Lagos, Nigeria
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               NAPETCOR                         21610
               Lagos                            21661
                                                21643
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Callisto E. Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
                    By /s/ Jibril Aminu
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Page  10
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Offshore and              139,000,000    100% of foreign
     Onshore                                  expenditures
     Facilities
(2)  Drilling                   56,000,000    100% of foreign
                                              expenditures
(3)  Interest and               23,000,000    Amounts due pur-
     other charges                            suant to Section
     on the Loan                              2.02 (c) of this
     accrued on                               Agreement
     or before
     April 14, 1994
                               ___________
          TOTAL                218,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of  this  Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not  exceeding  the equivalent of $54,500,000,
may be made in respect  of  Categories  (1)  and (2) on account of
payments made before that date but after June 30, 1990;
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The main objective of the Project is to assist in the commer-
cial development of the  Oso  Condensate Field located offshore in
the Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria (the Oso Field) for an initial peak
production of 100 thousand barrels of condensate per day.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Bank  and the Borrower may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Offshore Surface Facilities
     Offshore surface facilities consisting of:
     (a)  four wellhead production platforms, each equipped with a
9-well jacket, located over the field  from which 19 wells will be
directionally drilled to predetermined areas of the reservoir; and
     (b)  a central facilities  complex  consisting of three plat-
forms, interconnected with bridges for  ease of access and safety,
including: (i)  one  production  platform  equipped  with a single
cascading train of separators  designed  to process the entire Oso
Field  production;  (ii)  one  gas  compression/injection platform
equipped with compressor trains designed  for a through-put of 500
million standard cubic  feet  of  gas  per  day  in five stages of
compression;  (iii)  one  accommodation/utility  platform equipped
with: (A) installations necessary to  house, feed and cater to the
needs  of  60  personnel;  (B)  a  helicopter  deck;  (C)  a power
generation station  rated  at  5.4  MW;  and  (D) a communications
network, air conditioning  system,  and  a  waste disposal system;
(iv) one riser platform  for  all incoming and outgoing pipelines;
(v) one flare stack for burning and discharging gas; (vi) about 54
Page  11
miles  of  underwater  low  pressure  flowlines  for  transporting
associated gas produced in neighboring oil production platforms to
Oso; (vii) approximately 10 miles  of high pressure production and
injection flowlines; and (viii) approximately 32 miles of pipeline
for transferring the stabilized condensate for storage onshore.
Part B:   Onshore Facilities
(1)  Three  670,000  barrel  tanks,  each  equipped  with floating
roofs, and  a  cumulative  storage  capacity  of  about  2 million
barrels of condensate.
(2)  Metering facilities, equipped with  turbine meters and prover
loops to measure the condensate as it is pumped for export.
(3)  Loading pumps  designed  to  deliver  condensate from storage
tanks to the tankers.
(4)  A 36 inch  underwater  product  loading  line, about 22 miles
long to a single point mooring.
(5)  A single point mooring buoy anchored some 30 miles off-shore,
with oil discharge facilities and  hoses required to load tankers.
(6)  Control room  and  panels  to  be  incorporated into existing
facilities at the Qua Iboe Oil terminal.
Part C:   Development Drilling Program
     Drilling of 19 wells  for  production and injection from four
well head jacket platforms each  provided  with slots for a 9-well
jacket.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be  completed by June 30, 1993 and
will be deemed to be  completed  when: (i) the facilities included
in Parts A  and  B  of  the  Project  have  been (A) commissioned,
inspected, certified and  accepted  by  the operator in accordance
with sound engineering procedures and practices in common usage in
the international petroleum industry, and (B) put into usage for a
consistent period  of  90  days;  and  (ii)  the  production wells
included in Part  C  of  the  Project  have  been (A) bottomed and
tested in  accordance  with  said  procedures  and  practices, and
(B) put on production for a consistent period of 90 days.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1996                                  4,460,000
April 15, 1997                                    4,630,000
October 15, 1997                                  4,810,000
April 15, 1998                                    4,995,000
October 15, 1998                                  5,185,000
April 15, 1999                                    5,385,000
October 15, 1999                                  5,595,000
April 15, 2000                                    5,810,000
October 15, 2000                                  6,035,000
April 15, 2001                                    6,270,000
October 15, 2001                                  6,510,000
April 15, 2002                                    6,760,000
October 15, 2002                                  7,020,000
April 15, 2003                                    7,295,000
October 15, 2003                                  7,575,000
April 15, 2004                                    7,865,000
October 15, 2004                                  8,170,000
April 15, 2005                                    8,485,000
Page  12
October 15, 2005                                  8,815,000
April 15, 2006                                    9,155,000
October 15, 2006                                  9,510,000
April 15, 2007                                    9,875,000
October 15, 2007                                 10,255,000
April 15, 2008                                   10,650,000
October 15, 2008                                 11,065,000
April 15, 2009                                   11,490,000
October 15, 2009                                 11,935,000
April 15, 2010                                   12,395,000
___________________________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
                  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works  included in facilities contracts under
Parts A and B of the Project shall be prequalified as described in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.   Facilities comprising wellhead platforms, large platforms for
Page  13
condensate production, gas compression  and living quarters, riser
platform, approximately 120 miles of subsea pipelines, and onshore
condensate  storage  facilities  may   be  procured  on  a  single
responsibility  turnkey   basis   following  the  prequalification
procedures described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A. 1 hereof,  goods manufactured  in Nigeria may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Electric logs, mud  logs  and  perforating  services up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed  $13,000,000 equivalent may be pro-
cured under contracts  awarded  through limited international bid-
ding procedures on the basis  of evaluation and comparison of bids
invited from a list acceptable  to  the Bank of suppliers eligible
under procedures set forth in Sections  I and II of the Guidelines
(excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.  Review of invitations to  bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $1,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means Categories (1) and
(2) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $15,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
Page  14
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits  into   the   Special   Account  at  such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which  replenishment  is  requested.  On
               the basis of each such  request, the Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  paid  out  of  the Special
               Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under  the  respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
respective equivalent amounts,  as  shall  have  been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at  such  time as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request, furnish  to  the  Bank  such  documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligi-
ble expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories  less  the  amount  of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the  Loan  allocated to the eligible Catego-
ries shall follow such  procedures  as  the  Bank shall specify by
notice to the  Borrower.  Such  further  withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank:
Page  15
(A) provide such additional evidence  as  the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the  Special  Account  (or,  if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
