Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17928
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Credit 1913)
May 29, 1998
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of appraisal
Birr 2.07      =      US$1.00
Birr 1. 00     =      US$.48
At the time of project completion mission
Birr 6.65             US$1.00
Birr 1.00              US$0.15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 8 - July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPR            Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
EPHARM         Ethiopian Pharmaceuticals and Manufacturing Corporation
ERRP           Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program
ESRDF          Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and Development Project
FDRE           Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
FHP            The Family Health Project
FP             Family Planning
HC             Health Center
HLMPC          Health Learning Materials Production Center
HS             Health Station
HSDP           Health Sector Development Program
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
ICR            Implementation Completion Report
IDA            Intemational Development Association
IEC            Information, Education and Communication
MEDaC          Ministry of Development and Economic Cooperation
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MOH            Ministry of Health
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
PCO            Project Coordination Office
PHC            Primary Health Care
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
TBAs           Traditional Birth Attendants
UNFPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID          United States Agency for Intemational Development
Vice President        :       Callisto Madavo
Director               :      Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager        :       Arvil Van Adamns
Staff Member          :       Gita Gopal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY
Project Description and Objectives ...........................i
Achievement of Objectives ..............................i
Implementation Experience and Results .......................................         ii
Future Operations and Sustainability ....................................... in
Key Lessons Learned ....................................... iii
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Introduction and Background ..............................................I
Project Objectives ..............................................I
Achievement of Objectives ..............................................2
Major Factors Affecting the Project ..............................................2
Bank Performance ........................  ..3
Borrower Performance .........................4
Assessment of Outcome .........................5
Sustainability and Future Operations .........................6
Key Lessons Learned .........................8
PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated & Actual
Table 5:  Project Costs and Project Financing
Table 6:  Key Implementation Indicators
Table 7:  Studies Conducted Under Project
Table 8:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
Appendix A: Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B:   Borrower's Comments on the ICR
Appendix C:   Borrower's Evaluation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CR. NO. 1913)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Family Health Project in Ethiopia, for
which Cr. 1913 in the amount of SDR 23.8 million (US$33 million at the prevailing exchange rate in
1988) was approved on June 2, 1988 and made effective on March 14, 1989. The credit is 94.6 percent
disbursed, with a remaining balance of approximately US $ 1.7 million which will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared mainly by Maryam Salim (Operations Analyst) based on the ICR mission
aide-memoire, with input and guidance from Pammi Sachdeva (ICR mission leader) and Gita Gopal (Task
Team Leader). Contributions were provided by Christine Pena (Economist), Getahun Gebru (RM
Disbursement Officer), Gebreselassie Okubagzhi (RM Health Specialist), Bengt Jacobsen (Architect) and
Josef Ghebre-Egziabher (Architect, local consultant), all members of the ICR Mission. It was reviewed by
Oey Astra Meesook (Country Director for Ethiopia), Arvil Van Adams (Sector Manager, Human
Development IV), and David Berk (Lead Specialist, Health). The main text of the aide-memoire of the
ICR Mission is included in Appendix A. The Borrower's comments of May 8, 1998 are incorporated as
Appendix B. The Borrower has prepared its own ICR which is included as Appendix C.
Preparation of this ICR began in October 1997, during the Bank's final supervision mission and
continued with the ICR mission which took place in January 1998. The report is based on the ICR mission
and other Resident Mission's observations from the field trips, discussions with staff of the Project
Coordination Office, the Project Implementing Agencies, and local government officials.



Evaluation Summary                                                               Page i of iv
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY
I.    Project Description and Objectives. The Family Health Project (FHP) was a US$43.86 million
project of which IDA funded approximately 75 percent (US$33.0 million). FHP aimed to (a) increase the
quality, coverage and cost-effectiveness of maternal and child health (MCH) services; (b) increase the
availability and use of family planning (FP) services; and (c) strengthen the institutional capacity of the
Ministry of Health (MOH). FHP consisted of six components: MCH/FP, Manpower Development,
Health Education and IEC, Institutional Development, Pharmaceuticals, and Studies.
2.    Since this project was the first IDA-financed operation in the health sector, the intention was to
learn from a focused and limited operation that could later be expanded to other regions. Therefore, the
project focused on Shewa region, because of its substantial population and relative accessibility.
However, at the time of project preparation and during early phases of project implementation, the
country was facing civil war in many areas, which disrupted services and affected implementation
capacity. In 1991, the Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) took control. It then initiated an
ambitious and extensive process of regionalization, whereby new regional boundaries were demarcated
and administrative powers were devolved to regional governments which were authorized to implement
all development policies. Also, TGE embarked on the preparation of a national health policy. The
Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP), was developed simultaneously, and in 1991,
funds were reallocated from the credit towards procurement of pharmaceuticals in order to support the
drugs component of the ERRP. However, all this meant that, during the period between 1991 and 1993,
the project was forced to a standstill and it became clear to the Bank that though project objectives were
very relevant, project design and implementation mechanisms would need to be reconsidered. Thus, in
order to reflect the changing circumstances and needs in the country, it was agreed in 1994 to: (i) expand
the project to cover the whole country, in particular the hitherto neglected areas; (ii) re-design the
components in line with the new draft health policy; and (iii) re-design project implementation
arrangements to suit the new regionalization policy.
3.    This project is evaluated based on the re-designed components. Overall, achievement of project
objectives is likely to be satisfactory. FHP has contributed to the rehabilitation/construction and
equipping of health stations and health centers for provision of MCH-FP services in under-served rural
areas. It contributed to the construction of regional and zonal health bureaus, and to the rehabilitation of
training schools for different types of para-medics. It also contributed to the supply of pharmaceuticals,
addressing in part the chronic shortage of essential drugs, and to the potential improvement in the service
coverage and quality of drugs supplied through the construction of an improved drugs quality control
laboratory. FHP has also supported and monitored the activities of other MOH Departments in nation-
wide activities for manpower development (much of which however was funded by other donors) and
health education and materials development. Studies proposed under the project were also conducted
(though they were funded by other donors) and utilized by MOH in the formulation of relevant policies.
However, the development objective of enhancing services will be met satisfactorily only when these
facilities are staffed adequately and are provided with the necessary recurrent costs (the facilities were
mostly completed and equipped during the last few months of the project implementation period). In
order to ensure that the facilities are operational and to increase the likelihood of achieving sustainability,
MOH has received individual commitments from Regional Bureaus that they will provide the facilities
with the necessary recurrent costs for satisfactory delivery of services to clients. Estimated expenditures
have also been committed in the annual budgets. It is thus likely that the development objectives of the
project will be met satisfactorily.
i



Evaluation Summary                                                               Page ii of iv
4.    Implementation Experience and Results. From 1986 to 1994, MOH lacked capacity to prepare
and implement a project and needed strong support. During the initial stages of implementation, its
performance was weak owing partly to lack of experience of the Project Coordination Office (PCO) and
partly to the ongoing civil strife in the country. During the same period, the MOH was also involved in
rehabilitation and resettlement activities resulting from the aftermath of the 1985 drought. The new
Government's policy of regionalization and decentralization, which called for devolution of authority and
responsibility to regions for the implementation and management of developmental projects in their
respective regions, was a departure from the earlier practice of centralized project management by
Ministries. Project implementation authority and responsibility were transferred to the regions. It
therefore took time to: a) get the regional government staff to become familiarized with IDA's
procurement procedures; b) prepare and obtain IDA clearance for bidding documents to be used by the
project; c) complete, and get approval of, the regional action plans; and d) obtain no-objection for a large
number of contracts. Moreover, contractors were not readily available in many of the remote places to
which the project had been expanded. Capacity had to be strengthened and even built up in some regions.
As a result very little disbursed from the project during the period 1993-94 (the project was re-designed
and project activities were virtually suspended) until the civil works commenced and construction of thte
majority of the facilities was completed only by the closing date.
5.    The Government had taken steps to strengthen project monitoring and follow-up mechanisms by
(a) setting up in September 1995 a Capital-Budget Projects Monitoring Unit chaired by the Vice-Minister
of Health and (b) monitoring every three months health projects at the level of the Prime Minister's
Office. These measures have helped to resolve problems and speed up implementation of the project.
During this period, given the lack of capacity at the center and continuing weaknesses at the regions,
adequate supervision was a problem. While several of the weaker regions continued to be supported by
MOH, the larger regions, mainly Amhara, Tigray, and the Southern region conducted their own
supervision. Quality of infrastructure was therefore not always adequate. Nevertheless, overall,
Borrower performance is considered satisfactory, as many of these factors were outside the control of
MOH -- and because, despite all these constraints and problems, the Borrower managed to implement the
re-designed project in a satisfactory manner.
6.    Bank support during project preparation was satisfactory. The Bank could be commended for
having provided support for the project at a time when many parts of the country were at civil war. The
Bank helped the Government focus on the objectives that have clearly been proved to be relevant. The
Bank also prepared this project expecting that if successful, it could be replicated in other parts of the
country after peace returned. Also, policy dialogue was initiated on health financing and population
issues. However, support during project appraisal despite all efforts (the SAR was substantially revised
during negotiations in recognition of the substantial progress made by the Government in addressing a
number of issues) proved to be inadequate considering the number of problems identified in early
supervision reports. In particular, the Bank seriously underestimated the cost of civil works, equipment,
and furniture. In addition, one supervision report also mentioned that the pharmaceutical component was
not well developed and the Borrower did not fully appreciate/understand its objectives, which led to a
delay in the component's implementation.
7.    The Bank's supervision efforts during the initial stages of project implementation was weak.
There was indication that there were periods when greater support was clearly needed, as reflected in
initial supervision reports which state that some of the major implementation problems were a result of
inadequate supervision and guidance by the Bank to a project implementation unit unfamiliar with Bank
practices and procedures. In re-designing project activities, however, the Bank performance was
satisfactory in providing the necessary technical support. Its supervision in the last three years
ii



Evaluation Summary                                                              Page iii of iv
contributed to accelerating the pace of project implementation. In addition, the Resident Mission staff
also conducted additional and periodical interim missions to provide implementation support as required.
8.    Future Operations and Sustainability. The FHP's benefits are likely to be realized and
sustainable because of the Government's strong commitment to health sector reforms. Recently, the
Prime Minister's Office has directed that all Regional State Governments and Health Bureaus ensure
adequate recurrent budgets for operating and maintaining existing and proposed health facilities and
programs. According to MOH, Regional budgets for 1997-98 have included the estimated costs of
manpower, drugs, equipment, supplies and administrative overheads for providing health services. These
budgets cover the facilities funded by the FLHP as well as other government and donor-funded activities.
In addition: a) the Government's overall allocation to the health sector has increased in recent years and
is expected to increase further in 1997/98 and beyond; b) the new health care financing strategy is
expected to come into force in 1998; and c) the expected funding from IDA and other donors for the five-
year HSDP, which became effective in July 1997, would provide much-needed additional funds.
Furthermore, regional governments have committed themselves to ensuring that sufficient provision has
been made for covering the recurrent costs of sustaining the FHP-supported facilities for at least the next
5 years. The Government's HSDP (1997-2002) includes operational budgets for all health institutions
(including the facilities funded by IDA). These have been discussed with donors and further
consultations are expected in the coming months when Bank and donor support to HSDP is finalized.
FHP has also supported the expansion and equipping of health personnel training institutions, although
initially the buildings are likely to operate with existing staff until additional numbers are produced by the
various training institutions. The availability of well trained managers is also expected to increase
because of the health management training centers established by a number of regions. Improvements in
staffing and management are also being pursued and strengthened by the HSDP.
9.    Key Lessons Learned. The FHP is the first and, so far, the only health project financed by the
World Bank in Ethiopia. It has provided a number of important lessons for the Government and the
Bank to consider in future operations, including the following:
- The continuous monitoring by the Government high-level committees was instrumental in facilitating
and expediting implementation. Such close monitoring efforts by MOH had a salutary effect on
project implementation, and will in the long run have a beneficial impact in achieving and sustaining
development objectives.
*  The need to strengthen capacity building activities. The absence of institutional capacity, particularly
in some of the regions, was found to be an impediment; and will continue to be so unless additional
attention is given to providing carefully planned training in various areas, including procurement,
disbursement and contract management. In addition, government policies that provide incentives to
recruit and maintain the services of trained and competent staff are needed.
*  The need to balance facility expansion with quality measures. Although the completion of civil
works is commendable, the quality of construction was frequently a cause for concern. Also, it is
essential that the procurement of equipment, furniture and supplies coincide as closely as possible
with the expected date(s) of completion of the construction activities.
*  Regular and stringent supervision by engineering staff of the Regional and Zonal Health Bureaus and
MOH is essential for good quality civil works. Project supervision by MOH suffered due to attrition
of staff and a heavy workload. This issue must be addressed before a second IDA-financed project is
undertaken. In view of the large disparity between employment conditions in the private sector and
... 



Evaluation Summary                                                               Page iv of iv
in government, it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and keep qualified and experienced
engineers. In future, it might become necessary to rely to a greater extent on consultancy firms or
individuals paid on a competitive basis.
*  The FDRE approval process for variation orders is considered to be lengthy and the cost limits up to
which decisions can be taken at the local level are low. In the past, variations up to 15 percent could
have been approved by the Engineering Department. In order to increase transparency, the process
was tightened, and the revised procedures are lengthy, and delegation limits may need to be
reconsidered.
*  An Implementation Manual would have been very useful in clarifying responsibilities and duties of
the different partners -- PCO, Architectural and Engineering Unit, and other implementing agencies.
Similarly, the implementation plan and budget for the first year should have been part of the project
preparation and not a condition of effectiveness. If the PCO approach is adopted for project
implementation, it is necessary to ensure that processes are in place to work closely with its other
partners in MOH.
*  Adequate supervision is important not only from the Borrower's side but also from the Bank's side.
Some major delays, particularly at the start of project implementation, could have been minimized if
there had been adequate Bank supervision and assistance. Given that the development of a
continuous follow-up mechanism in the field appears to generate substantial improvement in project
implementation, the ongoing strengthening of the Resident Mission's capacity should facilitate
necessary support at the center.
-  From the Bank's side, project preparation needs to be more thorough and cost estimates need to be
based on market prices. In the FBP, costs of civil works were severely underestimated. In addition.,
implementation of the pharmaceuticals component was delayed because of lack of detailed
component preparation and inadequate supervision at the beginning of project implementation.
*  The usefulness of streamlining the decision-making process -- given that the payments process has
been lengthy under FHP, and delays and stoppages have occurred.
*  The need to ensure timely preparation of audits. The Bank and MOH agree that the process of
preparation of audits has not been fully satisfactory and may require some review to address the
issues identified. It would be useful to raise this issue during the preparation of the HSDP.
iv



Implementation Completion Report                                                Page I of 9
PART II: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I.    Introduction and Background. Ethiopia is the second most populous country in Sub-Saharan
Africa. The country, with a long and rich history, has been impoverished by two of the biggest droughts
this century and by its recently ended civil war. The Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Report (No.
5299-ET, issued in gray cover in September 1985) identified rapid population growth as a key problem
facing the country. The main issues with respect to the health subsector dealt with the very low levels of
coverage of modem health services, and the poor quality and curative emphasis of most existing services.
Because of these shortages, and subsequent discussions of the sector report, the Government and IDA
agreed that emphasis should be put first on the consolidation of existing services, and only then on major
expansion (Family Health SAR, 1988).
2.    The Family Health Project (FHP) focused on MCH services as the health interventions that could
contribute the most to reducing the high mortality rates in Ethiopia, and as an appropriate vehicle for the
expansion of Family Planning (FP) services. IDA's strategy was to use this first project as an entry-point
into both the population and health subsectors. It was hoped that the project, supplemented by sector
work in health financing, would be followed by assistance in the pharmaceutical subsector and
consolidation of hospital and Primary Health Care (PHC) services; and would also help develop
implementation capabilities within MOH so as to attract additional external assistance. Such assistance
was expected to include the development of a nation-wide FP program and a health sector improvement
program emphasizing primary health care, quality and efficiency of hospital services, and the generation
of additional health revenue. The risks recognized in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) related to the
MOH's implementation capacity, the high drop-out rate of community health workers, and shortfalls in
Government funding of recurrent costs.
3.    Since this project was the first initiative in the health sector, the intention was to learn from a
more focused and limited operation that could later be expanded to other regions. Therefore, the project
focused on Shewa region, because of its substantial population and relative accessibility. However, at the
time of project preparation and during early phases of project implementation, the country was facing
civil war in many areas which disrupted services and affected implementation capacity. In 1991, the
Transitional Government of Ethiopia (TGE) took control. It then initiated an ambitious and extensive
process of regionalization whereby administrative powers were devolved to regional governments, which
were authorized to implement all development policies. Under the new demarcated boundaries, Shewa
region disappeared and the administrative machinery no longer existed. It also became difficult for the
Government to support a project that intervened only in a few parts of the country. Also, TGE embarked
on the preparation of a health policy. The Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program (ERRP)
was developed simultaneously and, in 1991, funds were reallocated from the credit towards procurement
of pharmaceuticals in order to support the drugs component of the ERRP. However, all this meant that
during the period between 1991 and 1993, the project was forced to a standstill while it became clear to
the Bank that although project objectives were very relevant, project design and implementation
mechanisms would need to be reconsidered. Thus, in order to reflect the changing circumstances and
needs in the country, it was agreed in 1994 to: (i) expand the project to cover the whole country, in
particular the hitherto neglected areas; (ii) re-design the components in line with the new draft health
policy; and (iii) re-design project implementation arrangements to suit the new regionalization policy.
4.    Project Objectives. FHP aimed to: (a) increase the quality, coverage and cost-effectiveness of
maternal and child health (MCH) services; (b) increase the availability and use of FP services; and (c)
strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH). FHP consisted of six components:
MCH/FP, Manpower Development, Health Education and IEC, Institutional Development,
Pharmaceuticals, and Studies. The objectives of each component are provided in Table A.
1



Implementation Completion Report                                                Page 2 o1r9
5.    This ICR evaluates project achievements based on the re-designed project components.
Achievement of project objectives is likely to be satisfactory. In spite of the slow pace of
implementation during the initial stages, project implementation improved after its re-design in 1994.
FBP contributed substantially to the rehabilitation and construction of health stations and health centers
for provision of MCH-FP services in under-served rural areas, and strengthened the institutional capacity
of MOH through construction and rehabilitation of schools for different types of paramedics, provision of
books, education journals and equipment; and construction of an audio-visual laboratory with necessary
equipment. It also contributed to the improvement in the drugs supply and quality through construction
of a drugs quality control laboratory, and more importantly through the supply of pharmaceuticals,
addressing in part the chronic shortage of essential drugs. FHP also supported and monitored the
activities of other MOH Departments in nation-wide activities for manpower development (much of
which was funded by other donors) and health education and materials development. However, the
development objective of enhancing services will be met satisfactorily only when these facilities are
staffed adequately and are provided with the necessary recurrent costs (the facilities were mostly
completed and equipped during the last few months of the project implementation period). In order to
ensure that the facilities are operational, an action plan has been agreed with MOH which has received
individual commitments from Regional Bureaus that they will provide the facilities with necessary
recurrent costs for satisfactory delivery of services to clients. To this end, regional governments have
also committed the funds in the annual budgets. It is thus likely that the development objectives of the
project will be met satisfactorily.
6.    In addition, by catalyzing the provision of a large Japanese Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund (PHRD) in 1995-97, the FHP's relaunch in 1994 played a role in helping maintain
sectoral policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank; and was instrumental in creating an
enabling environment for the Government to undertake comprehensive and detailed studies in 1995-97 of
major aspects of the health sector. The PHRD studies, undertaken in close collaboration with, and with
technical support from, the Bank, have contributed to the development of a comprehensive Health Sector
Development Program (HSDP), launched by the Government in July 1997, focusing on primary health
care (and including, among other aspects, improvements in health financing and pharmaceuticals
availability). The Bank and other donors are currently trying to determine how best to support the
Government's HSDP and decisions on financing arrangements/support will be made in mid-1998.
7.    Major Factors Affecting the Project. The project was expected to be disbursed over nine years
(1988-1997). Despite the exceptionally difficult circumstances prevalent in the country in the early years
of project implementation, it closed as scheduled on December 31, 1997 (except for the pharmaceutical
component which was extended until January 31, 1998 to enable the delivery of drugs). FHP
experienced delays between Board approval and effectiveness. While the project was approved by the
Board on June 2, 1988, it became effective only in March 14, 1989. This appears to have been caused by
a number of factors, including the delay in submission of the Government's first year budget and
implementation plan (a condition of credit effectiveness). Delays continued during the initial period, witl
project implementation gradually picking up after 1995. A number of factors affecting project
implementation during the period between 1989 and 1995 are addressed below.
8.    Owing to reasons explained earlier, FHP implementation was slow until project relaunch in
March 1994. Initially the project was affected by the ongoing civil strife in the country which ended in
1991 with the assumption of power by the TGE. The next two to three years of the project
implementation were influenced and constrained by the regionalization and recovery processes within the
country. By 1993/94 a new Health Policy was approved and the regionalization process had moved
forward significantly. Consequently, Shewa region -- the main focus of the FHP -- was no longer on the
map of Ethiopia; the old administrative machinery was no longer relevant. All this led to the need to re-
2



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 3 of 9
design the project components and the implementation arrangements within its stated objectives which
continued to remain highly relevant.
9.    In 1993-1994, the project was therefore re-designed in close consultation between the
Government and the Bank. The construction cost estimates were revised to reflect the then market costs.
The implementation arrangements were revised, and responsibility for the implementation and
management of the project was given to the regions. This was a fundamental departure from the earlier
practice, where implementation of donor-financed projects were centrally managed by Ministries. This
meant that regional government staff, whose capacity were weak, had to (i) be familiarized with IDA's
procurement procedures; (ii) prepare bidding documents for regions in conformity with Bank and
regional government guidelines; (iii) complete and get approval of regional action plans; and (iv) obtain
no-objection for a large number of contracts. Much of the project's construction, procurement and
disbursement activities were therefore compressed into the last three years of implementation (1994-
1997). This compressed time schedule, combined with changes in the project's area component
(emphasizing previously neglected regions), and given the need to strengthen capacity in the regions led
to a challenging implementation task even after the 1994 project relaunch.
10.   Project implementation during this latter phase was satisfactory, despite all the constraints most
of which were outside the control of the PCO and even MOH. Disbursements were negligible in FY94
and FY95 due to the need to build procurement and implementation capacity at the regional levels. Also,
the implementation capacity of the MOH was not as strong as anticipated; and was further eroded during
recent years, again due to factors beyond the project's control. Staff turnover was particularly high -- due
to retirements, transfer to the regions, and attrition to the private sector. Continuing and significant
disparities in service conditions, salaries and incentives between the public and private sectors, made it
difficult to hire and retain the necessary skills in the MOH, especially in such areas as engineering,
procurement, accounting and financial services, all of which directly affected the FHP-PCO's capacity to
effectively backstop, supervise and monitor the dispersed project activities in the regions. The planning,
supervision and monitoring capacity of many regional health bureaus was similarly affected by changes
in staffing, as well as increasing competition for trained staff from the private sector. Thus, the capacity
and motivation of the engineering staff of many regional and zonal health offices to properly supervise
construction activities at remote and dispersed locations was often inadequate. There remained
noticeable shortfalls in the timeliness and quality of some civil works, and delays in procurement of some
goods and services, both in the regions and at Addis Ababa, as noted in the aide memoires and other
reports of previous Bank missions, as well as the present ICR team. With experience, the staff of the
PCO became conversant with IDA requirements for procurement, financial accounting and disbursement.
In 1995, monitoring and implementation tables were developed by the PCO and updated on a regular
basis and this helped to expedite implementation progress significantly (see Table 6). Concerted efforts
by the PCO and the Architectural and Engineering Unit under the guidance of MOH resulted in
satisfactory implementation progress leading to the timely closing of the project after having completed
the construction of almost all the civil works contracts.
11.   Bank Performance. Bank support during project preparation was satisfactory and the Bank
could be commended for having provided support for the project at a time when many parts of the
country were at civil war. The Bank helped the Government focus on the objectives that have clearly
been proved to be relevant. Also, policy dialogue was initiated on health financing and population issues.
However, support during project appraisal proved to be inadequate considering the number of problems
identified in early supervision reports. In particular, as early as October 1989, it was recognized that the
Bank had seriously underestimated the cost of civil works, equipment, and furniture. The project was
expected to finance the rehabilitation of 180 health stations, 18 health centers, 3 rural hospitals, and also
finance 3 new health centers but the allocated funds were not adequate. Appraisal estimates were found
to be adequate to construct only one-third of health centers/stations included in the project, necessitating a
3



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 4 of 9
review of cost estimates. A 1989 supervision report also mentioned that the pharmaceutical component
was not well developed and the Borrower did not fully appreciate/understand its objectives, which led to
a delay in the component's implementation. One aide memoire notes the lack of detailed preparation of
the component as a contributing factor in the slow implementation progress of the component.
12.   The Bank's supervision efforts during the initial stages of project implementation were weak.
There was indication that there were periods when greater support was clearly needed, and that some of
the major implementation problems were a result of inadequate supervision and guidance by the Bank to
a project implementation unit unfamiliar with Bank practices and procedures. There is also no indication
in project reports of a project launch workshop, leaving the implementing agency with little knowledge
about Bank procedures and requirements. In re-designing project activities, however, the Bank
performance was satisfactory in providing the necessary technical support. The Bank intensified
supervision including additional and periodical interim missions by the Resident Mission to provide
implementation support as required. All supervision missions included a civil engineer who provided
timely support to the project engineering team in identifying and addressing infrastructure quality issues.
Bank missions also included procurement and disbursement staff who were able to deal with
implementation issues in a timely manner, as well as providing training through workshops and
implementation support missions.
13.   Borrower Performance. Borrower performance is considered satisfactory, as many of the
factors that constrained performance were outside the control of MOH, and because despite all these
constraints and problems, the Borrower managed to implement the re-designed project in a satisfactory
manner -- constructing or rehabilitating 96 (out of 100) health stations and 19 health centers. In all, only
four health stations were canceled -- two due to security issues and two due to contractor problems. The
respective regional governments have agreed to complete the latter using their own resources.
14.   During project preparation Borrower performance was marginally satisfactory but this weakness
arose out of lack of capacity and partially as a result of the ongoing civil strife in the country. MOH had
limited project preparation capacity. Technicians within the Ministry were stretched thin prior to the
drought of 1985, and after the diought capacity was further weakened, since they were also responsible
for relief and resettlement activities. In addition, the Architectural and Engineering Unit, as well as the
MCH Department, were understaffed. The Borrower's three month delay in submitting the request for
PPF funding also slowed down project preparation, as the consultants to assist the Borrower to prepare
the project could not be hired. During the initial stages, Borrower capacity continued to be weak, thereby
slowing project implementation. For example, according to the aide memoire of October 1988, the unit
charged with the routine management of the project was understaffed. The small unit comprising a team
leader and two experts was charged with executing not only the FLP, but also executing the remaining
portfolio of donor assistance. A project unit (the PCO) was later established as per the SAR, but had no
experience in Bank procedures and had a difficult time initiating project activities.
15.   The Government's commitment and capacity at the central and regional levels to improving the
health sector during the latter half of project implementation were strong. These included regular high-
level monitoring and support of the FHP by senior officials of the MOH and Prime Minister's Office. In
the MOH, the Vice-Minister of Health headed a Project Monitoring Unit that met every fortnight to
ensure that all donor-funded projects were properly implemented. A similar follow-up action was
undertaken by the Prime Minister's Office and MEDaC on a regular basis; and the Regional Councils and
Health Bureaus have a similar monitoring system for all capital investments in their region. The
dedication and hard work of the PCO and the Architectural and Engineering Department (especially those
responsible for overall coordination) is commendable -- particularly in the provision of support to the
regions.
4



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 5 of 9
16.   Assessment of Outcome. As noted in the SAR, because of methodological difficulties in
attributing national-level gains in health status indicators to any single contributory factor, it is
inappropriate to try to identify the quantifiable impact of the FHP on such measures as reductions in
mortality and morbidity of the population of Ethiopia. The assessment of project achievements is
therefore based on input, process and output indicators, and not on estimates of its potential outcomes or
impact. Furthermore, due to the slow pace of implementation during the first five years of the project,
most of the inputs were provided in the last two years; and hence, now that the project facilities are in
place, substantial benefits are likely to accrue in the coming year as the buildings become fully
operational with the regional bureaus having already committed the required operational budget. The key
contributions of the project are assessed below, in terms of improvements in access, quality and equity of
basic health services, and in management capacity (an overall assessment of the achievements of each
project component is given in table A).
17.   Improvements in Access. About 45 percent of the total FHP finances were devoted to the
construction/rehabilitation of 96 health stations and 19 health centers. The latter, under earlier estimates
were expected to serve a population of 960,000 and 1,900,000 respectively. However, under the new
health care delivery system, FHP-constructed health stations are likely to be upgraded to health centers.
Therefore, the 96 health stations and 19 health centers (which will be 115 health centers) will service a
population of 2,875,000. Most of these facilities are located in hitherto neglected regions and are
expected to make a positive contribution to increasing access to health services in the targeted areas.
18.   Improvements in Quality. The rehabilitation and expansion of health manpower training
institutions has increased the country's capacity for training front-line health workers; and the
improvement in training curricula included in the project (though eventually funded by grant money from
other donors) has substantially improved the quality of training provided, especially in certificate and
diploma courses for nurses, health assistants, sanitarians, etc. The establishment and furnishing of the
Audio-Visual Center will improve the ability of the National Health Learning Materials Production
Center ( HLMPC) to expand its capacity to develop high quality health education materials which could
be further adapted for use in various regions. The establishment of the Drug Quality Control Laboratory
will improve the country's ability to ensure the importation and distribution of safe and standard drugs,
thereby improving the quality of health care services to patients.
19.   The FHP has supplied pharmaceuticals to all levels of the health service delivery system, thus
effectively addressing, in part, the chronic shortage of essential drugs. The project contributed US$9.39
million to the US$60 million drugs procurement component of the ERRP project implemented in 1992-
1995. In addition, US$3.15 million was utilized under FHP after the project's re-design, to procure
drugs. A study on drug supply management was part of the project, but was carried out with USAID
support, as part of a larger study on health care financing. A draft proclamation for health care financing
has been submitted for consideration by the Government and Parliament, and its ratification is expected
to generate sufficient revolving funds to provide an adequate supply of drugs to all health institutions. In
addition, all the health infrastructure built with FHP support is being fully equipped with basic equipment
and supplies, and this will greatly improve the quality of health services provided in these new
institutions.
20.   Improvements in Equity. As the project buildings become fully functional, the project will help
improve access in previously under-served, remote, and neglected areas of the country. The project will
be instrumental in increasing MCH services by improving rural health institutions in both number and
quality. The number of outreach activities will also increase, creating opportunities for reaching a greater
number of previously unreachable mothers and children. Project funds have been used for providing
MCH kits to community health workers, including TBAs, which will have a direct bearing on the health
services given to mothers and children. The supply of contraceptives has likewise helped improve the
5



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 6 of 9
availability of FP services, though the quantifiable increase in the contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR)
attributable directly to the FHIP is difficult to specify.
21.   Improvements in Management Capacity. Workshops have been held on project management,
procurement and disbursement to improve the project management capacity of the central and regional
health staff. In addition, 3 Regional Health Bureaus1 and 3 Zonal Health Offices have been built and
equipped, which are expected to improve the management of health services in these regions. The
capacity of the central MOH to plan and coordinate the FHP, and to provide technical support in
implementing the project (especially civil works) in remote regions, was also strengthened under the
project, although there is need for greater and intensive capacity building.
22.   Project Sustainability and Future Operations. The FHP's benefits are likely to be sustained
for the foreseeable future. Recently, the Prime Minister's Office has directed that all Regional State
Governments and Health Bureaus ensure adequate recurrent budgets for operating and maintaining
existing and proposed health facilities and programs. According to MOH, regional budgets for 1997-98
have included the estimated costs of manpower, drugs, equipment, supplies and administrative overheads
for providing health services. These budgets cover the facilities funded by the FHP as well as other
government and donor-funded activities. In addition: a) the Government's overall allocation to the health
sector has increased in recent years and is expected to increase further in 1997/98 and beyond; b) the new
health care financing strategy is expected to come into force in 1998; and c) the expected funding for the
five-year HSDP, which became effective in July 1997 from IDA and other donors, would provide much-
needed additional funds. Furthermore, regional governments have committed themselves to ensuring that
sufficient provision has been made for covering the recurrent costs of sustaining the FHP-supported
facilities for at least the next 5 years. The Government's HSDP (1997-2002) includes operational
budgets for all health institutions (including the facilities funded by IDA). These have been discussed
with donors and further consultations are expected in the coming months when Bank and donor support
to HSDP is finalized.
23.   The right mix and number of trained health manpower is also crucial for the sustainability of
high-quality health care services. Initially, the structures completed during FHP implementation are
likely to operate with existing staff-- until additional numbers are produced by the various training
institutions. The project has supported the expansion and equipping of health manpower training
institutions; and this is expected to gradually make health services more sustainable in the coming years.
The availability of well trained health managers is equally important for the development of a rational
health system. A number of regions have established Health Management Training Centers for training
program managers through short-term management development courses. This is expected to improve
program planning and implementation in the health sector, and make health service delivery more
efficient and sustainable.
The Afar Regional Health Bureau was constructed in the location planned for the new capital of the Afar
region. This transfer of the regional government center is still underway, therefore it may take some time
before this facility becomes operational.
6



(i) strengthen/creating the capacity at the central, regional and zonal levels to  (i) training in program management conducted with UNFPA support,
MCH/FP            coordinate, back-stop, and supervise the activities of lower level staff; (ii)  training of trainers for family planning conducted with SIDA  HS
increase the availability and use of MCH/FP services by rehabilitating and/or  support; in-service training conducted annually; regional training
reconstructing 100 health stations and 19 health centers in selected regions; and   bureaus are being established by the Regional Health Bureaus; (ii)
(iii) providing the necessary equipment, supplies, drugs, contraceptives, logistics  civil works and procurement activities were completed for 96 health
and training.                                                           stations and all 19 health centers by 12/97; (ii) 247 delivery beds,
MCH baby cots, Mid-wife kits, first-aid kits, MCH A & B Kits,
medical equipment furniture and vehicles provided to health stations
and health centers.
(i) rehabilitating and upgrading the two training centers/schools for nurses, one    (i) rehabilitation/upgrading completed for Zewditu and St. Paul
Manpower          school for laboratory technicians, two schools for health assistants and one  nursing schools, Addis Ababa school for laboratory technicians,  S
Development       school for sanitarians; (ii) providing the required material, logistics and financial  Awassa & Menelik schools for health assistants, and Jimma school
support to conduct training programs; and (iii) establish two units in MOH's  for sanitarians; (ii) basic and in-service training materials provided to
Training Department, one for conducting distance education, and the other for    schools; books, journals and other education materials and office
materials testing and evaluation.                                       equipment procured; and (iii) for the testing and evaluation unit,
awaiting a Governmental proclamation for establishing a Health
Professional Council for testing and certifying all categories of
health professionals; and for the distance education unit, a survey
was completed, and report submitted to Minister of Health.
(i) constructing 3 regional health bureaus and 3 zonal health offices; and (ii)  (i) regional health bureaus and zonal offices constructed; and (ii)
Institutional     strengthening key health departments/units at central, regional and zonal levels   equipment and supplies were provided; govemment has separately  S
Development       by rationalizing their staffing and organization in line with the Borrower's  rationalized their staffing and organization at various tiers of health
decentralization policy, and through provision of logistical support, office  institutions in line with the regionalization policy.
equipment and supplies, and budgets for operational expenses and maintenance.
Health Education   (i) strengthening MOH's program for health education and information,  (i) print shop and audio-visual studio constructed; video products,
and IEC           education and communication (IEC) by construction/rehabilitation of the print    photographic supplies, computer and lab equipment, as well as other  S
shop and audio-visual studio, and provision of the required equipment, supplies,  machines and consumables have been procured; (ii) Ongoing testing
materials and logistical support; and (ii) support for preparation, testing,  and preparation; proposal for establishing a semi-autonomous Health
distribution and evaluation of health education and IEC materials.      Education Coordination and Health Leaming Materials Production
Center under the Ministry of Health has been submitted for approval by
the Council of Ministers.
Pharmaceuticals   (i) providing drugs and improving the storage and distribution system for  (i) Drugs and contraceptives procured as planned; drugs storage
pharmaceuticals; (ii) developing a drugs quality control system/unit; and (iii)  facility dropped and further review is being conducted under PHRD  MS**
improving supervision and monitoring by MOH's Pharmacy Department and   studies and due to institutional changes computerization of
Family Health Project Coordination Office (PCO).                        EPHARM also dropped (ii) drug laboratory constructed, also
fumished and equipped (staff already functioning in old building);
and (iii) Govemment has strengthened capacity and reviewed
staffing patterns.
Studies           (i) A review of the hospital sector, focusing particularly on the proposed  (i) Conducted by the Govemments of Ethiopia and Finland; and (ii)
experiment with management boards for hospitals and the effectiveness of  conducted by Government of Ethiopia and USAID.                   S
providing support and referral services to primary care providers; and (ii)
a study of health financing options aimed at generating additional funds for the
health sector.
* As per amended DCA, amendment dated April 1994.
** Marginally Satisfactory



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 8 of 9
24.   Key Lessons Learned. The important lessons to be drawn from the FHP implementation
experience are summarized below:
* The continuous monitoring by the Government high-level committees was instrumental in facilitating
and expediting implementation. Such close monitoring efforts by MOH had a salutary effect on
project implementation, and will in the long run have a beneficial impact in achieving and sustaining
development objectives.
Capacity Issue
* Despite FHP efforts, absence of sufficient capacity is a significant problem in the implementation
process. The devolution of power to regions has created a conducive environment for regions to
decide and implement programs which benefit their communities; however, the problem of getting
sufficiently qualified staff to effectively utilize the decentralized powers continues in some regions.
Increased turnover and inadequate trained staff are major impediments to proper project
implementation. Lack of sufficient incentives is partly to blame for the rapid turnover and
recruitment of sufficient staff. Government decisions which ensure stability in project
implementation staff and incentives to recruit and maintain the services of the trained and competent
staff will improve project performance. Carefully planned training in various areas including
procurement, disbursement and contract management is found to accelerate implementation of project
activities. Attractive salaries and sufficient incentives should be created to invite the required trained
manpower to work in regions.
l Lack of capacity and incentives to encourage supervision (low per diems, unavailability of transport
facilities) are closely associated with poor construction work. Measures such as involvement of
short-term consultants (supervisors) to support supervision and creation of sufficient incentives for
construction supervisors will help improve regular supervision to construction sites.
Civil Works
X Although timely completion of civil works is a commendable achievement, the quality of
construction was, in a number of cases, a cause for concern. It is felt that future projects would
benefit by provision of greater resources for supervision, as well as more detailed drawings and
specifications. References to required national as well as international standards should be made in
specifications.
* The FDRE approval process for variation orders is considered to be lengthy and the cost limits up to
which decisions can be taken at the local level are low. In the past, variations up to 15 percent could
have been approved by the Engineering Department. In order to increase transparency, the process
was tightened, and the revised procedures are lengthy, and delegation limits may need to be
reconsidered.
* Regular and stringent supervision by engineering staff of the Regional and Zonal Health Bureaus
and MOH is essential for good quality civil works. Project supervision by MOH suffered due to
attrition of staff and a heavy workload. This issue must be addressed before a second IDA-financed
project is undertaken. In view of the large disparity between employment conditions in the private
sector and in government, it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and keep qualified and
experienced engineers. In future, it might become necessary to rely to a greater extent on
consultancy firms or individuals paid on a competitive basis.
8



Implementation Completion Report                                                  Page 9 of 9
Planning and Financial Management
*  An Implementation Manual would have been very useful in clarifying responsibilities and duties of
the different partners -- PCO, Architectural and Engineering Unit, and other implementing agencies.
Similarly, the implementation plan and budget for the first year should have been part of the project
preparation and not a condition of effectiveness. If the PCO approach is adopted for project
implementation, it is necessary to ensure that processes are in place to work closely with its other
partners in MOH.
*  The coordination between completion of construction work and provision of furniture and
equipment to these facilities remains a difficult issue. It is essential that the procurement of
equipment and facilities coincide as closely as possible with the expected date(s) of completion of the
construction activities.
*  It is suggested that a Project Launch workshop be conducted, covering procurement, disbursement
and financial management, for all regional staff before effectiveness of the next Bank-supported
program in Health.
*  Procurement. Model bidding documents for national procurement of goods, works and services
could be prepared and agreed up-front with all regions. It may also be useful to ensure a consistent
evaluation report format for all regions.
*  Disbursement. The payments process has been lengthy under FHP, and delays and stoppages have
occurred, both for small and larger contractors. Although overall financial accountability under the
FHP had to be with the MOH at the Center, for future IDA projects, it may be useful to consider
streamlining the decision-making process to the regions.
*  Audits. Audit reports were always delayed and were not in full compliance with Bank guidelines on
audit preparation. There is need to review current procedures to ensure that processes for audit
preparation result in timely and satisfactory audits.
*  The development of a continuous follow-up mechanism at ground level appears to generate
substantial improvement in project implementation, the ongoing strengthening of the Resident
Mission's capacity should facilitate necessary support at the center.
9



ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH
Table 1A: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                       X
Sector policies                              X
Financial objectives                                                         X
Institutional development                    X
Physical objectives           X
Poverty reduction                                                            X
Gender issues                                X
Other social objectives                      X
Environmental objectives                                                     X
Public sector management                                                     X
Private sector                                                               X
development
Other (specify)                                                              X
B. PrjectSustinabilityX
C. Bank performnance
Identification                              X
Preparation assistance                       X
Appraisal                                                   X
Supervision                                 X
D. Borrower performance
Preparation                                  X
Implementation                              X
Covenant compliance                          X
Operation (if applicable)                    X
,i   W:  A!E _ _~~~~~~NO



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Maternal and Child Health /Family Planning Component)
Table 1B: Summary of Assessments (continued)
A. Achievement of Objecfe s
Macroeconomic policies                                                               X
Sector policies                                    X
Financial objectives                                                                 X
Institutional development                          X
Physical objectives                X
Poverty reduction                                                                    X
Gender issues                       X
Other social objectives             X
Environmental objectives                                                             X
Public sector management                                                             X
Private sector development                                                           X
Other (specify)                                                                      X
B. Project Sustainability __.X ......................~7^ 
WAu m~~~O.a1g1'.



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Manpower Development)
Table 1C: Summary of Assessments (continued)
A. Achievement of Objectives
Macroeconomic policies                                                           X
Sector policies                                X
Financial objectives                                                             X
Institutional development                      X
Physical objectives              X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                                                         X
Private sector development                                                       X
Other (specify)                                                                  X
B. Project Sustainability 
C. Assessment of outcome                            X



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Institutional Development)
Table 1D: Summary of Assessments (continued)
3  F~~~~~I                                                       E
A. Achievement of Objective
Macroeconomic policies                                                            X
Sector policies                                                                  X
Financial objectives                                                              X
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    x
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                                                         X
Private sector development                                                       X
Other (specify)                                                                  X
B.  Project Susta mability 
C. Asesen  foucm



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Health Education)
Table IE: Summary of Assessments (continued)
A. Achievement of Objectie
Macroeconomic policies                                                           X
Sector policies                                 X
Financial objectives                                                              X
Institutional development                       X
Physical objectives               X
Poverty reduction                                                                 X
Gender issues                                   x
Other social objectives                         X
Environmental objectives                                                          X
Public sector management                                                          X
Private sector development                                                        X
Other (speify)                   !              _          _
B. Project SustainabilityX
C Assessmet of ucme                                  x 



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Pharmaceuticals)
Table IF: Summary of Assessments (continued)
A. Achievement of Objectie
Macroeconomic policies                                                             X
Sector policies                                                   X
Financial objectives                                                               X
Institutional development                         X
Physical objectives                               X
Poverty reduction                                                                  X
Gender issues                                                                      X
Other social objectives                                                            X
Environmental objectives                                                           X
Public sector management                                                           X
Private sector development                                                         X
Other (specify)                                                                    X
B.PoetSustainability              x
t1,w!lent ofi oucme                                       X    x 



ETHIOPIA
Family Health (Studies)
Table IG: Summary of Assessments (continued)
A. Ahievment of Objectie
Macroeconomic policies                                                          X
Sector policies                                 X
Financial objectives
Institutional development                        X
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction                                                               X
Gender issues                                                                   x
Other social objectives                                                         X
Environmental objectives                                                        X
Public sector management                                                        X
Private sector development                                                      X
Other (specify)                                                                 X
B. Project Sustainability
C.Assmn  foutcm                                       x



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
On-going Operations                                                                            l
Ethiopia Social Rehabilitation and    The ESRDF will (i) support community  1996   l Closing
Development Fund Project       initiatives to construct or rehabilitate, and       12/31/01
(Cr. 2841 -ET)                  maintain basic economic and social
US$ 242.4 million              infrastructure (i.e. health facilities) and
services necessary for improved incomes,
health and productivity; (ii) increase
community capacity to identify
development priorities, manage project
implementation, and maintain ESRDF-
financed assets; (iii) support measures
beneficial to environmental conservation
and rehabilitation; and (iv) respond to the
needs of vulnerable groups especially poor
women. It focuses exclusively on
sustainable developmental initiatives, and
will support the establishment of a Welfare
Monitoring System to improve the
collection and analysis of information used
to guide poverty reduction efforts, and track
the impact of policy measures on the poor.
Water Supply Development and    To ensure the long-term viability of water  1996  Closing on
Rehabilitation                  supply and sanitation operations in line with     6/30/00
(Cr. 2482-ET)                   the Government's regionalization policies
US$ 65.5 million                and, in the long run, improve the health and
productivity of the population by providing
assistance for: (i) capacity building of the
Regional Governments and water supply
and sanitation agencies for management of
urban and rural water supply operations; (ii)
formulation of policies to ensure long-terml
financial and managerial viability of water
supply operations, establishment of
regulatory arrangements and sound
investment planning; and (iii) short- and
medium-term physical rehabilitation,
augmentation and establishment of urban
I water supply and sanitation schemes.



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 3: Project Timetable
Identification                                                April/May 195I
Appraisal                                      October 1986  November 1986
Negotiations                                   March 1987   April 6-15, 1988
Board Presentation                             May 1987      June 2, 1988
Signing                                       _              July 14, 1988
Effectiveness                                l               March 14, 1989
Establishment of Special Account             |               February 14, 1989
Changes to the Development Credit Agreement:
*  increase in disbursement percentages                      January 1991
*  reallocation of funds from unallocated category
to newly created Pharmaceuticals & Medical               December 1991
Supplies Category (for ERRP)
*  reallocation of US$2.5 million from Civil
Works to Pharmaceuticals and Medical                     July 1992
Supplies
*  amendment of Schedule I to reallocate
proceeds of Credit; because project now
covered a different geographical area, Article           April 1994
III amended to reflect this change; and to
reflect main features of the re-designed project,
amendments made to Article III and Schedules
2 and 5 (respectively, the Covenants, Project
Description and Action Plan).
Project Completion                             December,   June 30, 1997
1996        l
Closing (for all components except for         December    December 31, 1997
pharmaceuticals, category 9 of the DCA's       31, 1997
Schedule 1)                                  l             l_l
Closing of Category 9                        l               January 31, 1998
Full Project Closing                         l               June 30, 1998



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actuals
fiscal   Quarter                    SAR Estimates                              Actual
Year    -;   -   -     .:    .    :  .   -  -  -:-      : -   - . -
Quarterly    Cumulative      Cum.       Qugrterly   Cumulative      Cum.
L ___________________                                  %  of total                           %    of total
FY 89    Ql    9/88         0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
Q2    12/88       1.00          1.00         3.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
Q3    3/89        0.35          1.35         4.00         0.32         0.32         0.99
Q4    6/89        0.45          1.80         5.00         0.00         0.32         0.99
FY90    Ql    9/89          0.45          2.25         7.00         2.00         2.31         7.23
Q2    12/89       0.60          2.85         9.00         0.00         2.31         7.23
Q3    3/90        0.60          3.45         10.0         0.16         2.47         7.72
Q4    6/90        0.62          4.07         12.0         0.15         2.62         8.20
FY91    Ql    9/90          0.62          4.69         14.0         0.14         2.76         8.62
Q2    12/90       1.00          5.69         17.0         0.14         2.90         9.08
Q3    3/91        1.00          6.69         20.0         0.17         3.07         9.61
Q4    6/91        1.25          7.94         25.0         0.02         3.09         9.67
FY92    Ql    9/91          1.25          9.19         28.0         0.00         3.09         9.67
Q2    12/91       1.40         10.59         32.0         0.00         3.09         9.67
Q3    3/92        1.40          11.99        36.0         0.13         3.23         10.09
Q4    6/92        1.55          13.54        41.0         2.18         5.41         16.91
FY 93    Ql    9/92         1.70         15.24         46.0         0.73         6.14         19.19
Q2    12/92       1.70         16.94         51.0         4.14         10.29       32.17
Q3    3/93        1.60          18.54        56.0         1.13         11.42       35.69
Q4    6/93        1.55         20.09         61.0         0.70         12.12       37.88
FY94    Ql    9/93          1.55         21.64         65.0         0.00         12.12       37.88
Q2    12/93       1.20         22.84         69.0         0.55         12.67        39.59
Q3    3/94        1.20         24.04         73.0         0.00         12.67       39.59
Q4    6/94        1.00         25.04         76.0         0.00         12.67       39.59
FY 95    Ql    9/94         1.00         26.04         79.0         0.00         12.67       39.59
Q2    12/94       0.85         26.89         82.0         0.00         12.67       39.59
Q3    3/95        0.85         27.74         84.0         1.07         13.73       42.93
Q4    6/95        0.85         28.59         87.0         0.00         13.73       42.93
FY96    Ql    9/95          0.85         29.44         89.0         0.43         14.17       44.29
Q2    12/95       0.75         30.19         92.0         0.00         14.17       44.29
Q3    3/96        0.75         30.94         94.0         0.00         14.17       44.29
Q4    6/96        0.70         31.64         96.0         1.36         15.53       48.55
FY 97    Ql    9/96         0.70         32.34         98.0         2.46         17.99       56.25
Q2    12/96       0.66         33.00         100.0        1.50         19.49       60.93
Q3    3/97                                                1.97         21.47       67.11
Q4    6/97                                                1.62         23.09       72.17
FY 98    Ql    9/97                                                 1.70        24.79        77.48
Q2   12/97                                                3.74        28.53        89.18
Q3    3/98                                                0.74        29.27        91.18
Q4    6/98                                                2.12         31.39       94.60



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 5a: Project Costs (US$ millions)**
Component                 Local    Foreign         Total       Local    Foreign       Total
Cost       Cost                     Cost       Cost
Maternal and Child Health/Family
Planning (originally called Area      8.03       8.22         16.25       13.43       1.67       15.10
Component)
Manpower Development                  3.24       2.61          5.85        2.48       .89         3.37
Pharmaceuticals Development           2.29       3.29          5.58        .17       12.31       12.48
Health Education (IEC)                1.81       1.08          2.89        .82        1.4         2.22
Institutional Development             2.56       1.08          3.64        3.80       1.35        5.15
Studies                                -         0.02          0.02         0          0           0
Project Preparation Facility          0.15       0.86          1.01         -          -
Total Baseline Costs                   18.08       17.16        35.24
Contingencies
Physical Contingencies                 0.52       0.78          1.30
Price Contingencies                    4.46       2.86          7.32
Total                                | 23.06      20.80         43.86       20.7       17.62       38.32
* Government Contribution was reduced since it was decided in 1991, that 100% of expenditure for drugs and contraceptives would
be financed by the credit. This reduced requirement for counterpart funding by US $ 1.72 million. Also, the figure stated above does
not include salaries to be paid by the government for staff of constructed facilities, because most of the facilities became operational
or are becoming operational in 1998. In 1994, the Government also decided that it would not use IDA credit for any recurrent costs
other than drugs and contraceptives.
** US$ 1.7 million to be cancelled.
** Allocation from UNICEF never received.



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 5b: Project Financing Plan, SAR Estimates and Actual (in US$ millions)
Financing Plan               SAR Estimates                        Actual
Local    Foreign      Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Government of Ethiopia      10.36        0        10.36       6.93        0        6.93*
IDA                         12.70      20.30      33.00      13.77      17.62      31.39**
UNICEF                        0         0.50       0.50        0          0         0***
Total                       23.06      20.80      43.86       20.7      17.62      38.32
* Government Contribution was reduced since it was decided in 1991, that 100% of expenditure for drugs
and contraceptives would be financed by the credit. This reduced requirement for counterpart funding by
US $ 1.72 million. Also, the figure stated above does not include salaries to be paid by the government for
staff of constructed facilities, because most of the facilities became operational or are becoming operational
in 1998. In 1994, the Government also decided that it would not use IDA credit for any recurrent costs
other than drugs and contraceptives.
** US$ 1.7 million to be cancelled.
** Allocation from UNICEF never received.



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 6: Key Implementation Indicators (From the SAR and from Relaunch of Project)
Area Development-MCH/FP
Strengthening of MCH/FP services    180 health stations          I100 health stations (rehabilitation of 39 health  96 H.Ss completed; 4 H.Ss -- work
through rehabilitation, reffirbishing and   18 health centers     stations and reconstruction of 61 health  discontinued due to local security problem
re-equipping of health facilities   3 rural hospitals             stations in regions I, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 1 0, I 1, and   and default of contractor. Regional
3 new health centers          12)                                       Governments have assumed responsibility
(to take place in the Shewa                                             to complete them.
Regions)
rehabilitation of 10 health centers and  all are completed
construction of 9 health centers in regions
1,3,6,7,10 and 12
Procurement of furniture, equipment and  Delivered
supplies for rehabilitated new health
facilities/offices
increase in the availability of MCH  double the supply which in 1989  Procurement of MCH Kits (A and B)     Delivered
drugs, contraceptives, materials, and  was only 50% of the amount
supplies in health facilities       needed to meet existing levels of  Procurement of drugs and contraceptives  Delivered
demand (limited to Shewa
Regions)
Manpower Development
improve quality of health manpower  Conduct Basic Training        Training in program management           Done (with UNFPA support)
training
Conduct post-basic training  Training of trainers in family planning   Done (with SIDA support)
Training of CBD agents                   Done (with UNFPA and GTZ support)
Orientation seminar on population policy  Done (with UNFPA support)
improve quality of health manpower    Needs assessment of, and   maintained at relaunch                    Done; annual feature
training                           conducting in-service training,
seminars and workshops
improve quality of health manpower    establish regional training  maintained at relaunch                  Being done by Regional Health Bureaus
training                           centers



Table 6 Continued  Key Implementation Indicators (From the SAR and from Relaunch of Project)
94ReI~~~*g~z~~b~ug                   Actual 
Provide required material,            Curriculum development and implementationfor:
logistics and financial
support to conduct training
programs
B.Sc. in sanitation                             Done; first group graduated from 2 1/2 year course in 1997
Public health technician                        Done; B.Sc. program is ongoing
Health education                                Curriculum developed; program expected to be launched soon
Community health nursing                        Done; first group has graduated; diploma & certificate
programs being developed
Health Service administration                   Included in bachelors degree course in public health
Nursing Administration                          Included in bachelors degree course in nursing
Management and supervision                      Done; periodic
Curriculum revision and imeplementation for:
diploma in radiology                            done, at diploma and certificate levels
diploma in sanitation                           curriculum developed for certificate course in environmental
sanitation
training health assistants to be nurses         ongoing
Establish two units in MOH             establish a testing and measurement unit         Awaiting a Governmental proclamation for establishing a
training department                                                                     Health Professional Council for testing and certifying all
categories of health professionals
establish a distance education unit, preparing learning  Survey completed, and report submitted to Minister of
materials and conducting distance education     Health
Procurement of Office                  maintained at relaunch                           Delivered
equipment and Education
Materials



Table 6 Continued  Key Implementation Indicators (From  the SAR and from Relaunch of Project)
Procurement of library materials and                          maintained at relaunch                          Delivered
books
Rehabilitation and upgrading of    Zewditu and St. Paul       maintained at relaunch                          Completed
training schools                   nursing schools
Addis Ababa school for    maintained at relaunch                          Completed
laboratory technicians
Awassa & Menelik schools  maintained at relaunch                          Completed; (but to serve different
for health assistants                                                     purpose)
maintained at relaunch
Jimma school for
sanitarians                                                               Completed
Institutional Development
Strengthening of Planning and      appointment of additional    Rationalizing staffing pattern of restructured central  Being Done
Programming Department of MOH      staff                      MOH and regional, zonal, and lower-level health
and key units in MOH, including the                           offices
architectural unit; the management
information unit and the procurement
unit and the MCH unit; establishment
of new unit responsible for building,
vehicle and equipment maintenance.
Operational Support       maintained at relauch
(incentives and per diems,
salaries, vehicle                                                         Ongoing
maintenance, fuel
expenses, etc.
vehicles                  maintained at relaunch                          Delivered
Office supplies and       maintained at relaunch                          Delivered
consumables for PCO and
other support units of
MOH
establishment of new unit    Construct 3 regional bureaus                 Completed
in MOH                    Construct 3 zonal offices                       Completed
Training, workshops/seminars and study toursfor:
Management of decentralized health services.    Ongoing; in the context of
regionalization of health services
______ ______ ______ ______ __  ___ ______ ______ _____ Computers/HIS   logistics            JCanceledj



Table 6 Continued: Key Implementation Indicators (From the SAR and from Relaunch of Project)
;~~~ 7;                                                                                                     7ActwrnLA; 
Health Education and
IEC
Preparation, field testing, training, distribution   Ongoing; Proposal for establishing a semi-autonomous
To strengthen capacity to                           and evaluation of Health Education and IEC  Health Education Coordination and Health Learning
provide health education                            materials                                 Materials Production Center under the Ministry of Health has
been submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers
Printing, publishing, and electronic     Delivered
equipment
Consumables and supplies    maintained at relaunch                   Ongoing
Construction and renovation of print shop  Completed
Construction and renovation of audio-visual   Completed
.   studio
Pharmaceutical
Development
improve supply of drugs   renovation and equipping of   replaced by construction of specialized  Government & IDA later agreed to delete this activity from
available to peripheral    the central medical stores  storage facilities at the central medical stores  the FHP
health facilities; support
for investments to      establishment of 7 new       Computerization of EPHARM                Government and IDA later agreed to delete this action from
increase MOH's existing   regional stores and one                                             FHP
drug manufacturing plant  bonded warehouse
establishment of a          Construction of a small quality control  Completed
pharmaceutical and medical    laboratory for drugs
supply control department
with the capacity to quality
test drugs on a routine basis
Studies
review of hospital sector   maintained at relaunch                    Conducted by TGE and Government of Finland
Support to MOH for
studies to carry out
various reviews.                                                                              Conducted by TGE and USAID
review health financing     maintained at relaunch
options
Conducted under PHRD grants
development of management   maintained at relaunch
_____ ___   system



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 7: Studies Conducted Under the Project
1. Review of the hospital sector,  A similar study on the Black Lion hospital in Addis Ababa has been   Not clear. Government is proposing minimal
focusing on the proposed experiment    done with support from the Government of Finland.       expenditure, plus handover from MOH to
with hospital management boards and                                                             Addis Ababa University, which has agreed.
the effectiveness of providing support
and referral services to primary health
care workers
2. Review of health financing options    Because a similar study has been done by Government with USAID   Study has been used to formulate a health
support, and additional studies are being conducted on related topics  care financing strategy which has been
under the PHRD Grant agreement between the TGE and IDA, it was  submitted to the office of the Council of
proposed to delete this activity from FHP. The MOH-USAID and    Ministers.
PHRD reports have been completed and have been extensively
discussed with donors, including IDA.
3. Review of organizational and    This study was dropped from FHP during the time of the project re-   Results to be used in HSDP.
management issues related with MOH    launch in March 1994.
MOH established a Task Force to examine functions, structure and
staffing of MOH in the context of the newly introduced
decentralization policies. Major downsizing of the MOH has
resulted in a substantial downsizing of its central departments.
Studies on health facilities management and utilization were
conducted under the PHRD Grant agreement between TGE and
IDA. The total cost of the PHRD studies already completed is over
$800,000 (compared with the SDR20,000 allocated under the FHP).



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    The Borrower shall carry out the Project   Implementation  -Complied   N/A      N/A         Continuous requirement.
3.01 (a)    through MOH, with due diligence and                   with
efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, engineering and
public health practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for
the project.
Section    The Borrower shall carry out the Project   Monitoring  Complied   N/A           N/A         Project was implemented in compliance with central
3.01 (b)    in accordance with the Action Plan set  review and     with                                and regional action plans.
forth in Schedule 5 of the Agreement.  reporting
Section    Except as the Association shall otherwise   Flow and   Complied   N/A           N/A         In compliance.
3.02       agree, procurement of goods, works, and   utilization of  with
consultants' services required for the  project funds
Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
agreement.
Section    The Borrower shall, from time to time,  Sectoral or                                         MOF Mission.
3.03       but no less than once every 12 months,    cross-sectoral
exchange views with the Association on:   regulatory/
institutional
action
Section    The population policies and annual     Sectoral or      Complied   N/A          N/A         The National Population Policy was officially
3.03 (a)    implementation plans which the Borrower  cross-sectoral  after delay                       introduced in April 1993. The MOH has helped
is developing within the framework of the  regulatory/                                     formulate the policy. MCH/FP services are being
preparation of the Borrower's Action Plan  institutional                                   provided nation-wide. Action plan implemented only
for implementing its national population    action                                         partially.
policy for the 1994-1996 period.



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Section     The health financing alternatives    Sectoral or   Complied        N/A         N/A    Picked up in the discussions for the proposed Health Sector
3.03 (b)     which the Borrower is examnining    cross-sectoral    after                            Development Program.
for the purpose of implementing  regulatory/      delay
its national health policy.      institutional
action
Section      The measures proposed by the      Sectoral or     Complied        N/A         N/A      Annual
3.03 (c)     Borrower to increase recurrent    cross-sectoral    after
resources available for no-salary    regulatory/  delay
expenditures for the Borrower's    institutional
health sector.                    action
Section      The results of the measures the   Sectoral or     Complied        N/A         N/A    Some of the issues were discussed during the PHRD workshops held
3.03 (d)     Borrower has introduced to        cross-sectoral    after                              in Addis Ababa in July 1996 & January 1998 and the GOE-Donor SIP
improve the effectiveness of health  regulatory/  delay                                workshop in March, 1997.
providers at the community level.  institutional
action
Section     During the execution of the       Monitoring,      Complied                             This organizational framework is incorporated in the draft statute that
3.04 (a)     Project, the Borrower shall      review and        with                                was prepared to make HLMPC a semi-autonomous body.
maintain a health education       reporting
coordinating committee which
shall meet on a regularly
scheduled basis.
Section     During execution of the Project,  Management       Complied        N/A         N/A    This is being complied with. Recently, a financial consultant was
3.04 (b)    the Borrower shall maintain a     aspects of the    with                                appointed to help MOH prepare the financial statements so as to
project management unit with      Project or of its                                    prepare the audits in time.
qualified staff in adequate       executing
numbers,                         agency
.   _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Section    By February I of each year during execution of the Project,    Flow and  Complied      N/A         N/A       The Action Plan was a two year
3.05 (a)    the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for comment, a   Utilization of  after delay                 plan, and given that the project
draft implementation plan and budget covering all activities to  Project funds                               was completing its activities and
be carried out under the Project during the subsequent fiscal                                                closing, actions required for
year of the Borrower.                                                                                        project closing were agreed upon
during the July 1997 mission.
Section    By July I of each year during execution of the Project, the  Flow and  Complied        N/A         N/A
3.05 (b)    Borrower shall furnish to the Association the final  Utilization of   after delay
implementation plan and budget for the subsequent fiscal year  Project funds
of the Borrower; such implementation plan and budget to take
into account the comments made by the Association.
Section    By February 28 and August 31 of each year, during the  Monitoring      Complied        N/A         N/A       Monitoring tables are in project
3.05 (c)    implementation of the Project, and beginning with August 31,  review and  with                              files.
1994, the Borrower shall submit to the Association reports, in  reporting
such details as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
I progress achieved in carrying out the Project.
Section    by 9/30/95, the Borrower shall prepare a project performance   Monitoring  Complied    N/A         N/A       Some of the constraints were
3.06       review covering the implementation period after 01/01/94,  review and  after delay                           addressed, and project
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and, by  reporting                                   implementation progress has
12/31/95, the Borrower shall review the findings and                                                        improved significantly.
recommendations with the Association to rectify identified
constraints.
The borrower shall (a) gradually expand the coverage of
Section    clinic- and community-based contraceptive distribution; and    Monitoring  Complied    N/A         N/A
3.07       (b) not later than 12/31/95, submit to the Association a report,  review and  with
under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and in  reporting  partially
such details as the Association may reasonably request, on
I contraceptive distribution.



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Seton    The Borrower shall train qualified personnel, in  Sectoral or cross-    Complied with    N/A         N/A    Done largely with donor
3.08       adequate numbers, in health management and health   sectoral regulatory/                                    financing.
teacher training, nurse-midwifery and MCH nursing    institutional action
and for the institutions participating in the Project.
Section    The borrower shall maintain or cause to be        Accounts/          Complied with       N/A         N/A
4.01 (a)    maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect    audit
in accordance with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
Section    The Borrower shall have the records and accounts  Accounts/ audit    Not yet due         N/A         N/A    There are some queries that
4.01 (b)    referred to in para. 4.01 (a), including those for the                                                     still need to be clarified by
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in                                                           MOH on the last FY audits.
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; and furnish these
within 6 months of the end of the fiscal year to the
Association.
Section    For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawal  Accounts/ audit  Complied with    N/A         N/A
4.01 (c)    from the Cr. A/c were made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, the Borrower shall maintain such
records in accordance with para. 4.01 (a) retain such
records for at least I year after the Association has
received the final audit report for the project, and
ensure that such records are included in the annual
audits referred to in para. 4.01 (b).                                                                     I



Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Table 9: Bank Resources -- Staff Input
Preparation to Appraisal                                                            40          77.8     l
Appraisal                                                                    41          81.1
Negotiations through                                                             11.5          23.4
Board Approval
Supervision             145         38.86         147.5        39.53       146.26**     393.19**
Completion             21.5*         47.5         16.7         27.4         9.1***       11.5***
* includes supervision costs as well; without supervision estimates, planned completion costs were
approximately 7.5 weeks.
**as of 10/28/97
* **as of 2/5/98
Memo:
Assumes average cost of US $2,680 per staff week (for planned estimates).



ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH
Table 10: Bank Resources -- Missions
Impleme Develop-
ntation    ment
Status    Objectives
Through                                                                                         MOH had limited project preparation capacity.
Appraisal                                                                                       GOE slow to process PPF request which delayed
preparation of project by another 3 months.
Quality of component proposals produced by
AMREF -- the main PPF consultants -- was in
general unsatisfactory.
Appraisal
through
Board
Approval
Initial     6/88                                                            NR         NR
Summary         ___
Supervision  10/88       1         4         Senior Planner                           No 590    No progress towards implementation of project and
form     of meeting condtions of effectiveness. The External
submitted   Assistance Unit charged with routine management of
the project still understaffed. Attempts to strengthen
Archictectural & Engineering Unit unsuccessful. No
disbursement under PPF2.
Portfolio    6/89
Update                                                                       S          S
Supervision  10/89      4          12        Public Health Specialist,       S          S       Underestimation of cost of civil works, equipment,
Operations Assistant, Architect,                  and furniture. Inadequate supervision by the Bank a
Management Specialist                             problem. Lack of experience with Bank procedures
resulted in project management unit having difficult
time in initiating project activities.
Supervision  6/90       4          12        Sr. Public Health Specialist,   S          S       Major delays in civil works as a result of shortage of
Operations Assistant, Architect,                  key building materials; Lack of progress on
Pharmaceutical Specialist                         pharmaceutical component due to lack of
understanding of objectives; Underestimation of cost
of civil works, equipment and furniture, project
funding only sufficient for about one third of health
centers/health siations originally inciuded in project.



Table 10: Bank Resources Continued -- Missions
Implem- Develop-
entation   mental
_   status     Objectives
Portfolio    8/90                                                                S          S
Update
Supervision   3/91        2          8         Sr. Public Health Specialist,     S          S       Little progress made on civil works except for design work
Architect                                           for health centers/health stations, unless action taken
likelihood of costly ovenuns. Impossible to obtain realistic
cost estimates or tenders as these will be based on
controlled prices for materials which are not available
_______ ______  _______________ __   _through normal govemment resources.
Portfolio    8/91                                                                S          S
Update
Portfolio    6/92                                                                S          S
Update
Supervision   10/92       2          2         Principal Economist;                      No form    Need for restructuring given new Government in place and
Operations Assistant                       590      its desire to develop health/population programs to meet
submitted.  real and pressing needs of its population.
Supervision   4/93        3          4         Division Chief; Sr. Public                No form    Activities proposed in restructuring proposal likely to cost
Health Specialist; Principal               590      more than the $20 million remaining in the project -
Economist                               submitted.  prioritization needed. Govemment declined to discuss
directions of proposed health policy. Ministry refused to
participate in WDR workshop.
Portfolio    9/93                                                               US          US
Update
Supervision   10/93       1          16        Management Specialist                     No form    Govemment's draft proposal conceming re-design of the
590      project needs to be further modified. Better balance needed
submitted.  between (i) civil works and other expenditure categories
particularly program supplies, drugs and contraceptives
and (ii) between investment and recurrent costs, to ensure
effectiveness and sustainability of health services.
Supervision   11/93       7          26         Management Specialist; Public            No form   Implementation capacity is gradually being strengthened
Health Specialist; Health                  590      but will need to be nurtured in next 12 months.
Finance Specialist; Architect;          submitted.
Pharmaceutical Specialists;
Costing Specialist



Table 10: Bank Resources Continued - Missions
Implem-  Develop-
entation   mental
_                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~status  Objectives
Supervision  3/94       3          16        Management Specialist;        US          S      Disbursement still slow. Implementation capacity of
Architect; Implementation                        regional health bureaus is variable and will be closely
Specialist                                       monitored in coming months. Some of the risks originally
identified in SAR remain, particularly the high cost of the
hospital sub-sector and need for mobilizing more revenues
to fund operations and maintenance. Outstanding audits
need to be submitted to IDA. Possibility of gaps occurring
in communication process between the Regions and the
Center.
Supervision  7/94       2          13        Management Specialist;         S          S       Delay in implementation due to regional bureaus taking
Implementation Specialist                        longer than anticipated to obtain approvals from their
______ __   respective Regional Councils. Audit report delayed.
Portfolio    9/94                                                           S          S
Update    I_I
Portfolio    1/95                                                           S          S
Update
Portfolio    6/95                                                           S          S
Update    I_I
Supervision  7/95       3          15        Management Specialist;         S          S      Implementation capacity remains weak in many regions,
Implementation Specialist;                       but technical support is being provided by MOH staff; such
Sector Specialist                                intensive support from MOH will be needed throughout the
project implementation period.
Supervision  4/96       3          10        Implementation Specialist;     S          S      Government requests reduction of counterpart funding for
Disbursement officer; Public                     civil works from US$6.98 million. Retirement of FHP
Health Specialist                                Coordinator has increased work load of remaining staff.
Concern about proposed site of the Inflammable store, IDA
mission requested government reconsider its placement in
populated area. A few problems with contractor.s - civil
works noted.
I__________  _________                            _ ________ I __________________________ ____Funds allocated for study not being used.



Table 10: Bank Resources Continued -- Missions
Implem-   Develop-
entation   mental
status    Objectives
Supervision  8/96        7          20        Implementation Specialist;      S           S      Procurement of supplies and equipment was somewhat
Health Specialist; Management                      behind schedule. Project audits overdue by 7 months.
Specialist; Architect;                             Disbursements have not kept pace with actual
Disbursement Specialist; Loan                     implementation.
Officer, Accounting &
Auditing Specialist                                Capacity of engineering team at center and regional
bureaus to supervise 78 civil works contracts executed in
remote and scattered areas was of concern. Due to
inadequate supervision, the quality of construction was
below standard in a few cases.
Supervision   1/97       2          10        Health Specialist; Architect    S           S      Capacity of engineering team at the center and regional
bureaus to supervise 78 civil works contracts executed in
remote and scattered areas was of concern.
Supervision  5/97        3          16        Management Specialist;          S           S       Supervision of civil works consistently identified problem.
Implementation Specialist;                         Process of collecting SOEs from the sub-project
Health Specialist                                  implementing agency and transferring them from the
regional offices to the central office takes longer than
anticipated.
Supervision   12/97      2          16        Implementation Specialist;      S           S      A few queries on the audit reports. Need for rectification
Health Specialist                                  of the, audio-visual lab. It is likely that Category 9 may
need to be extended to June 30, 1998 in order to permit
MOH to buy additional drugs, given the acute drug
shortage in health facilities across regions.
ICR         3/98         8          10        Management Specialist;          S           S       The Project closed on December 31, 1997, except for
Mission                                       Implementation Specialist;                          Category 9 of Schedule I of the DCA which was extended,
Operations Analyst; Architects;                    and will be closed by April 30, 1998.
Health Specialist;
Disbursement Office;
Economist



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)               January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
ETHIOPLA FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT (CR. 1913-ET)                      Appendix A
IMLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
JANUARY 29, 1998
INTRODUCTION
1.    An IDA mission visited Ethiopia from January 12-29, 1998 to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) for the Family Health Project (FHP). The team consisted of Mr. Pammi
Sachdeva (Senior Management Specialist, Mission Leader), Ms. Gita Gopal (Co-Mission Leader and
Task Manager), Dr. Gebreselassie Okubagzhi (RM Health Specialist), Mr. Bengt Jacobson
(Architect, Swedish CTF Consultant), Ato Getahun Gebru (RM Disbursement Officer), Ato Josef
Ghebre-Egziabher (architect, local consultant), Ms. Maryam Salim (Social Sector Analyst) and Ms.
Christine Pena (Economist). The ICR is based on discussions with implementing agencies,
particularly staff of the MOH and FHP Project Coordinating Office, visits to selected project sites,
discussions of the MOH's draft contribution to the ICR, and a review of project documents and
reports. The mission was unable to visit all the project sites, which cover most regions of the country
-- these have, however, been visited by previous Bank implementation support missions, particularly
the interim supervision missions from the resident mission in Addis Ababa.
2.    The mission appreciates the cooperation and support of senior officials of the Ministry of
Health and the regional health bureaus visited by the mission. We are particularly grateful to the
Honorable Vice-Minister of Health, Dr. Lamissio Haisso, Ato Abduletif Abas (Head, MOH Planning
and Programming Department), Ato Yohannes Tadesse (A/Head, Family Health Department), Dr.
Yohannes Kebede (A/Head, Manpower Development Department), Ato Girma Teshome (FHP,
A/Coordinator), Ato Sallehunae Kefyalew (Head, Architect and Engineering Department) and other
staff of the FHP Coordination Office and MOH. Members of the mission also visited project sites in
Addis Ababa and in the SNNPR and Gambella regions from January 14-21, where they met with Dr.
Estifanos Birru (Head, SNNP Regional Health Bureau), Ato Ojuli Ochala (Head of Administration
and Finance, Gambella Regional Health Bureau) and other staff of the regional and zonal bureaus.
The mission thanks these regional staff for their assistance and support during the field visits.
3.    This Aide Memoire summarizes the mission's key findings and conclusions. It takes account
of discussions with staff of the MOH, regional health bureaus visited and FHP-PCO, and also the
preliminary conclusions of the MOH's draft Project Completion Report (which is expected to be
finalized shortly, and will be annexed to the Bank's ICR). The mission confirms that it has provided
advice to the MOH for finalizing its own contribution to the ICR.
4.     The mission congratulates staff of the MOH, FHP-PCO and regional health bureaus for
successfully completing the Family Health Project by the original closing date of December 31, 1997.
It notes in particular that project implementation during the first five years was especially difficult;
but improved appreciably after the project was "re-designed and relaunched" in March 1994. It also
notes that the relaunched project included nation-wide program activities, as well as rehabilitation
and construction of basic health facilities in previously neglected regions, and has been implemented
within an evolving administrative structure, in accordance with the Govemment's post-1991
emphasis on regionalization, democratization and decentralization throughout the country.



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                January 29,1998 - Aide Memoilre
MISSION'S FINDINGS AND CONCLUSIONS
5.    Achievement of Project Objectives. The main objectives of the project were to: (a)
increase the quality, coverage and cost-effectiveness of maternal and child health (MCH) services;
(b) increase the availability and use of Family Planning services; and (c) strengthen the institutional
capacirv of the MOH. The FHP consisted of six components: MCHIFP, Manpower Development,
Health Education and IEC, Institutional Development, Pharmaceuticals, and Studies. Overall, project
objectives have been achieved satisfactorily. Mainly owing to ongoing civil strife in the country ani
the hiatus in the dialogue with the Bank (the new Government was formed in May 1991),
implementation was extremely slow for the first five years (up to project relaunch in April 1994). By
project completion, however, the FHP is contributing substantially to the provision of MCH services,
mainly through its nation-wide program-support activities in manpower development, health
education and materials development, pharmaceuticals procurement and quality control, rehabilitation
and construction of health stations and health centers for provision of MCH-FP services in the
regions.
6.    Project Implementation. The project was expected to be disbursed over nine years (1988-
1997); and despite the exceptionally difficult circumstances prevalent in the country in the early years
of project implementation, it has been closed by the original date of December 31, 1997. During
project implementation, the implementation capacity of the MOH was not as strong as anticipated;
and was further eroded during recent years, mainly due to factors beyond the project's control. The
planning, supervision and monitoring capacity of many regional health bureaus was similarly affected
by changes in staffing, as well as increasing competition for trained staff from the private sector, thus
leading to implementation difficulties for the FHP. The project has also suffered from a slow start
up after its relaunch. The DCA was amended in April 1994, but effective implementation began only
from January 1995. The new Government's policy of regionalization and decentralization, which call
for devolution of authority and responsibility to regions for the implementation and management of
developmental projects in their respective regions, was a departure from the earlier practice, of
centralized project management by Ministries. Project implementation authority and responsibility
were transferred to the regions. It, therefore, took time to: a) get the regional government staff to
become familiarized with IDA's procurement procedures; b) prepare standard bidding documents
(SBDs) to be used by the project; c) complete, and get approval of, the regional action plans; and d)
prepare and give no-objection to SBDs. This start-up delay was understandable given the expansion
of the geographical coverage of the project from the then one administrative region (Shewa) to a
nation-wide project, including those regions which were lacking the required basic capacity and
experience in implementing developmental projects.
7.    These constraints in project implementation were recognized by MOH, and were sought to be
overcome by a variety of means. These included regular high-level monitoring and support of the
FHP by senior officials of the MOH and Prime Minister's Office, the dedication and hard work of
many staff of the FHP-PCO (especially those responsible for overall coordination), and the provision
of additional technical support by the Bank's resident mission and headquarters-based staff
(including procurement and disbursement specialists, who provided technical training and
participated in training workshops and implementation support missions to Addis Ababa). The period
1994-95 was devoted to gradually developing the capacity of the PCO and regional health staff to
meet IDA requirements for procurement of civil works, pharmaceuticals, goods and equipment. This
(re)start-up phase was necessary - but led to "delays" in procurement and, therefore, disbursement of
2



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                 January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
project funds. However, the insistence during this period that the project conform with IDA's
standard bid documents and procurement procedures has subsequently paid off. With technical
support from the PCO and IDA, including formal training and informal "hands-on" guidance, it
became somewhat easier to procure civil works through the regional health bureaus.
8.     Despite these commendable efforts, however, the capacity and motivation of the engineering
staff of many regional and zonal health offices to properly supervise construction activities at remote
and dispersed locations were at times inadequate. There remained noticeable shortfalls in the
timeliness and quality of some civil works, and delays in procurement of some goods and services,
both in the regions and at Addis Ababa, as noted in the Aide Memoires and other reports of previous
Bank missions, as well as the present ICR team (see particularly our detailed comments on the civil
works experience of the project; Annex II). Thus, while the FHP was satisfactorily completed
without an extension of the original closing date, and its inputs, achievements and expected benefits
are substantial, there are nevertheless important lessons to be drawn from the experience of
implementing this first IDA-funded project in the health sector, especially for the proposed support to
the Health Sector Development Program (HSDP). These have been discussed with the Government
and will be reflected fully in the Project's ICR.
9.     The successful completion of civil works, within the project period, is considered to be one
of its major successes. The mission was very impressed to find that virtually all civil works had been
completed and provisional acceptance made, by the end of the project period. Only in the case of 2
of the total 76 contracts had there been failure to complete. In one case, the contract had been
terminated for reasons beyond the control of the contractor and MOH, and in the other, as a result of
the contractor's failure to perform satisfactorily. It was reported that both would be completed outside
the project with local funding. Many lessons have been learned, of which perhaps the most important
is the need for adequate supervision at all levels.
10.    Project Sustainability. The FHP's benefits are likely to be sustained for the foreseeable
future. Recently, the Prime Minister's Office has directed that all Regional State Governments and
Health Bureaus ensure adequate recurrent budgets for operating and maintaining existing and
proposed health facilities and programs (copy is being obtained for IDA files). The mission has been
assured by the MOH that Regional budgets for 1997-98 have included the estimated costs of
manpower, drugs, equipment, supplies and administrative overheads for providing health services.
These budgets cover the facilities funded by the FHP, as well as other government and donor-funded
activities. In addition: a) the Government's overall allocation to the health sector has increased in
recent years and is expected to increase further in 1997/98 and beyond; b) the new health financing
policy is expected to come into force in 1998; and c) the Government's HSDP which was launched in
July 1997 will receive funding from IDA and other donors for a period of five years, and will provide
additional much-needed funds. Furthermore, the MOH has provided the mission with an action plan
for sustaining FHP activities during 1998-2003. Specific plans of the MOH and Regional Health
Bureaus for sustaining the benefits of the FHP will be discussed in further detail during the
preparatory mission to discuss donor support for the Government's HSDP. This would help ensure
that sufficient provision has been made for covering the recurrent costs of sustaining the FHP-
supported facilities for at least the next 5 years. The Government's HSDP includes operational
budgets for the health institutions established during the past five years (including the facilities
funded by IDA). These have been discussed with donors in order to prepare the HSDP for donor
3



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                January 29,1998 - Aide Memoire
financing, and further consultations are expected in the coming 6 months when program financing
will be determnined.
11.   The right mix and number of trained health manpower are also crucial for the sustainability
of high quality health care services. Initially, the structures completed during FHP implementation
are likely to operate with limited staff- until sufficient numbers are produced by the various training
institutions. The project has supported the expansion and equipping of health manpower training
institutions; and this is expected to gradually make health services more sustainable in the coming
years. The availability of well trained health managers is equally important for the development of a
rational health system. A number of regions have established Health Management Training Centers
for training program managers through short-term management development courses. This is
expected to improve program planning and implementation in the health sector, and make health
service delivery more efficient and sustainable.
12.   Procurement. With regard to procurement, the mission notes that the civil works were
completed by December 31, 1997. Goods and supplies to the regions have been received (mainly
medical, laboratory and office equipment and supplies, and furniture) and delivery is expected to be
largely completed by end-February 1998. The mission's visit to the Gambella and SNNPR regions
reinforces its earlier concern, based on previous site visits to other regions, regarding the weak
supervision capacity in some regions (both at regional and zonal levels). Although the buildings have
been constructed, and seem to be of a reasonable standard, there are a number of problem areas
relating to: a) the quality of on-site supervision; b) the variable capacity of local contractors; and c)
inadequacies in planning and providing for such essentials as water supply, electricity, staff housing,
and recurrent budgets for making the buildings operational (these aspects are the responsibility of the
Regional Councils and Health Bureaus).
13.   Disbursement. The mission notes that project disbursements picked up substantially in the
past 2 years - during which over US$ 14.7 million was disbursed, bringing the cumulative
disbursements to US$ 28.53 million (i.e. 51 % of the IDA contribution to the relaunched project).
The remaining US$ 1.7 million of IDA funds will remain undisbursed, and will be canceled. These
are a result of cost savings on the procurement of furniture and drugs.
14.   Audit. The mission notes that several audit reports for the FHP were delayed due to the non-
availability of a suitable accountant in the MOH (a consultant accountant was hired in 1997). It also'
drew attention to the fact that the SOE audit for FY 1996 has still to be received by the Bank. The
mission appreciates the MOH's commitment to make the 1997 audit report available to IDA by end-
February 1998; and to maintain the existing capacity of the PCO up to end-June 1998 (i.e., 6 months
after project closing) to ensure that the FHP accounts are properly closed, and final reports submitted
to Government and IDA. This capacity could also facilitate preparation of the proposed financing for
HSDP, which is due for appraisal by IDA and other donors in mid-1998.
15.   Legal Covenants. The mission has updated the information on project monitoring indicators
and compliance with legal covenants. Except for the requirement of timely submission of audit
reports, most covenants have been met fairly satisfactorily.
16.   Borrower and Bank Performance. Project preparation and implementation may be divided
for the purposes of assessment into three distinct stages. These include: (a) identification to
effectiveness (1985-1989); (b) effectiveness to project re-design (1989-1994); and (c) project re-
4



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)             January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
design to completion (1994-1997). The Borrower and Bank performance can be judged to be
satisfactory as of the re-design of the project which took place in March 1994. Particularly, in the
case of the Borrower, it is noted that it worked against various odds during the second stage, when it
was undergoing a period of institutional flux and change due to the process of regionalization which
resulted in the transfer of powers to implement the project from the central govemment to the
regional governments. As for the period prior to the re-design of the project, documentation is still
being examined in order to ensure an accurate assessment of the performance of the Bank and the
Borrower. The findings of the latter will be reflected in the ICR.
17.   Action Plan for Future Operation. The mission's agreements with the MOH on the actions
needed for sustaining-project activities during the period 1998-2003 and the Government's action
plan is attached as Annex I.
18.   Plans for Government's Contribution to the ICR. As per Bank requirements, the mission
has shared and discussed the Bank's Guidelines for preparation of the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) with the MOH-PCU. The Government's contribution to the ICR will cover the entire
project period from 1985 to date, and will undertake an in-depth assessment of the FHP
implementation experience. This report, if it is 10 pages or less, will be Annexed unedited to the
Bank's ICR (if it is longer than 10 pages, the Government would be requested to provide a 10 page
Evaluation Summary, which will be so annexed). The report would include an Operational Plan and
Budget for sustaining the project for the next five years (the FHP-PCO's preliminary report was
discussed with the mission). The mission has been assured by the MOH that the Government's 10-
page report would be sent to the Bank by end-February 1998; and a more detailed report would be
prepared by June 30, 1998 for further consideration by Government.
Acknowledgments
19.   In closing, the Bank's ICR mission wishes to reiterate its appreciation of the support given by
staff of the MOH, FHP-PCO and Regional and Zonal Health Bureaus for successfully bringing the
project to a close in December 1997. We wish also to acknowledge the support and cooperation
extended by Government to the various IDA missions from headquarters and the resident nmission
throughout the FHP implementation period. Special thanks are given to staff of the FHP-PCO for
very ably serving as the Bank staffs direct counterparts for project coordination, monitoring and
reporting. Without this close collaboration and collegiality, our task would have been impossible to
accomplish satisfactorily.
5



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)               January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
Annex I
AGREED ACTION PLAN FOR SUSTAINING FEP ACTIVITIES DURING 1998-2003
-1 -
1      Submit Government's 10-page    End of February 1998     MOHIPCO
ICR                                              _                _
2      Finalize and submit all        April 30, 1998           MOHIPCO
withdrawal applications to Bank
before April 30, 1998
3      Submission of SOE audit of 1996  as soon as possible    MOHI/PCO
4       Submission of FY July 1997 audit End of February 1998   MOH/PCO
5      Submit project audit report for the June 30, 1998       MOHIPCO
_ eriod July 199y - April 30, 1998
6      Submit Government's detailed   June 30, 1998            MOH/PCO
ICR                         _
7      Closure of PCO                 June 30, 1998            MOH/PCO
8      Provide written comments on    April 20, 1998           MOHIPCO
Bank's ICR within 2 months of
receipt
9      List of Project Assets and plan  End of February 1998    MOH/PCO
______ {during operational phase p
10     Follow-up and ensure           Mid-February 1998 and    MOH/PCO/RHBs
sustainability of FHP activities    beyond
within the framework of HSDP,
including providing for
manpower and recurrent budget_
6



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)               January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
Annex II
Ethiopia Family Health Project
Implementation Completion Mission Aide-Memoire -
Report on Civil Works
Background. At the time of the original Development Credit Agreement in 1988, it was envisaged
that the Family Health Project would provide civil works estimated to cost about US$ 14 million. The
limit for LCB was US$ 500,000 with a 7.5% preference for local bidders under ICB. Implementation
was planned to be completed in the first 5 years of the project. Very little implementation progress
was, in fact, made during the first few years, although design drawings and other tender documents
were prepared by the Architectural and Engineering Department (A+E) of the Ministry of Health.
Considerable difficulties were experienced as a result of staff shortages as well as problems of
transport, lack of drawing film and copying materials. Only one of the planned constructions got
under way (this was a new HC at Ejaj i, which, as it turned out, later had to be retendered). The scope
of civil works was amended in 1994 when the project was relaunched (see Summary Table below).
The revised budget estimate for civil works was US$ 14.52 million. The conditions for LCB/ICB
remained the sanme. The planned implementation period was reduced from five to three years,
keeping the original closing date of December 31, 1997.
Civil Works Summary Table - 1988 and 1994
Project         Original Plan in 1988                   After Relaunch in 1994
Component
Area            Rehabilitation of 3 rural hospitals, 18 health  Rehabilitation and construction
Development/   centers, 180 health stations; and        of 19 health centers and 100
MCH-FP          construction of 3 new health centers    health stations
Manpower        Upgrading and renovation of 2 nursing   Remained the same (but
Development    schools (St. Paulos and Zewditu), 2 health   laboratory technicians school
assistants training schools (Menelik and  was later moved to Awassa)
Awassa), I sanitarians school (Jimma), and
I laboratory technicians school (Addis
Ababa)
Institutional   Workshops for maintenance of health     Replaced by 3 regional health
Development    buildings and vehicles for the Shewa     bureaus and 3 zonal health
regions                                offices
Health          Renovation of health education department  Modified to construction and
Education       building, and construction of a Health  renovations to a printing
Learning Materials building at Ras Imru,    workshop and construction of a
Addis Ababa                            new audio-visual studio
building at Ras Imru, Addis
Ababa
Pharmaceuticals  Renovations to Central Medical Stores, and  Construction of specialized
construction of 7 new regional drug stores   storage facilities at the central
and a new bonded warehouse in Assab.   medical stores (later omitted);
Minor extensions to the Pharmacy       and construction of a new drug
technicians school at Menelik hospital.  quality control laboratory in
Construction of a drugs quality control  Addis Ababa
laboratory in Addis Ababa
7



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
Progress. Even after the restructuring of the project, there was a further general delay of about one
year in the implementation of civil works, as well as delays experienced by individual contracts. The
general delay was partly as a result of unfamiliarity by the newly established Regional Health
Bureaus in the use of the Bank's Standard Bidding Document (SBD) and also the setting up of the
new regional management structures for implementation. As a result, few contracts started before
1995. An exception was the HS/HC reconstruction program in Tigray, and also in some instances in
SNNP, for which exemptions were granted by the Bank, allowing normal GOE bidding procedures to
be applied, until use of the Bank's SBD was accepted by all the regional governments.
In most cases, the remaining rectifications need still need to be carried out before final
acceptance can be made. The retention funds are available and will be used for this work. These
funds, amounting to 5% Qf the contract sums, would not norrnally be released until the final
acceptance stage has been reached. However, to enable reimbursement from the Bank before the endi
of the project period, payments to contractors have, in fact, in most cases been made. The mission
understands from MOH that bank guarantees have been secured to ensure that contractors will fulfill
their remaining obligations.
Slow progress at the Health Learning Materials Audio-Visual Studio has been the result of
several architectural changes, which have been commented on by previous Bank missions. Additional
supports to the upper floor slab are in the process of being completed, after which the building is
expected to become functional soon.
Quality of Construction. While completion of Civil Works within the project period has clearly
been a commendable achievement, the quality of construction is in many cases a matter of concern.
There are a number of actions which could be applied to future projects by which quality should be
expected to improve. Among these are:
- adequate supervision staff resources by MOH and the Regions.
- more detailed specifications of materials and workmanship.
- provision of architectural details beyond the scale of 1:50, as used on the present drawings.
Very detailed drawings and specifications are believed to be of particular importance and are
cost-effective when these are to be used in implementing a large number of repeated buildings. These
will provide clear instructions to contractors on requirements and will give supervisors a standard
against which to assess the work produced.
It was particularly disappointing to note the poor quality of finishes at some of the contracts
resulting from ICB:
The Drugs Quality Control Laboratory was the only contract to be won by a non-Ethiopian
contractor. The tender sum of ETB 1.9 million against the A+E estimate of ETB4.0 million, indicates
that the contractor may have underestimated the scope works and as a result tried to make up for this
by use of inferior quality materials. There were also reported difficulties of communications as a
result of the contractor's failure, in spite of contractual obligations, to provide English speaking staff'.
The mission noted that sub-standard work was in the process of rectification.
At the Menelik Hospital Health Assistants' School, the renovations part of the work was
found to be of poor standard, while new works were quite acceptable. The reason for this appears to
8



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                 January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoir.
have been inadequate specifications and funding for what, actually, was a small part of the total
contract.
Drawings. A review of drawings was made by the mission, focusing particularly on those for HCs,
as an example. The mission was satisfied with the good quality of these and noted that, although the
basic drawings had been prepared before or during the very early stages of the project, much work
had been done immediately after the project relaunching in 1994. This had consisted of the
preparation of modified designs for different wall materials, soil and climatic conditions. This had
been well carried out. To help match the drawings to their intended locations, they need to be clearly
and boldly marked.
The original drawings, for HC as well as for other buildings had been prepared by the A+E,
which at that time was a large department of MOH with its own offices on the outskirts of Addis
Ababa. After decentralization, many of the staff assigned to the regions apparently did not join their
new posts (they joined the private sector instead); and a comparatively small number remained at the
Center. It was this core that prepared the modifications of the HC/HS designs. Other designs which
had been prepared by A+E earlier, and already approved by IDA, for the different training facilities,
etc. were not revised.
The existing buildings are generally of good design, but there is scope for improvement. For
the Health Sector Investment Program, which involves construction of a large number of basic health
facilities, the mission understands that a request for a budget has been made by A+E to conduct a
review of existing designs, in collaboration with the buildings' users. This study would be field-
based, looking at functional aspects as well as technical aspects of materials and construction, and
would help improve existing designs. The mission strongly supports such a study.
Specifications. The mission believes that the quality of work could have been improved by having
more detailed specifications. It was explained that GOE regulations prevent reference to particular
manufacturers or branded products. Bank guidelines are similar, but do allow for such references
where specification would otherwise be difficult. The clause "or equivalent and approved quality"
must however be included in such cases. Specification by reference to particular national or
international standards for materials would also be a useful method to clarify requirements to
contractors.
Small contractors, in particular, often have very limited knowledge of English, which is the
language used for contract documents and drawings. The SBD text includes a lot of technical and
legal provisions which may be difficult to understand. It is therefore felt that, while the legal
documents should remain in English, a summary translation of essentials into the appropriate local
language would be of benefit to the contractors and consequently to the resulting construction work.
Cost Control. The total value of civil works contracts was USD 15,912,731. After completion, it
appears that the total value certified will be exactly this amount. This is mainly as a result of fixed
price contracts (Government policy discourages variation orders). Based on experience elsewhere,
the mission believes that Variation Orders, if properly used, can be helpful tools in contract
management - for making additions or omissions for items of work which are found to have been
overlooked or are no longer required to the extent originally envisaged. The GOE approval process
for variations is, however, understood to be lengthy and cumbersome, partly to avoid extraneous
influences; and the financial authority delegated to lower levels for approving variation orders is
9



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                 January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
quite limited. It is suggested that a review of this authority as well as the approval process could be
useful.
Time schedule. Civil works were originally envisaged to be completed in the first 5. years of the
project. After restructuring, with only 4 years remaining of the project period, a revised time schedule
for implementation of civil works, of 3 years (1994-96), was drawn up, allowing the final year (1997)
for commissioning. Government assurances and mission field trip observations indicated this to be a
realistic target. The bidding process took most of 1994; so construction work did not gain full
momentum until 1995. Although individual contracts did in some cases experience delays,
construction was successfully completed in the 3 remaining years.
Bidding. Of the total civil works contracts, only 5 were of sufficient size to qualify for ICB. The
bidding process followedIDA guidelines. Ethiopian firms were competitive and all but one contract
were awarded to local companies. The 7.5% price advantage for Ethiopian contractors did not need o
be applied.
Under the GOE system, contractors are registered by category specifying the maximum value
of government contracts that they are eligible to undertake. Having registered, no further pre-
qualification is required for tendering. Contracts are always awarded to the lowest bidder. Bank
guidelines on bidding are more demanding with requirements from contractors to submit details of
their financial standing together with their bids. Before the Bank SBD could be applied, approval hacl
to be given by the respective Regional Councils. As a result, and to avoid delays, the Bank agreed to
an exemption in the case of Tigray, which was well advanced in the contract award process resulting
from application of the normal GOE regulations. In other Regions, Bank guidelines were used.
Packaging. Normally, packaging is not generally used in Ethiopia. It is, however, permitted by
Government, particularly to attract contractors to the remote (lower capacity) Regions.
In FHP, with the exception of SNNPR and Tigray, several rural health facilities were
generally packaged to form larger contracts with the aim of attracting more experienced contractors
with greater capacity and resources. Advantages and disadvantages of this were experienced.
Although some small contractors did good quality work, the mission understands that without
packaging it would have been difficult to attract contractors to the remote Regions. In other cases,
contractors failed to give equal attention to all the facilities-in the package. In SNNPR and Tigray,
where contracts consisted of single HS or HC, the work was generally awarded to small contractors
with limited resources to undertake work in remote locations. Delays to construction resulted in some
cases, and successful completion was said to be very much the result of the assistance given to the
contractors by the regional authorities (by making advance payments and facilitating transport of
materials).
Packaging was also applied to the larger constructions; training facilities, offices, etc.
However, these were based on type of building, rather than geographical proximity. As a result, some
of the benefits of packaging were lost. For example, the 3 Zonal Offices, each of which is comparablea
to a HC, formed one package. Although a larger contractor could be awarded the contract, the
components were small and scattered, probably making it unattractive for the contractor to employ
his more experienced staff as site engineers or foremen. In retrospect, perhaps 3 smaller contractors,
or packaging with other buildings in the area would have been a better solution.
10



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                 January 29,1998 - Aide Memoire
Valuations and Payments. Payments to contractors for work carried out have generally been based
on the "stage reached" principle. This is simpler than making monthly estimates of the value of work
carried out and generally works well on small, rural contracts for civil works undertaken by the
Government. Normally, funds for such contracts are controlled at the regional level, with a
comparatively short chain of approvals before payment can be made. However, in the case of FEI,
where MOH is accountable, funds are controlled at the central level. The result is a considerably
lengthier process, which has caused delayed payments, which in turn have resulted in construction
stoppages and delays, particularly by smaller contractors with limited financial capacity. There is a
danger that contractors could seek higher prices on such contracts, to cover the additional delays and
expenses incurred. Future IDA funded projects need to try to shorten the approvals and payments
process, perhaps by delegating more authority to lower level (e.g. zonal) offices.
Supervision. Supervision of rural health facilities has been the prime responsibility of the Regional
Health Bureaus under guidance and with assistance, as required, from the Center (MOH). This has
been provided, in particular to the Regions with limited resources within their own structure (e.g.
Afar, Benishangul, Gambella and Somali). In addition, the MOH-PCO had the responsibility for
project management and supervision of the larger civil works, as well as a large number of other
projects being undertaken by MOH. Only part of their time (estimated by the engineers to be about
60%), could therefore be spent on FHP work.
At the MOH, there was a professional staff of I I in 1994-95. At that time, the work consisted
mainly of pre-contract services - checking plans, site selection, approving documents, bidding, etc.
As FHP construction started, supervision was taking more of the engineers' time, while still having to
handle other GOE projects at various stages of implementation. At the same time MOH was losing
trained and experienced engineering staff. By 1996, the number was down to 8 and by 1997, only 6
remained. Construction, and hence supervision requirements, was at a peak during the two years that
staff attrition was taking place.
Field trips by the mission showed that quality of construction did not necessarily relate to
remoteness of location. Some very poor finishing work, which is now under rectification, was, in
fact, seen in Addis Ababa (Drug Quality Control Laboratory). This could perhaps be explained by the
possibility that technical specifications were insufficient or were not fully adhered to and/or the work
was not adequately supervised because the concerned staff were spread too thin, with responsibility
not only for contracts in the capital but also for giving assistance to the Regions. Visits to the
Regions, were said to have sometimes resulted in supervisors being unable to attend to other work for
several months, during which time contractors would have been able to work unsupervised,
producing inferior work. In many cases, contractors have been required to re-do such work.
However, it is clearly a difficult decision to insist on remedial work that may be of no structural
significance, especially when there is a time pressure to complete work while project funds are still
available.
Regular and stringent supervision by the regional and MOH engineering staff is clearly vital
to achievement of good quality work.
Another essential requirement is to have adequate numbers of well-trained and motivated
supervisory staff. Ethiopia has, in the last few years, developed a thriving private-sector construction
industry in which salaries and other remunerations are considerably higher than those that
government is able to offer. It will therefore become increasingly difficult to recruit and to keep
experienced and qualified technical staff in the ministries. It is therefore likely that more work will
11



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
have to be given to the consultants in the private sector or by engaging staff on contract on
competitive terms.                                                          >
Most FHP buildings have received provisional acceptances, but much work remains in
connection with final inspections and accounts, as well as supervision of installation of equipment
and fixtures which are about to be delivered. Most of this will be done at the regional level. However,
at present, MOH does not have the resources to supervise this work nor to assist the remote low-
capacity regions. There is therefore a need for MOH as well as the Regional Health Bureaus to assess
the staff resources required and to ensure that these are available when needed.
Summary of Findings, Suggestions and Lessons. The mission was impressed by the successful
completion of the FHP civil works within the project period.
The mission is satisfied by MOH assurances that those retention funds that have been
released before final acceptance of buildings, are covered by bank performance guarantees, to ensure
that contractors fulfill their remaining obligations.
Although timely completion of civil works is a commendable achievement, the quality of
construction was, in a number of cases, a cause for concern. It is felt that future projects would
benefit by provision of greater resources for supervision , as well as more detailed drawings and
specifications. Specifications should be able to refer to manufacturers and branded products provideid
that it is made clear that equivalent standards from other approved sources would also be acceptable.
References to required national as well as international standards should be made in specifications.
Small contractors, in particular, often have limited knowledge of English. The Bank SBD
includes a lot of technical and legal terms, which could be difficult to understand. The mission
therefore suggests that for future projects, the essentials be translated into the appropriate local
language.
The GOE approval process for variation orders has been found to be lengthy and the cost
limits for which decisions can be taken at the local level are low. Variations can be a useful tool in
contract management. It is therefore recommended that the process and delegation limits may need to
be reconsidered.
There are advantages and disadvantages to packaging of contracts.-Careful consideration to
each proposed package should therefore be given to ensure that the most appropriate solution is opted
for.
The payments process has been lengthy under FHP, and delays and stoppages have occurred,
both for small and larger contractors. Although overall financial accountability has to be with the
MOH at the Center, for future IDA projects, it may be useful to consider streamlining the decision-
making process.
Adequate supervision by MOH has suffered due to attrition of staff and a heavy workload.
Regular and stringent supervision by engineering staff of the Regional and Zonal Health Bureaus and
MOH is essential to good quality civil works. It is an issue that must be clearly addressed before any
new IDA project is undertaken. In view of the large disparity between employment conditions in the
private sector and in government, it is becoming increasingly difficult to recruit and keep qualified
1I



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                 January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
and experienced engineers. The mission therefore believes that in future, it might become necessary
to rely to a greater extent on consultancy firms or individuals paid on a competitive basis.
Although the project has come to an end, work in connection with final inspections, accounts
and:installation of fixtures and equipment remains. W'hile most of this work can clearly be undertaken
at the regional level, MOH will probably need to supervise and to provide assistance to the remote
and low-capacity Regions. Staff resources are at present not available. The mission therefore urges
MOH and the Regions to assess the needs and to ensure that adequate resources are available when
required.
13



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)               January 29, 1998 - Aide MemoDire
Annex m
Ethiopia Family Health Project
Implementation Completion Mission
Comments on Procurement, Disbursement and Audit
1. Introduction: Although some activities had been going on from the date of Credit effectiveness,
March 1989, implementation progress of almost all components was very slow until 1994.
Delays in the civil works in particular had been the major drawback which had negatively
affected the overall level of disbursements (over 50 % of the total project cost was allotted for the
civil works), as well as progress in implementation of procurement plans for other goods and
services required for the completed health facilities and training schools etc..
2. In order to assist regions in carrying out project implementation in line with the new
decentralized implementation procedures, all the standard bidding documents (for ICB and LCB)
had to be prepared by the FHP-PCO, had to be approved by IDA, and had to be accepted by the
-regions as the basis for procurement of goods and civil works by the FHP. The regional health
bureaus had to be strengthened to supervise construction of the health facilities in their
respective regions. While the Regional Health Bureaus of Tigray, Amhara, and the Southern
Ethiopian Peoples' Administrative Regions took the lead in taking the necessary measures as
early as June 1995, the implementation capacity of the other regions, e.g. Afar, Benishangul,
Gambella, and Somali have remained relatively weaker through out the life of the project. Thus,
continued technical support was needed from the MOH-PCO.
3. Disbursements: Up until April 1994, total disbursement had been only US $ 5.16 million,
excluding the US $ 6.0 million disbursed from the total of US $ 7.5 million reprogrammed for
ERRP ( drugs) in November 1991. The Staff Appraisal Report's estimated disbursement as of
April 1994 was US $ 21.6 million, thus giving a disbursement lag of about 40%.
4. As noted above, project implementation progress and thus disbursements from restructuring to
FY 1995 was slow. As expected, implementation started to pick up and showed a steady and
progressive rise from FY 95 to the closing date, December 31, 1997. Disbursements during F'Y
97 and FY98 were particularly high, accounting for 45 % ofthe total cumulative disbursement
made up to the end of Dec. 1997. The FY 97 and the first half of FY 98 (in QI & Q2 only)
disbursement was US $ 7.56 million and US $ 5.44 respectively, while the total cumulative
disbursement (over seven years) to end of December 1997 was US $ 28.53. With the effecting
of payments to the pending major payments of US $ 3.4 million for the last packages of
drugs and medical supplies, and when the reimbursement claims amounting to US $ 1.57
million are made in the coming four months grace period, the total amount of disbursement vwill
reach US $ 30.5 million, i.e. 94.6 % of the total Credit.
5. The Bank's disbursement procedures were properly followed in withdrawing funds, in managing
the special account, and while using the special commitment procedure, except for the few
months when the special account was found inactive. Replenishment applications were
submitted regularly as required by the DCA, leading to the commencing of the recovery process
of the SA advance. Except for the one case where erroneously the SA fund was used to finance
100 % of civil works contract, i.e. including the government's share of 10%, the procedure was
strictly adhered to. Availability of Government's own funds to allow the use of own funds to
pre-finance IDA's share of the civil works expenditure has been very useful (see below) for
14



Ethiopia Family Health Project (Cr. 1913-ET)                  January 29, 1998 - Aide Memoire
accelerating disbursement, effecting more timely payments to contractors than would otherwise
have been the case, and for the optimal use of the Special Account advance.
6. One disbursement-related problem which was faced with regard to civil works contracts was that
disbursements on civil works activities sometimes lagged behind progress in physical
implementation. This problem reportedly arose due to the reluctance of some contractors to ask
for payments regularly as work progressed; instead, they preferred to request for large payments
when they came to Addis during the rainy season when construction work has to be interrupted.
This had at one point rendered the Special Account inactive on the one hand, and had created a
liquidity problem on the other hand when a number of cumulated large payments had to be made
from the Special Account. This problem was mitigated with the joint effort of the Government
and the Bank, with the Government pre-financing IDA's share of payments to contractors, and
IDA lowering the minimum application size for direct payments and for the issuance of special
commitment. To further facilitate the flow of IDA funds through the SA and to accelerate future
disbursements, the Bank unrecovered the amounts recovered from the SA due to its inactivity,
and raised the threshold for SOEs. These problems, which were experienced in FY 95 and FY 96,
have been resolved and in FY 97 and FY98 withdrawal processing has proceeded smoothly.
7. Audits: Audit reports were often in arrears, and the need for timely submission of these reports
has been a concern which was repeatedly expressed by the Bank. The main cause for the
overdue audits was lack of accounting staff in the MOH-PCO to close the books on time for
timely audit. As per the agreement with the Bank mission in 1997, a consultant was recruited and
has been assisting the PCO in closing the books for the FY 97 audit, which is expected to be
submitted in Feb. 1998.
8. Civil Works: In termns of disbursements, almost the full amount (99 %) of the Credit allotted to
civil works, US $ 14.2 million was disbursed, construction of 19 HCs and 96 HSs were
completed (contracts for the construction of four HSs were terminated; see the mission's
comments on civil works). During the period after project relaunch, the Government was highly
committed to the implementation of the project; and has undertaken to complete the construction
of the health facilities whose contracts were terminated and to meeting the additional financing
for cost over runs, if any.
9. Procurement: Almost all the planned items of goods, equipment and furniture provided for in
the Credit have been procured in the planned quantities, at less than the estimated total cost, but
with some delays. These delays experienced in the procurement process have had a direct
negative effect on the utilization of the health facilities created. The undisbursed balance of US$
1.7 million is basically due to savings from the equipment, materials and supplies category. The
total allocation under this expenditure category was US $ 8.61 million; of which US $ 7.42 was
disbursed (or is expected to be disbursed by end of the grace period ending April 30, 1998). The
intention to use these savings for the purchase of additional quantities of drugs and medical
supplies has not been pursued in view of the limited time available for completing the
procurement process before the closing date of the project.
10. Although no major problem was faced in the procurement activities, and the procurement plan
has been fully implemented, the PCO's progress in this area could have been even better if
additional resources and capacity were available, both at the MOH- and in the regions. This
strengthening of procurement capacity would be of great advantage to future projects funded by
IDA.
15



-0
Appendix B
n*.fl)-JI1e  g.,,gAq)   'Iit,.y  q} 4'I Ilt\.i-
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia                                  ;i      L  iIr&    L
Ministry of Health                                           Ref. No.
Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Sector Manager
Human Development Group IV
Africa Region
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Dear Mr. Adams;
Subject: Family Health Project Implementation Completion
Report (Credit 1913-ET).
AAA. We acknowledge with thanks receipt of the final draft of the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR).
BBB. In general, the draft ICR is acceptable to us as it sufficiently reflects the exchange
of views made during the ICR Mission. However, we would like to forward the
attached note containing a few comments.
CCC. We are also transmitting herewith MOH's ICR summary.
Sinper ly,
Copy: Mrs. Gita Gopal     /  f      .   ;P4                       t
Task Team Leader                             *       Dprma
AF 2PH                          .         e -
Room No-J1O-026
The World Bank                             -
Washington, D.C.            'WSTR'
U.S.A.
Mr. Fayez Omar
Resident Representative
The World Bank
Addis Ababa
<i -TC 519366                             -. t234                       A170;(11         ':r.iln l   21844
Fax No.                                  Y.f,.-. ;'dIl  )I1t-kg         51739 9elex
E-Mail = MOH.NCIC @ pac,is .gn.apc.org.  Addis Ababa - Ethiopa          517,831
In reply Please Refer to Our Rct No



COMMENTS OF MOH ON THE DRAFT
ICR OF THE FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(CR.1913ET)
PART I: EVALUATION SUMMARY
Paragraph 2. Line 9: The sentence " Under the process, shewa regions disappeared..."
could be deleted as the last sentence (I) of the paragraph better
explains the change introduced.
Paragraph 4:       "Regional Health Bureaus were placed in charge of ..... This
delayed project implementation further...". This could perhaps be
rephrased along the explanations given in paragraph 6 of the
Mission's side-memoir which specifics the reasons for the delay in
start-up more clearly.
- " As a result...very little was disbursed... during 1993-1994 until
civil works commented...". 1 993-94(Feb) was the time of
restructuring and project activities were virtually suspended.
Paragraph 5:       The first sentence " By 1995..." could perhaps be changed to mean:
"The Government had taken steps to strengthen project monitoring
and follow-up mechanisms by (a) setting up in September 1995 a
Capital-Budget Projects Monitoring Unit chaired by the Vice-
Minister of Health (b) monitoring every three months health
projects at the level of the Prime Minister's Office.
The third sentence:  could be changed to the mean : "These measures have helped to
resolve problems and speed up implementation of the project.
PART II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Paragraph 17: Improvements in Access
- Is this an error in the figure for the expected coverage (975,000 people)?
- The projected coverage on the basis of the new health care delivery structure is
given in our ICR under IIIA. This could be considered by the Bank as well.



Appendix C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT NO: 1913.ET
May 1998
MINISTRY OF HEALTH



TABLE OF CONTENT
Abbreviations and Acronyms........
Preface ...                                                       ii
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I Introduction .1-2
II Project Objectives                  .2
III  Achievement of Project Objectives .2-5
IV   Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation .5-7
V  Project Sustainability               .7
VI Bank Performance                    .7
VII Government Performance .......................8
VIII Assessment of Outcome ................... ..8
IX   Future Operations .......................8
X    Key Lessons Leaned. .     .....................     8-10
PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Project Financing Plan
Table 2: Expenditure by Catagory Before Restructuring
Table 3: Planned and Actual Expenditure by Catagory and Year
Table 4: Planned and Actual Expenditure by Component and Year
Table 5: H,Cenrers and H.Stations Constructed by FHP
Table 6: Other Facilities Constructed by FHP
Table 7: Procurement of Goods Befor Restructuring
Table 8: Procurement of Goods After Restructuring
Table 9: Government Budget Allocation for Health
Table 10: Planned Budget for HSDP
Table 1 1. Materials Produced by HLMPC



ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Currency Equivalents
At the time of appraisal
US $1.00       =   2.07 Birr
At the time of project completion
US$ 1.00    =    6.80 Birr
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Ethiopian Fiscal Year
July 8-July 7
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFD                       Administration and Finance Department
AET                       Architect and Engineering Team
BHSD                      Basic Health Service Department
CHA                       Community Health Agent
CHW                       Community Health Worker
CPPR                      Country Project Portfolio Review
CPR                       Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
DCA                       Development Credit Agreement
DQCL                      Drug Quality Control Laboratory
E.FY                      Ethiopian Fiscal Year
ENHD                      Environmental Health Department
EPHARM                    Ethiopian Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing Corporation
EPHARMECOR                Ethiopian Phannaceutical & Medical Supplies Corporation
EPI                       Expanded Program of Immunization
ERRP                      Emergency Recovery and Reconstruction Program
FGAE                      Family Guidance Association of Ethiopia
FHD                       Family Health Department
FHP                       Family Health Project
FP                        Family Planning
GDP                       Gross Domestic Product
HA                        Health Assistant
HLMDC                     Health Leaming Materials Development Center
HC                        Health Center
HPTD                      Health Professional Training Department
HS                        Health Station
ICR                       Implementation Completion Report
IDA                       Intemational Development Association
IEC                       Information, Education, Communication
IPPF                      Intemational Planned Parenthood Federation
ICB                       Intemational Competitive Bidding
JIHS                      Jimma Institute of Health Scienc
LCB                       Limited Intemational Bidding
MCH                       Matemal and Child Health
MEDAC                     Ministry of Economic Development and Cooperation
MOF                       Ministry of Finance
MOH                       Ministry of Health
PCO                       Project Coordinating Office
PD                        Pharmacy Department
PMU                       Project Monitoring Unit
PPD                       Planning and Projects Departnent
RHB                       Regional Health Bureau
SAR                       Staff Appraisal Report
SIP                       Sector Investment Program
TBA                       Traditional Birth Attendant
UNFPA                     United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
WBRM                      World Bank Resident Mission
WHO                       World Health Organization
ZHD                       Zonal Health Departrnent



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT NO:1913-ET
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Family Health Project (FHP) in Ethiopia,
for which IDA credit in the amount of US Dollars 33.0 million was approved on July 14, 1988, and made
effective on March 14, 1989. According to the financing plan, the Government of Ethiopia and UNICEF
were to cover 10.36 and 0.5 million USD respectively. However, UNICEF's pledged input to the project
was actually not made available.
The credit was closed on 31 December 1997 (the original closing date) with the exception of payments
under schedule I, category 9 of the DCA which was extended until 31 January 1998 on the request of the
Ethiopian Government. The last disbursement was made on April 30 1998 leaving an undisbursed credit
balance of 1.47 Million USD which is to be canceled
The ICR was prepared by the Project Coordinating Office under the Planning and Projects Department
of the Ministry of Health. The report is based on materials of project files and reports of Regional Health
Bureaux as well documents recording the final joint assessment of the project during the ICR mission of
the World Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
CREDIT NO: 1913-ET
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. INTRODUCTION
A.    The Credit Agreement
Signed: July 14, 1998
Effective Launching Date:  March 14, 1989
Project Restructuring Date:    December 1993
Project Relaunching Date:  February 1994
DCA Amendment Date: April 1994
B.    Back2round of the Project
The Family Health Project is the World Bank's first intervention in the Health sector of Ethiopia. The project
was envisaged as an entry-point into the development of a nation-wide farily planning program, the improvement of
the coverage and quality of the health services as well as creating the possibilities of generating additional sources of
health revenue.
The project was originally planned as a pilot project with its base of operations in the former four regions of
Shewa and with a view to eventually replicate the activities on a national scale.
The objectives of the project were to:
1.    Increases the coverage, quality and cost-effectiveness of MCH services.
2.    Increase the availability and use of family planning services, and
3.    Strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health;
The total cost of the Project was estimated at 43.86 million USD. According to the financing plan, IDA was
to cover 33.0 Million USD while the Ethiopian Government and UNICEF were to finance 10.36 and 0.50 Million
USD respectively.
However, UNICEF's pledged input was actually not made available to the Project. Out of IDA credit, 7.5
Million USD was reallocated to ERRP. Therefore the total project cost was actually 35.86 Million USD.
The project had been operational since March 1989. However, during the period March 1989-June 1991, the
overall implementation of the project had lagged far behind schedule. The major problem of the project had been the
delays in the implementation of the civil works of all components of the project. The delay had not only inflated
construction costs, but had also affected procurement plans and full-scale activities of the project. During this period
the rate of disbursement was also very low, amounting to only 10.2% of the project cost.
Having assessed the implementation status of the project; and having taken into consideration the changes in
policies and priorities since the change of government in May 1991, it was decided to restructure the project and
develop the procedures for its speedy implementation
1



Following successive consultations and project preparation work with the World Bank, the project was
restructured in December 1993. It was relaunched in February 1994 and the DCA was amended in April 1994.
According to the financing plan of the restructured FHP, the total estimated cost of the project was USD
32,288,600. Out of this, 19,718,000 was IDA credit while the 12, 570,600 USD was Government contribution.
II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the restructured FHP are to:
i)    increase the coverage, quality and cost effectiveness of MCH services
ii)   increase the availability and use of family planning services
iii)   strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Health (MOH), the Regional Health
Bureaux and Zonal Health Departments.
These objectives have remained the same as those outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report. However, thie
activities of the restructured project have been changed to assume nation-wide scope. The activities of the project
and its implementation mechanism have been designed in line with the orientations of the new health and population
policies as well as the new federal and regional state structures. Efforts have also been made to address the need to
give priority to the health needs of hitherto neglected and disadvantaged areas of the country. The project was also
made to reflect the shift of emphasis towards the sound strategy of expanding and rehabilitating th[e health
infrastructure to promote MCH and Family Planning Services.
In order to meet the above mentioned objectives, the restructured project had been designed to operate under
six different but interrelated components incorporating various activities. These components are (I) MCH/FP (ii)
Manpower Development (iii) Health Education and IEC(iv) Institutional development (v) Pharmaceuticals and (vi)
Studies.
III. ACHIIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
In view of the broad nature of the project objectives, the assessment of achievement of project objectives
must be measured both in terms of:
(i)   the accomplishment or otherwise of the planned activities under each project component.
(ii)   the potential impact that some of the facilities built by the project (e.g. H.Cs, H.Ss, Schools,
DQCL, HLMPC) are likely to have when they become operational.
On the whole, considering the Sector's lack of previous experience in managing such a project, the rate of
95.44% disbursement, as well as the fact that activities were completed in three years (as compared to project life of
9 years), the achievements of the project are quite satisfactory. With the exception of the Studies Componeint which
was dropped, all the other component activities have been satisfactorily carried out. Assessment of component
activities is described as follows:
A.    Matemal and Child Health/Faniilv Planning (MCH/F) Component
The basic objective of this component is to expand and develop an effective delivery, management and
supervision system for MCH/FP services throughout the country. This is envisaged to be done by creating MCH/FP
management capacities at the central, regional, zonal and local levels by increasing the availability and use of
MCH/FP services through rehabilitating/ constructing 100 health stations and 19 health centers, providing the
necessary support in terms of medical equipment, MCH kits, drugs and medical supplies, logistics, and training
funds, the enhancement of community participation, initiation of CBD of contraceptives as well as the coordination
of the inputs and involvement of NGOS, and other collaborating agencies.
Under this component the plan to conduct training in program management, CBD agents, training of trainers
as well as orientation seminars on population policy have all been implemented.
The most important activity of the project has been to increase the availability and use of MCH/FP services
by constructing/rehabilitating 100 Health stations and 19 Health centers all over the country. With the expecitation of
2



4 health stations the work of which was discontinued due to local problems and failure of a contractor to honor his
obligation, the work of 96 Health stations and 19 Health centers has been successfully completed with a total cost of
USD9.82 million. Regional governments have taken over the responsibility to complete the construction of the 4
health stations in 1998/99.
To make these health facilities operational, the plan to procure and supply furniture , medical equipment,
MCH Kits, vehicles and motorcycles, has been fully implemented at a total cost of USD 1.30 million.
It is believed that training programs conducted under the component will have useful impact in improving the
quality of work in the planning, management and supervision of MCH/FP programs. Similarly,the construction of
96 H.Ss and 19. H.Cs are expected to increase the health service coverage. On the basis of the health service delivery
structure which existed during the project implementation one health center and one health station were designed to
serve a population of 100,000 and 10,000 respectively. Accordingly, FHP-constructed 96 health station and 19
health centers were expected to serve a population of 960,000 and 1,900,000 respectively.
Under the new health care delivery system, the Primary Health Care Unit (PHCU) constitutes a Health
Center (HC) and an average of 5 satellite Health Posts each serving a population of about 5,000 or an anticipated
total of 25,000 people. Under this arrangement, FHP-constructed health stations are likely to be upgraded to health
centers. Therefore, the 96 health stations and 19 health centers (which will be 115 health centers) will serve a
population of 1 15x25,000=2,875,000.
In terms of financial utilization out of USD 15.6 million allocated for the component, USD 10.51 million has
been disbursed.
B. Manpower Development Component
T he objective of this component combines the acceleration of the basic and post basic training of lower and
middle level health workers with the important task of rehabilitating and upgrading the training schools.
The plan to conduct basic training for nurses, health assistants, X-ray and Lab. Technicians and sanitarians
as well as the post-basic programs for Health Science Tutors, Nurse Midwives, Nurse Anesthetist, Dental, MCH and
psychiatry nurses and Ophthalmic Assistants have been implemented on annual program basis.
The plan to develop the curricula for the training of various categories of health professionals has been
successfully implemented with most of the training programs being already underway. Curriculum revision for the
Diploma program in radiology and sanitation and training of nurses from health assistants have been implemented.
The inservice training of nurses and health assistants in being conducted annually. A survey to establish a Distance
Education Unit has been completed and submitted for MOH officials for approval.
Under the plan to rehabilitate and upgrade the training schools the construction works of Zewditu and st.
Paul Nursing Schools, Awassa Lab. Technician School, Awassa and Menlik Health Assistants School and Jimma
Sanitarian School have been successfully completed with a total cost of USD 2.23 million.
The plan to procure and supply the schools with office and teaching equipment, educational materials, books
and journals, worth USD 0.2 million has been fully implemented.
The financial utilization rate of the component is satisfactory. Out of the allocated USD 2.99 million, USD
2.50 million has been disbursed.
3



C.    Health Education and IEC Component
The overall objective of the Health Education Component is to increase the practice of preventive health
care, the demand for MCH/FP services and to develop public awareness about healthy living conditions and better
nutritional practices.
The plan to construct a new Audio-visual Studio for the Health Learning Materials Production Center
(HLMPC) and carry out the internal fixation work has been inplemented at a cost of USD 0.11 million.
As part of the plan to improve the production capacity and quality of the Center, the project has: procured
and supplied various kinds of printing machinery, equipment and consumable supplies, furniture and vehicles worth
USD 0.19 million. The Center has also been provided with logistical support and budget for the recruitment of
designers, publishers and graphic experts.
The plan to strengthen and improve the efficiency of the Center by conducting training programs, evaluation
and field-testing of health education and IEC materials has been realized. The study and proposal to make HLMPC
a semi- autonomous body under the Ministry of Health has been submitted to the Council of Ministers for approval.
The center which has 33 technical and 42 administrative support staff has been actively promoting IEC by
producing various kinds of materials; T.V and Radio programs, documentary films, dramas, books, leaflets and
posters on health care, nutrition, environmental and gender issues, policy guidelines, teaching manuals, etc.In
addition, the Center also conducts mobile health education and provides technical and material support to Regional
Health Bureaux..The details of the activities of the center, types of materials produced and project supporl: provided
to the center are shown in Table 10
D.    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
The overall objective of this component is to develop the planning and management capacity of the Head
Office, the Regional Health Bureaux and Zonal Health Departments. This is done by building offices for 3
Regional Health Bureaux and 3 Zonal Health Departments, by taking rational staffing measures and
providing logistic support, office equipment and supplies as well as budget for operational and maintenance costs.
Following the decentralization of health services a series of training programs, workshops and seminars have
been conducted with the view to build capacity and upgrade skills of RHB and ZHDs workers. Some of these
programs were organized by MOH while others were organized the RHBs and ZHDs themselves.
The construction of 3 Regional Health Bureaux at Gambella, Assosa and Assaita as well as 3 Zorial Health
Departnents at Wolkite, Masha and Durame have been completed at a cost of USD 2.39 million.
As part of the plan to strengthen some key units of the Ministry, the RHBs and ZHDs, the project has
supplied furniture, office equipment, vehicles to the PCO and AEU of the Planning and Project Department, Family
Health and Pharmacy Departnents, the newly constructed RHBs and ZHDsat a cost of USD 0.49 million. It has
also been providing support for operating costs, perdiem and maintenance. The total project expenditure for the
component is USD 2.90 million
4



E. Pharmaceutical Development Component
The objective of the component is to improve the country's drug supply system, to develop a system of drug
quality control and to irnprove the efficiency, management and utilization of drugs and medical supplies.
On the basis of the action plan of the restructured project the major activities envisaged under this component
were the construction of Inflammable Store, Drug Quality Control Laboratory, Computerization of EPHARM and
the procurement of drugs, medical supplies and contraceptives for the health facilities. Based on technical feasibility
considerations and rational use of resources for more priority requirement, MOH had, in July 1996, proposed to
delete the plan for the construction of the Inflammable Store and Computerization of EPHARM; and the funds have
been redirected to finance other project activities. The plan to build, furnish and equip a modem Drug Quality
Control Laboratory has been implemented at a cost of USD 0.31 million. Similarly drugs, medical supplies and
contraceptives worth USD 5.07 million have been procured and distributed to the health facilities.
F. Studies Component
The two studies envisaged in the action plan were: (I) a review of the hospital sector focusing on the
efficiency of resource utilization, experiment on management boards for hospitals and referral services to be given to
primary health care facilities; and (ii) a study of health financing options aimed at generating additional funds for the
health sector.
In July 1996, MOH and IDA had agreed to delete the study on health financing options as a similar study has
been done by MOH with USAID support and as related topics were being studied under PHRD Grant.
It was also jointly agreed to delete the study on hospital sector because a similar study on the Black Lion
Hospital in Addis Ababa was being conducted with the support of the Government of Finland. In addition a study on
health service management and utilization is planned under the second PHARD Grant. Therefore, the SDR 20,000
that had been allocated for this component has been reprogrammed to cover the cost of other priority activities in the
project.
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
The progress of project implementation has been affected by the interplay of some factors that were either
subject to Government control or subject to the control of MOH/PCO, RHBs as well as the World Bank. The
following are the major ones worth mentioning:
A.    Factors Subiect to Government Control
1 .Policy Environment and Objective Conditions of the Country
The restructuring of the FHP and its relaunching were carried out a time of important transition. Following
the change of Government in May, 1991, the country was undergoing a process of profound political, economic and
social transformation. During this period, the country was beginning to move towards multi-party democracy. Steps
5



were taken to establish a federal state structure creating different levels of self-governing and representative bodies.
Legal instruments defining the new administrative set-up of the Country as well as the jurisdictions of central and
regional governments were enacted. The functions of ministries and their regional counter-parts were decentralized.
Important economic and social policies were declared. In the social sector such important policies as the New Health
Policy and Strategy, Population Policy, women policy, were introduced.  The Emergency Recovery and
Reconstruction Program (ERRP) was launched.
In the health sector the MOH HQs was restructured, RHBs and ZHDs, were established. Th.ese set of
changes had the following bearing on the preparations and implementation of the FHD.
a.    The introduction of the new health and  population policies,  as well as the process of
decentralization have made it easier to clearly define project activities and implementation strategies in line
with the policy priorities.
b.    In the project implementation arrangement, the RHBs and ZHDs were given key roles in the overall
coordination and supervision of project activities. They were responsible for the tendering, contract
management, supervision and payment authorization in the massive construction works of 100HSs, 19 Hcs,
Schools etc. They had also taken the responsibility of generating the matching fund to finance the costs of
construction, procurement, tax and internal transportation. Therefore, without the involvement of the RHBs
and ZHDs and decentralization of powers and responsibilities, the management of the project from the center
alone would have been extremely difficult and, would have perhaps taken longer time to implement.
2. Monitoring Mechanism
The timely and successful implementation of the project is, in part, attributed the serious commitment of the
Government and the effective mechanism developed to closely follow-up and monitor capital-budget projects such as
the FBP. Since September 1995, MOH had set-up a high-level committee for monitoring the implementation of
capital - budget projects and programs like the Family Health Project. This Committee (Project Monitoring Unit) is
chaired by the Vice Minster of Health and meets very two weeks to review the progress/problems of projects. The
activities of this unit has proved to be a very useful mechanism for giving timely and urgent solutions to problems of
the project as well as accelerating the pace of implementation.
This project was also monitored every three months by the Public Investment Sector in the Office of the
Prime Minister. The project also submitted a monthly reports to MEDAC. In addition, FHP used to report, eve:ry
three months to the Managers Club Meeting jointly chaired by the Minister of MEDAC and Resident Representative
of the World Bank.
3. Government Commitment
Another factor that had positive effect on the implementation process is the strong commitment shown by the
Governmuent in making available the counterpart budget to finance project costs in time. The measures taken to
strengthen RHBS and ZHDs in tenus of manpower, upgrading skills and office facilities had also contribuited to the
gradual improvement of project management and supervision at the regional level.
B.    Factors Subiect to the Control of MOH/RHBs
At the initial stage of project implementation, the lack of previous experience in managing a World Bank
financed project; particularly the time taken by project staff to familiarize themselves with the Bank's lending
policies, procurement and disbursement guidelines had, to some extent, affected speedy implementation.
The high turn - over of project staff, particularly, project coordinators since 1989 had also some negative
effect in smooth functioning of the project.
6



The Architects and Engineering Team in the PPD has played a crucial role in the implementation of this
project. Since the restructuring of the Ministry, the staff of the Team has been reduced and has also been affected by
similar turnover. This shortage at the center and the shortage of engineering staff at the regional level has negatively
affected the efficient and regular supervision of project sites.
C.    Factors Subiect to the Control of the Bank
Since the project was relaunched in February 1994, successive IDA-Supervision missions
have visited Ethiopia to review the progress and problems of the Project. These visits and the
assignment of Disbursement Officer and Social Sector Expert at the RM have enabled the Bank and
MOH staff to jointly review periodically the status of the project, to conduct field trips to project
sites in the regions, to jointly seek solutions to problems and to create a better understanding of the
Bank's policies and guidelines as well as the potentials and limitations of implementing bodies.
V.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
Some of the facilities constructed under FHP are new (H.Cs and H.Ss, RHBs, ZHDs DQCL) while the
others are upgrading or extensions of already existing institutions (MLMPC and the training schools).
In general it can be said that project will definitely maintain and develop the achievements generated. This
assessment is based on the following considerations:
1.     Firm Government Commitment
As stated in IV A.2 the progress and problems of this project had been closely monitored by Government
bodies at different levels and regional governments have been fully involved in the implementation process. The
Federal and Regional Governments have appropriated operational budget for all facilities built under this project for
EFY 1990 (1997-98). They have also prepared budget proposals for EFY 1991 (1998-99). Currently MHO and
RHBs are engaged in the preparation of the five-year (1997/98-2001/02) Health Sector Development Plan for
funding under SIP. The action plan, manpower requirement and budget for operational costs including maintenance
of facilities for FHP-constructed facilities have been incorporated in the five-year plan.
The government commitment is also reflected in the steady increase of the budget allocation for the health
sector in recent years. The new health sector financing strategy which is expected to be included shortly is another
measure designed to ensure the financial sustainability of the health care delivery system. the growth of the health
sector budget and the financial plan of the HSDP are shown in Tables 8 and 9
2.    Policy Environment
The expansion of primary health care services, the development of health manpower, the strengthening
health education and pharmaceutical services are major areas in which FHP has invested. These same areas have
also been given significant importance/priority in the Health Policy and the Health Sector Development Plan.
VI    BANK PERFORMANCE
In general, the performance of the World Bank throughout the project cycle has been satisfactory.
The Project Task Manager and the Rresident Mission staff have made significant contribution to the successful
completion of project by:
7



- closely working with and advising the MOH in the restructuring and relaunch of the project as
well as in the preparation of central and regional action plans.
- actively participating in relaunch and implementation workshops.
- organizing useful workshops to upgrade the skills of PIU staff.
- coorganizing CPPR meetings and introducing the useful forum of Managers' Club Meeting
- Conducting well-planned supervision missions throughout the project life.
VII   GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE
Considering the fact that FHP is the first Bank-financed project to be managed by MOH, and that the credit
is closed as planned, the performance of the Government is quite satisfactory. As stated in paragraphs IV and V thie
involvement and commitment of the Government at different levels in the monitoring of project activities, making
available the required funds has been very useful. In spite of the shortage of staff both at the center and the regional
level, those involved in project coordination and supervision have done well.
VIII ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
The overall outcome of the project is quite satisfactory. With the exception of the work interruption of 4
H.Ss, all construction works have been successfully completed. The 12-package procurement programs have all
been implemented.
The amount of credit funds canceled is USD 1.47million. This balance represents the earning from exchange rate as
well as saving from the procurement of drugs and medical equipment.
In terms of impact, all the activities undertaken by the project are expected to make direct or indirect
contribution to the improvement of the country's health services. When they become operational, the 96 H.Ss and 19
H.Cs will make their share of contribution by making health service available to 2.8 million people .The up-grading
of the 6 training school and the other forms of support given by the project will have the positive impact of increasing
the in-take and improving the quality of education. The supply of printing machinery and equipment to HLMPC has
already increased its production capacity; and the new Audio-Vesual Studio is expected to improve the center's
quality of work. Similarly the new Drug Quality Control Laboratory will expand and improve the existing
inadequate service.
IX    FUTURE OPERATIONS
Primary health care units prepare their annual plan and budget and submit to the Woreda Health Offices.
These plans are based on envisaged activities covering such programs as MCH/FP, EPI, Environmental Health,
Health Education as well as out-patient and in-patient services. The Woreda Health Offices submit their plans and
budget to the ZHD; the ZHDs to the RHBs and the RHBs to Regional Government Councils. Implementation
assessment and reporting is made quarterly for recurrent budget and monthly for capital budget activities. The
training schools submit their plans and budget to the RHBs; while HLMPC and DQCL submit their plans to MOHI.
Based on this planning and monitoring arrangements MOH and RHBs have completed the preparation of the 1991-94
Health Sector Development Plan.
X.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
The following are the most important lessons learned in the process of implementing the FHP.
8



A.    Project Preparation
The preparation of the restructured- PHP was an extensive exercise that involved various departments of
MOH, the RHBs and the World Bank staff. In general, the preparation work was based on adequate and relevant
data as well as clear policy guidelines. The identification of the sector's priority problems, project objectives,
beneficiaries and implementation strategy was well done. However, in the process of implementation it was learned
that certain issues and details should have been defined more clearly. One such issue is the way the objectives of
some components (particularly MCH/FP) were defined. In MCH/FP component, for instance, the targets for such
activities as EPI, reduction of infant and under-5 mortality etc. were more of national program target than FHP
targets. There should have been a clear distinction between the two so that outcome of project input could easily be
quantified.
B.    Civil Works
One of the problems encountered in the implementation of civil works was the occurrence of variation or
additional works in several projects, particularly health stations, health centers and RHBs. The main reason has been
the lack exhaustive design study and bill of quantities preparation. In the case of H.Cs and H.Ss, such works as
fences, soakaway pits and water tankers were not included. In the case of RHBs, the standard designs did not
provide options for foundation work to suit different types of soil as well as roof heights and air conditioning to suit
hot climate areas. As a result, the project had to accommodate these variation works often resulting in budgetary
constraints and delays in processing the approval of variation works. These shortcomings were due, mainly, to the
shortage of specialized engineers to exhaustively study designs and screen specifications.
T-he other important lesson gained is that to undertake construction work of such magnitude, the question of
ensuring the deployment of engineers and architects in sufficient number and mix must be seriously addressed. As
the experience of this project has shown the shortage of engineering staff at the center and regional level has made it
difficult to conduct regular site supervision, and has resulted in considerable delays of payments and in some cases
problems of poor workmanship.
C.    Capacity Building
In the process of implementation, PCO staff, Engineering team and RHB staff have, in varying degrees,
gained useful experience. PCO staff have developed skills in project management, international and local
procurement, project budget and finance administration. Engineering team and RHB staff have also gained valuable
experience in civil works procurement and contract management.
D      Regular and Systematic Monitoring
As explained in IV A.2 the success of the FHP has been partly attributed to the mechanism by which the
project was closely and regularly monitored by different levels of Government bodies.
This kind of high-level regular and thorough monitoring exercise has not only helped to accelerate the pace
of implementation, but has also enabled Government officials to have a thorough understanding of the progress and
problems of a specific project, the practical problems involved in the application of Government and Bank guidelines,
as well as the capacity potentials and limitations of implementing bodies. This kind of understanding has helped to
give the necessary attention to project activities, to make timely interventions and rational decisions to facilitate
project implementation.
9



This monitoring mechanism and experience should be sustained,  and further systematized in the
management of major Govermment projects.
E. Project Management
The FHP was designed to be implemented through the Ministry's normal management structure whereby the
Head of the Planning and Programming Department, reporting to the Minister, was to be the project coordinator.
Subsequently, a project Coordinating Unit staffed by a Coordinator, Deputy Coordinator, One Procurement and One
Financial Officer was formed. However, when project activities went into full swing, it became evident that the
staffing pattern was not commensurate with the actual volume and complexity of the work. The problem was further
aggravated by frequent staff attrition and turn-over.
The original assumption that project activities would be carried out through the normal MOH management
structure i.e. through departments responsible for specific components has, in some cases, not worked satisfactorily
Particularly project finance activities have often run into problems because of the vague division of work of project
finance staff and MOH Finance Division.
These management problems have resulted in over-stretched capacity, hectic schedules, occasional delays
and errors as well as inadequate time for site supervision.
The lessons of FHP and ERRP can serve as a useful dress-rehearsal for the forthcoming HSDP. Therefore,
such issues as the option of project management, the organizational relationship with existing structure, the staffing
pattern, clear definitions of authority and responsibility etc. must be carefully assessed.
10



PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES



Table 1
Ethiopia
Family Health Project
Project Financing Plan,SAR Estimates and Actual (in million USD)
Planned                            Actual
Source       Local       Foreign     Total       Local      Foreign      Total
IDA          12.07       20.3       33.00       13.65       17.11       30.76*
Government of    10.36        0          10.36       6.93         0         6.93**
Ethiopia
UNICEF          0          0.50        0.05         0           0         0***
Total        23.06       20.8        43.86       20.58       17.11    37.69****-
1:- Out of the total credit funds, 1.47 million USD is to be canceled. This amount represents:-
a:- Savings from the procurement of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Equipment.
b:- Savings due to exchange rate fluctuations.
c:- Payments for the construction of four H.Statios which were not effected because of
work interruption.
2:-The rate of disbursement from the credit fund is 95.44%.
**
1:- Out of the total Government contribution the total of 6.93 million USD (67%)has been
disbursed.
2:- The remaining balance of Government matching funds represents -
a:- 1.72 million USD which was reduced from Government matching fund when it was
decided in 1991 that 100% expenditure for Drugs and Contraceptives would be financed
from the credit.
b:- 3.67 million USD allocated for salaries of staff of newly constructed health facilities
which are to become operational.
:-UNICEF's pledged contribution was actually not made available.
Out of the total project cost, 37.69 million USD has been utilized which represents
disbursement rate of 86 %.



Table 2                                        FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY
BEFORE RESTRUCTURING
IDA                          GOVERNMENT
TOTAL OF CONTRIBUTION
CATEGORY                1989     1990     1991      1992    1993       IDA
CIVIL WORKS
15 384                   ____         16, 384   ____
EQUIPMENT, MATERIALS,
AND SUPPLIES                        273,153   164,423   198,818    773,572 1,409,966
VEHICLES                            167,6151                     227,531   395,146
RECURRENT COST                      192,611    54,342  235,813    2Z 579   505,345
TRAINING                            107,526    27,437                      134,963
STUDIES
CONSULTANTS SERVICE                                      2,044               2,044
PROJECT PREPARATION
FUND                       317,946                                         317,946
PHARMACEUTICALS                                       6,761,594  1,125,103 7,886, 697
TOTAL                     317,946  757j287 246,202  1       48,     785 110,6,491       701L884



Table 3
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PLANNED a ACTUAL EXPENDITURE BY CATEGORY a YEAR
IDA                                                                                Govemment
rotleofGoveineo t
Bono             P,o(etCnjo.",el ...            1904   (199971 1905  (1997)99~ 1909  (1999/99   1997  (19399/90  TotlI                 1904  (1999/71 1995  (1997899  1909  (1999)99   1997  (199)9   Totel                       e,cIlDA
Plan   IAcUN     Plen    ActUa    Ran    AcU a    Plan    AcU a       e1    Acu al   Pl     Act ed    Plrn    Acfa al    Re,    Ac9U a     la,    AcU ad    Ran    AcU al   Plan       Ac al
I ChAlWorks                                7,968.71    0.90 3,695.31 1,501.93 2,9022.75 4,604.89  1,251.18 7,054.90 14,93795 13,221.42   802.46  0.90   410.59   190.00   224.75   592.72   139.02   896.59  1,903.902 1,901.28 16~541.77    14,822.70
21 Eqjipmoet Mate1ias& 9appliei            1,436.25    0.90   917.45    39969   296.40    22 89  112.55 1,384.71 2,794.96 1,447.34  291.27   0.90   198.25    3.97   124.90     0.90    73965   427.02  990.07   434.Q99 3,457,75    1,878.371
3 Veh,icles                                 4s6.50     0.90   296.20    0.90    90.20   741.00    10.20    0.90   85ss10   741.00    0.a0    0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90     0.90   826.10      741.00
4 Re;rrent Cast                            1,075.s     .0s.9  6S1.25    0.90  6951.50    0.o0  691.18      0.90  3,059.90   0.o0    74,55   53.09   924.15    92.79  1,596.92    03.09 1 ,3w9.92  521  3,905.54   199.196 7,014.92    118.16
5 Trek, hg                                   121.00   27.17    12Z30    0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00   12s.300   27.17     0.o0    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90     0.90     0.90    0.90    0.0      0.90   133.30       27.17
6 Studies                                                                                                          0.90=    0.90                                                                          0.90     0.90    0.9=         0.90
7 CbnwItltsSer96e                                                                                          0.01    0.90    0.01                                                                           0.90     0.90    0.90         0.01
8 PPF                                                                                                              0.90     0.90                                                                          0.90     0.90    0.90         0.90
9 Pharnnactrue  s& Mediced Supplies                 1,5Do.90            0.90  4,296.24   0.90          3,151.19 4,2e6.30 4,651.19                                                                         0.90     0.90  4,2s6.xD   4,651.19
10 Tax ed Duty                                                                                                      o.9o     0.90           955.45   _690.1                                _   2,241.90    o.9  4,907.26    0.90     4,907.24
Totel                  11,057.52 1,927.17 5,ss5.51  1,601.x  7,ss9.2s2,28.s  2,5.11 1,59o.81  9,037.39 0017  1,195.2B 1,900.93 1,532.96  246.71 1,921.57 1,226.62 1,502.59 3,741.75 6,22.43 6,223.89 3z2e9.92    26,311.



T.bI 4
Famiily Heafib Project
PLANNED & ACTUAL EXPENDITURE BY COMPONENT & YEAR
IDA                                                                                 Gorerr,ment
Towa of Gvr..
Sno     Prjet Osomponmt                  1994   (198918  1995   (1987819  1996   (190918   1997   (1989/9  Total                 1994   Q 98918   1995   198710   1 996   (198918   1997   '198999  Totel                     md IDA
Pk.n   Actu.I   Plhn   Art6..I   Pa n   Act.r.I   Plan   Actual   Plhn   A.tW.1   Plhn   Aotual   Pklen   Ac.-W.    Phn   Actual   Pbn   Actu.l   Plhn   Actual   Plan                    Actual
I Healh Edication/lEC                        379.05     0.00    58.77    0.0C     7.65    75.42     7.81  204.69   453.33   280.11    45.25    14.20    29.33    19.18    24.25    2218    24.74    2570   123.67    81.26   577.00       361.37
2 Mrnpow.er Devlopnrlt                      1,552.05    0.03  836.32     0.03    25.59   912.01    25.93 1,230.87 2,539.70 2,142.81  210.64    31.07   125.08    33.63    56.21   1053.5    57.47  1i7.50   449.40   355.78 2,909.10     2,501.6
3 MCHfiP                                    5,272.16   27.17 3,159.69  1,414.70 2,973.49 2,924.41  1,963.34 5,409.9513,368.68 9,776.23   635.14  0.03   485.71   167.86   583.53   315.93   561.06   889.47 2,265.44 1,373.25 15,634.12    11,149A9
4 h1,tltionid Devebpmnent                   2,249 94    0.00 1,093.73   148.97    65.25  1,259.32   66.81 1,127.13 3,475.73 2,535.42   243.36   7.81   851.97    23.93   933.95   110.371 956.59   221.56 2,985.87   363.67 6,461.60     2,899.09
5 Pharnulicl                                1,504.31  1,500.0   407.00    37.95 4,287.47   197.71   1.17 3,618.16 6,199.95 5,353.52    60.79    o.x    4.90       2.15   323.63    10.75    2.73    2656   425.05    39.46 6,628.00      5,392.99
6 Donrultweny                                                                                                0.01     0.03    0.01                                                                            0.03     0.03     0.03         0.01
7 PFF                                                                                                                 0.03     0.03                                                                           0.03     0.03     0.03 o       00
Tax & Dity                                                                                                           0.03    0.03            955.45                             560.81          2,391.       0.0  4,037.a      0.0      4,037.25
Total1 11,057 52  1,537.171 5,535.51 10.5 7,3.35,5368.7 2,2.1   1998    037.39 20,088.17  1,195.23 1,008.531 1,532.99   246.751 1,921.971 1,223621 1,92.0  3,4.96,252.43 9,3.928.2                                  26,311.86



Table 5
H.CENTERS & H.STATIONS CONSTRUCTED BY
THE FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Name of         Type of        Cost of construction
S.No      Region           Facility            in USD
I Tigray        2 H.Cs & 16 H.Ss                1,025,852
2 Afar           12 H.Ss                          802,296
3 Amhara         4 H.Cs & 16 H.Ss               1,710,747
4 Oromia         1 H.C                            132,306
5 Somali         4 H.Cs & 12 H. Ss              1,626,773
6 Benshangul     1 H.C & 9 H.Ss                   943,368
7 SNNPR          6 H.Cs & 19 H.Ss               2,208,727
8 Gambella      1 H.C & 12 H.Ss                 1,367,589
Total                                         9,817,658



Table 6
OTHER FACILITIES CONSTRUCTED BY
THE FAMILY HELTH PROJECT
NO.       NAME OF FACILITY     COST OF CONSTRUCTION
IN USD
1 AUDIO VISUAL STUDIO
HLMPC                                    107,977.00
2 JIMMA SNITARIAN
WORK SHOP                                 69,971.00
3 AWASSA LAB. TECH.
SCHOOL                                   282,483.00
4 AWSSA HEALTH
ASSISTANT SCHOOL                         640,673.00
5 MENILIK HEALTH
ASSISTANT SCHOOL                         593,401.00
6 ZEWDITU & PAULOS
NURSING SCHOOLS                          642,783.00
7 AFAR REGIONAL
HEALTH BUREAU                            618,338.00
8 GAMBELLA REGIONAL
HEALTH BUREAU                            612,584.00
9 BENSHANGUL REGIONAL
HEALTH BEREAU                            547,917.00
10 ZONAL HEALTH DEPTEMENTS
_____ (WOLKTIE, MASHA & DURAME)               594,630.00
11 DRUG QUALITY
CONTROL LABORATORY                       294,332.00
TOTAL                        5,005,089.00



Table - 7
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS BY COMPONENT
(Before Restructuring)
1 MCH/FP Component
- 247 Delivery Beds                                  92,603.68 Health Statens and Health Centers
- 70 MCH Baby cots, 222 First aid Kits 222 Tape
measures & 700 clinistone                             21,003.90 around the former shewa region
- Motorcycles                                        61,852.00
- Bicycles                                           27,357.00
Sub Total                               202,816.58
2 Monpower Development Comp.
Jima Institute of Health Science, Zewditu and St.
Powlos Nursing schools and Awassa Health
- Nissan Midi-Bus                                    78,104.00 Assistant School.
- Basic & Inservice Training Materials                17,525.43 Menilik and Awassa H. Assistant School
- Books                                               14,431.64    .
Sub Total                                 11,061.07
3 IEC Comp.
- Video Products                                      94,399.43 Health Learning Materials Production Center
- Photographic Supp. & Equipment                      56,670.39
- Offset Supplies for Gestetner offset Machine      267,585.99
- Termo fax machine with consumables                   8,139.07
- One knife Grinding Machine.                          7,745.50
- Stahil-Folding Machine                              59,684.50    .
- Solna 225 plus two colour sheet fed offset machine  165,207.39
- AMWolenberg perfect Binding Machine                 46,280.38
- Consumables for offset Machine                     127,186.64
- Amharic/ English plain paper publishing system      14,966.73
- Computers                                           33,061.43
- Paper Board print shop photographic and other
supplies                                             699,793.44
- Desk-top electrical puncting and Manual Binding
machine                                                2,749.99
Page 1



Table - 7
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
PROCUREMENT OF GOODS BY COMPONENT
(Before Restructuring)
No Procured Items by Component                  Value in USD  Beneficialries
- Heavy Duty Perforating Machine                11,231.90 Health Learning Materials Production Center
- Autominabinda perfect building Machin         22,017.81   .      .      .        .
Sub total                          1,616,720.59
4 Institutional Development component                             _-
- Mitsibishi pick-up                           178,270.00 Regional & Zonal H.facilitis
- Toyota Station- Wagon                        120,778.00 Ministry of Health H.a.
- 3 units Mitsibushi Vehicles                   37,983.00 PCO and Engenering Team
- Water Sanitation Materials                     4,096.00 Higine & Environmental Health Department
- 1 unit Universal the odolite                  14,672.00 Engenering Teams of MoH
- Two unit olivetti Photo copier                38,800.00     "      " 9 Pco"
- RANK XEROX plan printer                        8,425.00    of    of
- Unisis computer                               12,147.00    of    if
- Office Equipment                              22,092.29            i
- Fax Machine                                    1,371.39  PCO
Sub total                           438,634.68
5 Pharmaceuticals Comp.
Health Stations and Health centers and
-Drugs and Medical Supp.                     7,886,697.00 Hospitals
Grand Total                       10,254,924.92  _



Table: 8
Family Health Project
Procurement of Goods by Component
(After Restructuring)
No-   Procurement ofGoods by    Value in USD                     Beneficiaries
i____   Component.
I    MCH/FP Comoonent
-Medical Equipment              250,773.00  100 Health Stations and19 HealthCenters
-MCH Aand B Kits                 39,690.00
-Furniture                      642,890.00
-Motorcycles                     45,642.00
-Station Wagon                     320570
sub total          1,299,565.00
2    Manoower Development
-Training Equipment              17,082.00  Menlik and Awassa health Assistant Schools.
-Educational Materials and
Office Equipment                 70,505.00
-Books and Journals               31183.59
-Furniture                        42700.00  Zewditu Nursing Schools
-Furniture                        19340.00  Laboratory technician School.
sub total           180810.59
3    IEC Component
-Printing and Electrical        174,740.00  Health Learning Materials Production Center
Equipment
-Furniture                        6.340.00   ,.
181080.00
sub total
j   _4  Institutional Develooment
-Trucks                         214,500.00  Afar,Gambella and Benshangul RHBs
-Station Wagons,Pick-ups        124,670.00  RHBs and ZHDs.
-Office Equipment                98,440.00  for RHBs and PCO
-Furniture                      1107.20.00  for3 RHBs and 3ZHDs
sub total 
5    Pharmaceuticals Component.
-Drugs and Medical Supplies
-Contraceotices               2,402,704.00  Health Stations,Health Centers and Hospitals.
-Drug Quality Control ,.
Laboratory Equipment            740,621.00
Drug Quality Control Laboratory.
-Furniture                      367,510.80  ,   . .
-Station Wagon and Pick-up                  Drug Administration and Control Department.
Vehicles                        32,060.00
sub total              35.620.00
________________________       3,578,515.80
Grand Total                          5,788,301.39



Table: 10
PLANNED BUDGET FOR HSDP
(1997198-2001/02)
REIO                           .     R isi- - ni       - T| ta
TIGRAY                       80,000.00      266,863.80      346 863.80
AFAR                        115,050.36       98,430.54      213,480.90
AMHARA                      148,770.90      639,629.14      788,400.04
OROMIYA                     350,781.40      688,441.01     1,039,222.41
SOMALI                      180,421.96      149,458.98      329,880.94
BENSHANGUL-Gumuz             62,238.50      101,023.30      163,261.80
SNNPR                       177,690.44      482,009.56      659,700.00
GAMBELLA                     55,591.19       60,336.12      115,927.31
HARARI                      20,837.82        59,244.50       80,082.31
ADDIS ABABA                  84,204.00      225,010.00      309,214.00
DIRE DAWA                    41,557.86       51,334.54       92,892.39
CENTER(MoH)                  74,330.60      364,391.30      428,721.90
Total                  1,391,475.02    3,176,172.79     4,567,647.81
/mm
a fhhiidj xl



TABLE- 1
No          Description of           Quantity     No. Languages        Target
H. Education Materials                                       Beneficiary
1. Manual                                 2500  English          health workers
2. Guidelines in Family Planning         10000  English
Services in Ethiopia
3. HAGIAZT TENA                           6000  Tegrigna
4. National Health Policy                20000  Amharic/English  HW/General
Public
5. A Quick Reminder for Family            4000  Amharic/English
Planning Counselors
6. Profile of Ethiopia Women               400  English          Women's
and Highlights of the National
Policy on Ethiopian Women
7. Ethiopian Women Policy                 5000  Amharic/English  G.P
8. YETENA MAHEDER                        15000  Amharic          G.P
9. Women's on Development                  300                   Women's
10. polyO                                 10000                   G/P Women's
11. Vitamin A                             10000                     G/P Women's
12  Vitamin A                             7000  Ormogia          G/P Women's
13  Vitamin A                             4000  Tegerign         G/P Women's
14  Vitamin A                            25000  English          G/P Women's
15  Meningitis                            10000  Amharic          G/P Women's
16  T.V Programs                             11 Anharic          G.Public
17  Documentary Films                        15 >>
18  Dramas                                   13 >>



TABLE- 11
Health Education Materials Produced by HLMPC
(1990-1997)
Newsletter             27130
Leaflets               879250
Books                 79150
Cards                 102980
Forms                 1672140
Certificates          16540
Poster                138120
Manuals              6500
Guidelines
(policy)             30000
Miscellanies           20343
Electronic Media
T. V Programms         11
Documentary Films      15
Drammas                13



35'
ETHIOPIA
/'                                 ~~~~~~FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
AFTER RELAUNCH
  NATIONAL CAPITALS
STATE/REGION BOUNDARIES
ERITREA'~
------ZONE BOUNDARIES
KIlartoum   Asmara                                                   - - -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-15,                                                                                            51
0     100   200   300   400   500
KILOMETERS
SUDAN                    .-'~~~~~' c~Gnder     m           Four
7~~~~~~~~~                                        t   / DJIBVUTe
iMetekel      GolamOe                                  lou
~~     Agewa i   E s      So t
%.   Wellegael
~~-IAddisShewa'-J~ ~  ~     henil
Ababa       West  ~~~Hairerghe
jThr eOi ~       Iuao                                 aeg&Degehabur  0*
4y ~ ~ ~ ~ 2k               Fk                      Warder      /
Bale             ~~Kebridehair 
South    -'.   Amaro                                    '~oe          /O                                  A
Omo       ~~Burliife
Boreno~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a eoO nta heWrdBn
lurkona~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                               an n te naraonson
UGANDAonteIgtttu faytrio  r
350                                  400                                   450                      suhbonare



